Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5899-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HTINGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 5, 1986
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Forint (Ft)
US$1.00 = Ft 50
Ft 1.00 = US$0.02
WEIGHTS AND MEASUTRES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABREVIATIONS
ACAD            -      Research Equipment Import Agency
AGRIMPEX        -      Grain Import-Export Agency
AGROBER         -      Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AGROTEK         -      Agricultural Equipment Importing Agency
AKI             -      Research Institute of Agricultural Economics
CHEMOLIMPEX     -      Fertilizer Import-Export Agency
G¢T             -      Grain Trust
KOMPLEX          -     Agricultural Equipment Foreign Trading Company
MEM              -     Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
NBH              -     National Bank of Hungary
NPO              -     National Planning Office
SDB             -      State Development Bank
GOVERNMENT OF HUNGARY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
S



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBUC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMDMARY
Borrower :           National Bank of Hungary
Guarantor:           Hungarian People's Republic
Amount   :           US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms                15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Relending Terms:     US$92.0 million of the proposed loan would be onlent to
cooperatives, state farm enterprises and production systems
for (a) crop production related activities for an average of
8 years but never exceeding 10 years with 2 years of grace;
(b) liquid fertilizer plants for 10 years with 2 years of
grace; and (c) working capital lending (monoammonium
phosphate) for a maximum of 2 years. All these subloans would
be at an interest rate at least equal to the Bank rate plus
30% mark-up, which includes a fee for the foreign exchange
risk to be borne by NBH. US$8.0 million would be onlent to
the Ministry cf Agriculture (MEM) for 15 years including 3
years of grace at the Bank variable interest rate.
Proiect Description: The ma.n objective of the Project is to improve production
efficiency and maintain and increase foreign exchange earnings
in convertible currency through the expansion of the
production of agricultural goods for export or as import
substitutes. To achieve this, the Project would: (a) promote
the use of better and less energy consuming equipment to
upgrade existing aging equipment, thereby increase crop
yields, reduce harvest losses and lower production costs; (b)
improve potential production of selected lands through
shaping, drainage and soil treatment; (c) produce and spread
liquid fertilizer to replace poor quality granular fertilizer,
therefore preventing waste and decreasing environment hazards;
(d) strengthen research and support services in the fields cf
cereal breeding, soil testing, pLant and environment
protection; and (e) improve managerial capacity in farms and
production systems, increase skills of Hungarian technicians,
promote optimization of the use of farm machinery, and expand
the extension activities to cover less financially and
technically provided production units. The Project would
consist of three investment components: (a) crop production;
(b) liquid fertilizer; and (c) institutional development.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of ther official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Batik authorization.



- ii -
Project Benefits       The Project is expected to generate incremental sales
and risks:             revenue at fulldevelopmuent of about US$180 million
equivalent and pretax profits of about US$35 million
equivalent per annum. The expected incremental
contribution to the Government budget in the form of
annual income tax is estimated at US$16 million
equivalent. Net foreign exchange earnings and savings
at full development are estimated at US$90 million
equivalent per year. The Project is expected to create
about 8,000 new jobs. Non-quantifiable benefits of the
Project include institution building and reduction of
enviromental pollution.   The potential risks relate to
possible lack of knowledge and experience with new
equipment and its operation. The technical assistanice
and training provided by the Project would reduce these
risks to acceptable levels.
Estimated Proiect Costs:                           Local    Foreign    Total
(USS million)-
Farm machinery                                110.1       86.5      196.6
Land improvement                               29.3        7.8       37.1
Liquid fertilizer                               5.9       12.3       18.2
Institutional development                       2.5        6.6        9.1
Total Base Costs                         147.8      113.2      261.0
Physical contingencies                  16.6       11.3       27.9
Price contingencies                     28.6       23.3       51.9
Total Project Costs                      193.0 a/  1:47.8      340.8
Financing Plan:                                    Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ million)-
World Bank                                           -       100.0      100.0
Subborrowers                                       80.0        -         80.0
NBH                                                 90.0      40.8      130.8
Government                                          23.0       7.0       30.0
Total                                         193.0      147.8      340.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY   1987      1988      1989     1990      1991
(US$ million) -           -
Annual                            13.0     24.0      33.0     25.0       5.0
Cuamulative                       13.0     37.0      70.0     95.0    100.0
Economic Rate of Return:    39%
Map No.                      IBRD 17061
a/ Includes $67.5 million of taxes and duties.



STAFF APPRAESAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ..       ...........................................     1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........        ........................    I
A. Role of Agriculture .... ..........                                I
B.   Agricultural Performance ............................            5
C.   Development Potential and the Seventh
Development Plan Objectives ........................           7
D.   Sector Issues Relevant to the Projecv ....       ...........     9
E.   Previous Bank Projects in Agriculture ....       ...........    15
III.    THE MAIN FEAIURES OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
AND AGRICULTURAL INVESTMENT       .          .................      15
A.   The System ..........       ................................    15
B.   Agricultural Lending Policies and Procedures    ........        16
IV.    THE PROJECT ..............................................17
A.   Concept and Objectives   .       ..............................  17
B.   Project Description ..       ................................   18
C.   Status of Project Preparation ........................          20
D.   Project Costs .......................................           20
E.   Project Financing ......        .............................   22
F.  Procurement .........        ................................    23
G.   Disbursements .......................................           24
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION       ................... ................    26
A.   Organization and Management .........................           26
B.   On-Lending Ters and Conditions .....................            27
C.   Accounts and Audits .................................           28
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................           28
E.   Environmental Impact ................................           29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Hungary in
May;_ane 1985. Mission members included Messrs. C. Gois, mission leader, J.
P. van der Veen, M. Ballesteros, F. Lucca, Ms. T. Manuelyan-Atinc (Bank), and
Messrs. J. Polo, and H. Vos (Consultants).



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Pate No.
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .      ......................  29
A.   Benefits and Markets .........................9.......        9
B.   Financial Analysis        ..................                32
C. Econumic Evaluation    ..33
D. Risks  . .36
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
AND RECOMMENDATIONS .36
Chart
1. Implementation Schedule
S-pporting Tables
Table 1   Project Costs - Project Components by Year
Table 2   Project costs - Suimary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 3   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Table 4   Major Procurement Packages
Sable 5   List of Equipment
Table 6   Financial and Economic Prices
Table 7   Incremental Agricultural Production
Table 8   Economic Analysis - Detailed Results
Table 9   Farm Models - Summary Results
Table 10  MAP Requirements and Financing
Table 11 National Bank of Rungary - Balance Sheet (1981-84)
Table 12 National Bank of Hungary - Income Statement (1981-84)
Table 13  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Map
1. IBRD 17061 - Agricultural Area, Sunlight and Precipitation
Annexes (in the ImDlementation Volume)
Annex 1.    Farm Models
Annex 2.    Land Improvement Model
Annex 3.    Liquid Fertilizer Production Model
Annex 4.    Technical Assistance.  Training.  Terms of Reference
Annex 5.    The Financial Institutional Structure and the Financial
Standing of Subborrowers
Annex 6.    Research
Annex 7.    Economic Analysis
Annex 8.    Detailed Cost Tables



STAFF APPRASAL REPORT
THE HUNGARLAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTON IMROVENT PROJECT
L  NTODUCTION
1.01     This report presents the findings of a Bank appraisal of a Crop
Production Improvement Project in the Hungarian People's Republic.   The
Project covers high priority investments aimed at increasing efficiency in
agriculture and improving export of agricultural commodities. The Project is
in line with the current Bank strategies for assistance to the agricultural
sector to help the Government cr-ry out its medium-term program of adjustment
towards a more open market economy and to increase efficiencies in production.
Following a current account deficit of US$1 billion in 1978, measures were
introduced to restrict investments to improve the foreign trade account.
However, while the foreign trade account improved, economic growth declined
and a shift in strategy was introduced to improve external balance through
higher productivity and competitiveness in international markets. This is
being achieved through increased trade in western markets and imports of high
quality inputs from western industries in order to improve product quality and
efficiency in production. Hungary's external sector has increasingly become
the driving force in the country's economy, and external trade provides
impetus to internal economic reforms and increased efficiencies. This
strategy has proven successful in the early eighties, although a downswing was
experienced in 1984/5.
1.02     Following a request from the Government for the Bank to participate
in financing investments in its Five-Year National Development Plan (1986-90)
in the agricultural sector, the Project was identified during a Bank mission
in July 1983, and prepared by MEM with the assistance of the Agricultural
Construction and Engineering Firm (AGROBER) and the Agricultural Export Import
Agency (AGROTEK). The appraisal mission, which visited Hungary in May/June
1985 consisted of Messrs. C. Gois, mission leader, J. P. van der Veen, M.
Ballesteros, F. Lucca, Ms. T. Manuelyan-Atinc (Bank) and Messrs. J. Polo, and
H. Vos (Consultants).
LL THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Role of Agriculture
General
2.01     The agricultural sector, which includes livestock, is an important
branch of Hungary's economy and plays an important role in trade and
employment. In 1984 the agricultural sector provided 18% of Gross Value Added
in the economy and employment for 21% of the economically active population.



- 2 -
The share of agriculture in GNP has remained stable at about 18X over the last
ten years. The sector's outputs generally exceeds the country's food
requirements, generates surpluses for export, and provides materials for a
number of agricultural-based processing industries. In 1984 the agricultural
exports accounted for 321 of convertible currency earnings. Therefore,
expansion of agriculture would directly contribute to improving the external
equilibrium of the economy.
Population and Employment
2.02     Between 1960 and 1981, while the population or Hungary increased from
10.0 million to 10.7 million, an annual increase of 0.35Z, the rural
population decreased from 6.0 million to 5.0 million. The proportion of
people living in the rural areas declined from 601 in 1960 to 461 in 1981.
Natural Resources and Land Use
2.03     The extensive low lying plains of Hungary are potentially one of
Europe's main grain producing areas. The soils are relatively good and the
moderate continental climate is generally suitable for agricultural
production. Average precipitation is 500-600 mm, but within a wide range of
200 mm to 1,000 mm and 2 to 3 successive years of drought or excessive summer
rains, that are disruptive to crop production may occur. Out of a national
total of 9.3 million ha, 6.6 million ha (71x) are used for various types of
agricultural production. Of the agricultural total, arable land (mainly
grain) accounts for 71Z (4.7 million ha), pasture 14Z (1.0 million ha),
meadowland 5.0X (0.3 million ha), vineyards and orchards 5% (0.3 million ha),
and gardens 41 (0.25 million ha). Five main types of soils are present in
Hungary. Brown forest soils, with 41% of the land area, are most comnon.
Chernozems, the most fertile soils, account for 251 of the land. Other types
of soils are alluvial, sandy, alkaline, and marshy soils.  In general, soils
tend to be acidic; 40Z have a pH of below 6. For more than 20 years, Hungary
has been carrying out a program to improve soil structure and drainage
conditions of low lying lands within a general framework of improving crop
production and efficiency of application of inputs. Some 2.0 million ha have
already benefitted from some type of improvement (landshaping, drainage, soil
correction). However, there remains considerable scope for further land
reclamation.
Production Structure
2.04     Land area, use and tenure are summarized in Table 2.1 below.
Socialist agriculture, combining state and cooperative sectors, is responsible
for 951 of the total area. Average farm size is very large in both sectors:
the range is from 2,000 to 20,000 ha. Many are highly integrated operations
and also engage in non-agricultural commercial activities (light industry,
construction and services). Irrigated area is small, averaging about 230,000
ha or 3.51 of the agricultural area and it is usually applied intermittently,
typically for relief of drought on high valued crops, except for a small area
(13,000 ba) under rice cultivation. Table 2.2 shows the importance of state
farms and agricultural cooperativts in agricultural production.  In 1984,
there were about 130 State farms and 1,320 agricultural cooperatives. Small
scale agriculture is divided between individual plots of cooperative members,
auxiliary farmers (mainly small plots rented to non-farm or state farm
workers) and purely private owners. Maximum land ownership is legislated not
to exceed 0.6 ha. rroduction by auxiliary and private farms and from



-3-
household plots of cooperative and State farm members is very significant,
especially in animal husbandry and fruits and vegetables, and accounts for
about 301 of gross agricultural production. In 1984, crop production
accounted for 492 of total agricultural output and animal production for 51Z.
In 1976/1980, they shared equally at 50S. Cereals contribute the major share
of crop production, with maize dominating. In 1981, 4.6 million tons of wheat
was produced on 1.2 million ha, and 7.0 million tons of maize on 1.2 million
ha. In 1984, wheat production increased to 7.3 million tons and maize
decreased to 6.5 million. Sown area of wheat increased to 1.4 million ha and
sown area of maize remained approximately the same. Other crops in order of
quantitative importance include potatoes, barley, sunflowers, oats and rye.
In 1984, Hungary had 1.9 million cattle including 725,000 cows, 9.2 million
pigs and 41 million poultry. All other livestock (ducks, geese and rabbits)
contribute less than 4X of the total.
Table 2.1: LAND AREA, USE AND TENURE - 1984
State Sector     Cooperative Sector  Auxiliary
Total               State            Individual   & Private
Farms                Plots      Farms
'000 ha
Land Area                 9,303     2,877      986      5,922       412        504
Cultivated Area a/        8,260     2,169      932      5,645       347        446
Of Which:
Agricultural Area      6,554     1,019      832      5,110       344        435
Horticultural Area b/   601         91       56        256       119        254
Grassland Area         1,265       240      169      1,000        18         25
No. of Units                         n.a.       130     1,320           1.8 million
Average Land Area (ha)               n.a.    7,528      4,487         0.6        0.6
a/  Includes forest, reed and fish pond areas.
bi Includes gardens (552), orchards (202) and vineyards (252)
Table 2.2: DISTRIBUTION OF GROSS PRODUCTION OF
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS - X
(On Basis of Constant Prices)
1970/1980         1984
State farms                                          19.8            20.3
Collective farms of producer's cooperatives          54.0            56.8
Household plots, subsidiary and private farms        26.2            22.9



-'4-
Sector Organization
2.05     Following the institution of centralized administered planning which
was introduced in the period after World War II, Hungarian agriculture was
collectivized and structured to conform to the centrally planned system. It
was in agriculture, however, that the reforms of that system, and the
departure from physical targetting in favor of economic, market-based
productionlinvestment decisions, was first introduced. Agriculture has
therefore led the economy in the reform process, which helps explain, its
positive performance in the past two decades. The sector is organized around
state farms and cooperatives. In addition, there is a "second economy" in
agriculture in the form of auxiliary and private farms on household plots and
from state farms and cooperative members, which contributes a significant
share of total sector output in certain products. Under the system set in
place by the reforms since 1968, the sector as a whole-including state farms
and cooperatives-is an incentive-driven production system with profit seeking
and financially autonomous productive units, making decentralized decisions to
invest and produce. There remains a significant degree of state intervention
in the sector, mainly in the form of price and tax/subsidy intervention along
lines common in market oriented economies. Services and credit are delivered
to the sector at market-based terms through state organization, and output is
marketed at pre-stated prices through state agencies (for major bulk products)
and/or on the free market for products (e.g. livestock products, fruits and
vegetables) in which private production is important. Planning in agriculture
has jeen retained in the system, but as an instrument of indicative
forecasting only; the pursuit of centrally pre-set physical targets has been
long abandoned.
Institutions Supporting Agriculture
2.06     Virtually all agricultural support activities are carried out by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MEM), which is responsible for
planning, policy formulation, research, plant and animal protection and other
general support activities, including control over a number of parastatal
agencies. However, agricultural extension services are provided by
agricultural associations (Production Systems) which provide inputs, farm
machinery, repairs and services, and whose technical staff carry out applied
research and work as extension agents. They usually specialize in two or
three main activities e.g. corn, wheat, livestock, and sell services to other
farms. The National Planning Office (NPO) operates under the authority of the
Council of Ministers and undertakes the task of preparing the Five-Year
Development Plans (FYP); 1986 is the first year of the next FYP. In that
exercise, the NPO sets the indicative targets for production and estimates the
necessary physical and financial means to achieve those targets. It also
directly controls the investment budget and, thereby, determines the national
investment plan and the scheduling of completion of already initiated
investment. It is involved in practically all aspects of economic and social
policy in the country.  The National Board for Materials and Prices makes
recommendations for administrative pricing for all agricultural products as
well as materials and equipment used by the agriculture sector.
2.07     The National Bank of Hungary (NBH), the Borrower, is the most
important source of investment lending in agriculture. As is the case under
the two former agricultural Bank Loans, NBH will be the executing agency



through which project funds will be channelled to project beneficiaries. As
the Central Bank, NBH has a major role in establishing and implementing the
credit policy. In collaboration with the National Planning Office, it
prepares the credit policy guidelines in line with the objectives of the
economic plan. It also implements the content of the guidelines by regulating
credit expansion through a system of reserve ratios, refinancing rediscounting
and controlling interest rates. NBH also handles the foreign exchange and
gold reserves, plays a principal role in setting the exchange rate and issues
bank notes and coins. It is the main banker for the State, State enterprises,
llanking institutions and cooperatives. All state farms and agricultural
cooperatives hold their accounts at NBH. As the largest development and
commercial Bank in the country, it extends investment and production loans to
most enterprises, handles customers' financial transactions, receives time and
sight deposits. NBH finances a substantial amount of its operations in the
interbank market by borrowing foreign exchange at commercial rates. Balance
Sheets and Income Statements of NBH for the period 1981-84 are given in Tables
11 and 12. The Bank headquarters are in Budapest; it has 19 regional offices
and 71 branches throughout Hungary and employs approximately 6,500 persons,
65% of which professionals. About 25% of all NBH staff is engaged in
agricultural lending. Agriculture credit services are available in all
regional and branch offices and are carried out by agricultural specialists
for the technical part and by regular bank employees for administrative
operations. About 50% of professionals operating in the agricultural
department are economists. The performance of NBH staff in appraising
investments in the framework of the Grain Storage and Mechanization Project
(Loan 2316-HU) and the Integrated Livestock Industry Project (Loan 2510-HU)
has been very satisfactory.
2.08     Other key agencies involved in the sector include:  AGROBER, a
national engineering and consulting firm with branches throughout the
country. It is an autonomous agency under the supervision of MEM, used by
large farms and agroindustrial enterprises to provide technical and
engineering advice as well as to prepare detailed investment plans; it also
supervises construction of buildings and installation of equipment; AGROTEK,
which imports virtually all farm machinery and equipment; KOMPLEX, which
imports agroindustrial equipment; AGRIMPEX (para. 6.07), which exports cereals
and sunflower oil.
B. Agricultural Performance
2.09     Hungarian agriculture has performed well over the last fifteen years
with an average annual growth rate of 2.9%. During the 1970-74 period, growth
averaged 3.9% p.a. due to major Government investment support. Corn and wheat
yields substantially increased during this period. This period was followed
by more modest growth until 1979, when macro-economic and agricultural policy
considerations led to reduction in investmeat for the purpose of improving the
foreign trade account. As a consequence, imports of petroleum, animal protein
and farm machinery became scarce. The agricultural sector readjusted to the
new set of policies by emphasizing wheat and meat production for export
through producti-vity improvement based on new technology and on import of high
quality machinery. Despite the rapid depreciation of the capital stock and
lack of replacement investment, the sector output has grown at an average rate



-6-
of 3.52 over the last five years with disparities, largely due to climatic
factors, in the rate for 1982 (11.61), 1983 (-2.11) and 1984 (6%). This
growth in the face of low investment levels is indicative of an efficient use
of installed capacity in the agricultural sector. However, as identified in
the 1986-90 Development Plan, this pace cannot be kept or improved without
additional investment effort in high performance equipment complemented by
adequate management procedures for the optimization of the use of those
investments (para. 2.14).
2.10     Hungary's recent grain subsector performance is summarized below in
Table 2.3.
Table 2.3: GRAIN PRODUCTION AND YIELDS
Average    1981    1982    1983    1984
1976/80
Production                               - --umillion ton-
Wheat                              5.2      4.6      5.8     6.0      7.3
Maize                              6.3      6.8      7.8     6.3      6.5
Barley                             0.8      0.9      0.9     1.0      1.2
Oats                               0.08    0.16    0.12    0.12    0.15
Rye                                0.13    0.12    0.12    0.14    0.19
Yields                                       ---ton/ha
Wheat                              4.1      4.0      4.4     4.4      5.4
Maize                              4.9      5.9      6.9     5.7      5.9
Barley                             3.3      3.1      3.3     3.6      4.5
Oats                               2.4      2.9      2.4     2.5      3.3
Rye                                1.7      1.6      1.6     1.9      2.5
Hungary's average yields are compared with other countries in Table 2.4 below.
Table 2.4: COMPARATIVES GRAIN YIELDS (1981-84 average)
Wheat              Maize                Barley
_-(ton/ha)--
Hungary                          4.6                6.1                  3.6
France                           6.5                6.1                  4.4
Romania                          2.8                4.0                  3.5
Germany FR                       5.5                6.0                  4.6
USSR                             1.5                2.5                  1.5



-7-
Although Hungary's grain yields rank well to the fore compared with Eastern
and Western Europe, there is room for improvement of the averages by
increasing the number of farms using high yielding technoLogy.
2.11     Fungary is self-sufficient in all commodities that can be produced
under its climatic conditions. There are but a few major import items such as
feed protein. On the other hand, several commodities are important export
items. Food export account for 30-332 of the convertible currency exports and
14-15S of the total ruble exports. At present, 30 in value of food produced
is exported. Between 1981 and 1984, Hungary's grain exports averaged about
1.4 million tons well above the 1976-80 average of 943,000 tons, wheat amount
to more than 80S of the total. Table 2.5 below indicates the exports of wheat
and maize for the period 1976-84.
Table 2.5: FARM EXPORTS
('000 tons)
1976-80      1981       1982      1983       1984
Wheat                679         1,199      1,147     1,106      1,258
Paize                 264          172        380       189        150
Feed grain imports, which consist mainly of low grade wheat and maize,
averaged 143,000 tons in 1976-80 and decreased rapidly to 49,000 tons in 1981
and 800 tons in 1982. Since then imports have stopped.
C. Development Potential and the Seventh Development Plan Obiectives
Development Potential
2.12     Hungarian agriculture is endowed with a relatively good physical
resource base, management and a work force, mostly adequate amounts of
machinery and farm inputs. However, with the exception of existing products
in which Hungary has a comparative advantage and good market prospects, in
view of the limited potential for major new lines of on-farm production, the
future growth in Hungarian agriculture lies more in increased earnings through
Intensive output growth from existing commodities than in increased volume of
output. Increased earning may also be generated from increased value added
from improved quality and/or reduction in production, processing and marketing
costs. A tabular summary of the on-farm possibilities for the major
commodities is given in Table 2.6.



- 8 -
Table 2.6: ON-FARM EXPANSION POTENTIAL
Product     Outout Possibilities   Comoarative Advantage
Area      Efficiency    Extent    Level of    _ Market Outlook
Increase    Improvement I/      Exploitation    Domestic  Export V/
Wheat     ) Su"stitution. Good   Good      Underexploited )         Good
Maize     ) some minor   Good    Limited    Overexploited- )        Good
) expansion                        extensively )Poor. due
) through                          only       )to high
Fruit    ) land         Minor    )         )Probably     )level of   Poor
Vegetables ) reclamation  Minor   )Minor,    )correct    )consumption Poor
)locational            )and falling
)only.                 )real
Beef & milk)            Uncertain )not     Overexploited )incomes    Fair 1/
Pig meat  ) Minor      Minor    )seasonal  )Probably     )          )Selectively good
Poultry   )             Minor    )         )correct      )          )for processed
)items
1/  Minor" implies that a high degree of efficiency is probably already in existence. so
that no significant technological gains are foreseen. Major potential is in Improving
productivity of a minority of production particularly for horticulture, pigs and poultry.
Z/ Convertible currency markets only.
V/ Excludes CMEA convertible currency market prospects, as yet to be determined.
2.13     While the possibilities listed above are based on judgement and
therefore subject to qualification, confirmation and modification, they
clearly favor grain production. Several areas of action are being explored
for further improvement of this high priority development subsector, such as
further market orientation in the pricing system, use of better and more
efficient inputs (liquid fertilizer), and on-farm improved mechanization.
Agriculture in the Seventh Development Plan
2.14     The Seventh Plan has been introduced in a period where investment in
agriculture has been falling. Agricultural investment was relatively heavy in
the 1970s, but has fallen in recent years; in addition there has been a s-itch
away from agricultural activities to industry. By 1985 the level of
investment in agriculture in constant prices has fallen to about 80% of the
amount in 1974 and only 64% of the amount in 1978.  While greater selectivity
in investment is certainly warranted, if the level of investment does not rise
above that of the most recent past, it will be increasingly difficult for
agricultlure to grow at adequate rates. To achieve a growth of agricultural
output of about 2% per annum probably requires average gross fixed investment
levels to start the Seventh Year Plan period, 1986-90, at least as high as the
1982 level in constant terms. The strategy of relying on profitability of
world market prices to determine both the pattern of production and investment,
rather than on centralized direction, means that there is no rigid official
target for either expected output or investment in agriculture during the
Seventh Development Plan. As in other sectors, however, the implications of
alternative scenarios are being explored.  The most realistic envisages about
a 2% annual growth in the value of output for the sector as a whole. This
postulates a growth in crop and livestock production activities of about 1.5%
and a growth in the industrial and agro-industrial activities of about 4%. In
particular, it is anticipated that grain production would pass from 15.5
million tons up to some 17.0 million tons in 1990. Maize would increase at a
somewhat higher rate than wheat since maize market possibilities are considered
better. The general order of priorities to be adopted in tbh choice of the



Seventh Plan investment are: (a) upgrading technology; (b) increase export
commodities; (c) protection of arable land and improvement of its productivity;
(d) modernization of fixed assets (machinery); (e) development of food
processing industry; (f) irrigation; and (g) modernization of fruit production
and vineyards. Most of these investment priorities seem consistent with
short-term concerns about the balance of payments and also with longer term
development objectives; the proposed Project will deal with the first four
items of this program.
D. Sector Issues Relevant to the Project
2.15     The continuation of the current level of agricultural performance and
of the expansion of production of goods exportable to convertible currency
markets is hampered by some constraints: (a) price and taxation policy would
provide more incentives to production if efficiency pricing was applied; (b)
there is a need for increased investment to upgrade the capital stock; recent
import of technology and equipment from the west have improved quality and
performance of some of the Hungarian fleet of farm machinery; however, much of
the existing equipment is still technically inferior and energy inefficient,
leading to crop losses; (c) the natural land productivity is increasingly a
constraint on the efficient application of advanced agronomic packages and
needs to be corrected by land reclamation; (d) farm management and extension
services need to be improved to reduce costs and increase performance; and (e)
current fertilizer type and spreading procedures lead to significant losses,
uneven distribution and lower yields. The proposed Project would address
these issues.
2.16     Price and Taxation Policy.  The thrust of Government pricing and
incentive policy in agriculture is to decrease subsidies while at the same
time increasing prices paia to farmers bringing them closer to international
price trends. The policy of economic liberalization, which began in the
sixties and deepened in 1968 and again in 1979 by the initiation of a series
of policies which are gradually being implemented, is progressing well in the
agricultural sector. The major policy actions carried out over the recent
1983/85 period were:
(a) elimination of the subsidies on purchase of tractors and most farm
machinery;
(b) reduction in the subsidy on fertilizers by about 15% in 1983 and in
1984, bringing the average level of subsidy down to 25%;
(c) elimination of the subsidies on plant chemicals;
(d) increase of consumer prices for meat products by 20-25% in 1984 and a
further 21% in January 1985;
(e) increase of consumer prices for milk and dairy products by 29% on
average in January 1985; and
(f) the number of products with free prices has been increasing and
mainly all minor products will have been freed by the end of 1986.
Government is also undertaking a major reform in the enterprise management
system. The scope and extent of the most significant reforms affecting



- 10 -
corporate institutions and a schedule of implementation for the 1985/1990
period have been recently discussed with the Bank in the context of a proposed
national industrial restructuring program for which the Government has already
given support. The proposed reforms are generally in line with what is
required in the agricultural sector to improve investment potential and
financial management of farms, and to stimulate production. In agriculture,
management reform would primarily concern the state-owned farms, which have
recently been authorized to select their own managers in the same way the
agricultural cooperatives do. This action means more independence of
state-owned farms from cencral control and greater reliance on decentralized
decision-making at the farm level. The protection that Governme-nt now
maintains to farms facing losses would gradually be removed and these
enterprises would become responsible for their own financial management.
2.17     The current wage reform is also economy-wide following on the
experimental application in the industrial sector in 1983. The control of
wages in the Hungarian system is the most important policy instrument used by
the central Government to maintain low inflation rates and low consumption
levels of the working population. The objective of the new wage reform is to
provide greater incentives for enterprises and farms to achieve labor
productivity increases. It is a significant development in liberalizing wages
in the sector and will permit greater disparities of income among workers than
currently exist.
2.18     Although trends in world market prices are increasingly being taken
into account in price setting, roughly 85Z of agricultural product prices are
still administered. Subsidies to the agricultural sector have significantly
declined over the last years (para. 2.16). From 1979 to 1983, subsidies
declined by some thirty percent when calculated in constant prices. Subsidies
to the agricultural sector include investment, and indirect subsidies.
Indirect subsidies are for foreign trade enterprises which import fertilizers
and pesticides. On the other hand, taxation of the agricultural sector has
not declined over the same period and this is causing a squeeze on profits in
the sector. The agriculture sector is expected to make a net contribution of
about Ft 8 billion to the Central Government in 1985.
2.19     Under the Grain Storage and Mechanization Project (Loan 2316-RU), the
Ministry of Agriculture is carrying out a study with the help of the Research
Institute for Agricultural Economics on agricultural prices and trade. The
conclusions of the first phase focusing on wheat and corn indicate that the
system of prices, taxes and subsidies has caused disincentives to farmers when
comparison is made with border prices. As a consequence, Government undertook
measures to increase the price spread between wheat and corn at the farm level
and increased the overall level of prices to farmers. However, in 1984, due
to extraordinary circumstances the world price of corn was actually above the
wheat price and in 1985 Hungary paid a higher price for its corn imports than
it received on wheat imports. Nevertheless, the basic principle that Hungarian
price, subsidy and tax policy should take into account world price trends is
being followed by the Government.  Additional work is now therefore being
carried out under the study including about 12 more major crops and livestock
commodities. The results of the final work were discussed with the Bank in
November 1985 and they would help in the definition by the Government of the
next steps to be taken in the pursuit of the current reforms. Further
adjustments may prove advisable once the interrelationships in crop and
livestock production and the options and trade-offs in production, foreign



- 11. -
exchange earnings and central government budget results become better known as
the on-going studies in multimarket Analysis and livestock sector efficiency
(under Loan 2510-EU) are completed (end 1985). As it now stands, the pricing
policy framework that has emerged as a result of the changes outlined above
continues to provide sufficient basis for further sectorial growth.
2.20     Government's objectives on prices, taxation, subsidies and incentives
policy in the sector, including the important role of border prices in
determining domestic producer prices were discussed during negotiations and
confirmed by letter. Government confirmed that during the current Development
Plan, the main objectives in the sector would be (a) to increase the value
added and efficiency of agriculture and agro-processing industries; (b) to
increase exports of agricultural commodities and agro-industrial products; (c)
to maintain the achieved level of domestic food supply; and (d) to improve
quality of products. Within this framework and in order to implement concrete
measures to attain those objectives, assurances were obtained that the
Government would, by December 31, 1988, and after carrying out a comprehensive
study (to be completed before December 31, 1987) including prices, taxation
and subsidies, exchange views with the Bank on a program of adjustment of its
price and incentive policy, including taxes and subsidies, and carry out such
program thereafter. This program would be geared to: (i) Prices: Adjust
producer prices to trends of world market, improve competitiveness through
price differenciation according to quality, and move towards extensive price
liberalization; (ii) Subsidies: Continue the on-going policy of subsidy
reduction in general and in particular reduce to about 102 or eliminate
completely fertilizer subsidy by 1990; (iii) Taxation: Pursue the current
policy aiming at fostering agricultural productivity, including liberalized
wage taxation, elimination of mandatory reserve fund of large-scale farms, and
introduction of the value added tax and personal income tax; (iv) Marketing:
Expand the current policy to increase exports which include carrying out
studies to identify market opportunities and the possibility of agricultural
enterprise to engage in direct selling abroad.
2.21     Farm Mechanization.  The number of tractors in Hungary has been
stable in the last four years (some 55,000 or 10.5 per 1,000 ha of arable and
permanent crops) but the average capacity has increased from 55 kW to 60 kW
per unit between 1981 and 1984.  This indicates that the Rungarian agriculture
has less tractor capacity than comparable countries. In recent years, Hungary
has procured an increased volume of its tractors from western countries and
has also improved the quality of its domestic tractor production through
engine technology imported under licenses from France and West Germany. About
570 tractors are being financed under the Grain Storage and Mechanization
Project (Loan 2316-EU).
2.22     The situation regarding grain harvesters is similar.  In spite of
recent acquisition of western equipment (760 combine harvesters financed by
Loan 2316-HU) most of the existing units (about 12,500) are from CMEA
countries.  Typically, they have low capacity and cannot handle a 4-6 ton
wheat crop or a 6-8 ton maize crop in a reasonable time. This is a severe
problem as most crops must be harvested rapidly to permit land preparation
prior to winter crops. Wheat needs to be harvested rapidly to avoid
weather-related losses from severe summer rains. Table 2.7 indicates the
number of tractors and harvesters in Hungary compared with other European
countries.



- 12 -
Table 2.7: TRACTORS AND HARVESTERS IN USE
(per '000 ha of Arable & Permanent Crops)
Tractors-                        Barvesters
1974J76   1981    1982    1983    1974/76   1981    1982    1983
Hungary          11        10      10      11         3        2       2        2
France           72        81      82      82         8        8       8        8
Germany DR       28        29      30      31         2        3       3        3
Poland           27       45       48      51         1        3       3        3
Romania          12        15      16      16         4        4       4        4
Spain            18        27      28      29         2        2       2        2
UK               69        75      74      76         9        8       8       8
Yugoslavia       28        58      62      67         1        1       1        1
2.23     The maintenance and operation of the CMEA countries equipment raises
additional problems.  It usually requires more frequent service and
replacement of parts than western machines. This means breakdown and losses
during cropping operations. Spare parts are not easily available and orders
are rarely satisfied on time. In spite of the good service and management of
stocks of spare parts which has been set up by the Production Systems, long
breakdown time losses cannot be avoided.  Development of spare parts
manufacturing in Hungary has helped, but many specialized parts must still be
imported.
2.24     The mechanization policy calls in general for more investment in
upgrading the capital stock, for an increased proportion of more modern,
better quality tractors and for the utilization of more self-propelled combine
harvesters to be imported from developed market economies, to the extent that
resources are available; the remainder would come mainly from improved quality
domestic production. The proposed Project would provide funds for the
purchase of farm machinery with such high technology which represent about 40%
of the total Project requirements.
2.25     Land Improvement.  Increasing agricultural production in Hungary can
be obtained by improvement in the technology (better mechanization, better
agronomic inputs, etc.) but also by improving the potential productivity of
less productive lands by reclamation works (soil drainage, landshaping or soil
correction). Reclamation allows planting of more valuable crops or makes it
possible to get better productivity from existing cropping. Soil studies have
shown that some 6 million ha or 75X of all agricultural land in Hungary would
benefit from some kind of reclamation action ranging from low cost soil
correction by the addition of gypsum for example, to full scale drainage and
reshaping of heavier soils. The costs and benefits of the different
reclamation actions vary widely according to the nature of the problem to be
improved and the potential productivity of the soils. Up to 1970, some
230,000 ha of alkali soils, 80,000 ha of sandy soils and about 1 million ha of
acid soils were reclaimed.  Between 1970 and 1980 about I million ha were



- 13 -
improved by landshaping and levelling, 600,000 ha were provided with drainage
networks and 460,000 with soil correction. Under each of the 6th and the
up-coming 7th five-year plans the execution of some 800,000 ha of reclamation
works are envisaged.
2.26     National land improvement master plans are prepared by MEM and
approved by the National Water Management Board. At the county level, water
plax. are detailed and a program of implementation and scheduling of
investments is discussed and approved by the County Board.  These programs
include the definition of the responsibility for investment and
implementation. The execution of the major water drainage lines, either new
*    or improved natural channels, is the responsability of the State; investments
on secondary drainage networks affecting a few farms are shared by the
beneficiaries proportionally to the area served; at the farm level the
financial and implementation responsibility is entirely of the individual farm
concerned. Land improvement subprojects to be developed under the Project
have already been provided with the major drainage lines and only require
works at the farm level. AGROBER assists in all technical aspects of design
and construction. Works are executed by branches of large farms or by land
improvement associations which act as contractors and which are specially
organized and equipped for reclamation purposes.
2.27     Of all the operations involved in reclamation works a review of the
costs and benefits of illustrative models based on field experience indicates
that soil treatment and drainage are the most efficient since they improve
soil fertility significantly and open better prospects for the use of farm
inputs. Furthermore, drainage has an impact on a larger extended area which
can benefit from the reclamation works. In addition, the models indicate that
priority should be given to those subprojects which would open more land to
valuable crops (changing from grass/fallow to cereals) rather than just
improving farming conditions of existing crops.
2.28     Given the current squeeze on investment resources, a first issue is
to ensure that only the most profitable works are included in the investments
supported under the Project and that Government pursues a similar strategy at
the national level by establishing appropriate selection criteria, since such
selection criteria do not exist at present. A second issue relates to the
Government capital contribution for land reclamation. At present, land
reclamation works are eligible for subsidies of 30-70Z of cost, depending on
the financial situation of the applicant farm; certain low income farms are
also eligible for a supplement and assistance ii the form of an interest-free
loan from Government. However, Government recovers these subsidies through
its heavy taxation system in 2-5 years. While subsidies can be justified for
certain socially oriented schemes that would otherwise not be viable they are
unnecessary for the more profitable investment which are also the most
economically viable. Government subsidies for land improvement have been
decreasing with time and now represent about 5% of total subsidies provided in
the agricultural sector.  However, the total elimination of such subsidies is
related to prices and taxation in the sector and corrective measures would
have to be taken. This would be done as part of a comprehensive program of
adjustment of prices, taxes and subsidies. A third issue relates to the
appropriate linkage between reclamation investments and improved farm
mechanization. Land reclamation is a complementary step towards
intensification of production rather than an isolated action. In order to
obtain the maximum benefit from farm machinery investment and from more



- 14 -
nutrient efficient fertilizers, soils need to be well drained, levelled and
have adequate structure. This is the objective of the reclamation program.
Similarly, to obtain the maximum benefits from land improvement investments,
soils should be cultivated in accordance with modern mechanization
techniques. Therefore, land improvement investments should always be
associated with high standards of modern farm mechanization. At negotiations
Government agreed that, in its land improvement development programs, priority
would be given to economically and financially feasible plans selected in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank. Understanding was also
reached that it would continue to pursue a policy of gradual reduction of
subsidies within a comprehensive program of tax reforms and price increase to
be discussed with the Bank.
2.29     Farm Management and Extension Services.  The acquisition of high
performance and sophisticated equipment implies training for the appropriate
use and maintenance of such equipment. Furthermore, modern farming practices
should be based on optimization models for the selection and management of the
units to be used in the several cropping operations. Complex and diversified
farming asks for the setting-up of management information systems capable of
giving to managers the tools to correct distorsions and reduce costs. The
Hungarian traditional agricultural practice is not familiarized with these
modern techniques. Some Production Systems have initiated programs to
motivate their associates to participate in management information systems but
they are essentially geared to control outputs. The proposed Project through
technical assistance and training programs would provide the dissemination of
the necessary know-how and the setting up of appropriate MIS to improve
management practices and promote optimization of the use of farm machinery.
2.30     Extension Services in Hungary are provided by Production Systems
which are commercial entities but no publicly financed general extension
service exists. New technologies and innovations are introduced by these
Systems as well as by MEM, from domestic and foreign sources to interested
farm enterprises. At present 83Z of all socialist sector farms subscribe to
some grain Production System. MEM provides centralized services through its
applied research institutes, but the ability of farms to utilize these is
uneven. Over time, expert enterprises have joined forces to establish these
commercial entities for agricultural consultation and management services. In
grain production, there are five such entities making available their services
throughout the country. For poorer enterprises, the fees appear too costly
and this has limited somewhat their access to extension advice. They organize
their own associations but their limited financing resources prevent them from
getting access to sophisticated techniques which are required by modern
farming. Under the Project, some support would be given to farms which
usually nave less access to current extension provided by the Production
Systems through improved training programs (para. 4.08). Another problem is
that the range of extension services provided is generally restricted to the
Production Systems specialist activities and is unable to address, in a
comprehensive fashion, various management and technical demands. Under the
Grain Storage and Mechanization Project (Loan 2316-HU), to meet specific
project needs, a group of specialized grain handlers trained abroad by MEM
would form the nucleus of a MEM grain handling extension unit to train local
personnel who are directly responsible for handling grain. The proposed
Project would complement and expand this activity by widening the range of
matters covered by this training and would address in particular management,
optimization use of farm machinery, and land reclamation themes (Annex 4).



- 15 -
2.31     Liquid Fertilizer.  The use of fertilizer in Hungary is not
particularly high by international standards but has increased significantly
in the past 25 years. Fertilizers use increased ninefold in 1960-75 and crop
yields in that same period increased threefold. Solid fertilizer produced
locally or imported is stored and distributed by AGROTEK (distribution firm
for farm supplies and products) and transported by railroad or truck to
distribution centers and farms when it is stored usually on a flat surface
covered with plastic film. Constraints of the use of solid fertilizer are
usually related to losses in transport, storage and distribution, uneven
spreading, difficult adaptation to changes in chemical characteristics of
soils, changes of environment hazards due to easy washing away during heavy
rains.  Following international trends, Hungary is gradually shifting to the
use of fluid fertilizers (suspensions or solutions) which are advantageous in
transportation, handling, field application, flexibility and efficiency and
for the protection of the environment. In 1984, 18 fluid fertilizer mixing
plants with a capacity equivalent to about 6S of the total nutrients used in
the country had been placed into operation in Hungary. Sixteen additional
plants are in different stage of design and/or construction and farms' demand
is growing. In addition to easily quantificable benefits such as increasing
yields and reduced losses, the use of fluid fertilizer has other benefits
particularly in the field of environment and the investment is economically
attractive. The proposed Project would participate in this program of gradual
replacement of solid by fluid fertilizer by participating in the finAncing of
10 new mixing plants which would meet the needs of about 350,000 ha of cereal
crops.
E. Previous Bank Proj2ets in Agriculture
2.32     So far, the Bank has participated in financing two projects in the
agricultural sector. The first loan (US$130.4 million) to Hungary was for a
Grain Storage and Mechanization Project (Loan 2316-HU) which became effective
in August 1983. It was supplemented by a 'B' loan of US$38.8 million
equivalent as the Bank's participation in a commercial cofinancing
syndication. The project is making good progress with disbursements having
reached US$102 million by end September 1985, about 130X of SAR estimates.
Two aspects are noteworthy: NBH department of agriculture credit has acquired
the tools and experience to improve investment analysis, and the ICB procedure
has resulted in considerable financial savings and higher quality imported
equipment thereby helping farm units with purchases at lower prices. Good
performance in the preparation, evaluation and award of contracts according to
Bank guidelines has been achieved by the responsible Hungarian agencies. A
second loan (US$80.0) for an Integrated Livestock Industry Project (Loan
2510-HU) became effective in June 1985. This project would help strengthen
the livestock industry by rehabilitating and expanding existing facilities,
and spurring export of meat and processed meat products.
m. THE MAIN FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM AND
AGRICULTURAL INVESMb
A. The System
3.01     In the Hungarian financial system, the Government exercises strict
control on investment through the National Planning Office (para. 2.06) and
the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) (para. 2.07). Investment lending is



- 16 -
centrally controlled and allocated through the banking system which consists
of NBH, and the State Bank, the two largest banks in the country and a limited
number of minor banks confined to their own specialized activities and
strictly controlled by NBH. Investment in agriculture is financed through NBH
loans, budgetary allocations, grants and the use of resources of a series of
agricultural enterprises compulsory funds. In 1984, agricultural investment
lending through NBH, amounted to about 30% of total agricultural investment.
It was particularly important because it was the main source of foreign
exchange to the state farms and agricultural cooperatives allowing them access
to imports of technologically advanced machinery and equipment, the use of
which is considered to have helped reduce operating costs and improve crop
yields, and hence increase farms' profitability.
3.02     The absence of competition in the banking system causes inefficiencies
in the process of investment and in the allocation of resources. To assist
spurring entrepreneurial initiative, the authorities have therefore been
progressively liberalizing the financial system by introducing competition
among banks and enhancing the role of money and banking in investment
decisions. In January 1985 a new banking law was issued establishing the
setting for the development of a two-level banking system which is expected to
enhance the role of intermediary financial institutions by allowing existing
banks to expand their activities into different sectors and geographical areas
and to decentralize investment decisions to the corporate sector. The new law
also provides for the splitting of the NBH into two separate institutions
under the same Board of Directors. The first would carry out central bank
responsibilities, the second would be an investment and commercial banking
institution carrying out sectorial lending in agriculture, industry
infrastructure and services.
3.03     Virtually all credit to agriculture in Hungary is channelled through
NBH. Credit distribution is almost exactly in proportion to land
distribution. The total stock of credit has grown at an annual average rate
of almost 10 since 1976 and is now 30% of the agricultural GDP. More
significantly, it has also grown in relation to agricultural investment. This
illustrates the new thrust of Government policy to increase the use of credit
as a means of financing investment in the sector and diminishing the role of
budgetary financing. Within the stock of agricultural credit, the annual
average growth rates over the period 1976/82 for short-, medium- and long-term
credit are 211, 121 and 5% respectively. The very rapid growth in short-term
credit is allied to similar growth in agricultural inputs over the past
decade, while the slow growth in long-term credit is an illustration of the
time required to bring about a fundamental adjustment in the structure of
investment financing which has its roots in the economic structure.
B. Agricultural LTnlding Policies and Procedures
3.04     Loan approval responsibilities are described in detail in the TNBH
credit guidelines. During preparation of credit applications, NBH staff
maintain close contact with prospective borrowers to assist in identification
and preparation of viable projects. However, technical, economic and
financial aspects of agricultural projects to be financed by NBH are usually
prepared with the assistance of experienced economists and technical staff
from the MEM's engineering consulting group, AGROBER. Loan supervision is
carried out by staff of NBH branch offices also assisted by AGROBER. Interest



- 17 -
rates on investment loans are positive in real terms as against a current
inflation of 7.51. Interest rates on long-term investment loans are presently
at 142 compared to 8-11X in 1979-82. Interest rates on production loans are
13X.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Concept and Objectives
Objectives and Scope
4.01     The main objective of the Project is to maintain and increase foreign
exchange earnings in convertible currency through the expansion of the
production of agricultural goods for export or as import substitutes. To
achieve this, the Project would:
(a) promote the use of better and less energy consuming equipment to
upgrade existing aging equipment, thereby increase crop yields,
reduce harvest losses and lower production costs;
(b) improve potential production of selected lands through shaping,
drainage and soil treatment;
Cc) produce and spread liquid fertilizer to replace poor quality granular
fertilizer, therefore preventing waste and decreasing environment
hazards;
(d) strengthen research and support services in the fields of crop
breeding, soil testing, plant and environment protection; and
Ce) improve managerial capacity in farms and production systems, increase
skills of Hungarian technicians, promote optimization of the use of
farm machinery, and expand the extension activities to cover less
financially and technically provided production units.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.02     The Project is a follow-up to the successful first agricultural Bank
operation in Hungary - the Grain Storage and Mechanization Project (Loan
2316-HU). The good results already obtained with the equipment bought under
this loan have triggered increasing demand of technologically more advanced
machinery to replace existing low performance and energy inefficient units.
Procurement through ICB following Bank guidelines has led to most satisfactory
results and considerable financial savings to Hungary. The foreign exchange
required to purchase high quality equipment to help increasing the performance
of the sector is scarce and Government needs financial assistance to meet the
farmers growing demand. Furthermore, the most efficient use of these
investments requires operation skills and management systems and procedures
beyond those which are traditionally available in Hungary. Therefore, the
Project would help farms and production systems strengthen their management
capabilities and would expand the training and extension on modern farm
machinery optimization and general management practices to smaller and less
financially favored production units.



- 18 -
B. Project Descripion
Components
4.03     The Project would be implemented over a four-year period and would
consist of three investment components which would be implemented by providing
credit to about 300 State farms and cooperatives.
(a) Crop Production
-   Provision of farm machinery for improvement of cropping
operations over an area of about 1.2 million ha; and
-   Execution of reclamation works over some 150,000 ha.
(b) Liquid Fertilizer
-   Construction and operation of some 10 mixing plants to meet the
fertilizer needs of about 350,000 ha of cereal farm land; and
-   Provision of special transportation and spreading equipment.
(c) Institutional Development
-   Provision of agricultural research, and management equipment;
-   Provision and dissemination of management information systems
among farms and agricultural production units; and
-   Training of Hungarian technicians in fields related to
improvement of crop production and farm economics and management
and dissemination of the acquired experience among farms and
agricultural production units.
Detailed Features
4.04     Mechanization of Crop Production.  The Project would provide for the
supply of high-quality machinery (tractors, tillage equipment, sprayers,
seeders, harvesters, dryers and other) to improve cropping operations and in
particular to increase quality and yields, to reduce losses, and to decrease
production costs. Although some equipment is of general use (37S), most of it
is of application to particular crops (cereals (35%), forage (13X), vegetables
(7S) and sugar beet (8%)). Subborrowers are expected to purchase about 1,700
tractors, 930 sprayers, 780 seeders and some 3,100 units of harvesting
equipment of which some 470 combines. A list of equipment expected to be
purchased under the Project is given in Table 5. Details of the mechanization
component are given in the Project File.
4.05     Land Improvement.  The Project would help Government in the execution
of the on-going national land improvement program (para. 2.2.5) by providing
for landshaping, drainage and soil improvement works over an area of about
150,000 ha of selected farms. These works would have an impact over an
extended area estimated at some 380,000 ha. Works include levelling, land
consolidation, roads (17X), drainage (63a) and soil restructuring and
correction (201). Drainage would essentially be based on plastic pipe



- 19 -
underground network. The Project would provide special laser beam equipment
to help placing these networks as is being done in areas already under
reclamation. The subprojects would be selected to ensure that only those
schemes which are of high economic interest are chosen (para. 6.04).
4.06     Liquid Fertilizer.  The Project would provide for the construction
and operation of 10 multinutrient fluid fertilizer plants to supply the
fertilizer requirements of a farming area totalling 350,000 ha. All plants
would have the same size and each one would contain two 12-mt mixers.  They
would be used to prepare urea-ammonium nitrate (UAN) solution and suspensions
containing three primary nutrients, N, P, K. The Project would also provide
for transportation equipment and for the incremental working capital
requirements of the new fertilizers mixing plants.
4.07     Research.  The Project would provide for the supply of research
equipment to strengthen cereal breeding as a basis for future crop
improvement, and to increase the efficiency of crop production. It would
comprise specialized equipment for soil and chemical analysis, including the
measurement of residues of plant production chemicals. The Project would also
provide a new phytotron for wheat and maize breeding helping to ensure a sound
biological basis for the work, and a biotechnological center for plant genetic
research.
4.08     Training and Extension.  The Project would provide for training
abroad (140 man-months) in crop improvement related subjects, and consultant
services to assist farms and production systems in establishing management
information systems aimed at reducing production operating costs (details and
TOR in Annex 4). Twenty-four local technicians with qualifications and
previous experience acceptable to the Bank would be sent to specialized
training centers or would participate in study visits to develop their skills
in the use of new machinery and equipment to be provided under the Project, in
optimization of farm machinery, in land improvement techniques, in management
and research themes related to quality control of fertilizers and chemicals
and in determining residues of plant protection chemicals. They would be
selected from MEM plant protection departments, AGROBER, production systems,
research and university organizations related to the Project activities.
Priority would be given to those organizations which have not yet received
qualified training or to those production systems with financial constraints
to provide high technologic assistance to their associates. Those who would
benefit from this training abroad would disseminate their experience and
acquired knowledge among their colleagues in seminars and workshops organized
for that purpose. This approach to training has proven successful under the
on-going Grain Storage and Mechanization Project for the grain storage
maintenance component. This in-house training would be sponsored and promoted
by MEM and it would be open, as much as possible, to all interested parties,
in particular to individual farmers and to those farms less financially
favored, and therefore compensating for the lack of extension of this layer of
production units. Consultants with qualifications and terms of reference and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank would be appointed following
Bank guidelines. The Project foresees the need for some 50 man-months. The
consultancy would address the setting-up of management information systems
among farms and production units which participate in a farm machinery
modernization programs. Details of the above training, extension and
consultant services component including terms of reference are described in
Annex 4. Assurances on the above aspects were obtained at negotiations.



- 20 -
C. Stat'us of Project Preparation
4.09     The Hungarian agency which is responsible for the purchase of
agricultural equipment (AGROTEK) has already obtained enough experience in
Bank procurement requirements in the context of the Grain Storage and
Mechanization Project. Administrative and financial aspects of bidding
documents for the procurement of farm machinery and other equipment have been
extensively discussed and agreed upon. Most of the units to be bought under
the Project are similar to those already financed by the Bank. Specifications
for new types of equipment units have been received. Procurement of sugar
beet equipment has already been initiated in the framework of the proposed
,etroactive financing.
4.10     Land improvement works are part of the on-going national program and
are based on existing standard designs carried out by AGROBER which have been
reviewed and are satisfactory. Within the Project financing plan (para. 4.14)
only heavy and specialized construction equipment would be financed by the
loan. Bidding documents are also under preparation by AGROTEK along similar
lines as the farm equipment.
4.11     Fluid fertilizer mixing plants with the same production capacity as
those proposed in the Project have already been designed and constructed in
Hungary. AGROBER and AGROTEK are responsible for the plans and equipment.
The appraisal mission has recommended technologic improvements which are being
introduced in the bidding documents under preparation.
4.12     The NBE has capable managers and staff and is well acquainted with
Bank procedures to carry out the Project adequately. Specialized departments
of MEM, research institution and universities who would benefit from the
research component of the Project are familiar with the laboratory equipment
to be purchased under the Project. The subject matters to be covered by this
training have been selected and a list of institutions where this training
would be provided agreed. A detailed action program is under preparation.
Experience obtained under the Grain Storage and Mechanization Project (Loan
2316-eU) will facilitate the implementation of this part of the Project.
Draft terms of reference for consultant service have been prepared (Annex 4).
D. Project Costs
4.13     The total Project cost including physical and price contingencies is
estimated to be US$340.8 million equivalent (Ft 17.0 billion), including an
estimated US$67.5 million (Ft 3.4 billion) of taxes and duties.   The foreign
exchange component, which include both direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs, is estimated at US$147.8 million (Ft 7.4 billion) or 43% of the total
project costs. The base costs were derived from feasibility studies, existing
designs and act-ual recent costs of awarding of similar works and equipment and
adjusted by the appraisal mission to January 1986 prices at the exchange rate
of US$1 = Ft 50. The cost estimates presented in the following table include
physical contingency aliowance of 10% for equipmer.t and 20% for works of the
base cost resulting in an average percentage of 11'. Price contingencies have
been allowed at 7.0% in 1986-87, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989 and 7.6% in 1990
for foreign currency costs and 7% in 1986, and 6.5% in 1987-90 for local
costs. The Project is expected to be completed in June 1990. Table I
indicates Project costs by year and Table 2 by component.



-21-
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Foreign   ease Cost
Project Component                     Local    foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total   as S of   as % of
--    (Ft million) -     ------     USS million)-------   Total        Total
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT
Farm Machinety
General use                   2.730.7   1.755.8   4.486.5    54.6         35.2       89.8       39         31
Cereal                         1.217.4   1.200.4   2.417.9    24.3        24.0       48.4       SO         19
Sugar beet                       109.7     423.3      533.0     2.2        8.5       10.7       79          4
Forage                          517.9      338.4      856.3    10.4        6.8       17.1       40          6
Vegetables                       240.4     210.7      451.0      4.8       4.2        9.0       47          3
Spares                          687.2      401.3   1.088.5    13.8         7.9.      z.lz       37          8
Subtotal                    S.503.3   4.329.9   9.833.2   110.0         86.6      196.7       44         7S
Land I=Q£oveuent
Land shaping                    268.4       70.6      339.0     5.4        1.5        6.8       21          2
Drainage                        928.4      244.0   1.172.4    18.6         4.9       23.4       21          9
Soil iauproveent              _.272.0       71.4        343.4   5.A        1.4 6J.9             21          3
Subtotal                    1.468.8      386.0   1.854.8    29.4         7.7       37.1       21         14
Subtotal                          6.972.0   4.715.8  11.687.9   139.4        94.3      233.8       40         90
LIOUID FERTrLIZER
Construction                     167.0      25.2      192.2      3.3       0.5        3.8       13          1
Equipment                        103.0     115.6      218.6      2.1       2.2        4.4       53          2
Manoai,onium phosphate            24.9     474.0      499.0      LI        Li       I1.         21          4
Subtotal                      294.9      614.8      909.8     5.9       12.3       18.2       68          7
INSTITUTrONAL DEVELOPMENT
Research equipment S              91.1     289.6      380.6      1.8       5.7        7.5       76          3
constructions
training abroad                    3.2      28.4       31.6     0.1        0.6        0.7       90          0
Local training (extension)        24.3          -      24.3      O.S          -       0.5        0          0
Consultants                      5.4         12.5      17.9    0l.          L         LA         0          0
Subtotal                      124.0      330.5      454.4     2.5        6.6        9.1       73          3
Base Costs                           7.390.9   S.661.2  13.052.2   147.8        113.2     261.0       43        100
Physical contingencies                 831.S      S64.6   1.396.2    16.6        11.3      27.9       40         11
Price contingenies                   1.428.1   1-164.9   2-593.0    2B.6         23.3      51.9       45         Z
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  9.650.5   7.390.8  17.041.4   193.0        147.8     340.8       43        131
Base costs in January 1986 prices.
1819E/p43



_ 22 -
E. Project Financang
4.14     The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would finance about 29Z of
total project cost, and about 682 of the estimated total foreign exchange
component. Additional financing required for Project implementation,
estimated at about US$240.8 million, would be provided by NBH in the amounL of
US$130.8 million or 38% of Project cost, Government in the amount of US$30
million or 92 of Project cost and subborrowers equity (24X). The Borrower
would be NBH. The loan would have a 15-year maturity with a three-year grace
period. US$92.0 million of the loan proceeds would be on-lent Lo Project
beneficiaries on terms and conditions agreed by NEU and the Bank (paras.
5.02-5.06). The balance or US$8.0 million allocated to finance research and
training to be carried out by MEM would be on-lent to the Government on the
same lending terms and conditions applied to the Bank loan to NBR. The Bank
funds would finance the foreign exchange compone=t of farm machinery and
equipment, and of the incremental monoammonium phosphate to be procured under
ICB (Table 10) and the foreign exchange component of research and training.
The loan proceeds would retroactively finance up to US$5 milliou of sugar beet
harvesting muachinery already procured under ICB in accordance with the Bank
guidelines. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that counterpart funds
would be made readily available to permit a regular Project implementation.
Details of the Project financing plan are as follows:
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(Us$ Million)
Subborrower
NBE    Z    Equity    X    Govt.    %    IBRD    2       Total
Crop Improvement
Farm machinery    116.5   46      63.0   25      -       -   72.9      29    252.4
Land improvement    8.6   16      3.0.2   20    30.0    57    3.4 a/   7      52.'
Liquid Fertilizer
Mixing Plants        1.7   15      6.8   63      -       -    2.3      22     10.8
Monoammonium
Phosphate          0.7    5           -     -           -   13.0 b/  a5      13.7
Institutional Devpt.    3.3   28       -       -     -       -    8.4      72     11.7
Total        130.8   38      80.0   24    30.0      9  100.0      29    340.8
a/  Direct foreign exchange component of construction equipment.
b/  Direct foreign exchange component of incremental working capital.



- 23 -
F. Procurement
4.15     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT
Procurement Method                Total
Project Element               ICB            LCB         Other        Cost
--   (US$ million equivalent)
A.  Farm machinery           92.8 (72.9)    159.6 (-)      -   (-)   252.4  (72.9)
B.  Land improvement works
and equipment           4.6  (3.4) fa  47.6 (-)      -   (-)    52.2   (3.4)
C.  Liquid fertil. plants      -    (-)       5.3 (-)      -   ()      5.3      -
D.  Liquid fertil. equip.    3.1  (2.2)        2.2 (-)    0.2 (0.1)    5.5   (2.3)
E.  Monoammonium phosphate  13.7 (13.0) lb    -  (-)       -   (-)    13.7  (13.0)
F.  Research equipmer. &       -    (-)         -  (-)   10.0 (7.5)   10.0   (7.5)
works
G. Training                    -    (-)         -  (-)    1.7 (0.9)    1.7   (0.9)
Total             114.2 (91.5)    214.7 (-)   11.9 (8.5)  340.8 (100.0)
Notes:   Figures between brackets correspond to Bank financing
a/ The Bank loan will only finance import of construction equipment.
i/ The Bank loan will only finance import of the starting working capital.
4.16     All equipment and services to be financed under the Bank loan would
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) will be used for the purchase of equipment and goods except for
specialized research equipment and computers which will be procured under
Limited International Bidding (LI) procedures from at least three qualified
suppliers. The aggregate amount of goods procured under LIB will not exceed
in value the equivalent of US$9.2 million. Equipment, services and works not
financed by the Bank will be procured under local competitive bidding which is
generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency.
4.17     ICB would be carried out essentially by AGROTEK with the only
exception of monoammonium phosphate (MAP) which would be procured by
CHEMOLIMPEX. Farm macbinery at a total estimated cost of US$92.8 million is
expected to be purchased under three separate bidding packages. The first one
(US$5.0 million) for sugar beet harvesting equipment was invited in July 1985
in accordance with the Bank guidelines and would be disbursed under
retroactive financing procedures (para. 4.21). The balance would be the
object of two similar size packages of about US$43 million to be invited in



- 24 -
1986 and 1987. The construction equipment with an estimated total value of
US$4.6 million would be procured in one package in 1986. Equipment for liquid
fertilizer mixing units for an estimated value of US$3.1 million would be
procured in three packages of similar size in 1986/88.  Purchases of MAP would
be annual and in accordance with the mixing plants requirements. Equipment
subject to LIB would be procured in separate packages, depending an its type
by ACAD, the specialized agency for importing research equipment.
4.18     Farm machinery estimated at US$159.6 million would be procured
through LCB procedures by AGROTEK under a program parallel to ICB procured
items. Land improvement works estimated at US$47.6 million would be also
procured under LCB procedures with the technical assistance of AGROBER among
local specialized contractors. These are mainly the work branches of large
farms which operate as contractor. It is expected that contracts for land
improvement would average about US$700,000 spread evenly over the four years
of the Project since works would be performed in 60-70 individual farms. The
construction of the liquid fertilizer mixing plants (US$5.5) would also follow
a similar pattern of bid invitation, i.e., by separate promoters with AGROBER
assistance. Ten contracts are expected.
4.19     The Project provides for training and consultancies at an estimated
value of US$1.7 million of which USO.7 million is for training abroad.
Courses, scholarships and study visits would be organized in accordance with
programs satisfactory to the Bank and consultants with qualifications and
terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank would
be appointed in accordance with Bank guidelines. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
4.20     The Bank would carry prior review of the short list of suppiiers,
bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and draft contracts of goods to be
procured under ICB and LIB for packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$1.0 million or more. Given the large size of the bidding packages, it is
expected that the Bank would carry out prior review of all bidding documents,
bid evaluation reports and draft contracts which are subject to ICB. The Bank
review would comprise more than 95% of the total estimated value of contracts
financed under the loan and about 307 of the value of contracts to be executed
under the entire Project.
G. Disbursements
4.21     Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million would be
as follows:
Amount of the
Category                                      Loan Allocated    I of Expenditures
in US$ Equivalent    to be Financed
1.  Farm machinery and spare parts                69,000,000  )    100% of
2.  Construction equipment and spare parts         3,000,000  )    foreign
3.  Liquid fertilizer equipment and spare parts  2,300,000  )   expenditures
4.  Monoammonium phosphate (MAP)                  13,000,00U  )   or 100I   of
5.  Research & other equipment                     7,100,000  )    local expendi-
6.  Training & Consultants                           900,000  )    tures
7.  Unallocated                                    4,700,000  )
Total                                   100,000,000        (ex-factory)



- 25 -
Up to US$5.0 million would be disbursed under retroactive financing procedures
for the purchase of the first phase of sugar beet harvesting equipment.
Disbursements under all categories would be fully supported by standard
documentation except in the case of training related services estimated at a
total of US$600,000 equivalent and any contract valued at no more than
equivalent of US$50,000 for which disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by NBH. NBH would retain the
supporting documentation and make it available for inspection during Bank
supervision missions and by external auditors. Assurances of observance of
disbursement procedures were obtained at negotiations.
4.22     The proposed Loan is expected to be disbursed over a five-year period
(Table 3). This disbursement period is consistent with the disbursement
profile of equivalent projects in Romania (5 years) and of the ongoing Grain
Storage and Mechanization Project in Hungary (Loan 2316-HU, expected to be 4
years). Within two years from effectiveness, the Grain Storage and
Mechanization Project has already disbursed 79Z of the loan proceeds or 120S
of SAR estimates. For comparison the disbursement profiles for Bank-wide
agricultural credit projects indicate that project disbursement required seven
and a half years. The proposed Project is expected to be completed on
schedule by June 1990.
4.23     To accelerate payment of ICB suppliers and reduce administrative work
in the Bank, after loan effectiveness, the Bank would deposit an initial sum
of US$6.0 million to set up a revolving fund (RF) to f Lance eligible
expenditures corresponding to the Bank's share of the average four months'
Project needs. The funds would be deposited in US dollars in a special
account at the NBE. A record of all contracts financed and a permanent
accounting record of operations financed would be kept by NBH and be available
for review by Bank missions upon demand. Payments from the RF would only be
made for eligible expenditures indicated in the Loan Agreement. An audit
report by an independent auditor on the RF account would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the end of the fiscal
year.
4.24     The Bank would replenish the revolving fund as requested upon receipt
of satisfactory evidence that expenditures made from it were eligible for
financing out of the fund. A replenishment request would normally be sent to
the Bank when 50S of the revolving fund has been disbursed. Should any
disbursement made from the special account not be acceptable to the Bank, NBH
would be required to deposit the corresponding ineligible amount into the
special account, if the Bank so requests.
4.25     No further deposits into the special account would be made by the
Bank when the total unwithdrawn amount of the loan allocated to the eligible
categories would be equal L*. US$12.0 million.  If *t is determined that any
amount outstanding in the special account is not required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the NBH would refund to the Bank such
amount outstanding in the special account. Assurances on the above points
were obtained at negotiations



- 26 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATiON
A. Organization and Manament
Responsibilities for Implementation
5.01     NEH would have primary responsibility for Project implementation.
It would be the Borrower, while the Government and beneficiaries would assure
provision of adequate counterpart financing. The Government counterpart funds
would be on-lent through NBH. NBR would make available to farming enterprises,
land improvement associations, production systems or MEM that part of the Bank
loan required to finance farm machinery, construction equipment for land
improvement, working capital and equipment for production, transport and
distribution of liquid fertilizer, and consultants for management information
system training abroad. The balance of the loan would be made available to
production systems or to MEM, for activities to be conducted by MEM or their
research institutions or universities that portion of the loan required to
finance training. The organization and management structure of the Department
of Agriculture of NBH is technically adequate to ensure successful Project
implementation. All Project technical aspects during Project implementation
would fall under the general authority of the Directorate of Agriculture of
MEN. The Project financial and economic aspects would be the responsibility
of NBE. The arrangements for organizing credit application would be similar to
those already successfully applied under the Grain Storage and Mechanization
Project (Loan 2316-HU). NBH would advertise the availability of the Project
line of credit in the local press.
5.02     For farm machinery and construction equipment, the NBE branch offices
with the technical support of AGROBER would assist subloan applicants to
prepare loan requests and assure that their selection would be done on the
basis of project models and credit guidelines. Applications would be supported
by detailed feasibility studies or appraisal reports. Farm machinery equipment
to be purchased under the Bank loan financing would work in packages together
with complementary equipment financed by counterpart funds or equity, or
already existing in the farms. Therefore, subloan applications for farm
machinery would be supported by a 3-year mechanization plan of the farm to be
provided by the subborrowers. Prior to approval by NBH and in advising on
technical aspects of subloan applications, MEM would specifically assess
whether the objectives of farm machinery optimization are pursued. NBH would
be responsible for monitoring and reporting on the implementation of these
farm mechanization plans.  Assurances on the above points were obtained at
negotiations. The initial stock of spare parts ranging between 10-152 of
investment cost of equipment and financed under the Bank loan would be kept
and managed by preselected production systems or farms or by AGROTEK on their
behalf.
5.03     Land improvement would be implemented following already approved
county development programs (para. 2.26). AGROBER and NBH local branches
would assist farming enterprises in preparing the technical, engineering and
financial part of the investment feasibility study. This would also include
the linkage with the assurance of a simultaneous farm mechanization program
(para. 2.28). Similar pattern would be followed for the investment on liquid



- 27 -
fertilizer plants. AGROBER and AGROTEK would assist the promoting farming
enterprises or farming associations in preparing engineering plans, costs and
feasibility studies. NBH local branches would provide the necessary support
in the financial and economic aspects of those studies. The MEM Plant
Protection and Agrochemical Department would centralize and coordinate the
implementation of the research, training and technical assistance of the
Project through clearance of the applications and assuring their inclusion in
the framework of program satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 4.08, 4.19).
B. On-Lending Terms and Conditions
5.04     All subloans under the Project would be extended by NBH at a rate
that would be equal at least to the rate of interest applicable from
time-to-time to the loan plus 30X. The spread would cover: (a) NBH processing
and administrative costs; and (b) the foreign exchange risk. The current NBH
rate is 13X. Assurances as to the above were obtained during negotiations.
5.05     Maturities for crop production improvement subloans (farm machinery,
construction equipment) are expected to average eight years with two years of
grace and in no case would they be over 10 years. Subloan maturities for
liquid fertilizer facilities would be 10 years with a two-year grace period.
Working capital lending for the acquisition of monoammonium phosphate would
have maturities not exceeding 2 years. Maturities for research equipment and
training subloans would be 15 years, including a grace period of three years.
Subloan repayments not needed for Bank loan amortization would be used to
finance long- and short-term agricultural lending. In all cases subborrowers
would contribute not less than 20% of Project investment cost in the form of
equity. Assurances as to the above were obtained at negotiations.
5.06     In order to qualify under the Project, subborrowers would be
requested to keep a sound financial situation, as expressed below; they would
i-aintain at all times on their operations the following financial standards:
(a)  a debt service ratio of not less than 1.5:1.  This ratio is defined
as the ratio of net income after taxes plus interest on long-term
debt, plus depreciation, less any other significant cash outlay to
the interest on long-term debt plus amortization of the wrincipal of
long-term loans; and
(b) a current ratio not less than 2:1 to be calculated by dividing
current assets by current liabilities.
Assurances to the above were obtained at negotiations.
5.07     In order to ensure that only subprojects with an adequate priority in
terms of economic viability are included in the Project, all selected
subprojects would be required to have financial and economic rates of return
above 141, which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital. To monitor
subloans selection procedures, samples of subloan applications in English
would be submitted by NBH to the Bank supervision missions during Project
implementation. Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations.



- 28 -
C. Accounts and Audits
5.08     As under the ongoing Grain Storage and Mechanization Project, and the
Integrated Livestock Industry Project, the NBH controller's office will set up
a project account. Such account would keep a detailed record of all subloans
extended under the project, whether financed with Bank or NBH funds. The
Agricultural Credit Department of the NBH would receive monthly copies of the
controllers' printout for such an account and prepare a summary note for the
Department Deputy President, indicating up-to-date project financial status
and specific kind of subprojects financed and the respective sources of
finance used such as Bank funds, NBH funds, beneficiary equity contributions
and Government subsidies.
5.09     The Project account, because of its computerized nature in addition
to being an important accounting document, would be a valuable source of
information for NBH, MEI and Bank supervision missions to check operational
project progress and proper investment of Project funds. It would also
provide for close monitoring of disbursements and recoveries under the
Project. Project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank along with a specific review of the validity of
statements of expenditures sent to the Bank for disbursements under the Bank
loan. Within four months of the end of the fiscal year, NBH would furnish to
the 3ank such audited financial statements with the audit report. Loan
beneficiaries under the Project would submit to NBH annua. short form audit
reports prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These audit
reports would be kept at NBH Agricultural Credit Department and at Bank
request a sample of them would be translated into English for review by
supervision missions. Assurances were obtained during the negotiations on the
above aspects of accounts and auditing.
D. Monitorinm and Evaluation
5.10     The NBH assisted by MEM and AGROBER would be responsible for
monitoring all Project components. This would include supervision of
procurement operations, of Project progress at farm and mixing plant site, of
operating results by means of field visits and periodical review of financial
statements of Project beneficiaries. NBH would submit to the Bank a detailed
semiannual progress report which would include among others: (a) project
performance indices comparing appraisal expectations with actual results; (b)
narrative review of major technical and administrative problems encountered
during Project implementation; and (c) actions or revisions recommended.
AGROBER is presently preparing a manual for distribution to NBH, MEM and
subborrowers on Project monitoring and reporting requirements under the
Project.
5.11     The progress report would be submitted to the Bank within 90 days of
the end of the semester under review. NBH would also attach to each progress
report an up-to-date summary of the Project account with a narrative section
qualifying the Project's operational and financial aspects. NBH assisted by



- 29 -
MEM and AGROBER would also prepare a Project completion report to be submitted
to the Bank not later than six months after Project closing date. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations on the reporting and monitoring requirements.
E. Environmental Impact
5.12     Existing regulations for environmental protection in Hungary are
adequate and are acceptable to the Bank. The Plant Protection and
Agro-Chemistry Center, under MEM, is responsible for detecting environmental
pollution in the agricultural sector, and it pays special attention to
pesticides and fertilizer applications, chemical storage practices and
chemical residual control. The Project would have a positive impact on
improving and consolidating Government efforts to fight against pollution.
Land improvement works through land reshaping, but particularly through
drainage would eliminate swampy areas and therefore decrease mosquito breeding
grounds. Project funds would be used in research to measure and improve
control of residues of plant production chemicals, soil and water pollution.
The replacement of granular by liquid fertilizer would also decrease hazards
connected with transportation and storage losses, and washing by surface
run-off during heavy rainfall periods.
VL PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Makets
Benefits
6.01     Incremental output from the Project would be mainly in the form of
wheat and maize due to increased production and reduction in harvest losses.
Table 6.1 indicates major annual Project incremental production at full
development (1990).
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF MAJOR ANNUAL PROJECT INCREMDENTAL PRODUCTION
Crop              Incremental Production ('000 ton)        X Increase
Wheat                           510                            27
Barley                           41                            16
Maize                           437                            20
Sunflower                        78                            26
Maize silage                    848                            22
Alfalfa hay                     127                            17
6.02     The Project impact area would be between 1.2 and 1.5 million ha
depending on the ultimate overlap of the components proposed. Some 350,000 ha
would benefit from farm machinery modernization mainly for improvement of
cereal production; some 470,000 ha would receive loans for machinery
wodernization for mixed farming, and some 380,000 ha would be provided with



- 30 -
land improvement on part of their land and with farm machinery modernization,
thereby making better land available for cereals, oil seed and forage crops
and increasing yields of already existing crops. Some 350,000 ha would
benefit from the establishment and operation of 10 new liquid fertilizer
mixing plants, the use of which would also result in incremental production.
6.03     For the farm mechanization component, as a result of the interaction
of more timely and efficient land preparation, seeding, application of
fertilizer and other agricultural chemicals, and especially harvesting, yields
are expected to increase (Table 6.2) by about 20% and namely 0.9 ton/ha for
wheat and 1.0 ton/ha for maize. The on-farm investments are expected to be
carried out during the first year of implementation. The resulting improved
yields and decreased production costs would be achieved in the following 3-4
years.
6.04     Land improvement would include drainage, land consolidation, better
farm roads and physical soil improvement through the application of lime,
other chemica-s and subsoiling. This would reduce the arca previously under
low-value crops or fallow and, principally due to better drainage, it would
benefit the environment. Investments in land improvement would be carried out
over a three-year period. Incremental benefits from increased crop production
would be maximized from land improvement areas when reclamation investments
are complemented by farm machinery modernization. Setting of relatively high
threshold of acceptability for land reclamation subprojects (para. 5.07) would
imply giving priority to subprojects which (a) open more land to valuable
crops, particularly through drainage; (b) where reclamation works have a large
extended impact area; (c) which require less costly soil restructuring; and
'd) which have reached adequate standards of modern mechanization. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
6.09    About 9Z of the area of farms which would benefit from loans for the
modernization of mixed farming are cropped with sugar beet. Consistent with
Government policy to limit sugar production to meet the domestic demand, the
improvement of cropping conditions and quality, and the decreasing losses due
to the improved equipment to be introduced under the Project, would result in
the possibility of reducing the area under sugar beet by about L7% and a
corresponding increase in area under export crops. Therefore, during
negotiations it was agreed that the quantity of sugar produced from sugar beet
in the country would not exceed the a.nnual levels of domestic consumption and
that the area under sugar beet crop would be adjusted annually to maintrin
sugar production at such levels. In addition, assurances were also obtained
at negotiations that before investments to expand refining facilities are
authorized, Government would review its policy for domestic sugar beet
production on the basis of an analysis carried out in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank and consult with the Bank on the results of this
review.
6.06    Farms changing to liquid fertilizer use would reduce losses which
occur during transportation, storage and handling of granular fertilizer,
would reduce soil compaction due to less frequent on-farm fertilizer
distribution, would improve distribution efficiency and would contribute to
decrease pollution problems. Based on large-scale field tests, it is expected
that yields would increase by about 6 to 10%. Construction of a liquid
fertilizer plant would be followed on each participating farm by a gradual
shift from granular to 'Liquid fertilizer lise reaching full use of the new



- 31 -
technology in the third year after construction.  The expected impact of
different interventions under the Project on crop yields is given in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2: PROJECTED CROP YIELDS WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
Liquid
Farm Mechanization       Land Improvement           Fertilizer
Modernization        and Mechanization            'Farms
without      with        without     with        without    with
Project     Project      Project    Project      Project   Project
---------------------------Yields in t/ha-----------------------
Wh4at            4.3          5.2           3.2       4.0         4.3         4.6
Barley           3.5          4.0          -          -           -           -
Maize            5.6          6.6          6.0        7.2         6.1         6.5
Sunflower        2.0          2.4          1.7        2.3         1.9         2.2
Raw sugar        3.8          4.6          -          -            3.8        4.2
Maize silage    18.0         21.0         19.0       23.0        18.0        20.0
Alfalfa          6.2          6.6          -          6.2         6.2         6.6
Peas             5.8          6.6                     -           -           -
Markets
6.07     Agricultural exports constitute the main source of foreign currency for
Hungary. Wheat is the dominant export cereal accounting for about 85Z of grain
exports. Of the 1984 wheat crop of 6.5 million tons, 1.8 million tons or 28% was
exported, of which 80% to the USSR, 80-85% of all cereal exports being sold for
convertible currency. Domestic human consumption absorbed about 49%, while 23% or
1.5 million tons of wheat remained on the farms and was used mainly as feed. The
estimated incremental production of 0.5 million tons under the Project is expected
to be exported. Internal trade and handling is the responsibility of Gabona
Trost, while exports are executed through AGRIMPEX, the State grain trading agency
which has a successful record in marketing Hungary's export surpluses. In terms
of world trade, Hungary is a very minor export source of grain and accepts
internationally determined prices. Hungarian wheat is of top quality and is used
by some importers to blend with and upgrade local production. By contrast, about
70% of the maize crop is kept on the farm as livestork feed, only 3% being
exported to both CMEA and convertible currency co-.ntries. Maize exports vary
between years, quality feed grain being preferred by the main customers. As a
result of the Project, improved quality through a reduc-ion of drying needs by
more timely harvesting is expected to incredse the export potential for maize.
Studies of agricultural domestic resource costs confirm that Hungary's grain
production is competitive in the world market. With quality improvement for maize
and the continued preference for wheac in CMEA countries, which are increasing
their demand, incremental grain production is expected to be marketed without
difficulty. However, attempts to tap the convertible currency markets also show
strong potentials for the Middle East (for which Hungary also has a transport cost
advantage) and part of the production may also be marketed in this region. The
non-traded part of the maize indirectly contributes to exports through its use as
feed, primarily for hogs. Hog exports amounted to 53,000 tons in 1984. The
incremental sunflower seed resulting from the Project is expected to be exported
as seed for bird feed. Table 6.3 indicates the tonnage of exports of the
principal products related to the Project.



- 32 -
Table 6.3: EXPORTS BY VOLUME
('000 tons)
1976-80     1981      1982     1983      1984
Wheat                         679      1,199    1,147    1,106    1,258
Maize                         263         72      380       188      149
Sunflower seed                 61         72      145       65        79
B. Financial Analysis
S.08     The Project will yield substantial financial benefits deriving mainly
from reduction of operating costs and output increases due to higher
productivity from the use of more technologically advanced machinery and
equipment.  The Project is also expected to derive financial benefits from an
improved financial administration of farmers assets and the gradual
establishment of a more balanced capital structure of recipient farms.
Subborrowers' loan applications, submitted to the appraisal mission for
review, indicate that the proposed projects are financially viable and that
the beneficiaries, in general, are creditworthy with comfortable debt service
ratios on their present operations and satisfactory FRRs ranging from 212 to
35X. The major firancial indicators of a sample of the three typical
subborrowing firms, as indicated in the loan applications and NBH appraisal,
together with FRR's of the farm models describing the different Project
actions (Table 9) are summarized in Table 6.4.
Table 6.4: FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF TYPICAL SUBBORROWERS
Expected
Type of Farm                number        Sales    Pre-tax      Debt    Indicative
of       Revenue   Profit      Service   FRR of
Subborrowers   (M Ft)    (M Ft)       Ratio  Farm Models
Farm machinery                240       211         17            1.9       25
Land improvement
and mechanization            60       172         25            1.7       29
Liquid fertilizer plant        10       811         65            2.3       28
6.09     Foreign Exchange Earnings.  The estimated annual gross foreign
exchange earnings from the Project at full development are indicated by
commodity in Table 6.5.



- 33 -
Table 6.5: ESTIMATED GROSS FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS
AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Increm. Product.    Border Price '85    Increm. FE
('000 ton)           (US$)             ( US$ M)
Wheat                     509.9                149               76.0
Maize                     437.2                11l               48.5
Sunflower                  77.9               323                25.2
Total                                                       149.7
An annual gross benefit valued at about of US$150 million equivalent is
expected to accrue to the economy at full development against estimated total
direct and indirect FE outlays of about US$140 million. Replacement and
operating costs at capacity are estimated to average about 45X of sales
revenue and include about 402 of foreign exchange costs or about 182 of sales
revenue (US$27.0). If 80% of the incremental production due to the Project is
exported, the expected net annual foreign exchange benefits accruing from the
Project would be about US$90 million.
C. Economie Evahiation
Economic Prices
6.10     Outputs.  These are based on the border prices for the major outputs
of the Project: wheat, maize, sugar beet and sunflower seeds. These products
have been priced at their international equivalents, adjusted for any quality
differentials. The reference year for all economic price calculations was
1990 and the international prices used reflect the latest projections of the
Commodities and Export Projections Division and are expressed in constant 1985
dollars. For wheat and maize, the derivation of the conversion ratios was
based on the nominal protection coefficients (NPCs) calculated by the Agrarian
Research Inbtitute (AKI) for the Pricing and Incentives Study commissioned by
the World Bank. The 1983 NPCs (the latest years for which these coefficients
were calculated) were updated to 1985 taking into account actual movements in
domestic producer prices, internationAl prices and in the exchange rate. The
trends in international wheat and maize prices (in real terms), as reported by
the Commodities and Projections Division, were then incorporated into the
calculations to derive the conversion ratios for the reference year of 1990.
The small change in projected prices for wheat, maize and sunflower in the
period 1987/1990 did not merit the calculation of economic prices on an annual
basis. In the case of sugar beet, given the unusually depressed prices
currently prevailing in the vorld sugar market it was considered appropriate
to use 1990 projections for the entire life of the Project. While Hungary
neither exports nor imports sugar at present, sugar beet has been treated in
the economic analysis as an import substitution crop, since no increase in
national production is expected (para. 6.05). In the absence of a price
series for sunflower seeds, soybean international price trends were used as a



- 34 -
proxy after adjusting for price differentials using historical Hungarian
export prices for sunflower seeds.  The adjusLments made for local costs,
including processing, reflect the economic cost of the inputs used in each
case (e.g. fuel and other energy costs). The value of silage maize was
calculated at its maize equivalent while the remaining project outputs of
lesser importance (e.g. wheat straw, alfalfa, peas) were priced at their
domestic value as most of them are non-traded commodities.
6.11     Inputs.  Seeds, chemicals and labor have been priced at their
financial values as there are no known distortions in the domestic market
which affect the pricing of these inputs. The economic price for fertilizer
has been calculated after adjusting domestic prices for government subsidies.
The economic prices for gasoline, fuel oil and diesel fuel are based on their
border equivalents; the international prices for these commodities were based
on average spot prices observed in 1985 as there is no appreciable difference
between the prices (in constant dollars) of petroleum in 1985 reported by the
Commodities and Export Projections Division and the projections made for
1990. The price of natural gas was calculated at its border equivalent on the
basis of fuel oil parity, while the price of electricity was based on long
term marginal cost calculations done by the region's Power and Energy
Development Division. Investment costs for items expected to be imported have
been based on manufacturers' costs, plus transportation and insurance while
items expected to be procured locally have been priced at current domestic
values, excluding all direct subsidies and taxes. Details on the derivation
of the economic prices and costs are provided in Annex 7. The economic
analysis was carried out using the official exchange rate which is believed to
continue to reflect the economic value of foreign exchange. Table 6 lists
economic and financial prices use in the Project.
6.12     Economic Benefits.  The quantified benefits are mainly those related
to increased yields which result from the new technology introduced under the
Project, either through more efficient equipment or better scheduled crop
operations.  This is particularly the case for the farm machinery and liquid
fertilizer components. However, other specific quantified benefits have also
been taken into consideration. In farm machinery, reductions of losses ant
operating costs; in land improvement the additional benefit introduced by
shifting to more valuable crops; in sugar beet farming, in light of the
Government's decision to maintain production at current levels, the higher
yields generated through the use of new machinery will enable in a reductio-
in the area under sugar beet cultivation and a corresponding increase in the
production of exportable cereals which can be cropped in that area (para.
6.05); in the liquid fertilizer component, reductions in transportation and
distribution losses and a more efficient use of nutrients were also included
among the benefits of the Project. The unquantified benefits of the Project
include the positive impact on the environment through the introduction of
drainage and through the substitution of liquid for granular fertilizer. In
estimating the ERRs, benefits were lagged one year behind costs for non-farm
machinery investments, i.e., for the construction of the liquid fertilizer
plants and the civil works pertaining to drainage and landshaping. It was
assumed, however, that the benefits from the introduction of the new farm
machinery would start being realized in the first harvesting season with full
development reached 3-4 years after the initial investment. The sensitivity
analysis of the Project and its components centers around the estimation of
switching values to determine the maximum shift permissible in key streams



- 35 -
concommitant with a viable project. The analysis was carried out assuming an
opportunity cost of capital of 132. Finally, net present values are calculated
for all net benefit streams.  The results are summarized in Table 6.6.
Table 6.6: SUMMARY OF RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Comonent
Farm       Farm         Land       Liquid   Total
Machinery I  Machinery II  Inprovement  Fertilizer Project
1. Base Cost (ERR )              37           38          SO           21       39
2. Switching Values (13X) (X)
a) Incremental revenue (Z)   -40         -41          -41         -10       -38
b) Costs:
Incremental inv. costs   85           84          157          65       102
Incremental oper. costs  329         526          120          14       160
Total Costs                68           72          68           11       62
3. Net present value (13X) (Ft M)  3.572   4.045        4.884         277   12.879
6.13     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the Project was
calculated to be 392. This relatively high rate of return is due not only to
the higher yields obtained from the use of more efficient and sophisticated
machinery, but also to lower operating costs. The four components of the
Project all have relatively high rates of return ranging from 212 for the
liquid fertilizer component to 502 for the land improvement compone.at. The
two mixed agriculture components have ERRs of 37 and 382, respectively. The
main reason for the significantly higher ERR of the land improvement component
is given by the large incremental benefits derived from the cultivation of
cereals on land previously left fallow or used as grassland.
6.14     The sensitivity analysis indicates the robustness of the Project and
its components. The liquid fertilizer component is the most sensitive to
changes in the benefit or cost streams. The ERR of this component would
decline to an opportunity cost of capital of 13% with a reduction in
incremental revenues of 10 or an increase in incremental investment and
operating costs of 652 and 142 respectively independently of each other. For
the other three components, incremental revenues would have to decline by as
much as 40% and total costs increase by 65-722 before the ERRs are reduced to
132. Errors of this magnitude in cost or benefit estimation are unlikely in
view of the standard equipment used in the Project and the relatively stable
prices prevailing in the international market for wheat and maize which are the
two key commodities in the Project. The mean price for wheat in the 1972-85
period was US$172/ton (in 1983 dollars) with a standard deviation of US$10.3
while the corresponding figures for maize are US$125/ton for dhe mean and
US$9.2 for the standard deviation.  The 1990 price forecasts made by the
Commodities and Exports Projects Division are two standard deviations below
the 1977-85 mean for wheat and more than one standard deviation below the
1977-85 mean for maize. It is therefore unlikely that international prices
for these commodities during the life of the Project would decline more
sharply than assumed in doing the economic analysis of the Project.
Furthermore, since Hungary is a minor actor in the international ma.rket for
cereals in general and in the markets of the trading partners in particular,
an increase in the volume of its exports is not expected to result in any
reductions in the prices it receives.



- 36 -
D. Risks
6.15     The large number (about 100) of subloan applications that have
already been submitted to NBH and the Government conmitment to the Project
suggest that lack of participation is unlikely to become an issue, although
the relatively high cut-off rate of 14X to be applied under the Project will
result in a number of applications being rejected, because the efficiency
criteria for the project have not been met. The large number of applications
will permit the selection of projects with higher rates of return where the
farms undertake to use the modern and efficient equipment in an optimal
manner. Hungary is now fully acquainted with Bank procurement, disbursement
and other requirements. Therefore, the risk of delays in implementation due
to lack of familiarity with those procedures is minimal. Furthermore, the
Project makes provisions (para. 5.01) to ensure that farms do not simply focus
on purchasing equipment to be financed out of the Bank loan while delaying the
acquisition of locally procured complementary equipment. The inappropriate
use of the equipment package would result in sub-optimal use thus reducing the
benefits that can be reaped under the Project. The technical assistance and
training provided by the Project would also reduce the risk of misuse which
might arise from inadequate or erroneous knowledge about the equipment and the
way to operate it.
VIIL AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECObMENDATIONS
1.01     At negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) By December 31, 1988, the Government would develop and thereafter
carry-out a program of adjustment of its producer prices, taxes and
subsidies applicable to its agricultural sector on the basis of
conclus-Lons and recommendations of a study to be prepared by December
31, 1987 (para. 2.20);
(b) Government would apply economic and financial criteria acceptable to
the Bank in its economic land improvement program and it would
continue to pursue its policy of reducing subsidies and grants
provisions available to such land improvement projects as part of a
comprehensive program of adjustment of prices, taxes and subsidiaries
(para. 2.28;;
(c) the HEM would promote training abroad of Hungarian technicians who
would be selected and follow programs satisfactory to the Bank; the
trainees would disseminate their experience and acquired knowledge in
accordance with programs acceptable to the Bank; consultants would be
recruited following Bank guidelines (paras. 4.08, 4.19);
(d) adequate counterpart financing would be made available, to be on-lent
through NBH (para. 4.14);
(e) all equipment and goods for the Project to be financed by the Bank
would be procured through ICB procedures in accordance with the
Bank procurement guidelines with the exception of specialized
research equipment and computers which would be procured under LIB
(para. 4.16);



- 37 -
(f) all disbursements would be fully supported by standard documentation
with the exception of services provided under contracts valued at
US$50,000 or less for which cisbursement would be on a SOE basis
(para. 4.21);
(g) a revolving fund with an initial deposit of US$6.0 million would be
set up (paras. 4.23 to 4.25);
(h)  MEN would advise on all technica± aspects of subloan applications and
would help NBH is evaluativig farm mechanization plans that would be
included in subloan applications for farm machinery (para. 5.02);
(i) all subloans would be extended by NBM at the rate equal at least to
the rate of interest applicable from time-co-time to the loan plus
30S (para. 5.04);
(j) subloan macurities would average eight years with two years of grace
for crop production activities, ten years with two years of grace for
liquid fertilizer facilities, and two years for MAP acquisition. In
all cases subborrowers would contribute not less than 20% of
investment in the form of equity (para. 5.05);
(k) the subborrowers would maintain on their operations appropriate
financial standards to be monitored by NBM (para. 5.06);
(1) all selected subprojects would be subject to internal economic and
financial rate of return analysis as part of its standard appraisal
by NBH; a cut-off point of 14? as minimal acceptance criterion would
be applied (para. 5.07';
Cm) NBE would maintain a separate Project account, which would be audited
annually and the result sent to the Bank, together with audited
financial statements of its total operation, within four months
following the close of the fiscal year (paras. 5.08, 5.09);
(n) all subborrowers under the Project would be fully audited annually;
short form audit report would be kept in NBH and samples in
English would be submitted to Bank supervision missions upon request
(para. 5.09);
(o) NBH would prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual progress ieports
(para. 5.10) and would also prepare a Project completion report not
later than 6 months af-;er Project closing date (para. 5.11);
(p) land improvement subprojects would be selected in accordance with
agreed criteria (para. 6.04);
(q) Government would limit its sugar production to meet domestic demand
and therefore reduce the area under sugar beet as yields improve, and
would review its sugar beet domestic production policy before
investments to expand refining facilities would be required
(para. 6.05).



- 38 -
7.02     With the above assurances and conditions, the Crop Production
Improvement Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$100.0 with repayment
over 15 years and with a grace period of 3 years. The Project completion date
would be June 30, 1990.
(1819E/42)



-39-
Chart I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
mnlementation Schedule
I   PYl I       PY2   I   PY3          PY4
1985       1986       1987       1988         1989        1990
I    I                I           I       L I
Bank Loan
Signature                             0
Effectiveness                            O
Completion                                                                                a
Closing                                                                                       0
Crop Production
Farm Machinery
Sugar beet equip. (a) xxxxx
First bid                        xxxxx     
Second bid                                        xxxx-------------
Third bid                                                           xxxxx------------
33.000 ha     35.000 ha  40.000 ha  40.000 ha
Land Inmrovr lent Works                               --------------------------------
Construction Emuinment                    x x x x x ---------------
LI-UrD FERTILIZER
First set                                 xxx--(3)------
Second set                                           xxx----(4)--------
Third set                                                      xxxx------(3)-----
12.000t    32.000t     34.000t      36,000t
MAP--                                              - - - - - - - - - -  -  - - - - - -  -
INSTITUTION DEVELOPMENT
Research Equipment
Phylotron                                    xxxx----------------
Other                                              --------------------  ---- -  --------
Training abroad                              ---
Local Training                                               ---------------------------
=~~~~~~~~~~                                  I
xxxx Procurement
-- - Execution or supply
A/ Procurement subject to retroactive financingl8lME/p54
1819E. p.45



-40-
Table 1
".POP' HVDUCTEDtI ITOPROVEMENT PRG E-1
Base Ccsts              -------------
- ~~~-   ----------------~-----,
A. CROP PRODUCTIC'i -1!!PRu:)EM&T   3.27%4 3,tt.1A2.?1.3 2,39.1  11i667.9    233.8
B. LIQUID FERTILIZEr. PROMMJUOM       123.3   21.2  3-17.8   i;-.         909.8      18.2
C. ItSTITUTI'NALX  EELOP!IENT          22.7   144A   198.5    -E.3        454..      9.1
Total DASELIIE COSTS                  3,4981.4 3753.6 3i419.5 2,614.6  13!052.o    26-1 .0
t-hical Cont3iSencies                373.2 32 2.8   36A.    Zfl. '1I3972            21,.9
Price Contintenie                     22.      67.3   553.6  6899.5 2,5?3           N.9
ottal PMJECT COSTS                    4r',121.2 4486.7 4'64D0.0 3r787.4  1?SJA    340.8
Taxwes                               843.9   903.7   90j1.3    25..    3 ,37.2      r'.5
Fcrezsn Ezcsanre                   1?714.2 1i924.6 2139.7 1612.2   7,390.8    1 i
Mlarch 6, 198t  16:3-



-41-
Table 2
HUNGARY
CROP PROECTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUMMIRT ACCOUIS COST SUMARY
trealm 81l1ionl          tUSS li II low              z Total
---- r----------------- ----------------   7 roeign   Ba.
Local  Foreign  rotal   Local Foreign Total Exchange    Costs
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTIONS
BUIIOINGS                                                 141.2    21.3    162.5   2.8    0.4  3.2            13        1
SIDE HOSRS                                                56. 3     . 5    64.8    1. 1    0.2   1. 3         13        0
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTIONS                                      197.5    29.8    227.3   3.9      0.6  4.5          13        2
L  LMAD RESTRUCTURING
LMOSCAPING                                               268.5    70. 6   339.0   5.4       1. 4   6.         21        3
Sub-Total LAND RESTRUCTURING                                268.5    70.6   339.0   5.4        1.4   6.          21        3
C. HATER REGULATION
ORAINAGE NORKS                                           928.4   244. 0  1. 172. 4   t8. 6    4. 9 23.4       21        9
Sub-Total HATER REGULATION                                  928.4   244.0  I. 172.4  18.6    4.9  23.4           21        9
0. SOIL IMPROVEMENT                                         272.0    71. 5    343.4   5.4      1. 4   6. 9       21        3
Et  EWIPRENT
1. FARIl MACHINERY
VEGETABLES PROD                                       240.4   210.7   451.0   4.8        4.2  9.0          47        3
FORAGE PROD                                           StT.9   33L 4    856.3   10.4      6. 8  17. 1       40        7
SUGARBEET PROD                                         109.7   423.3    533.0    2.2     3.5  TO.?         79        4
CEREAL PROD                                         1.223.5 1.222.9  2.446.4  24 5   24.5  48.9            so       19
GENERAL USE                                          1.233.8 1.244. 4 2. 478. 2  24. 7   24.9  49.6        50       19
Sib-Total FRM MMACINERY                                3. 325.4 3.439.6  5. 765.0  66.5  s68 1t35.3           51       52
2. LIQUID FERTILIZER EQUIPMENT                            44.4    62. 6    107.0   0. 9     1.3  2. 1         59        1
3. MONOAMMIUN    PWOSPIIATE                               24.9   474.0    499.0   0.5      9. 5  10.0         95        4
4. IRRIGATION EQUIPIIENT
5. VEHICLES MD TRANSPORT
TRUCKS                                               9SIL     328.2  L.272.2   18.9    6.6  25.4           26      IC
TRAILERS                                               82.7    28 4    Ill. I   I. T    0. 6  2.2          26        1
LOADERS                                               49. 4   131.8   691.2  1O.0    3.8  13.8            28        5
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND TRANrSPORT                       1.526. 1  548. 3  2.074.5  30.5    11.0  41.5         26       16
6. RESEARCH aND OTHER EQUIPMENT                           61.8  290.2   352.0    1.2    5.8   7.0            82         3
Sub-Totel EQUIPMENT                                       4.982.7 4.814.8  9.797.5  99.7    96.3 196.0           49       rs
F. SPAREPARTS                                               708 5   390. 2  1. 09  7   14.2    7.8  22.0         16        8
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTACE . TRAINING . SrUoIES
TRAINING                                                  33.4    40.4    73.8   0.7    0.    1. 5            55        1
Sib-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE . TRAINING . STUDIES          33.4    40.4      73.8   0.7   O.    1.5           55        1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          7.3s9.9 5.661.2 13.052.2  147.8   113.2 261.0          43      100
Physical Contingnciez                                        831.5   564.6  1.396.2   15.6    11.3  27.9          40       11
Price Contingencies                                         1.428. I 1. 164.9  2.593.0  28.6    23.3  51.9        45       20
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           9.650.5 7.390.8 17.0414  193.0   147.8 340.8           43      131
===c 5= =. I===== :, it=  =    ====== ===== stTz=    ======
ftrct S. 1ssc M, 51



Table
-42-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPODT
ThE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PRaOICT
Fstifated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
IBRD                                   -      ank Oisbursement   -               Relevant Disbursement Profiles
Fiscal  Semester  Ending           By End of                 Cumulative               [Cumulation t Dishursedi
Year                               Semester   Cumulative   Disbursed   Bankwide         ENENA Agr.  Romania       Hungary
Agr. Credit  Credit       General   Grain Storage
----USSM1i11n----            :             S            S            t            S
1986     Dec      1985                -           -             -              -            -           -
June    1986                0           0             0              1            1           1
1987     Osc      1986                5.0         5.0           5              4            3          9
June    1987 (and PY1)      8.0        13.0          13             10            8          23            44
1988     Oec      1987                9.0        22.0          22             19           1S         43
June    1988 (end PY2)    1S.0         37.0          37             29           23          60            65
1989     Dec      1986               17.0        54.0          54             40           32         74
June    1989 (end PY3)    16.0         70.0          70             57           41          85            92
1990     Dec      1989               1S.0        85.0          85             61           51         93           100
June    1990 (end PY4)    10.0         95.0          95             70           S9          98
1991     Dec      1990                S.0       100.0         100             78           68        100
June    1991                                                        BS           75
1992     Dec      1991                                                        9S           81
June    1992                                                        95           87
1993     Dec      1992                                                        99           92
June    1993                                                       100           96
1994     Dec      1993                                                         -           99
June    1994                                                                    100
Nuwter of Projects                                                            96           27          17
Expected Date of Signature:            March 1986
Expected Date of Effectiveness:        June 1986
Expected Completion Date:              June 1990
Expected Closing Date:                 December 1990
1819E/p46



-43-
Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Malor Procurement Packages
(USS million)
Method   Responsibility   1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90
Farm machinery                    ICa     AGROTEK              5.0 A/  18.0      24.0      25.0    20.8
LCB     AGROTEK              -       39.0      40.0      39.0    41.6
Land impravement works            LCB     Farms/AGROBER        -     lSxO.9   1Sx0.8    lSxO.9  15x0.9
Construction equipment            ICe     AGROTEK              -        -         4.6        -       -
LCB     AGROTEK              -        1.0       1.5        1.5     1.0
Liquid fertilizer plants          LCB     Farms/AGROBER        -      3xO.S    4xO.S      3xO.6      -
Liquid fertilizer equipment       ICB     AGROTEK              -        0.9       1.3        0.9     -
LCB     AGROTEK              -        0.7       0.8       0.7      -
LIS     AGROTEK             -         0.2       -         -        -
MAP                               ICB     CHEMOLIMPEX          -        -         2.6        5.6     5.5
Research equipment                LIB     ACAD                 -        1.8       4.6        1.6     1.0
CIB:  International Competitive Bidding
LCB: Local Competitive Bidding
LUB: Limited International Bidding
A/ Retroactive financing
1819E/p47



-44-
Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVSENT PROJECT
List of Equipment
Financed by the Bank                                                                        LocaLly Financed
0.e Sy                                                                                      fuen  tt
.  .....  ........  .......  .... ...  .                                                    ..  ................................    ...
mus   Ui    aa    u    Total                                                               SCAR  Is?7 I19   199  To tl
Fim  MACHINERY                                                                               FAIN NaCIIRERT
NEAVT MTV PLOuIGI TACTOR                               5    5so    25           00           UNIV.; T!UTDRR 0 N                                   200   260   200   ISO   750-
MEAn   wn  U011VEt TnTrsc                              Go    so     5    l0   235            ln U1V. macl-o  go K                                  so    so   jo       -   170
TUG MIT RPLSI                                           -    5      5     5    85            UNIV. TRACTORI20 NM                                   so        60 0a0   240
NEAV?  UTY FIsNISER                                    20    to   N0    75    75             8nVi  NTT PlCKNING TUATSR                             35    25    25    25   110
DEEP SI SI0 -DEEP su8  SlIEIR                           0    20    G so        240          HIEaVT Duly CUiR! lACTOI                                ID   80   ID    2e    E0
GRAIN sEEeD                                            20   35   N°        5    70           PLWtaGN llTi VARAlE CUTTING 380Th                      120 3      85   515   430
ANNESTER CUSINE                                       1li   883   1II          340           NEAV? nUTY AN  SUPER HEAVy DEFT RISK                  s0    50    so   s5   780
BIG RECTNEcLA  SULER                                          5     5           is           BlEEP al0 SE     I-eEEP S856L1ER                     IS   IS    85   Is    Go0
VEGETILE SEEDERS AN  PLaTERS                           20    80   2e    30    so             FIELD FINISHING EQUIP                                  is   i5   20    25    75
VEGETARLE JESTESS                                      to   to   to   7I    50               SEE-ED NAtER                                          3a           J0    30   120
VEGETULE DRIrMsaNIOVW                                   I     5    3       4     9           SPEK 1RRG                                              85   is   Is   is   sO
SELI-FROPE LED CNOPPER                                 to   20    20    30    so             RIN-CIRO  CULTIVATR                                    Is5   85   85   iS   GO
POMP TILL SEDER                                         -    3      1    5I   25             FERTILIZER SPRADE                                     55   in    a       75   220
SUGiAUEET SEEDER                                       25    25   2n    25   800             LIQUID FERTILIZER SPREADER                            20    20    40    40   120
SELF-URPELIED SUSEET NOV.                              43    io   to   iso   73              HIRURE SREAD                                          40    so    se    Eo   21
SurREErT tnF  LOADED                                   gO     -     -      -   e             TRUCK                                                140   140   l20   120   540
IFTSER-LURit EID                                       50    20    20    20  '80             TRILERS FOR TURlS                                     so    so   se   g0   26
LlrTIFFWD40    20    20 *N    100                                                            TRAILERS FOR TACTOS                                  150   850  IS5   ISO   600
POTATO ROT. TILLE                                       -     1     5    80   20             SELF-PROPELLE  LOADER                                 75    n5    75    75   300
PLt LU    SPREADING NACIIRE                             5     0     5      -                 HA UULED LOAE                                         DO    NO   90    sD   360
SREADIG uatuINE FMR OlS-COIRATOR                       85   20    35      -   so            GRAIN SEEDER                                           40    4      e0   3o   Iso
SPREDIiNG  uIaISE FOR SEEP-SOIL LOOSENING              SR   24   IA       E     O              RN  SEEDER                                         820    N0   60    60  320
SPRECLING NACINE FOR SUMING                            12    86   12       -    0           HARVESTER C INE                                        52    40   40    40   872
COOR  COB CUISR  ADAPTER                             135   125   135   135   540
SELF-R EtLER CORN COD CRUSHER STRIPPER                      80   80 to   10
lINuIDR RER                                           90    90    60    6e   300
C TRmCION EQUIPNT                                                                            RALE TRAILER. LOADER                                  25    25   20    20    n
-----------------------                                                                   wC   STALK CRUSHER                                      so    so   so       -   I60
TRCK TRACTORS 132-200                                   -     I     -     -      I          GREER PEA    ESTEN                                      a     6     7     7    30
TRC TRCTRS I0-120IN                                     2     -     -     -     2           SPRING RAI HRESTER                                            a £   7     7    20
-RAIN LAU S 200                                         SI             -         I          DNIOW HRVESTER                                          7     7     a     1    30
MAW  LAYERS lea e                                       -    2      4      -    7           GREEN PEPPERt NARESTER                                  7     7     S     a    20
*LAG Ino                                                -    2      -      -    2           CUCUSER NAVESTER                                        R     a     7      7    30
EICATOlRSO-s0 a                                         -           -                        TOMATO HARVESTER                                       a     £     I     7    36
TRAlE                                                                           4           HMES!R COIDITIORER                                     20    20    20    30   120
015l NIER                                             30    20    30    20   120
MINOREMER                                             40    OR    AN    30   ISO
Fertilizer   -                                    H~~~~~~~~~~~~~INORDE LOADER-IRALtER                   50    so   45    45   210
Liquid  Fertilizer  Equipment                                                  H1ULED CNOPPER                                         20    20    30    30   820
SELT-PROELLED CNOPPE                                  20    is   85   iS   S6
POTATO HARVETER LINE                                   4     a     4      3    85
NM IINLDMAER                                     5    5    C         20           POTTO PLANTER                                           4     4    4      3    5
TREO STICI   TIN                                 3         3    -    10
LODER UlfT  UPPER IROLLET                        3    4    3    -    to
CLEANING HOPPER VIRRATOR 40 T/l                 12  18   12    -    40
NIRER 12                                         S    A    S         20           CONSTRUCTION EQUIPEJT
SLRRTS  T61TAILINGUIPO                          28   23   21    *   70            _ -_ -_
SSISPEHIUN FILTER A 143111                      12  81  82    -   sO              TRCK 'AClTAR 70-90 KU                                  84     -     -     -    84
SUSPEtSIUK CONTAINER 50 t3                     24   12   24          so           SCAPERRD au  I "3 u4    17                                          - 
RIliNG PRI 6e TIN l                              5   70   II        sN            RULLDOZER 72 aU                                         -    2      -           7
SUSPENSION TASPORTINGC LORR  25 13              9    2    9          w0           FIRE IRACTORS IED KU                                    -    12     -          17
CONTEP                                           3    4    3    -                 TIRE TRACTORS DO VA                                     -     4    84     -   72
TIRE TRACTORS 5s M                                     -           -    28    28
TIRE TRACTORS ITS MN                                   -     -     -    80   lo
EXCAVATOR                                              -     -            - 
EXCAVATOR a  a                                         4     -      -     -
LON" ST                                                -     -     4    id   25
LOIN? SOT                                              -           l-     -    80
TRAILER ST                                            23     -
SAAPTER FAR SPERRING ST                                -     -      -    27    27
TRAILER -C                                                                     to
TAIRA TYPIEEIN                                               2 
tODliNG HACIIIRE                                       -     -    1            IJ
Liquid Fertilizer Equipment
sMAcN RECEIVE                                    12   I   1      -    40
QROEI ELEVATOR                                   12  16  12    -    40
COVEMOR SILT *0 TIN                              18  24  1           '.0
SCED CVETOR 00 T.1                               12  16  12           40,
SUSPENSION CTAINFR l0 C3                          S    3    5    -   70
SEERIA CONTAINER Soo 1C                           S    S   S          fl
FIXED PLATFOR8 cRsa                               9   12    9 s 
FO   LIFT                                         3    4    3    -     0
UNIVERSAL fRUT LOWE                               a 6       5         N
FERTILIZER CRINDER go T I 1                      12  16  12           40
PRESTORAE CONTAInER                              24   32   24         MD
SUSDENSISON GRINDER                               6         6          O



-45-
Table 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION lMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices Used in the Project
(in 1985 Prices)
Unit   Financial Price   Economic Price   Conversion Ratio
Wheat                 FtIt         3,600.0            6,408.0            1.78
Maize                 Ft/t         3,560.0            4,236.0            1.19
Sunflower             Ft/t         9,310.0           16,013.0            1.72
Sugar beet            Ft/t         1,100.0               968.0          0.88
Fertilizer mix        Ft/kg a.i.       6.6                 9.2           1.40
Nitrogen          Ft/kg a.i.       8.5                10.8          1.27
Phosphorus       Ft/kg a.i.        7.6                10.9          1.43
Potassium        Ft/kg a.i.       3.8                 5.5           1.45
Gasoil                Ft/t       25,709.0            ia,862.0           0.58
Diesel fuel           Ft/t       10,938.0             12,612.0           1.15
Fuel oil              Ft/t        6,660.0             9,412.0           1.41
Natural gas           Ft/cu.m.         3.89                9.14          2.35
Electricity, agric   Ft/kWh            1.55                2.17         1.40
Electricy, agroind.  Ft/kWh            2.10                2.87         1.37
Investment costs
Equipment                                                             0.82
Civil works                                                           1.00
1819E, p.49



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Incremental Agricultural Production
Year
1               2                  3                  4                5                  6                 7                  8
Rain Production
WHEAT               tOp            37.330.0t        108, 110.00       140.945.00        273,651.00        402.030.00         470,520.00        500,920.00        509.920.00
BARLEY               tON            3,S00.00         12, 600.00        18,200.00         26,700.00         36. 120.00         40,040.00         41,300.00         41, 300.00
MAIZE                TO"           29,792.00        111, 712.00       184, 034.00       284, 070.00       369. 6130.00      421, 130.00        433,240.00        437,200.00
MAIZE SILAGE         TON           11, 000.00        94. 350.00       -64, 700. 00      253. 710,00       599, 540.00        812. 700.00       847,680.00        847, 580.00
SUNFLOWER            TON            5, 190.00       22, 950.00         25, 780.00        49. 160. 00       66, 090.00        7S, 160.00         717 80. 00        77. 680. 00
PEAS (GNEENI         TON              500.00         2 800.00           3.200.00          5,340. 00         7. 660 00         8. 0SO. 00         9,260. 00         9,440. 00
AFALFA (HATI         TOm                   -        2, 640.00          44, 400.00        86, 490. 00       113,280.00        123 390.00        125 970. 00       126. 720.00
RAN SUGAR            TON             -400.00          1,345.00           -115.00          3. 196.00         8.776.00          10, 360. 00       11, 250.00        12,294.00
GRASSLAND I HAT      TON          -36. 000.00       -66. 00. 00       -96.000.00        -96. 000.00 e96. 000. 00            -96, 000. 00       -96, 000.00       -96,000.00
By Products
WHEAT STRAW          TO1           11,450.00         42. 420.00        47, 070.00        91,800. 00        124 610.00        137,560.00        142,060.00        142,060.00
PEA VINES            TOm                   -          1,000.00          1, 100.00         1 620.00          2, 10.00          2,360.00           2,360.00          2.336.00



-47-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                             Table 8
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CRODP PIIDUCTIOIN I11PROVE26lIT PROJECT
Econmic Analysis
tFt Million)
1936   191 ins                  1 10   19    192   10     14   195   19         1991 1993-199   2X0    2003   2002 200320
MSuE CUE I
msUT                          124.A  4916  544.  1.3 19.2   3.3 204.5 2044J  204.7 2044.7  244.7  2044.7                 2044.7  2644.7  20447 344.7
aim   er  -                  13o.o   m.o   s72A   514.3        -      -       - 14u.o   me   mn.e  s4A            -        - 1430.0   SLO  572.0          -
rowh     c5um                 -20.3    9.8  -36.1   52.6  10.3  2632  301.9  319.0  319.0  319.0  319.0  319.0    319.0  319.0  319.0  319.0              -
TOM  555                     140.2  37.3  5.9   57.4  112.3  2634 34 .9 149.0 11.0  191     W.     319.0    319.0 149.0 1171.0   91.0
ZCIENM. KFf10r 1m 1         -1204.7 -76.2    8.7  493.4 169  6.0 I           6A   M2J   B.7 1153.7 1210.J 1725.7          . 275.7   J7.7  119.7           -
T  lntwl rat to reba Is 36.91L
MI=   n     xRM   11
3110213                       233.3  606.9  707.1  aM     UW.4 207.9 21.2 as21 a    ass.: 215.  255.5 ass.s   ass2.  asss a5 5 21.5  2s
mSE     n -                   Io.   990.0  660.0  s".0         -      -       - lmA     ns.o  as.o  594.0         -        - wo.o  nMA   ue.-
5353160  ETSm                 -2IL.    23.9  -44.6   269  U.1  137.1  27.4  22.3  23 2 23 .3  '2.3  223.3   Z23.3  2233  223.3  223.3                     -
IlNU  55                      IA4.9 1.9  6S.4   2.9   M3l  13.8  217.4 18.3  12133  3.3   22.3  2Z3.3    z3.3 133 1213.3  i.3
DTU. LS N        mo         -144.6  -W.0   n.7  616.0 13.3 I20.   mu.o   a7.2  9.2 12U6.   I.2   97.2  197.2  maz   maz  1a 
The ieal rat. e retr ntm i 37.72
SUITS                          45.A  509.7  785.1  1417.1  22.2 273   316. 2122  rM.2 2312.2 2322.2 2312.2   2112.2 2122.2 212   212.2
III         T                 401.3 104.7 sJ54.2  07.0  41.5          -       -  240  570.0  53.2  3.5   7.5               -  252.0  500  53.2
ESTIS CM                       65.3  133.3  2W70  53.1  76.1  911A.4  93.5   4           94.0 9e .0 U    0.0  9f.0    940.0  94LO  94.0    0.0 
=        ClT                  527.6 14.  12.2 8U12.6  9.4 91 .5 1192.01520.0 13.  132345 1013.    94.0 1192.0 1513.8  ISa 2
D6T3.L Sr moms               -372.1 -714.4 -9.1  421.1 1439.6  114*  V.2 ua 1.2 13.2 1I74.0  1"o  I7                   IV2.2 16.2 aa30.2 174.0
Th. iLte! rte rer Is 49.3
wi nzm fWw
SITS                              -   92.3  110.0  39.2  50A   644.7  U4J   6.7  6447  644.7  644.   644.7    644.7  644.7  644.7  644.7
tilU 1  53ow                  136.3   A2.4  1364        -      -      -      -                   79.2  105.6   79.2        -      -      -       - 2
satin  aIs                        -  115.6  aa..  w7.1  4S    4a67  425.1  4261  425e            425.1  420.1  425.1 0.   .   42.        42-1 42. 5.1    -
a0K COSm                      1.8  293.0  352.6  3.1  405.5  425.7  425.1  425.1  425.1  504.3   30.7  504.3    425.1  425.1  425.1  425.1
EIUE        SFEr IC&=        -ua  -25J  -242.6   12.1  153  219.1  219.6  219.6  219.6  14t.4  114.0  140.4             19    21946  219.6  219.6
Vhe iamd rate   ur    1 21.ZS
mar rea
maIL SITS                     43t.2 170.4 2146.9 4299.0 617.6 72.L1 730.1  7117.1 7W7.1 76S7.1 70.1 7457.1   707.1 7657.1 707.1  7057.1                   -
aM lIIU1ET  -M               363.6 3171.1 2423.0 176.3  143.5         -       - 33n.   241LO  19.4  13.9  152.7            - 3M.e  24130  ima2
TOM  OUmS S C3                2V.9  332.   46.0  91SJ7  148.  173L1  13.9 1912   1923  1912.3 1912J  1912.3   1912.3 1912.3 1912.  1912.3
T lOTSSITE                   3693.5 3403.7 215.0 D51.5 15  170.1 13.  524.3 4330.3 321.7  3002 2035.0   1912J    4.3 433.3 3742-5                         -
a 0    iiint MESF SUITE   -324W3 -1703.3 -1.2 1547.6 431.1 504.0 596.2 24127  3367 33.3  415     592.0    744.J  2612.7 3J.?  314.5
Th latmnil rat e  retina 1 39.31
h,ter 2. 135 11104



-48-
Tabl e 
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HuNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Farm Models - Summary
Model                                            I                II                    II              IV
Type                                      Mixed Farming    Mixed Farming          Land Improvement    Liould
Mechanization    Mechanization                and          Fertilizer
Incl. Sugar Beets    Mechanization
Area (ha)                                         4.000             4.000                6.000           35.000
Total investment (Ft million)                      28.6              33.0                 68.9            51.4 A/
Annual incremental value
of Production (Ft million)                       12.4              12.3                 42.4            55.4
Incremental net farm  (before financing            10.4              11.1                 21.2            19.5
Benefits (Ft million) (after financing              5.4               5.3                 12.8             3.6
Incremental farm ('000 Ft/ha) (before financing  2.6                  2.8                  3.5             0.6
Benefits per ha                 (after financing   1.4                1.3                  2.1             0.1
Financial rate of return (X)                         27                23                   29              28
A/ Exclusive of raw material.
1819/pso



-49-
Tabi 10
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PROOUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Ninoammonium Phosehate (MAPI Requirements
1986       197        1968        1989         1990        1991
*                          ,                   j  PPYI    j  PY2          PY3         PY4
Building schedule of plants                      3          4           3
Canacity utilization
First set                                    -        7S%         90%          100%       100%
Second set                                   -          -         75S           90%       100%
Third set                                    -          -           -           75%        90%
HAP Reou1remnts (ton) /
First set                                    -     14.963      17.955        19.950     19,950
Second set                                   -          -      19.950        23.940     26.600
Third set                                    -          -           -        14.963     19.950
Total                                     -     14.963      37.905        58.853     66.500
Incremental                                  -     14.963      22.942       20.948       7.647
a/ 6.650 t/yr/plant at full production.
1819E. p60
: - -~~~~~~~~



-50-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT              Table 11
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
Balance Sheet (1981-84) (as of December 31)
(Billion Forints)
1981       1982        1983       1984
Assets
Gold, currency, foreign exchange
holdings, secure. & sight accounts    65.1         38.9        78.5      116.6
Advances, loans & credits
Medium & Long term:
Banks                            162.2       170.6      170.4       188.9
Enterprises                      189.5       185.7      186.6       185.4
State budget                      26.7        31.7       32.4        25.7
Subtotal                      378.4       388.0      389.4      400.0
Short-term credit:
Banks                             24.8        37.4        33.7       44.7
Enterprises                      103.0       114.2      120.4       137.8
State budget                       0.3         0.9         1.0        0.8
Subtotal                      128.9       152.6      155.1       183.3
Other assets                               27.3       68.1        84.9       89.4
Total Assets                  599.7       647.6      707.9       789.3
Liabilities & Equity
Authorized capital                       6.0        6.0         6.0       10.0
Reserves                                 3.5        4.4         4.5        6.9
Profit                                  10.5        7.5        .3.0       15.1
Total Equity                   20.0        17.9        23.5       32.2
Term deposits:
Banks                            225.2       297.8       291.7      342.5
Enterprises                       90.9        46.1        41.1       37.3
State budget                       1.8         1.9         7.0       12.7
Subtotal                      317.9       345.3      339.8       392.5
Sight deposits and accounts
Banks                             84.7        68.2        82.0       56.2
Enterprises                       70.0        79.6        78.5       66.1
State budget                       1.8         1.9         7.0       12.7
Other                             10.5        10.9        10.8       12.3
Subtotal                      171.2       167.4      181.0       156.8
Notes and coins                            81.3       87.3        97.9      108.8
IMF                                                46.7        72.2
Other liabilities                        9.3       29.2        19.0       26.9
Total liabilities & equity   599.7        647.6      707.9       789.3
Source:  National Bank of Hungary, June 1985                          1819E,p.53



-51-
Table 12
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEHMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
Income Statement (1981-84)
(as of December 31)
(Billion Forints)
1981       1982        1983       1984
Income
Interest earned                      45.3        51.9       54.2        61.0
Co-missions charged                   5.2         5.2        6.3         6.9
Fees, charges and other               0.3         0.2        0.4         0.9
Total                           50.8        57.3        60.9       68.8
Expenditures
Expenditures on money circulation    0.7          1.0         0.9        2.1
Interest                             37.9        47.3       45.3        49.4
Coumissions                           0.5         0.4         0.6        0.9
Administrative costs & other costs   1.2          1.1         1.1        1.3
Total                          40.3        49.8       47.9        53.7
Profit                                  10.5        7.5        13.0       15.1
Total                          50.8        57.3       60.9        68.8
Source: National Bank of Hungary
Jtae 1985
1819E, p53



-52-
Table 13
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
CROP PRODUCTION IPROVEMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available An the Project File
1.       Agricultural Mechanization and Land Improvement Project - Feasibility
Report (April 1985) MEMtAGROBER (11 volumes).
2.       Report in the calculations of costs of the Agricultural Mechanization
Development Project to be financed by World Bank Loans (1985)
Godollo Inst. (1 volume).
3.       Report on Agricultural Mechanization and Land Improvement Project in
Hungary - June 85. H.W. Vos (I volume).
4.       Study of Fluid Fertilizer Plants in Hungary (August 1985)
International Fertilizer Development Center (1 volume).
5.       Hungary - Export Analysis, E. Fisher (August 1984) EMENA Program LA
6.       Hungary - Investment Issues and Options  - Report No. 5585-HU (Sept.
1985)
7.       Economic Development and Reforms in Hungary - Report No. 4174-RU
(March 83)
8.       Hungary - Country Economic Memorandum - Report No. 5006-HU (July 84)
9.       Hungary - Review of Land Reclamation and Drainage (July/Aug. 1983)
L. F. Galvin (1 Vol. and annexes)
1819E, p.54



z. 
Oj  *j~ ~ AI'
it nEX: ffEXI
I :
,~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                        -K 






