Doumen at
The World Bank
FOR OMCLFCL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4350-HU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt1O0.0 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 6, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985       March 1986
Currency Unit   =       Forint (Ft)
US$1            =       Ft 49.90             Ft 46.0
Ft 1            =       US$0.020             US$0.022
An exchange rate of Ft 47.8  = $1 was used in the appraisal report.
Eunkarian Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACAD          -       Research Equipment Import Agency
AGRIMPEX      -       Grain Import-Export Agency
AGROBER       -       Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AGROTEK       -       Agricultural Equipment Importing Agency
AKI           -       Research Institute of Agricultural Economics
CHEMOLIMPEX   -       Fertilizer Import-Export Agency
CMEA          -       Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
GT            -       Grain Trust
KOMPLEX       -       Agricultural Equipment Foreign Trading Company
MEM           -       Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
NBE           -       National Bank of Hungary
NPO           -       National Planning Office
SDB           -       State Development Bank



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:      National Bank of Hungary (NMU)
Guarantor:      Hungarian People's Republic
Amount:         US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms:          15 years, including 3 years grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  State agricultural enterprises, agricultural cooperatives, and
enterprises producing liquid fertilizers
Relending
Terms:          $92.0 million of the proposed loan would be onlent in local
currency to project beneficiaries of the crop production and
land improvement subloans for a period not exceeding ten
years, including two years of grace; for liquid fertilizer
facilities, 10 years, including two years of grace; and for
working capital requirements for the acquisition of mono-
aunonium phosphate, not exceeding two years. All these
subloans would be at an interest rate at least equal to the
Bank's variable rate plus a 30S mark-up, which includes a fee
for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by NBH. $8.0
million would be onlent to the Ministry of Agriculture for 15
years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's variable
interest rate.
Proiect
Description:    The main objective of the project is to maintain and increase
foreign exchange earnings in convertible currency through the
expansion of the production of agricultural goods for exports
or as import substitutes. This is proposed to be achieved by
(a) promoting the use of better and less energy consuming
equipment to upgrade existing aging equipment thereby
increasing crop yields, reducing harvest losses and lowering
production costs; (b) improving the potential production of
selected lands through land shaping, drainage, and soil
treatment; (c) producing liquid fertilizer and promoting its
use as a rep'lacement for poor-quality granular fertilizer,
thereby preventing waste and decreasing environmental
pollution; (d) strengthening research and support services in
the fields of cereal breeding, soil testing, plant and
environmental protection; and (e) improving the managerial
capacity in farms and production units by increasing the
skills of Hungarian technicians, promoting the optimal use of
farm machinery and expanding extension activities to cover
less financially and technically favored production units.
The project would consist of three components: Ci) provision
of farm machinery for crop improvement and reclamation of over
150,000 ha; (ii) construction and operation of liquid
fertilizer plants and provision of special transportation and
spreading equipment; (iii) institutional development including
I This document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutieL Its contents may not otherwie be disclosd wthout World Dank authoriaion.



- ii -
strengthening, research and management information systems,
and training of Hungarian technicians in fields related to
improvement of crop production, farm econ'omics and
management.
Project Benefits
and Risks:        The project is expected to generate incremental sales
revenue at full development of about $180 million equivalent
and pretax profits of about $35 million equivalent per annum
for about 310 state farms and cooperatives. The expected
incremental contribution to the Government budget in the
form of annual income tax is estimated at $16 million
equivalent. Net foreign exchange earnings and savings are
estimated at $90 million equivalent per year. The project
is expected to create about 8,000 new jobs. Non-quantifiable
benefits of the project include institution building and
reduction of environmental pollution. The potential risks
relate to possible lack of knowledge and experience with new
equipment and its operation. The technical assistance and
training provided by the project would reduce these risks to
acceptable levels.
Estimated Costs:                               Local    Foreign       Total
=-- uS $ Million
Farm Machinery                             110.1       86.5       196.6
Land Improvement                            29.3        7.8        37.1
Liquid Fertilizer                            5.9       12.3        18.2
Institutional Development                    2.5        6.6         9.1
Base Cost                               147.8      113.2       261.0
Physical Contingencies                      16.6       11.3        27.9
Price Contingencies                         28.6       23.3        51.9
Total Project Cost                      193.0 1/  147.8        340.8
1/ Includes $67.5 million of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                Local    Foreign       Total
-US $ Million
World Bank                                    -       100.0       100.0
Sub-borrowers                               80.0        -          80.0
NBE                                          90.0      40.8       130.8
Government                                  23.0        7.0        30.0
Total                                   193.0      147.8       340.8
Estimated Disbursements:
IERD FY                       1987     1988      1989     1990      1991
US $ Million -
Annual                        13.0     24.0      33.0     25.0       5.0
Cumulative                    13.0     37.0      70.0     95.0    100.0
Economic Rate of Return: 39 percent.
Appraisal Report: No. 5899-HU dated May 5, 1986.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
FOR A CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Bank of Hungary with the guarantee of the Hungarian People's
Republic for the equivalent of US$100.0 million to help finance a crop
production improvement project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. About
$92.0 million of the loan proceeds would be onlent to project beneficiaries of
the crop production improvement and land subloans for a period not exceeding
ten years and expected to average eight years including 2 years of grace; for
liquid fertilizer facilities, 10 years including two years of grace; and for
working capital requirements for the acquisition of macro-ammonium phosphate,
not exceeding two years. All these subloans would be at an interest rate at
least equal to the Bank's variable rate plus a 30S mark-up which includes a
fee for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower. US$8.0 million
would be onlent to the Ministry of Agriculture for 15 years, including 3 years
of grace, at the Bank's variable interest rate.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1 
2.      Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report
in. 4174-XU). An updating Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5006-RU)
and a Power and Coal Subsector Review (Report No. 4746b-HU) were distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 13 and October 24, 1984, respectively.
An Economic Mission visited Hungary in June 1985. Its findings have been
distributed to the Executive Directors (Report No. 5951-RU dated March 12,
1986). Country social and economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.      The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment and
production decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war period when,
as in other socialist countries in Eastern Europe, planning was based on
physical targets and central administrative directives. Since 1968, reform of
the economic system has been pursued to increase efficiency both by
strengthening the influence of market forces on enterprise activities, and by
developing a system of "economic regulators" through which the State can
indirectly guide overall economic activity.
4.      In the period 1978-80, Hungary embarked on a program of adjustment in
two phases. First, the authorities placed priority on external stabilization
in order to restore balance of payments equilibrium and come to grips with a
large burden of external debt. Second, in late 1978, the Government
reaffirmed its commitment to the structural economic reforms which had been
initiated in 1968 but largely suspended since the early 1970s. While the
objectives of both external stabilization and structural adjustment were
embraced r.imultaneously, stabilization remained the main preoccupation at
least through 1983. More recently, however, the authorities have acknowledged
Substantially identical to Part I of the President's Report for the Power
Project (P-4301-HU) approved by the Executive Directors on May 20, 1986.



- 2 -
that sustained balance of payments equilibrium can be facilitated by an
accelerated pace of structural adjustment to improve competitiveness and
generate export-led growth. Consistent with this, the Hungarian authorities
have been designing a series of economic reforms which are more wide-ranging
than any taken to date; implementation of some of these reforms began in 1985
but the full package is scheduled to be carried out within the current
(1986-90) Five-Year Plan period. During 1985 the external account again has
become strained; the major challenge before the authorities in the next few
years, therefore, will be to manage domestic demand while continuing the
needed liberalization of the economy through the reform process (paras.
17-19).
Structural Features of the Economy
5.       The "Socialist" sector, comprising state enterprises, state farms
and agricultural cooperatives, accounts for nearly 90X of GDP in Hungary.
Although private activity has been evident for some time in trade and service
activities, it is most important in agriculture, where, for certain products,
output from private holdings constitutes a large share of the total.
6.       The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are:  (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (41X in
1984, with 39Z of total employment), compared with most developing countries;
(b) a predominance of heavy industry in total industrial output (671 in
1984), reflecting an emphasis common to many socialist countries; (c) a
relatively large proportion of the labor force employed in agriculture (221
in 1984) compared to industrial market economies; there is, in fact,
significant scope for growth of labor productivity and further shifts of
labor out of this sector; and (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign
trade (about 41%). Hungary's dependence on trade makes it vulnerable to
fluctuations in international trade and prices, and is a principal argument
in favor of reforms aimed at increasing the adaptability of the economy to
changes in world markets. Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy
consumption and a large proportion of its other inputs to industry. The
importance of industry in total production also implies that Hungary's
overall prospects for growth and balance of payments equilibrium depend on
the ability to compete in foreign markets. While manufactures constitute a
major share of total exports (641 in 1984), they are more significant with
respect to exports to countries belonging to the Council of Mutual Economic
Assistance (CMEA). Agricultural commodities and raw materials represent
major shares of exports to convertible currency markets (about 301 and 35%,
respectively).
7.       Hungary's labor force declined by 0.3% p.a. during the period
1975-84. There is a growing perception of a labor shortage in Hungary, which
has created pressure to economize on labor, adopt modern techniques to raise
labor productivity, and shift labor into the more efficient activities.
The Stabilization Program, 1978-84
8.       Hungary's external account imbalance peaked in 1978 with a $1.2
billion trade deficit. The burden of foreign debt in convertible currencies
reached $7.6 billion (461 of GDP), in contrast to only $1.1 billion in 1970.



These developments resulted in large part from rapid increases in investment,
delays in adjusting domestic prices (especially for energy), and deterio-
ration in international terms of trade. The stabilization program started in
1979 has relied mainly on cuts in invrestment to curb domestic absorption and
on restraint of convertible currency imports.
9.      The controls on domestic aggregate demand resulted in a steady
i provement in the balance of convertible currency trade, which shifted into
surplus by 1980. However, the concurrent rise in interest rates and
deterioration of banking confidence in Eastern Europe caused a financial
crisis in the convertible currency account in 1982, when the withdrawal of
short-term credits during the first quarter of the year reduced reserves to
barely one month of convertible currency imports of goods and services. In
1983 and 1984, the Government successfully regained external liquidity and
rebuilt depleted reserves by two means. First, the stabilization program was
strengthened after 1982 within the framework of two IMF Standby Arrange-
ments J/ which were successfully implemented, resulting in the generation
of $0.3 billion surpluses in the convertible currency current account in 1983
and 1984 (equivalent to about 8S of convertible currency merchandise
imports). Second, the improvement of the external account restored the
confidence of the international capital markets in Hungary, leading to an
increasing availability of loans from commercial banks. Medium and long term
capital inflows from commercial banks during the 1983-85 period totalled
about $6.9 billion, including $1 billion raised through World Bank
cofinancing.
10.     Thus, Hungary's determined pursuit of its stabilization objectives
has contributed to its restored access to external loans and has enabled debt
servicing obligations to be met. Nevertheless, the emphasis on restriction
of demand has entailed costs in terms of GDP growth, which was only 1.8X per
year on average between 1978-84, in contrast to 51 in the 1970s. -'
Resumption of Economic Reform
11.     While adopting stabilization measures, the Government resumed
systemic reforms to make enterprises more responsible for production and
investment decisions and to ensure that these decisions reflected
maret-based signals ("economic regulators"-prices, taxation, wage policy
and interest rates) rather than central directives. The ultimate intention
of the reforms is to raise the overall efficiency of the economy by
increasing the enterprise managers' concern for profitability, and by
shifting resources to their more productive uses.
to' An IMF standby arrangement (for $525 million) and a compensatory
financing facility (for $80 million) were approved by the IMF in
December 1982. A second standby arrangement (for $425 million) was
approved in January 1984. No further standby arrangement is currently
contemplated.
Total GDP growth includes the effect of customs duties and valuation,
which declined by 5X annually from 1978-84.



12.     The main elements of reform between 1980-84 were the following:
(a) A major change in the system of pricing was instituted in 1980 to
link certain domestic prices to export prices in convertible
currency markets, thereby reducing the scope of "cost-plus"
price-setting. Unadministered (free market) pricing has since been
extended to about half of industrial output (excluding food
processing);
(b) The system of wage regulation was revised in 1983 to allow greater
wage differentials and thereby more closely link rewards to
performance;
(c) Legal provision was made in 1982 to facilitate the establishment of
new enterprises and business associations as a means to stimulate
competition;
(d) In 1982-83, measures were adopted to permit the issuance of bonds by
firms, thus increasing the scope for reallocation of investment
resources.
13.     Although each of these reform elements represented a significant
break from past practice, they did not result in increasing substantially the
profit-mindedness of enterprises. The limited effectiveness of the 1980-84
phase of reforms indicated that partial modifications in only certain aspects
of the economic system would not change the behavior of firms as long as
managers could bargain with authorities over enterprise-specific regulations,
and a lack of genuine competition precluded the discipline of the market. At
the same time, there appeared a conflict between the desire to decentralize
economic decision-making for purposes of efficiency, on the one hand, and the
urgency of managing domestic demand for external balance, on the other, which
appeared to call for the maintenance of administrative controls. Yet another
source of tension underlying the reform process has been the official
comitment to minimize the social costs of adjustment, in particular by
containing consumer price inflation.
Expanded Reform Program (1985-90)
14.     The experiences of 1978-84 underlined the need to make longer-term
structural adjustments to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of the
economy. Thus, external equilibrium could be achieved through more dynamic
export performance without sacrificing growth of output. Highest priority in
the 1986-90 Plan has therefore been given to increasing the competitiveness
of the country's manufactures in the convertible currency market and to
reducing imports of energy and raw materials. Raising the levels of
convertible currency exports will call for greater efficiency in production
and improved product quality; both objectives depend on an upgrading of the
country's industrial capital stock, much of which is outdated and based on
technologies which use relatively high levels of energy, labor and other
inputs. As the economic performance in 1985 has been disappointing, (paras.
17-19), there is a need both for a more flexible macroeconomic management and
to move urgently towards systemic economic reform, to promote external
balance with growth.



15.      To meet these requirements, the authorities launched a more
extensive phase of economic reforms in 1985. The current stage of reform is
planned to continue the transition to a market-based setting of prices and
wages; a further increase in competition among enterprises; improvement of
their financial discipline and control; and fostering the mobility of
productive resources, through an integrated package of policy actions.
16.      To increase competition, both foreign and domestic, measures
intitiated in 1985 focus on allowing greater freedom of entry and exit in
industrial and trading operations, and on liberalizing foreign trade. The
development of a competitive environment will tend to enhance financial
discipline and autonomy of enterprises. Further actions to realize this
objective center, first, on the introduction of a new self-management system
which limits direct state intervention in enterprise decision-making.
Second, the fiscal code has been revised to make taxation more predictable
and objective and allow enterprises greater discretion in the use of profit
reserves. Whereas the tax reforms alse serve to encourage the reallocation
of productive resources, institutional changes in the banking system and
financial intermediation are to be the direct vehicles for carrying out this
redistribution. These changes will also permit monetary instruments to be
used more effectively for macroeconomic adjustments, thereby reducing the
excessive reliance on fiscal interventions which tend to penalize profitable
firms.
Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects
17.      Performance in 1985.  While the above efforts were being initiated,
in 1985 the economy experienced a severe slowdown. This development
reflected the adverse effects of the harsh winter; a poor performance of
exports to the convertible currency area, accompanied by deterioration in
terms of trade; and a slowdown in aggregate investment. GDP is estimated to
have declined by 0.5X in 1985, in contrast to a growth of 2.6X in 1984.
Preliminary figures indicate that output of the manufacturing sector fell by
about 0.81 and construction output by 71. Agricultural production also
declined by 5.3%, largely as a result of a 7Z drop in livestock production.
18.      The current account in convertible currencies showed a deficit of
about $0.5 billion in 1985, a disappointing development after two consecutive
years of current account surpluses. At the same time, the current account
balance for non-convertible currency trade moved from a perennial deficit to
a surplus of about $0.4 billion in 1985. The sharp rise of foreign exchange
reserves in 1985 ($0.9 billion), combined with reserve increases in the
previous two years, brought total convertible currency reserves to over 6
months of imports by the end of 1985. This high level of reserves gives the
Government considerable room for maneuver in managing its external balances,
but provides no grounds for complacency.
19.      While facing strains in its convertible currency account, since 1983
Hungary has had also to cope with stagnating or declining supplies of the
favorably-priced oil and raw materials imports from socialist countries and
deteriorating terms of trade in nonconvertible currency transactions. In
addition, lines of credit to finance trade deficits in nonconvertible



- 6 -
currency have been curtailed. Hungary has been required to increase exports
to the nonconvertible currency area and to reduce its debt, which amounted to
about $1.3 billion at and-1985. Nonconvertible currency exports in real
terms increased by more than 71 p.a. during the 1982-85 period, which has put
pressure on supplies of merchandise which could be directed to convertible
currency markets.
20.     External Debt.  In December 1984, Hungary's total convertible
currency debt was $8.8 billion (of which $7.4 billion was medium- and
long-term), representing about 43Z of GDP. This debt again rose in 1985,
reaching a record level of $12.0 billion by December, which was partially
offset by the $0.9 billion increase in reserves mentioned above. Government
policy aims at lengthening the average debt maturity and limiting the
expansion of short-term borrowing. The maturity structure of medium and long
term debt has improved considerably since 1982; nevertheless, about half of
this debt will mature within 3 years, calling for continuing careful debt
management.
21.      Hungary's convertible currency debt service in 1985 amounted to $3.0
billion.  The debt-service ratio -' has risen from 41S in 1984 to 56Z in
1985. The sharp rise in the debt service ratio in 1985 reflects several
factors unique to 1985. First, about $300 million in debt service payments
were amortization of debt due after 1985, and were part of the Government's
efforts to develop a more favorable debt structure. Excluding these early
payments brings the convertible currency debt service ratio down to 51X.
Second, as noted above, export performance was poor in 1985. Third,
borrowing increased sharply as Hungary sought to take advantage of the
favorable terms available in international capital markets to build up
reserves and restructure its debt. While Hungary may prepay debt in the
future, it does not plan to increase net borrowing in the medium term. The
developments in 1985 highlight the importance of improved export
performance. The main thrust of the economic reform effort is to improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, which should lead to more
rapid export growth. As the economic reform program takes hold, the
convertible currency debt service ratio is expected to decline to 30-35% by
the end of the decade.
22.     Medium-term Outlook.  Weak external demand for Hungarian exports,
combined with policies aimed at curbing aggregate domestic demand, will
probably keep GDP growth for 1995-90 at an average rate of about 2-2.51 p.a.
Growth of consumption--and that of total domestic absorption-are to be held
below the growth of output. Since Hungary's population is approximately
stationary, even this low growth of consumption would permit some improvement
in per capita living standards. Government policies aim at reversing the
fall in investment, with a moderate growth of gross domestic investment
(about 31 annually) projected for the rest of the 1980s. The authorities
have adopted an annual inflation ceiling of 5X for the 1986-90 period to
protect real wages-a target which could, however, constrain the progress of
economic reform and macroeconomic adjustment.
Amortization plus interest payments on medium and long term convertible
currency debt, divided by exports of goods and services. The total debt
service ratio for both convertible and non-convertible debt was about
301 in 1985.



23.     Bank projections indicate that it may be possible to ease the
restrictions of the stabilization program toward the end of the decade,
although sone restraint on aggregate demand will have to be maintained to
ensure positive current account balances. The favorable impact of the
economic reforms on the country's economic growth path will become more
apparent toward the end of the decade. The industrial sector is expected to
be the leading beneficiary of the reforms and to grow at an average rate of
about 3Z during 1986-90. A lower average rate of growth is projected for the
agricultural sector (2-2.5S).
24.     External Capital Requirements.  Bank projections for the 1986-90
period indicate that Hungary's annual amortization of its convertible
currency medium and long term debt will average about $1.6 billion (including
repayments to the IMF). If stabilization efforts continue to be successful
and further deficits in the current account can be avoided, gross medium and
long term capital inflow requirements will be on the order of $1.5 billion
per year. The Bank expects to provide some of those capital needs with the
remainder financed by commercial banks.
Assessment of Country Performance
25.     The policy dialogue at both the macro and micro levels between
Huagarian authorities and the Bank has been fruitful. Notwithstanding the
difficulties currently facing Hungary's economy, the high level of reserves
and the Government's record in stabilizing the economy and managing its
external finances in the early 1980s provide grounds for cautious optimism
regarding the macroeconomic situation. The overriding issue at the present
time concerns the conflicts in policy objectives which the Government faces
in the short run: namely, the pressures to protect real wages and planned
investment levels, as against the need to implement an active exchange rate
and trade policy to help improve the country's external accounts further,
liberalize pricing, restrain aggregate demand, and institute flexibility in
economic management. The Government officials have indicated that they are
prepared to take appropriate action if the conditions underlying the 1985
performance prove to be more than transitory. Although the anticipated
growth rate for the economy for the rest of the decade is relatively low, the
economic reform program to which Hungary is committed should strengthen its
gcowth path during the 1990s. In sum, given the country's performance to
date in managing aggregate demand and its continued resolve to achieve
external balance and pursue needed systemic reforms, Hungary is considered
creditworthy for additional Bank lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY I'
26.     The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Hungary to
$992.4 million for sixteen loans (including six 'B' loan participations in
commercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry, agriculture,
energy and transport.
'  Substantially identical to Part II of the President's Report for the
Power Project (P-4301-HU) approved by the Executive Directors on
[lay 20, 1986.



27.     The Hungarian Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention
on structural adjustment in the productive sectors: agriculturet industry,
energy and transport. The Bank concurs with this selection of priorities and
is supporting Hungary's structural adjustment process through project-based
lending aimed at export generation; import substitution, particularly in the
energy sector, through increased domestic production and conservation; plant
upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production costs through more
efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity and product quality;
and industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration of enterprise
activities and encourage more efficient industries to produce components.
28.     The Hungarian Government is also looking to the Bank to assist them
in expanding their access to external capital markets. In this respect, the
Bank was a successful catalyst in mobilizing six comnercial cofinancing
syndications, a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million equivalent
Japanese Yen loan in 1983 for the Grain Storage and Mechanization and the
Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation projects; a 385 million
Eurodollar loan and a $93 million equivalent Japanese Yen loan in 1984 for
the Industrial Export and Restructuring and the Petroleum projects; and a 300
million Eurodollar loan and a $120 million equivalent Japanese yen loan in
1985 for the Integrated Livestock, Fine Chemicals and Transport projects. The
Bank's participation in these syndications under the new cofinancing
arrangements amounted to $30 million and $8.8 million equivalent,
respectively, for the first two projects, $35 million and $12.2 million
equivalent, respectively, for the next two projects, and $36 million and $14
million equivalent for the last two projects. In all these cofinancing
operations, the Bank was able to improve the terms over the most recent
Hungarian borrowings and to introduce the country to commercial banks from
which it had not borrowed previously.
Bank Lending Strategy
29.     The Bank expects to continue to provide technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned
economic and sector work covers energy, industry, agriculture, financial
sector and foreign trade. The Bank has already reviewed the coal and power
subsectors, the industrial sector, the chemical subsector and the transport
sector. These sector studies are providing policy inputs for the Bank's
dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and come at a time when further
reforms are being introduced in the Hungarian economy to increase the impact
of market forces and enterprise autonomy. Discussions have already been
initiated in this respect. Under the first two projects, the Bank drew the
Hungarian authorities' attention to the drawbacks of using interest rebates
as an incentive system. Following subsequent discussions the authorities
eliminated the system of interest rebates starting Janu-ry 1, 1984. Training
through EDI was initiated with a first course on the financial and economic
evaluation of projects, held in early January 1984 in Budapest. Two
procurement seminars and a seminar on grain inflow-outflow analysis to
determine storage requirements have also been held in Budapest. They were
received with much interest by the Hungarian authorities who requested
further cooperation in this area. Consequently, an EDI seminar on structural
adjustment was held in mid-January 1985 in Budapest, and a further
procurement seminar in June 1985.



30.      The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's tot l need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 141 of
Hungary's total projected convertible debt in 1990, and the Bank's share in
Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 9% by that time.
31.      Hungary has signed the Articles of Agreement of IDA and IFC on
April 29, 1985. IFC is exploring possible investments in Hungary. Annex II
contains a suinmary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1986.
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN HUNGARY
General
32.      Agriculture is of major importance to the Hungarian economy.  It
has Large'y fulfilled the country's need for food; has generated significant
surpluses for export thus permitting .i  importation of inputs needed for
industrial growth; has generated taxable surpluses which provide savings for
national investment; and helped release labor for growth in other sectors of
the economy. In 1984, agriculture accounted for 18Z of national income,
about 211 of total employment, and some 15X of total investment. The
sector's role in generating convertible currency earnings continues to be of
particular importance, since it has a high net foreign exchange yield
accounting for about 321 of convertible currency exports and only about 13Z
of convertible currency imports. Grain production, in terms of yield levels
is comparable to other European countries. There is, however, scope for
improvement in productive performance and economic efficiency, especially in
the livestock industry. Important potentials remain under-exploited, and the
technological base of the sector needs upgrading. Thus, agriculture in
Hungary could continue to contribute towards structural adjustment and
modernization of its economy.
Sector Organization
33.      After World War II, Hungarian agriculture was collectivized and
structured to conform to the centrally planned system. It was in
agriculture, however, that the reforms of that system, and the departure from
physical targetting in favor of economic, market-based production/investment
decisions, were first introduced. The sector is organized around about 130
State farms, and 1320 cooperatives, which account for 701 of agricultural
production. The remaining 301 of the production comes from small
privately-owned plots. Services and credit are delivered to the sector at
market-based terms through State organizations, and output is marketed mainly
through State agencies at pre-determined prices which are adjusted to reflect
movements in border prices. There remains a significant degree of State
intervention in the sector, mainly in the form of administered prices,
tax/subsidy incentives and regulations on investment and use of profits.
Although input and output prices have traditionally been established on a
cost plus basis, the Government's agricultural pricing policy in recent years
has been to move towards an alignment of domestic and international prices.
Annual price adjustments have been on the basis of movements in international



- 10 -
prices, and subsidy levels in agricultural inputs have continued to decline.
The State retains a marketing monopoly on staples such as milk, meat, and
bread. Under recent policy changes, individuals frequently market other
products such as fruits and vegetables in permanent prime urban sites which
are leased, under a competitive process, from the State. This development is
expected to expand. Planning in agriculture has been retained in the system
for indicative forecasting only; the pursuit of centrally pre-set physical
targets has been abandoned.
34.      At the national level, the major State institution in the
agricultural sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MEM).
It initiates virtually all the sectoral planning, policy formulation and
research, provides plant and animal protection services and undertakes other
general support activities. The other State organs directly regulating
agriculture are the National Planning Office (NPO), which is responsible for
development plans and is involved in all aspects of economic and social
policy; the National Board for Materials and Prices, which makes
recommendations for administrative pricing for all agricultural products as
well as for materials and equipment used by the agricultural sector; anJ the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH), which is the major source of agricultural
credit.
35.      NBH combines the function of the Central Bank with that of
commercial and development banks. All financial transactions in the
agricultural sector are entirely conducted through NBH. It administers the
State farms' and cooperatives' deposits which constitute their principal
financial assets. It has a large technical, financial and economic staff
located in Budapest, 19 regional offices and 71 branches throughout the
country. It employs about 6,400 persons, about 25% of whom are directly or
indirectly engaged in agricultural lending and is involved in all phases of
project appraisal, execution and supervision. It uses thorough and strict
review and approval procedures for all investment projects, which are
required to demonstrate technical efficiency and foreign exchange earning
potential.  NBH is in a very sound financial position.  Investment in
agriculture is financed through NBH loans, budgetary allocations, grants and
the use of the resources of a series of agricultural enterprises' compulsory
funds; in 1984, agricultural investment lending through NEH amounted to about
301 of total agricultural investment. Interest rates on long term investment
loans are presently at 13% compared to 8-11X in 1979-82. Interest rates on
production loans are 122 and 131. Both are positive in real terms.
Agricultural enterprises producing for export to convertible currency
countries obtain funds at effectively preferential rates by receiving tax
refunds through the budget. Recent reforms in the spring of 1984 to help
strengthen the responsiveness of enterprises to market forces and to foster
competition included modifications in the price system, wage determination,
income and tax regulation and the system of financial intermediation. In
January 1985 a decision was taken in principle to establish a two-level
banking system which provides for the splitting of the NBE into three
separate institutions under the same Board of Directors. The first would
-arry out central bank responsibilities and the other two would be investment
and commercial banking institutions carrying out sectoral lending in
agriculture, industry, infrastructure and services.



- 11 -
36.     Other key agencies involved in the sector include:  AGROBER, a
national engineering and consulting firm with branches throughout the
country. It is an autonomous agency under the supervision of MEM, used by
large farms and agroindustrial enterprises to provide technical and
engineering advice as well as to prepare detailed investment plans; it also
supervises construction of buildings and installation of equipment; AGROTEK,
which imports virtuall7 all farm machinery and equipment; KOMPLEX, which
imports agroindustrial equipment; and AGRIMPEX, which exports cereals and
sunflower oil.
Performance in the Agricultural Sector
37.     Hungarian agriculture has performed well over the last fifteen years
with an average annual growth rate of 2.9Z in real terms. The 1970-74 period
was the most outstanding, when growth averaged 3.9S per annum and the sector
received major investment support from the central budget in the form of
investment subsidies and grants. Corn and wheat yields increased
substantially during this period and capital-intensive animal production
systems were set up. This period was followed by more modest growth until
1979, when national policy restricted investment for the purpose of improving
the foreign trade account. Despite the rapid depreciation of the capital
stock and lack of replacement investment, the sector has grown in real terms
at an average rate of 3.5% over the last five years, by emphasizing wheat and
meat production for export through productivity improvement based on new
technology and the use of high-quality machinery.
Sector Issues and Policies
38.     The strategy of relying on the profitability of world market prices
to determine both the pattern of production and investment, rather than on
centralized direction, means that there are no output or investment targets
for agriculture during the Seventh Plan (1986-90). As in other sectors,
however, the implications of alternative scenarios are being explored. The
general order of investment priorities to be adopted in the Seventh Plan are
Ca) upgrading technology; (b) increasing export commodities; (c) protection
of arable land and improvement of its productivity; (d) modernization of
fixed assets (machinery); (e) development of food processing industry;
(f) irrigation; and (g) modernization of fruit production and vineyards.
These investment priorities are consistent both with short-term concerns to
improve the balance of payments and also with longer-term development
objectives. The proposed project would support investments in the first four
categories.
39.     The pursuit of the current pace of agricultural performance and of
the expansion of production of goods exportable to convertible currency
markets is hampered by some constraints. Price policy could provide greater
incentives to production through more systematic application of efficiency
pricing; farm machinery has to be upgraded, with energy efficient and
tecbnologically modern equipment, land reclamation is required to open new
areas to valuable crops; farm management and extension services need to be
improved to reduce costs and to adjust cropping patterns. The proposed
project would address some of these issues.



- 12 -
40.      The thrust of Goveroment pricing and taxation policy in agriculture
is to decrease subsidies while at the same time increase the prices paid to
farmers in a coordinated manner without causing major disruptions in farmers'
income. This policy of economic liberalization, which began in the 1960s and
deepened in 1968, was re-emphasized in 1979 by the formulation of a series of
policy measures which are now being implemented. In keeping with the
Government's policy to move toward market-based pricing, aggregate subsidies
from the central budget to the agricultural sector have significantly
declined over the last five years. From 1979 to 1983, subsidies declined by
some 30X. The major policy actions carried out over 1983-85 eliminated
subsidies on tractors, most farm machinery and plant chemicals; reduced
subsidies on fertilizers by about 15% in 1983 and 1984, and brought the
average level of subsidy to 25X; increased consumer prices for meat products
by 20-25S in 1984 and by a further 21X in January 1985; increased consumer
prices of milk and dairy products by 29X on average in January 1985. The
number of products with free prices has been increasing and all minor
products will have been freed by 1986. Current estimated subsidies are about
20S of agricultural GDP; however, taking into account the taxes derived from
it, the agricultural sector makes a net positive contribution to the
Government and, with progress in the reduction of subsidies, this
contribution is expected to increase in the future.
41.      The Government is also undertaking a major reform in the enterprise
management system. The scope and extent of the most significant reforms
affecting corporate institutions and a schedule of implementation for the
1985/1990 period have been recently discussed with the Bank in the context of
the industrial restructuring program which the Government is launching. The
proposed reforms are generally in line with what is required in the
agricultural sector to improve investment potential and the financial
management of farms, and to stimulate production. In agriculture, management
reform would primarily concern the state-owned farms, which have recently
been authorized to select their own managers in the same way the agricultural
cooperatives do, which would mean more independence from central control and
greater reliance on decentralized decision-making at the farm level. The
protection that the Government now provides to farms facing losses would
gradually be removed and these enterprises would become responsible for their
own financial management.
42.      One of the sectoral issues on which the dialogue with the Government
has been initiated under previous loans relates to the Government's producer
pricing policy. The Government's pricing policy, coupled with other
incentives including subsidies, had been notably successful in promoting
agricultural productivity, growth and exports. However, during the appraisal
of the Grain Storage and Modernization project in 1983, differences between
commodity price ratios relative to world prices were noted especially in the
case of wheat and corn. At the instance of the Bank, the Government
undertook an agricultural price and trade study, which was coordinated with
the Bank. The study, the findings of which were presented to the Bank in
September 1985 and discussed with a Hungarian delegation in November 1985,
recommended that domestic commodity price ratios and price levels should
follow the general trend of world prices. This would have involved higher
domestic prices for wheat, as compared with corn. Because fluctuations in
world prices in 1985 caused Hungary to pay slightly more for its corn imports



- 13 -
than it received from its wheat exports, the Hungarian wheat producer price
was not raised relative to the corn price in the short term. The basic
principle that Hungarian domestic producer price policy should take into
account world price trends is acceptable to the Government. This would imply
a continuing trend of increase in wheat acreage and exports and an increase
in cereal area at the cost of some other crops. Following a recent
discussion with the Government, it has been agreed that the study should now
be expanded to develop new tools of analysis with which Government can
evaluate the effects of relative price and subsidy changes in the sector.
43.      Additional work is now therefore being carried out under the study,
including about 12 more major crops and livestock commodities. It would help
the Government define the next steps to be taken in the pursuit of the
current reforms. Further adjustments may prove advisable once the
interrelationships in crop and livestock production and the options and
trade-offs in production, foreign exchange earnings and central government
budget results become better known as the ongoing studies in multimarket and
livestock sector efficiency (under Ln. 2510-HU) are completed (end-1986). As
it now stands, the pricing policy framework that has emerged as a result of
the changes outlined above continues to provide sufficient basis for further
sectoral growth.
44.      The Government's objectives on prices, taxation, subsidies and
incentives policy in the sector, including the important role of border
prices in determining domestic producer prices, were reviewed during
negotiations. The Government has confirmed that during the current
Development Plan, the main objectives in the sector would be (a) to increase
the value added and efficiency of agriculture and agroprocessing industries;
(b) to increase exports of agricultural commodities and agroindustrial
products; (c) to maintain the achieved level of domestic food supply; and
(d) to improve the quality of products. Within this framework and in order
to implement concrete measures to attain those objectives, it has agreed to
carry out by December 31, 1987 a comprehensive study of prices, taxation and
subsidies, exchange views with the Bank on a program of adjustment of its
price and incentive policy, including taxes and subsidies, and to carry out
such program (by December 31, 1988). This program would be geared to:
ti) adjusting producer prices to trends of world market prices,
differentiating prices according to quality and moving towards extensive
price liberalization; (ii) continuing the ongoing policy of subsidy reduction
in general and in particular reduce from 20Z to about lOZ or eliminate
completely fertilizer subsidy by 1990; (iii) pursuing the current policy
aimed at fostering agricultural productivity, including liberalized wage
taxation, elimination of the mandatory reserve fund of large-scale farms, and
introduction of the value added tax and personal income tax; (iv) expand-
ing the current policy to increase exports through studies to identify market
opportunities and enable agricultural enterprises to engage in direct selling
abroad.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
45.      The proposed project would be the third project to be financed by
the Bank in the agricultural sector. The Grain Storage and Mechanization
Project (Ln. 2316-HU), approved in FY83, was designed to increase grain



- 14 -
production and decrease harvest losses through increased storage capacity,
modernized and more efficient storage management and increased investment in
on-farm mechanization. Implementation is progressing satisfactorily. It
helped NBH improve its investment and credit appraisals, and to use
international competitive bidding to realize cost savings. The second
project, Integrated Livestock Project (Ln. 2510-HU), which aims at improving
production efficiency in the livestock industry and at promoting meat and
meat products exports, was approved in FY85, and is now in its initial
implementation stages. The proposed project will address two sectoral
issues: the improvement of sectoral investments and their prioritizat,on,
and agricultural pricing and subsidy policies.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
46.      The project was identified during a Bank mission in July 1983 and
was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture with the assistance of the
Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm (AGROBER) and the Agricultural
Export Import Agency (AGROTEK). The project was appraised in May/June 1985.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1986. The Hungarian
delegation was led by Mr. Magyar, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and included
representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, the National
Planning Office and the National Bank of Hungary. A report, entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report, Crop Production Improvement Project" (No. 5899-fU) dated
May 5, 1986 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The
main features of the project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and
in Annex III. Maps of the country showing the project area (IBRD 17061) and
Bank projects in execution (IBRD 17361R) are attached.
Project Description
47.      The main objective of the project is to increase foreign exchange
earnings in convertible currency through the expansion of the production of
agricultural goods for exports or as import substitutes. This is proposed to
be achieved by (a) promoting the use of better and less energy-consuming
equipment to upgrade existing aging equipment, thereby increasing crop
yields, reducing harvest losses and lowering production costs; {b) improving
the production potential of selected lands through land shaping, drainage,
and soil treatment; (c) improving the efficiency of fertilizer use, producing
liquid fertilizer and promoting its use as a replacement for poor-quality
granular fertilizer, thereby preventing waste and decreasing environmental
pollution; (d) strengthening research and support services in the fields of
cereal breeding, soil testing, plant and environmental protection; and (e)
improving the managerial capacity in farms and production units by increasing
the skills of Hungarian technicians, promoting the optimal use of farm
machinery and expanding extension activities to cover the less financially
and technically favored production units.
48.      The project would consist of the following investment components:
(a) Mechanization of Crop Production. The project would provide
high-quality machinery (tractors, tillage equipment, sprayers, seeders,
harvesters, dryers and other) to improve cropping operations, increase



- 15 -
quality and yields, reduce losses and decrease production costs. Thirty
seven percent of the equipment is for general use; 351 would be for cereals;
131 for forage, 71 for vegetables and 8S for sugar beet. The purchase of
1,700 tractors, 930 sprayers, 780 seeders, and some 3,100 units of harvesting
equipment, including 470 combines, is anticipated.
(b) Land Improvement. The project would assist the Government in
executing its vast national land improvement program by providing for land
shaping, drainage and soil improvement works over an area of about 150,000 ha
of selected farms. These works would have an impact over an extended area
estimated at some 380,000 ha. Works include leveling, land consolidation,
roads (17X), drainage (632), and soil restructuring and correction (20X).
Drainage would essentially be based on a plastic pipe underground network
placed with the help of laser beam equipment as is currently being done in
areas under reclamation. To be eligible for financing under the project,
land improvement subprojects would be required to (i) open more land to
valuable crops particularly through drainage; (ii) have a large extended
impact area; (iii) require less soil restructuring; and (iv) have reached
adequate standards of modern mechanization.
(c) Liquid Fertilizer. The project would include the construction and
operation of 10 multinutrient fluid fertilizer plants to supply the
fertilizer requirements of a farming area totaling 350,000 ha. They would be
used to prepare urea-ammonium nitrate (UAN) solution and suspensions
containing three primary nutrients - nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. The
project would also provide transportation equipment and the incremental
working capital requirements of the new fertilizer mixing plants.
(d) Research. The project would provide research equipment to
strengthen cereal breeding resulting in improved future crops and increased
efficiency in crop production; specialized equipment for soil and chemical
analysis, including the measurement of residues of plant production
chemicals; and a new phytotron for wheat and maize breeding to ensure a sound
biological basis.
(e) Training and Extension. The project would provide 70 man-months of
training abroad, and consultant services to assist farms and production units
in establishing or developing management information systems aimed at
reducing production operating costs. Local technicians would be sent to
specialized training centers or would participate in study visits to develop
their skills in the use of new machinery and equipment in farm machinery
optimization, land improvement techniques, management and research related to
the quality control of fertilizers and chemicals, and in determining the
residues of plant protection chemicals. Those benefitting from this training
abroad would disseminate their experience and acquired knowledge among their
colleagues in specially organized seminars and workshops. This approach has
proved successful under the Grain Storage Project (Ln. 2316-HU). Assurances
have been obtained that the training programs and the criteria for the
selection of Hungarian technicians to be trained would be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Project Cost and Financing
49.      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
and duties and taxes, is estimated at $340.8 million equivalent. It includes
$67.5 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at



- 16 -
$147.8 million, or 43% of the total project cost. Physical contingencies
were estimated at 101 of the base cost for equipment and 20Z for civil works
and price contingencies were calculated at 72 in 1986-87, 7.51 in 1988, 7.71
iu 1989, sad 7.6% in 1990 for foreign costs, and 7% in 1986 and 6.5% in
1987-90 for local costs.
50.      The proposed Bank loan of $100 million would finance about 29% of
the total project cost, and about 681 of the estimated total foreign exchange
component. The balance of the funds needed would be provided by NBH (about
$130.8 million, or 38%), sub-borrowers (about $80.0 million, or 24%), and the
Government ($30 million or 91).
On-lending Arrangements
51.     NBH would on-lend about $92.0 million to project beneficiaries, at
an interest rate not less than the Bank rate plus a 30% mark-up to cover its
costs and the foreign exchange risk. The current domestic rate of 131 per
annum is well above the projected domestic inflation rate and is therefore
positive in real terms. The crop production subloans (farm machinery,
construction equipment) and sub-loans for liquid fertilizer plant facilities
are expected to have an average maturity period of eight years, but not
exceeding 10 years, including two years of grace; and for lending of
monoammonium phosphate, not exceeding two years and an interest rate of 131.
Funds repaid by the borrowers and not required to amortize the Bank loan
would be utilized for NBH's long- and short-term financial lending in the
agricultural sector. About $8.0 million would be passed on to the Government
(Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry) for research and training, on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
Proiect Implementation
52.     NBH would be responsible for overall project implementation.  The
NBH branch offices would assist subloan applicants to prepare loan requests
and ensure that the selection of the beneficiaries would be done on the basis
of project models and NBH credit guidelines. MEM, through its Directorate of
Agriculture, would support NBH in advising on the technical aspects of
subloan applications as requested and specifically, prior to approval by NBH
of the subloan application, would help NBH in evaluating farm mechanization
plans included in subloan applications for farm machinery. The evaluation of
the financial and economic aspects would be the sole responsibility of NBH.
MEM would be assisted by consultants, whose qualifications and terms of
employment are satisfactory to the Bank, in the development of the management
information system and its implementation.
53.     The NBH Agricultural Credit Department staff would review the
sub-loans to ensure that the selection of sub-borrowers and sub-projects is
done in accordance with financial, technical, and economic feasibility
criteria agreed with the Bank. Sub-borrowers would be required to contribute
not less than 20% of the investment costs and to ensure their financial
viability by maintaining a debt-service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5:1
and a current ratio of at least 2:1. Sub-projects to be eligible for
financing under the project would be required to have financial and economic
rates of return of not less than 14%. In the case of land improvement
sub-loans, to ensure maximum benefits, the sub-projects would be required to
(a) open more land to valuable crops, (b) have an impact on an extended area,



- 17 -
(c) have less costly soil restructuring and td) have adequate standards of
mechanization. In addition, the Government has agreed that only those land
improvement works whose financial and economic feasibility have been
established in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, will be
included as part of any national land development scheme approved or
authorized by it, outside the project. This would help to establish
priorities for land improvements and ensure that within the limited resources
only profitable investments would be undertaken. To ensure that subloans
coaform to agreed criteria, NBH would, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
submit three subloan applications in English to the Bank for review, i.e.,
one each for an investment type in (i) a crop production improvement farm,
(ii) a crop production investment farm also undertaking land improvement
works, and (iii) a liquid fertilizer mixing plant.
54.      Investments in land improvement would be carried out over a 3-year
period. Incremental benefits in increased crop production would be maximized
for land improvement areas where reclamation investments are complemented by
farm machinery modernization. Therefore, no loans for land improvement would
be granted if the farm has not reached adequate standards of modern
mechanization.
55.     About 9Z of the area of the farms financed by the Project would be
cropped with sugarbeet. The improvement of cropping conditions and
productivity would reduce the total area required to be farmed with sugar
beet. In accordance with its policy of limiting domestic sugar production
only to levels required to meet domestic consumption, the Government has
agreed (i) to adjust the area under sugar beet production, and (ii) before
expanding investments on sugar beet processing facilities, review its policy
for major beet production in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank and consult with the Bank on the results of such review.
56.     NBR, assisted by MEM and AGROBER, would be responsible for
monitoring all project components. NBH would submit to the Bank a detailed
semi-annual progress report within 30 days of the end of the semester under
review, which would include among others: (a) project performance indices
comparing appraisal expectations with actual results; (b) a narrative review
of major technical and administrative problems encountered during project
implementation; and (c) actions or revisions recomuended. AGROBER is
presently preparing a manual for distribution to NBH, MEM and sub-borrowers
on project monitoring and reporting requirements under the project. NBH,
assisted by MEM and AGROBER, would also prepare a project completion report
to be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the project
closing date.
Status of Project Preparation
57.      Project preparation is advanced.  Land improvement works are part of
the ongoing national program and are based on existing standard designs.
Procurement of sugar beet equipment has already been initiated. Specifi-
cations for farm machinery and equipment have been reviewed by the Bank and
bid documents are under preparation. Bid documents for fluid fertilizer
mixing plants are also under preparation, incorporating the appraisal
mission's recommendations for technological improvement.



- 18 -
Ihrket Outlook
58.     The incremental grain production resulting from the project is
expected to be exported. In terms of world trade volume, Hungary is a very
minor grain export source. Regarded as the "grain bowl" of the Eastern
European countries, most of the surplus would be absorbed by the CMEA
countries. They presently constitute the most important market for Hungary's
agricultural production, part of which is in the form of barter arrangements,
and part represents convertible currency sales. Recent studies of the
agricultural domestic resource costs have shown that Hungary's grain
production is competitive in the'world market. While obstacles exist in
substantialLy penetrating the protected EEC markets, there are other
convertible currency market opportunities which Hungary can tap (e.g., in the
Middle East). Maize silage and fodder crops would be used primarily to
produce beef and dairy products, of which Hungary is a net exporter largely
to CHeU countries. The relatively small incremental quantity of sunflower
seed is also expected to be exported.
Accounts and Auditing
59.     As in the ongoing Grain Storage and Mechanization Project (2316-HU)
and the Integrated Livestock Project (2510-HU), the NBH controller's office
will set up a project account. The project account, because of its
camputerized nature, in addition to being an important accounting document,
would be a valuable source of information for NBH, MEM, and Bank supervision
missions to monitor project progress and proper investment of project funds.
In-addition, NBH will furnish to the Bank, within four months of the end of
the fiscal year, a report of the project account, audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Loan beneficiaries under the project would
submit annual short form audit reports prepared by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. These audit reports would be kept at the NBH
Agricultural Credit Department and a sample would be translated into English
for review by supervision missions.
Procurement
60.     All equipment and services to be financed under the Bank loan would
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) will be used for the purchase of equipment and goods except for
specialized research equipment and computers, which will be procured under
Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures from at least three qualified
suppliers. The aggregate amount of goods procured under LIB will not exceed
in value the equivalent of $9.2 million. Procurement for the various project
components is as follows:
Pnmicuent !1        TotaL
Projet             ICI      U:B    chfer   Cost
Elt1t ust eLima ewivale
Farm nochmnety   92.8 (72.9)    159.6  -)    252.4  (72.9)
Lnd i t
works & equipment  4.6 (3',4al 47.6 S-)  - (-)  52.2 (3.4)
Liq. fertilLzer placs  -  (-)  5.3 C-)  -)  5.3    -
Liq. fertilizer equpc.  3.A (2.2  2.2 C-)   0.2 (G.1)    5.5  (2.3)
!'omaomim hhas*te  13.7 (13.0) b/ - (-)  - (-)  13.7 (13.0)
PAearch eqipt & *orks   - (- (-) 10.0 (7.5) 10.0 (7.5)
Traii             - -)      -   -)    1.7 (0.9)    1.7  (0.9)
Total           1l1.2 (91.5)    214.7 (-)   11.9 (8.5)  3&0.8 (LM.0)
!0e: Figures between brackets correspond to B.k, Eifemirg.
a/ The Fnk loam uill omly fina'ce inwpt of conasmtion equi pit.
b/ -Om Be* lowu vill only finue iwort of the strting workg capital.



- 19 -
61.      The Project provides for training and consultancies at an estimated
value of $1.7 million, of which $0.7 million is for training abroad.
Consultants would be appointed following Bank guidelines. Courses,
scholarships, and study visits would be organized in accordance with programs
satisfactory to the Bank.
62.      ICB would be carried out essentially by AGROTEK with the only
e-ception of monoammonium phosphate (MAP), which would be procured by
CEEMOLIMPEX. Farm machinery at a total estimated cost of $92.1 million is
expected to be purchased under three separate bidding packages. The first one
($5.0 million) for sugar beet harvesting equipment was invited in July 1985.
The balance would be invited in two packages of about $43 million each in 1986
and 1987. Construction equipment at an estimated total value of $4.6 million
would be procured in one package in 1986. Purchases of MAP would be annual
and in accordance with the mixing plant requirements. Equipment subject to
LIB would be procured in separate packages, depending on its type, by Research
Equipment Import Agency, the specialized agency for importing research
equipment. Equipment, services and works not financed by the Bank loan would
be procured under prevailing local competitive bidding procedures consistent
with efficiency and economy.
Disbursement
63.      Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against 100Z of
foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures ex-factory for farm
machinery and spare parts, construction equipment and spare parts, liquid
fertilizer equipment and spare parts, monoanmonium phosphate, and 100% of
foreign expenditures for consultant services and training. In order to
expedite disbursements, a revolving fund of $6 million, equivalent to about
four months' estimated average disbursements, would be established. This
amount would be maintained in a special account with the NBH. Retroactive
financing of $5 million for procurement of sugar beet harvesting equipment
under ICB is proposed. The proposed loan would be disbursed over a five-year
period. The loan closing date would be December 1990.
Environmental Impact
64.      Existing regulations for environmental protection in Hungary are
acceptable to the Bank. The Plant Protection and Agro-Chemistry Center, under
MEN, is responsible for detecting environmental pollution in the agricultural
sector, and it pays special attention to pesticides and fertilizer
applications, chemical storage practices, and chemical residua' control.  The
project would have a very positive impact on improving and consolidating the
Government's program to reduce environmental pollution. Land improvement
works through land reshaping, but particularly through drainage, would
eliminate swampy areas and therefore decrease mosquito breeding grounds. The
research component of the project would measure and improve the control of
residues of plant production chemicals, soil and water pollution, and the
replacement of granular fertilizers with liquid fertilizer would also decrease
hazards connected with transportation and storage losses, and washing away by
surface run-off during heavy rainfall periods.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
65.     The economic rate of return for the entire project is 39S.  At full
development the project is expected to generate incremental annual sales
revenues of about $180 million and pre-tax profits of about $35 million
benefitting 310 state farms and cooperatives. The annual contribution to the
Government budget in the form of income tax ia estimated at $16 million. Net
foreign exchange earnings from farm production due to the project are
estimated at $90 million annually. The project would create 8,000 new jobs.
66.     The project would benefit an area of about 1.5 million ha.  Some
350,000 ha would benefit from farm machinery modernization, mainly for
i provement of cereal production; 470,000 ha would receive loans for machinery
modernization for mixed farming; and 380,000 ha would be provided with land
improvement and with farm machinery modernization, thereby making better land
available for cereals, oil seed, and forage crops and increasing yields of
already existing crops. In the remaining area, some 350,000 ha would benefit
fro the establishment and operation of 10 new liquid fertilizer mixing
plants, the use of which would also result in incremental production.
67.     Use of the improved farm mechanization equipment would ensure timely
and efficient land preparation, seeding, application of fertilizer and other
agricultural chemicals and increase yields by about 20S (0.9 ton/ha for wheat
and 1.0 ton/ha for maize). The resulting improved yields and decreased
production costs would be achieved in the following 3 to 4 years.
68.     Land improvement would not only enhance the benefits of farm mechani-
zation, but also enable cultivation of higher value crops. Both this and the
crop production component would improve cropping conditions and quality, and
would help release about 7000 ha. under sugar crop cultivation to export crops.
69.     Use of liquid fertilizers would reduce transport and storage losses,
reduce soil compaction due to less frequent on-farm fertilizer distribution,
improve distribution efficiency, and contribute to the decrease of pollution
problems. It is expected that yields would also increase by about 6 to 10
Risks
70.     The risk of implementation delays is minimal since the concerned
Hungarian agencies are now familiar with B=ak procurement and disbursement
procedures. The technical assistance and training provided by the project
would reduce the risks associated with the possible lack of knowledge on the
new equipment and its operation.
PART V: RECOMMENDATION
71.     1 am satisfied that the proposed loan wo'ild comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
June 6, 1986



- 21 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1
NOBT                     (N"MST uCUT UTMMAT) 
1,16d      1*oL  :,    =LTDU           T W CO IEA              IN      "
A-s  oi         .                            ._
TtaL                                *1.0       92.0        9.0
WAICLTUEAL       _1.4                          01.1        65.4
epw  CaWf A                             ..         ..       2110.0               ..                    1062.9
-w OBENP1w vi cart
(uzLOOUhD  OF o0L IQIV4LPT)       1314.0     2070.0 2o63.0                  *IU.1                    4991.3
_OVW     ANDWuL sAn
POPOtATId,.IflUAB (TNOUSAI)   9934.0    10327.0    10699.0
uuns mOiLnhZ  (C oF TOTAL)          40.1       47J-         Sa               623.                      70.7
neIuTIOn U iVi  am0 CML.)                                10.7
IUnovN  bOPLATbON CHILL)                                 11.0
POPULTICU tHUDS                                           1.1
ronwtamo vaLn
Msq. M.                          107.3      111.1       115.0              42.5                     140.o
M  mq. M. AGX. LIS               129.6      130.4       102.7              63.4                     522.2
ICIuLAUou AME SEUACTUE CI)
0-14 in                          25.3       20.3        21.7               24.4                     21.3
15-64 TU                          05.0        7.7        05.2              45.0                      6.4
65 me ham                          9.0       11.5        12.9               10.0                     t2.0
9090LAT10 aOvy SILTS CZ)
TOTAL                              0.7        0.3         0.3               0.0                      0.O
.dME                               1.1        2.1         1.4                1.0                      1.3
CinMB liS1 Eg CPU VIMUS)            14.7       14.7        11.9               19.0                     13.3
CUalms '    IA1 E "it   150T5)      10.2       11.0        13.9               10.5                     8.9
GRUB EDUNCa   NATO                   1.0        1.0         0.9                1.2                     0.9
rAILT rLDcO
ACOIPEOIS. MAnNL ( )               ..        149.0 /c   711.8 e
EE   1o  RAUIED   nfiE)           ..         07.0 71    74.0                    *-                  71.1
INO  al no  PROK. PrS CAITA
(1969-71.100)                       63.0       91.0       147.0              109.0                   107.2
CLOE CU O Eor     U i ESU?S)     119.0      127.0       134.0              132.2                    132.9
P30TRIMS (CUM PUS?)               84.0       91.0        95.0              LOO.0                    101.0
OF 8N1W ANIMAL M  PALS           30.0       2.0         44.0 l.            523.8                     1.4
WaLD (CE  1-4) MTA  .11U             3.0        2.4         8.0                1.5                      0.4
LEM ZINC. AT IU  (TEAS)            60.4        09.0        09.9              094                      75.5
NAUIT IMt. 33 (M  230)              47.6       35.9        19.0              19.0                       9.9
A=cSS TO S3N MAR (330)
TOL                               22.7 LI    30.0        64..
UIUAL                              ..        10           27
Amu m  KIfta DISPOSL
CZ Of  0"UATO)
TOTAL                              ..        27.2/a    53.3 3..
UILSI                              .-O.I -2*-
aMa                               ..          44 a     30.  h                                         .
OA?Iho PM  sUtSIcIa                720.0      510.0       400.0 /b          343.7                    533.2
POP. M   JUl16 P0501               330.0 /     30.0       15O.O             130.7                   1Le..
ro. rM  <M AL ED-
TOTAL                            140.0      120.0       110.0              S.A                      120.9
UUM                               60.0 Il   140.0       130.0 /.          109.0                    143.2
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..             15764.7                   776.8
AENSSIOS      HOPIaTL e              ..        20.5        21.0 /b            10.4                    17.8
AneUl SaZ Or omOO
TOTAL                              3.1        3.0         2.6 lb
IQm                                ..         2.7         2.7,
USUL                               ..         3.2         U.0.
*1315 go. 07 NESOUE/f
TaL                                2.4        2.0         1.5 /1
IIUU                               1,I.9                  157                .*
RURAL                              ..         2.0         I.o.  
PU?ME of OulIuGS WITH SC.
TOTAL                             74.6       91.7        96.1                ..
r38*                               ..        9.6         99.o 
,EA       ., 8*.7.4   n9**



-22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2
man                      (Hoo  *)g  2
16i 2to&@i  mal   sSSSL           n-Aw            m     *U M   CNOXIS*
ADJUSTOR UJROWUIIT RALtOB
IMARTs  TOTAL                    101.0        97.0       100.0             104.3                     101.2
10ALB                 103.0        91.0       100.0               96.1                    102.4
FUKA                  100.0        97.0       100.0              97.6                     102.4
UtCODYsI TOTAL                    23.0        63.0        73.0              89.7                      87.1
MALB                   21.0        71.0        74.0              70.5                      $0.3
1WZ                    24.0        55.0        72.0              74.9                      84.1
VOCATOIUL (0X 1 SCAOM               30.4        73.6        74.1              32.5                      18.6
PUPXL-TUAiR RATIO
PIDIAI                            24.0        18.0        15.0              12.2                      11.7
EcoNDS                            11.0        .6.0       19.0               16.0                      11.6
PASIINOU CASSI/TOUSAIND PO           3.3        23.2       106.6              97.5                     366.3
RADIO                   pop        222.6       244-.       261.5             429.6                    1093.2
TV IC3WZ85/TOUAND 10P               10.4       171.1       262.2             2K.6                      412.3
EIUSAFU ("NAUL  GURtAZ.
INTEIT) CIRWLAT11
PrU TUODIID POPUL4?I0             143.6       213.5       241.9             365.8                     320.4
CNEA AUIAL ATMMDAWCAPITA            14.0         7.7        6.4               12.9                       3.3
TWTAL LAM  POC (TEUS)             4777.0      5021.0      5196.0
FINAL CPSCWT)                     36.4        42.0        42.7              47.3                      36.2
AARDICLIUUI CPEncNT)              38.7        25.2       20.5 A             17.3                       6.2
IST  (PRCZM)                     34.3        44.4       42.9               43.7                      37.7
PABTICIP*II0U RTZZ (IRICONT)
TOTAL                             47.8        A.7        418.6              51.1                      46.0
MALE                              63.1        56.2        57.4              56.7                      59.5
FIMALE                            33.7        39.7        40.0              46.0                      32.7
=couo-   c DSWNDIC! RAIO             0.7         0.7        0.7                0.7                       0.7
PC     Or PRUVATE DNCOm
hIChRST 5S OF NOUSIOLDS           12.1 /k     11.5        10.6 /k
RICUST 202 OF UCNSUHOM            34.8 7      33.7 71    32.3 71            43.1
LOWUIS 202S OF VUSEZLDS            9.4 7r      *.9rk    10.86                ..                        5.4
LOWY 402 01 3ouSoCLDS             23.6 7E     24.8 WR    4 26.2 7E           ..                       16.4
LEVIt? (15 P3 CAPITA)
-                                  ........
USAL                               ,           ..          ..                *         
ESTDIAD RELATIVE ovEz   DIC
LEV  tDSS PD CUApI)
umu                                ........
UUAL                               ..
ESTIMATED P0O. 3ELOV ABSOUTZ
POVERT INICOME LZVZL (t)
D1A                                ........
Mr? AVAILASZ
NOT APPLICAIL
. i OTES
/-  The roup average for each Laduator crv populatloed-elghted a_rlc tic mea. Covers of COettrS
auag tbs Indicators depend. an swalUbilty of data and Is not fiero.
/b   Uel.r oachazlas noted. "Data for 1960e rrfar to ay year betwm  1959 OA  1961. 'ante fer 1970V beteom
1%9 and 1971; ad datc for 'Moset Kecew  It.cea  batuen 1961 and 1983.
c  Uoman of reptoductive ag  (17-49) umLog orrl cotxaceptLves;. /d 1966. _ma  of reprenctivu a1 2eas
tha  45 years; to 1977;  If UIb_  of reproductive aa  a    ;i 40 Yar; La ierecaa of occuaied
dUellnp;  lb 190; I1 I2; a 1978;  nk   rentage of             e r     d by the r.epeCtIV  VoTCOUt of
the popultacM. and MI ref  to year  1M. 1972 ad  1977.
JUNh. 1985



- 23-                                        ANNEX I
Page 3
DJINFMTONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
No: Although the data are drawn fmu sourseneallyjuddw themoat authoritwtive and reliable. it should also be noled thia they may not be interniationslly
compsable becuae of the lack of andardined detion and cancps used by diffaet countries in colicting the dat The dait arc. nonetheles. useful to
descnbe orden of magsnude, indicate trends, and chractenecrain manor differens betwmn countrisa
The referenae goup arel I) the m  eountry group orte wubject country ad (2) a cen try group wish somewhat higer average income than the country
group of the subjct counr (excyp  for "High Inom. Oil Exportet roup where Middle lncome North Arica and M idk Eaut" is chen bemuse of sniner 
soeo-cultural affinitien. in ther ference group data the auraw asm populatio weighted arithmauc means for each indicator and shown only when mujority
ofthecountries in a group badaua rr tbat indicator Sis ithecoveage ofcounrie among tlhe indicatorsdepends on theavailability ofdata nd is not uniform.
caution must b exercised in reating averas ofone indiraor to anotir Tbee averages re anly useful in comparing the value  one indator at a time among
the cuuntry and refernce groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crud BAl Rae (per rhesuJaa-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface arm comprising land ara and inland waters   per thousnd of mid-year population: 1960. 19 70. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Cradr Deat Raft (per umasadJ-Number of deaths in the year
Ag'rctw  -Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
pemnanendy for crops pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Grs Repmdabv Rate-Average number ofdaughtes a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
preet aspecific fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices calculated by sane conversion method as World          y           4w        Arsua (rhmaandr)-Annual num-
Stash Atlas (I1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                        ber of acceptors orbirth-control devices underauspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPIION  PER CAJUIA-Annual apparent                  family plann  program.
consumption of commeial prmary energy (coal and ligniteg           Ifm  PAu-Usa   (peren of  arid wemeaj-The per c.en-
petrokum  natural gas and hydro, nucear and geothml elec-       tage of married women orchild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilogrms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptv  usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL SATITICS                                   group
To at Ptpsliai, Mid- Year (thosauSj-As of July 1;1960 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1983 data.
Urban Popolstim_   (percmvt of getoll-Ratio of urban to total   aIAex ofFedePrd      e. w CapIta (1969-71 - lWfl -Index of per
populaton: diffemr t  definitions of urbatn -rats moy afuect compar-  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
abilition datiafong countrins. 1960o 1970 and 19m3a atae        excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
include pdmary conunodites (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugari
A-sIte Pejecmw                                                   whicb are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Aopstaion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded). they comprise ceeals  root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separatdy. Starting with infonnaion on    vegetable  fruits nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates mortality rates and  livestock products. Aggrepte production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these paraneers  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970, and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis or generalized  1982 data.
assumpiuons until the population became stationary.             hr Capita SWp  ofCaruG (prcnt ofreqmiinrenuts)-Comput-
Statianar   popular-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorieequivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long peiod, while ag-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replment level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is alo  food processing and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constanL and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteitics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000 and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
Population Monsemun-ls the tendency for population growth to    hr Capia Saply of Proein (gras per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gmras of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year . given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year : onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
APas-i  Deniy                                                   average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supplry 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area- 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                her Cpita Pretea Sappy Fros Aniiu and Phre-Protein supply
Per sq.kn. agricltural Id-Computed as above for agricultural    offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970, and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Pbpatie Age Srna (5percearj-Children (0-14 years). work-        Chl (age 1-4) Deth Rare (per housaud)-Number of deaths of
ing age (5-64 years). and retired (65 yean and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most devdoping countries data derived
A     _wArieaCGowt Rtwe (pefrJma n-nr--Annual growth rates of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
iP.lai.a CGowth Ate (penra)f-war-_Annual growth rates           Le E        rrpecrscp a SBit JW vers)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing pasterns of mortality for aD people



-24-                                          ANNEX I
Page 4
at the time of or its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire:  Pupfi.uecr Ratio - pr_r,v and secrndary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                    rolled in primary and secondary levels diviC." by numben of
Inmr MwmAhp Ret (per u sdj-N lumber or infants who die    teachers In the corrponding levels.
before reaching one year of ag per thousnd live birds In a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                              CONSUMMION
AcceSo to S Wo, lir    (pam    VFfSI I k44 whim, od          Pasuenger Can (Pr rhesuiwd p.puluiioni-Paenger cars com-
rwl-Nuber of people (total, urban, nd rural) with reuonable  pr-  motor can seating ks than eight persons: excludes ambul-
ana to sfe water supply (inacdvd  treated murbfc  waters or  ances, bearses and military vehiclse
untreated but unconumiated water such as that from protected  aa  Reacle  'per ts*reaadp.aalesicj-All types of receivers
borehois, spop and suni   wdb) upena   of Ather              for radio broadcast to eneral public per thousand of population:
dve population. In ut rban ar  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed reciven in countries and in yean when
located not mr  thn 200 motes from a hom  my be considered   registration of radio se was in elect: data for recent yean may
as being within reaonabe aems of that houe. In rural areas   not be eompable since most countries abolished lieensing.
reasonable access would baply that the houswife or memben of the
houseibold do not have to sed a disproportionate pan of the day  TI Ri  (r hmV   receiver for bro t
in fewing "a fns wate needa                                  to general public per thousand population: exdude unlicend TV
Acm to Emvwm MDend (prftw of <vmkdm)-ord, wbm,               receivers in countries and in year when registration of TV n  was
mnd rorl-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) erved by  in eft
exareta disposl a pernag  of their repective populations.     MwW CcAeuub (ehr thAwudpepuhaha-Shows the aver-
Excrta disposal my include the collection and dispoaL with or  age drculation of daily general innrt newspaper," defined as a
withot treatment, of human  reta and wase-water by water-   peniodical publication devoted prmrily to recording general news
borne syms or the u-e of pit privies and similar insallations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appars at ket four times a wek.
Pbpashapr PbhysdIu-Ppulation divided by number of prc-       C1_ dm1 Amemm per  C,pa per Yer-Based on the
tising physic    quaified from a medical school at university lev  number oftic;ts sold during the year. including admisions to
Ibpa'bule.rr p buNwxftrss-apulation divided by number of     drive-in ciemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female prduate nurse  aistant nurses,     A        ROCx
pratcl nure and nursing auxiiaries.ORC
-- aup'-- Ian nursing au          s, ad __                    Ted Labo Fm. (sheasoads)-Economically active persons. in-
totL urban, as rural) divided by their repective oumber of   cluding anred forms and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hoitl bend aailb  in publicvand private, genel and speilird  students, etc., covering population of aU as. Definitions in
hospital  n  reaibilitation centr  Hospital -c esablio ment  various countries ae not cowpambk; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanendy stffed by at lea one physicin Establishments prov-  Fangme (jereenr-Femnle labor force as percentage of total labor
dung principsily custodil care are not included. Rural hospitals,    form.
howe. include health and medical cnters not permanently staffed  Ag _abw  (pesur)-Labor fore in farming fomtry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical asistant, nurs, midwife, etc.)    and fishing as percent age of total labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which ofer in-patn accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of mel facilities                                           tldary prpmsr-Labor forme in mining construction, manu-
Ad4bnbw pr Hespsa Bed-Total number of admissions to or       facturing and electricity, water and ps as pcentage of total labor
dicharges from hospitals divded by the number of beds        forcm: 1960, 1970 and 1980 data
PAedepe  Rd& (ercen s-e4 Nk,             f      p ton
HOUSING                                                      or activity ates am computed as totl, mal and feal labor fore
Aurn.- SIe of H.mm    (penis pm heweheld-enAI whim,          as perentag  of total, nale and female population or al ages
a-ndw-A houshold consist oa group of indiviuals who share    respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data These are based on ILO's
living quuters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation ratn relectng ages structure of the population  d
may not be included in the household for statistical purpos.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourcs
A1Waft Nmbher of Persma per Reamp-meal _m, mad 'mm -         Ecoxneic Depqen y Rutk-Ratio of population under 15, and
Averag number of persons per room in all urbn and rural      6S and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. DweUings exclude
non-pemanent structures and unoccupied parts                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pcarqe_ of DweEmqs .vs Ehceidu-mosl, mi   nd rind-  _.mitn  of Twal D;pmhlk laces (both in cas asd  aid-
Conventional dwelin  with ctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percntile groups of households ranked by totl hous-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,      hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A*4Ud Emaan  Raios                                           The following estimates are very approximate mcasures of poverty
Plmawy school - tot. mak an fe      ross totaL male and      levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all age at the primary klvel as percentages of  EsbSed disabe Parft Incom  Leel (USS per cqp*ai-ain
respective primary school-age populations While many countries  ad rua-Absolute poverty income levd is that income level
consider primay school age to be 6-11 years. others do not The  below which a minimnal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differen   in country praices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiremrents is not affordable.
are reflcted in the ratios given. For some counties with universal  Estimaed Rehim PaV  lce Level (USS per capitaJ-mai
education, gross enroUment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rual-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, naur oud feae-Computed as above,    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at last four years of approved pri-  Estimtd Pbpusa n 5thw Adhn  Povty laoNi Level (per-
mary instructiOD; provides genal, vocationaL or teacher training  cene)-ms and  *wl- Percent of population (urban and rural
insructions for pupiL usualy of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are absolute poor.'
ance coures are  -ly exduded&
Vocauno &roilun (percem of swedryj -Vocational insuiu-                 Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include tehnical indusiaL or other progams whih operate        Economic Analysis and Projctions Department
independently or as departmets of econdary institutions                              June 1985



- 25 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 5
CfatST31 041   WNIGAEY
33.036 5q km                                            10.7 million (mid-lSUI                                111.0 per so km
Rate at growth: 0.235 (tram  1970 to 9313             223.5 per sq km of arable land
Crud e brth rate 1Ws 1.0n)                          11.9                      Population Per Physician (19o0                         247
Crude deth rate  Wr 1,000)                          13.9                      Population par hospital bed (13011                     110
Infant mortality lper 1,600 live births)            19.0
L~ *TSThtSinflf  11177i
S-ot privta inee_. hielust 2e0 perent               32.5                      QTSlUTT    OF LAND  WSIP
leaSt 40 percent               26.2                      S mnmd by top 135 of wr_s
S amed by smallest lot of owners
rfa   t mpt   twoED T ete                                                                                                             995 1
tot populatio   nman                                u.e a                     S of pepulation   urban                                  9.
- rural                             43.1 aL                                     rural                                 97.6
Calwria intae as X of reNaramnts                   134.0                      Adult 1iteracy rate S (1392)                            33.9
Per capita protein Intake  os.)                    105.3                       rimary school anrollnt 1 (1931)                        97.0
P PE CAPrrA IN 124 a:  USELJM
cmi  inn PCpomr ty i1414 nteUAL   2ATE OF mnum  is  cmstant pricesl
US S Bh.                                   19 05             a7e               12"-              i1
GP at Mnket Prics                    20.4             100.0                    6.2                3.2                2.1               2.6
Gross Domstic Invastnmt               5.2              26.5                    6.9                2.2               -42               -2.7
Gross OM_stic Saving                  5.3              20.6                   10.3                5.7                3.*               6.3
SeirsuitaSance                        0.6               3.2
Exports of Goode. NFS                 a.3              40.3                    9.6                6.9                5.2              5se
Lerta of Goode. UfS                   7.7              27.7                    7.5                3.9               -0.s               0.1
PSYTUIW 1 134a
s    V lue AddRd__                      Labor Force /4                         V    PA
Ft_ln.        HS S Bl                              an IoS 
Agriculture             166              3.5           17.2                1.072                 21.7            3.265                79.1
Industry (nci. constr.) 401              3.4           33.8 a.                                   23.6             4265               106.6
Service                 309              6.4           38.7                1.960                 33.7            2.2657.
Unallocated LA          i                Li 
Total/Averaea       979             20.4          100.0                4.940                100.0            4.130 Li            100.0 ei
(Ft        uduetIL
;az                 121E     U14
Current 1mmpts            572.9      S5e 5             59.0
Current Exp ndstures      517.7       S2.9             52.7
Current Surplus           5S 2         5.6              6.S
1atal EndstIurGs           Sa 7        6.0              7.0
Ex1t   Assistance (n t)
SlJ P nae   of occpid dullnes.
LZ Woreld lnkAtlas motbdolow. All other conversion$ to dollars in this table are at th average ce_rcial 4exhOt   r8t8 PrMvallin
during the Period coerd
Li Act ve earneas.
Li CuS=e  duties nnd valwtion d1'ff rwcs  which aer not alleCated by sector sho consideDle flL tuwton   Tnra is thuS a d1stortien
IntroduC d Into ths Ifterpr  ettino  dULa an StruCtuwal chb  in the eenfyW
LAExLding umll cted
Cra t appltc  5b.     E9h655
C Not Suplu ble                                                                             F bruary 256  1966
146F( 4)



- 26 -                                     ANNE I
Page 6
MNr1r_ rwarT NW PRMS~roatsnsa*   uuae
rvnn   romnre id  s1I
I millien Forints outstAndine w period 1
me.,y am Qust mnmy                             M2.2             317.5           252.3           3*e.2          485.5           421.2             462.8
flail Crealt to Public Sector                   426.4           467.4           49.2            529.7           566.5          575.2             5e.2
Sark Crsdt to Private SectDr                     31.6            94. 1          137.            119.3          13.6           154.2             179.6
C Prcantages or Index nmer s
_Mo  ana Qtest Horuy ase of o4.4                                 46.6            4.9@ Ca.7                      47.3            47.0              4 .
CGral  rce Index (1975 - 10o)                   114.1           124.2           13.5            141.3           151.5          163.3             176.8
bowel prent_ag  chaes in:
Cosu_r Price ndex                                 4.5             5.9             9.1             4.5            6.9             7.5               5.3
Sak credit to PubliC Sector                      15.5             7.6             5.5             e.1            5.0             1.5               2.3
eant credit to Private Setr                      14.             15.3            12.9            51.8            11.4           13.5              16.4
eat arefl Pawna
ufnOhMM    rseol iaRVrac laen.ae           Trade in             trade in
bln                  men-l
111  4}           s                                            tAbs        x     {lfb      
Exports Of Goods t.eg.e   9.01i.o                          S.575.o    5525.6    Fuels. electric  nrgy                 25.e       0.7      5S3.6      16.2
_arts of Goods t.u5.a    1.57s.e    5.452.0    s622.5   fam _tarias. sh-filnse
men-factor Services t(etl)             -iL       zS           1.11    AL2          prroducts, spoarts         U       32.9      22.4   1.6572.1      2.
suce Go (deficit * -                  -7.3       454J.       476.0      360.0    Ifluinery. tr_ort egulpnt.
other capital  e                 .5          42.5      6e7.'      123
Intert Pmts (net)                  -.9.0        -62.0       -41.       -7s5.7    tfacturd c         r aDoas          532.1      17.3      6 2.8      13 4
Othe-Fa= Ityttances                     ..         ..          ..         ..         Aercultual  _ood                  L         14-7     UL0       .24
Other  Factr. Pents Islet)            211.6      132.0       25.0       105.3            Total                     3,761.4    100.0   '.9l.9        105.0
Net Transfers                         .JL                                                                                               4.J SLII -M
malas ao Currnt Account               -7.0    -33.0           25.0      A71.2    T      . IIE            1i
MediumS- and Long-eT.u CapitalPulcdt.m    grnae52
AS_    Le- cI Pulic debt. *necl. oant"zd                                                                                      *.7
Assets a1                         -130       -150          _16.0    -155.9      (Of' 'M: crnertible currency)                                    (7.4)
Liabilitles                      1.119        251.0       154.0   1. 314.7   _on-arwtd Private dOt
les                            (2.e251    (1.201.0)   (1.409.el (2.356.7)       Total outstfading and disbused                                  .2
Outtloes                        (-96      (-9a40)    (-I.25.65 (-1 2.4)
Short-Term Capital                                                               Sm    urfma5      m  i  ae
AsstS 1                            -47       -23        -205.6    -21.6   R
Liabilities LI                    -522       451.0        52        -53 4.1
otswr item n.a.i. 'a         Z36         352        436  ~Public debt. mrdc. guaranteed                                         25.9
Other it_5 n.e.i. j3                             215         352        436           llaarneed privte deblt                                        2
Incres  In Reseves 1-increas)         616        ml         -379.0    -746.3         N     t           Pl                                           23.9
PrSS 1.60 s 47.347 Farnts
ft. 1.0 a 53.021
t1ntstenirea disbursed                                 335.2
R3  *a_*0i-0 orints                                                         UIdisbrsad                                              41iS 2
Ft. 1.60 a 0.020                                                             Outstandig. 1ncl. undisbrsed                           503.4
L  Nn-rer  assets: wetly ewert na4ncing.
g  Includes erors a0M asins.
4g  use of zW  Puswous.
fl ti oaf tea  det service on  ae- am leng-ta  det to tol  exprts f teowonS mW services. The debt sevice retle correspoding to covrUtible
rencr   det w40.21.
Put applicable.                                                  DlM1A
.    t vailable.                                                                                                     MrchI 1). 105
14UFCS I



-27 -                           ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Statement of Bank Loans '
(as of March 31, 1986)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                           (less cancellations)
Number     Year        Borrower    Purpose                   Bank   Undisbursed
2316-EU    1983        NB k'      Grain Storage & Mech       130.4       17.4
2317-EU    1983        EPR '    Energy Conservation         109.0        71.7
B2- W    1983        NBH        Grain Storage & Energy)
Conservation        )    30.0          -
B3-MU    1983        NBE        Grain Storage & Energy )
Conservation         )   8. 8"         -
2397-EU     1984       NBE        Industrial Exports &)
Restructuring     )      110.0       70.5
2398-EU    1984        OKGT g     Petroleum                   90.0       58.1
B8-HU     1985       NBH        Industrial Export & )
Restructuring, and)      35.0          -
Petroleum )
B9-HU     1985       NBH        Industrial Export L  )
Restructuring, and )      12.2-'       -
Petroleum )
2510-lU    1985        NBH        Integrated Livestock        80.0       74.0
2511-HU    1985        NBH        Fine Chemicals              73.0       67.8
2557-fU    1985        HPR        Transport                   75.0       69.9
Bll-fU     1985       NBH        Integrated Livestock,)
Fine Chemicals and )    36.0          -
Transport )
B12-ffU    1985       NBH        Integrated Livestock, )
Fine Chemicals and  )    14.0 J'      -
Transport            )
Total                                 803.4      429.4
of which has been repaid                -
Total now held by Bank                803.4
Total undisbursed                                429.4
'i The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
k' National Bank of Hungary.
Z  Hungarian People's Republic.
<' National Oil and Gas Trust.
'' US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y2.1 billion.
f'  US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3 billion.
'L"' USS equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3.5 billion.



- 28 -                ANNEX III
(Page 1)
HUNGARY
CROP PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SupplementarY Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project        22 months
July 1983 to April 1985
(b)  Agency which has prepared the project               Ministry of Agriculture
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank              July 1983
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project       July 1983
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission              May/June 1985
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations                  January 1986
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                       September 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Effectiveness:
(a) Borrower to submit three samples of loan applications in English to
the Bank prior to effectiveness, one each for (i) a crop production
improvement farm, (ii) a crop production investment farm undertaking
land improvement works, and (iii) a liquid fertilizer mixing plant
(para. 53).
2.   Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a) Ensuring that interest rates on subloans would be not less than the
Bank rate plus a 30S mark-up to cover its costs and the foreign
exchange risks (para. 51).
(b) Ensuring that maturities for the subloans are as follows: crop
productio=-average period of eight years and not more than 10 years
with two years of grace; liquid fertilizer plant facilities-10
years with two years of grace; lending on monoammonium phosphate-
not exceeding two years (para. 51).
(c) Ensuring that sub-borrowers contribute not less than 201 of the
project investment cost in the form of equity and maintain at all
times a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5:1 and a
current ratio of at least 2:1 (para. 53).



- 29 -
ANNEX IrI
(page 2)
(d) Ensuring that sub-projects would have financial and economic rates
of returns of above 14S (para. 53).
3.  Measures to be taken by the Guarantor include:
(a) Undertaking a study on agricultural prices, taxes and subsidies to
be completed by December 31, 1987, and after exchanging views with
the Bank, and developing a medium-term program of action to adjust
producer prices and incentives by December 31, 1988, and thereafter
implementing such program (para. 44).
(b) Ensuring that land improvement sub-projects would be selected
according to agreed criteria (para. 53).
(c) Limiting domestic sugar beet production to meet domestic consumption
requirements, adjusting area under sugar beet, and reviewing its
sugar beet policy when new investments for processing facilities are
required (para. 55).



~~~~~,-C
/sw,;~~~~~~~AUST~~~~ACuNGAR~~~~~/ROMAN, ~ ~ ~ ~
VUGOSLAVIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'...~~AM
~~~~~~~~~g
/    SZOLNOK    3                  ~~~~HUNG3ARY
'/ESZPRE1EA  b "~~~~~~~~<  ~~~   f    **~~~ ~~                              .         ~     AGRICULTURAL AREA,
~~"2>  <'f)/.. .    f'  $'.\  .                             S~~~~~UNLIGHT & PRECIPITATION
,~A-bl. lund
SOMOGY  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~CONRO2050
Is  ~~~~~~~~~I~950
Rm.
005                                       - SIe~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mgey .. noy) I,-od-ri-
BkRAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l!en~oa~od,e



