Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22031
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-26605; IDA-26010)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.1 MILLION
(US$ 9.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BEN1N
FOR A
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
March 29, 2001
Rural Development 2
Country Department 13
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective *)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 1000 = US$ 1.74
US$ 1 = CFAF 575
WEIGHTS AND MESURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARDER              Regional Action and Rural Development Centers
CNW                  Community Nutrition Workers
DANA                 Food and Applied Nutrition Directorate
DANIDA               Danish Cooperation Agency
GOB                  Governnent of Benin
GTZ                  German Technical Cooperation Agency
IDA                 International Development Association
MDR                  Ministry of Rural Development
MMU                 Management and Monitoring Unit
NGO                  Nongovernmental organization
ONASA               National Bureau for Food Security Support
ONC                 National Bureau for Crops
PCR                  Project Completion Report
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
SDR                  Special Drawing Right
UNB                 National University of Benin
WFP                 World Food Program
*Exchange rate as of Febuary 1994. Theparity of the FCFA with French Franc, previouslyfixed at 50%, was realigned to 100% on
January 1, 1994.
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Antoinette Sayeh
Sector Managerr:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:   Nicolas Ahouissoussi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                      9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000099                                       Project Name: COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD
SECURITY
Team Leader: Nicolas Ahouissoussi                         TL Unit: AFMBJ
ICR Type. Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY                  L/C/TF Number: TF-26605; IDA-26010
Country/Department: BENIN                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AG - Agency Reform; AY - Other Agriculture; HH -
Population, Health & Nutrition Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/15/89                                Effective: 08/04/94            01/31/95
Appraisal:  05/21/93                                  MTR: 04/13/98
Approval:  04/12/94                                Closing: 12/31/99             09/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT OF BEN1N/TBD
Other Partners: DANIDA, World Food Organization
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Edward Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:     Antoinette Sayeh                           Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                         Theodore Nkodo
Team Leader at ICR:   Nicolas Ahouissoussi                      Adolfo Brizzi
ICR Primary Author:   Turto Turtiainen ( Rural
Development Specialist;
Consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main goals of the Community-Based Food Security Project (PILSA -- "Projet d'Interventions L;cales
pour la Securit6 Alimentaire") were to alleviate poverty and to help the Government improve food security
and nutrition standards of the vulnerable population in 21 districts ("sous-prefectures"), preselected )n the
basis of their high level of food and nutrient insecurity. To attain the goals, the project had the following
objectives: (a) canying out, in areas where populations are at greater risk, simple agricultural, commercial
fisheries, peri-urban and socioeconomic activities that would offer new income-generating opportunities
and regular access to food; (b) reducing malnutrition rates with particular focus on children under fi{ve
years and on pregnant and lactating women; and (c ) strengthening the Government's food security
planning, monitoring, and evaluation capacity to better identify the populations and areas at risk and
develop consequent strategies.
The goals of the project were important for the country at the time of appraisal and are so even today.
Despite an overall satisfactory food security situation in Benin, the Government's objective of provicling
access, by all people at all times, to enough food for an active and healthy life had not been reached. Also,
the project was seen as an element that would limit any potential negative effects of the structural
adjustment program being carried out in Benin at that time. The project objectives were in line with the
recommendations of the 1990 World Bank's Food Security and Poverty Alleviation Paper for Benint and
with the Bank's general poverty reduction strategy, especially in reaching specific groups of rural poor in
areas of food security risk. Thus, the project fell under the Bank's Targeted Intervention Programs, and
because of its special focus on women groups and activities, it also met the objectives of the
Women-in-Development initiative.
In the staff appraisal report (SAR, Annex 7), the objectives were presented partially in quantitative terms
although the activities to be undertaken under the project were intended to be demand-driven. A complex
project such as PILSA with several components and numerous participating agencies might have benefited
from more specific objectives and targets, but when the project was prepared and evaluated, no log frame
with its quantitative and qualitative targets was required. However, the objectives and their quantitative
monitoring indicators, especially those for constructing the physical facilities to be financed under the
project and for improving the nutrition in the selected areas, were adequate to start the project. The
monitoring indicators were further developed when a log frame was prepared for the project in 1997, and
clarified in the context of the mid-termn review in 1998.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The goals or objectives of the project were not revised during the project period, but gradually it became
more and more evident that the gist of the project was improvement in nutrition and food security and not in
micro-projects that were tools to reach the former. This realization resulted in more emphasis being placed
on the nutrition component than originally. In 1997, a "restructuring program" was initiated, but it affected
only operational matters (guidelines on continued NGO participation, restriction of subproject size, -or
example). However, because the credit element of the program became of concern, improving and
recording effective procedures for providing credit and its recovery became clear secondary objectiv -s for
the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components and their costs were: (a) Micro-projects, US$10.7 million; (b) Community
Nutrition Program, US$2.7 million; (c) Institution Building, Management and Monitoring, US$3.8 rnillion;
and (d) Project Preparation (pilot phase), US$1.9 million. The components were reasonably well related to
- 2 -



the achievement of the project objectives in the specified districts selected for the project. The cost of the
Institution Building, Management, and Monitoring component is higher than usual in World Bank-financed
projects, but community-based projects, especially if they address poverty, nutrition, and gender issues, can
be expected to require more guidance, coordination, and monitoring than the more traditional projects, even
within the field of rural development, because they are cross-sectional, operate in a complex socio-cultural
setup, and include a large number of subprojects. In addition, the cost of getting NGOs and project staff to
become active in remote areas where no Government services are present is another key contibutor to the
high cost of this component.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the components during project implementation. However, during the latter
part of the project, funds started to accumulate from recoveries made on credits given for
income-generating micro-projects. Originally, no plans had been made for their use, and thus the project
employed FCFA 523 million (about US$0.8 million) of them to pay for additional project-related costs in
years 1999 and 2000.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No formal Quality-at-Entry Review (QAE) was performed on the project, but the overall quality at entry
can be rated as satisfactory. (However, the World Bank Staff Association and the Bank's Poverty Group
evaluated the project and its preparation in 1997 and included the project among the model projects in the
fight against poverty.) The Government policies were conducive, allowing the private sector to get heavily
involved in project implementation and even to use public-sector funds to attain the objectives that the
Government found important. The project was complex, but its complexity could not be avoided in a
poverty-oriented rural development project. The project complexity was also justified because new
institutional arrangements (working with independent monitoring unit, and NGOs) were being tested
alongside new financing mechanisms and participatory approaches at the community level at a period
where centrally-planned and Government driven programs were the norm. The design of the project focused
on improving several key services or removing obstacles; both activities were important for improving food
security and access to food by the poor in areas where studies preceding the project had found food security
to be inadequate. The project linked the services with existing or potential actors in the field, that is, the
governmental bodies and nongovernmental organizations, as well as with the population itself through a
group approach. Most important, the project was preceded by a two-year pilot phase in which the main
hypotheses were tested and many of the operational procedures and selection criteria needed to implement
the project were developed.
Also, the choice of the implementing agency for the project was based on the experience gained during the
pilot phase of the project. Because of the cross-sectional nature of the project, the agencies involved--the
National Bureau for Food Security Support in the Ministry of Rural Development (ONASA), the Food and
Applied Nutrition Directorate (DANA), Regional Action and Rural Development Centers (CARDER), and
National University of Benin (UNB)--together with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) selected
according to predetermined eligibility criteria were probably the best ones to implement a project to address
the needs of the rural target population. Also, the experiences during the project period about the attempts
to link with the existing rural finance institutions proved that the selected direct financing of the
micro-projects was probably the only workable alternative.
Some delays in starting the project activities occurred, particularly in the Nutrition component and
micro-infrastructure subcomponent, mainly because NGOs did not have sufficient experience in
nutrition-related activities, and the training required took longer than expected. The largest element of the
project, income-generating micro-projects, started as projected at appraisal. To control the costs of the
- 3 -



NGOs and to ensure good recovery of the credits granted, a more detailed program for monitoring the
performnance of NGOs would have been necessary (see Sections 7.6 and 8).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. All project targets set at appraisal were
essentially met or even exceeded. As at appraisal, no project-specific Economic Rate of Return (ERI() was
calculated for the project, but nearly all calculations on such project investments that lend themselves to
financial analysis indicate strongly profitable results to beneficiaries (see Section 4.4), thus alleviating
poverty among the project target groups, a major goal for the project. Several other development im -acts
can also be recorded, including institution and capacity building. Implementation capacity at the national
level was much strengthened in the different project agencies, at the regional level in the branches of ihe
project agencies, and at the local level in the 17 implementing NGOs (out of the originally selected 25-see
Section 7.6), and, most encouragingly, among over 1,300 village and farmer groups, consisting of tens
thousands of smallholder farmers and their spouses, which benefited from the project and implemented their
small subprojects.
Although the monitoring and evaluation unit of the project did not perform as expected and led to calls for
improvement throughout the project life (see Section 8 "Lessons Learned"), separate studies found that
food security has improved for the vulnerable groups in the selected project areas, and that the nutrition
level and quality have improved among the children and lactating or expecting mothers. It is particularly
noteworthy that more than 60 percent of the beneficiaries in the project operations were women.
In the course of project implementation, the Govermnent's food security planning, monitoring and
evaluation capacity have improved through an introduction of expanded monitoring of markets in the
different regions and with the help of specially targeted studies, and allowing better identification of :he
vulnerable populations and areas at risk.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The Micro-projects Component is rated as satisfactory. The community-based strategy that used NGOs
as implementing agencies facilitated responding to the needs of vulnerable rural population in targete,l
areas. With the help of NGOs, some 1,300 local communities and groups, successfully prepared mo -e than
1,500 revenue-generating micro-projects, against the target of 1,330 micro-projects (15 percent more than
projected at appraisal). Typical among these were investments in activities such as crop production,
vegetable growing, cattle rearing, fish ponds, processing of produce, and small-scale trading. Most of the
micro-projects have proved to be profitable, so that the communities and groups have been able to re vay 84
percent of the loans advanced to them for their investments (which required 10 to 20 percent contribution
by members). The rest of the money, 16 percent, has been recovered from the respective NGOs as per the
contracts signed by them. Repayment of these loans was a constant concern for IDA supervision missions
and for the Project Monitoring and Management Unit (MMU). The recovered credits were used by the
MMU to pay for the NGOs services during the last two years of the project. Supervision missions did not
object to the use these recovered credits to fund the consolidation efforts undertaken by the project at the
community level and ensure a minimum NGO presence during the last two years.
Many NGOs at the local level failed to comply with the administrative procedures agreed upon under the
project and some NGOs had poor recovery rate of loans. These problems were tackled with determination
through Bank advice and Government action (see Section 7.7), and did not affect the final outcome of this
-4 -



component.
The outputs were not as high for the socioeconomic and small infrastructure subprojects in the villages.
There was a delay of two to three years in getting the expected outputs from these subcomponents,
especially in the small infrastructures (see Section 8 point (h)). IDA supervision missions attributed the
delay to, altematively, the fact that the poorest communities had difficulty in mobilizing their share of the
financing, or to the administrative procedures of the project, but once the promotion effort was increased,
the final output was in line with the original targets. Altogether, 348 socioeconomic subprojects (including
establishment of small rural stores for produce, land development for vegetable gardens, community fish
ponds, seminars for village population, and facilities for local processing) were completed. The appraisal
estimate was about 600, but apparently somewhat smaller investments in financial terms had been
envisaged than actually occured. Similarly, 175 small infrastructures (including feeder roads, "ouvrages d'
art", and markets, village wells, and livestock watering points) were constructed, compared with the
original target of 169.
Altogether, 1,288 groups in 432 villages benefited from the project's Micro-project and Nutrition
components. No number of benefiting groups was estimated at appraisal, but the villages to be involved
were indicated as 400. Out of the benefiting groups, 648 were composed entirely of women, whereas
"mixed" groups numbered 306. No targets had been set for women groups at appraisal.
The Community Nutrition Component was rated as satisfactory. Perhaps more so than the
Micro-project component, the Nutrition component suffered from an inadequacy of expertise and field
experience among the NGOs selected for the project. However, an extensive training program for both the
administrative personnel and field workers working on the component, financed under the project, largely
remedied the shortcomings. The suspension of ineffective NGOs was recommended by the Bank
implementation review missions and enacted by the project monitoring unit (see Sections 7. 6 and 8).
Seven of the NGOs were readmitted after they had met the quality-improvement targets set by the
Government. Although the component had a slow start and there were substantial delays in providing the
necessary material and transport to the village units, the arrangements for training and readmission of
some of the NGOs ensured that the final outputs exceeded or were close to the targets set at appraisal or
when the logical framework was prepared in 1997.
Village Nutrition Committees were established in 432 villages. They employed 451 community nutrition
workers (CNWs), compared with the 400 estimated at appraisal. About 250 villages now have elementary
pharmacies, supplied with the basic necessities financed under the project. Although their functioning is
uneven, many of them have started to build up their own funding to ensure continued operation after the
project is finished. The targets set for the number of children (40,000) and pregnant or lactating mothers
(20,000) to be helped and monitored systematically were not quite reached, but the figures reached--36,500
children and more than 13,000 mothers--are respectable, especially considering that other children and
mothers also gained partial benefits through the programs relating to hygiene improvement, popularization
of iodine-containing salts, and use of the village pharmacies. Separate studies indicated that occurrence of
malnutrition in the target areas reduced to 14 percent (SAR target was 21 percent), and overall reduction of
malnutrition was 57 percent (SAR target was 31 percent).
As originally planned, the nutrition and income-generating activities were expected to support each other,
and the NGOs involved were expected to include both types of subprojects in their portfolio. That the
strategy was apparently successful can be illustrated by a beneficiary statement to the mid-term review
mission: "Earlier we could have only one meal a day, but now we can have two or even three good meals
every day". Another statement said: "Before the project started, we had plenty of new children's graves in
- 5 -



our graveyards; now we no more have them."
Institution Building, Management, and Monitoring under the project were satisfactory, although there
were substantial differences among the different elements of this component. The planned studies , ere slow
to get under way, but were eventually carried out. ONASA also set up a price-information system that
helped income-generating subprojects become viable, but it was unable to establish the planned
geographical information system that would have allowed to track constantly the nutrition levels and
various demographic aspects of the rural population. Under the project, DANA's mandate was redefined
and it was reorganized in line with restructuring programs carried out in the Ministry of Rural
Development. It had a substantial role in organizing nutrition training and in streamlining the activities and
roles of different interventions in the food-security subsector. Substantial capacity building took place
among the eligible NGO group (see Section 8).
The performance of the Management and Monitoring Unit (MMI) has been uneven. The overall
satisfactory performance rating in different components must be partially credited to the management of
MMU, as well as the generally satisfactory, if slow procurement, accounting, audits, and other
administration activities. Shortcomings in monitoring of NGOs and their credit operations and in
processing the contracts with NGOs are described under Sections 5.1 and 7.6. Slow and inadequate
processing of the anthropometric data (referring to measurements of weight, height, and age of children,
indicating the normal or abnormal growth of children, and even famines that occurred recently or for a
longer period) was a point of constant complaints by the supervision missions.
The Project Preparation (Pilot Phase) Component was satisfactory. The pilot phase had not been
entirely completed when the project was appraised, but at the start of the project, all funds for the pilot
phase had been expended and information gained from the pilot phase allowed PILSA to be started more
effectively than would otherwise have been the case. The lessons from the pilot phase and from PILSA
confirmed that a community-based approach is valid for addressing the problems of vulnerable rural
people.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was designed primarily to address problems caused by food insecurity, poverty, malnutrition,
gender inequalities, and the need for capacity building and institutional improvements. Although m;my of
the interventions were through revenue-creating micro-projects, others were not, and as a whole the project
did not lend itself to a reliable economic analysis at appraisal. Correspondingly, no economic anatx sis was
attempted at the completion of the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No overall financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal or for the ICR. However, numerous typical
investments for micro-projects were projected at appraisal and calculated again at the completion oi the
project. All the original computations, covering subprojects from one-hectare bottom-land development to
cassava processing plants, fish ponds, and feeding of small ruminants (Annex 5 of SAR), showed positive
financial rates of return (FRR), ranging from 20 percent to more than 50 percent. At the completion of the
project, no FFRs were computed because most investments were of short duration, but the MMU made an
effort to evaluate the financial viability of the income-generating subprojects by asking the NGOs to
prepare cash flow analyses on representative subprojects. The actual annual results of selected
microprojects showed substantial benefits for the participants, the profits ranging from 9 percent to 52
percent over the investments (Annex 3). (Computations of the subprojects in Annex 3 and of other
subprojects are retained in the Project Files.)
-6-



4.5 Institutional development impact:
As mentioned in Section 4.2, ONASA and DANA benefited from the project by developing their
organization and capacities to plan and monitor the food security situation in the country regularly.
However, the main benefit of the project to institutions can be seen in the villages and those agencies that
directly helped implement the field activities. Village Nutrition Committees, community nutrition agents,
and village pharmacies are now permanent features in the target areas, ensuring continuity of attention in
the primary health sector. Substantial capacity building at the local level has also taken place under the
project. More than 23,000 persons have been trained, in some 1,150 sessions, to deal with the prevention
of illness and malnutrition and in other health issues, in addition to teaching them the basic literacy and
numeracy skills. More than 1,300 farmer groups have become familiar with the procedures needed to
borrow and repay funds and implement small projects, so much so that many of them have done it more
often than once. Some 85 staff of NGOs have participated in 316 sessions of training, and learned to do
their jobs more professionally. Investments in these activities can be considered a long-term investment in
institution building and human resource development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation was temporarily impeded by the following negative factors:
(a) Some "opportunistic" or inexperienced NGOs did not perform the functions they had agreed to in an
accountable manner and had to be suspended from the project work and financing (seven of them were later
reinstated -- see Section 5.2);
(b) A very severe outbreak of swine fever in 1995 forced practically all farmers raising pigs to forfeit
repayment of the credits that they had taken;
(c) Lack of interest or ability among the rural finance institutions made it impossible to link the lending
operations with them, especially in remote areas. Such a linking was indicated in SAR, and proposed by
supervision missions, but no detailed plans were made to effect it.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project benefited from the Government's sector strategy and policies on rural development and
improvement of food security in general. It was laudable that the Government had agreed -- although it
was not specifically expressed as a policy -- that the project would be implemented in the field essentially
with the help of the private sector (NGOs) and that Government funds (borrowed from IDA or received as
grants from co-financiers) could be used for financing their operations. Also, the Government was ready to
accept the recommendations made by implementation support missions for corrective measures when the
things did not go right.
Factors that impeded project implementation included the following:
(a) Out of the 25 NGOs originally selected to be the main local implementation partners, 15 had to be
suspended in 1997 because of their poor administrative procedures, lack of professional skills or results,
and inability to monitor their output (seven of them were readmitted once they had corrected their
shortcomings (see Section 8). In general, the audits of all NGOs were timely and revealed no major
problems;
(b) Although the operating and overhead costs can be expected to be relatively high by the nature of the
project (small loans, dealing with poverty, gender, and food security issues), the Borrower was late in
-7 -



noticing that the costs of the NGOs in relation to their output were very high and that more than one half of
the credit funds went to the NGO' own expenses (see Section 8). The costs of foreign NGOs are
sometimes higher than those of the local ones, but they cannot be ignored in the selection process because
they often have more relevant experience and are the only ones that are prepared to go to the most remote
areas;
(c) The annual agreements with the implementing NGOs were chronically late in being signed, making it
uncertain that they could carry on their scheduled workload (see point 5.3, (c) below);
(d) Release of counterpart funds was delayed during the early years of the project; but the situation was
better during the last years of the project;
(e) The Project Coordination Committee was supposed to meet twice a year, but in practice the meetings
took place only annually. Even then, the Committee could not provide guidance on some key issues, such
as the need to reduce the high operating costs of the NGOs, because of the vested interests being
represented in the Committee.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation was adversely affected by the following factors relating to the Project Management
and Monitoring Unit and the NGOs that participated in the program:
(a) Government supervisory bodies had inadequate support or early warning about the tasks or problems
they should have attended to (points (b), (c), and (e) above);
(b) There was too much confidence in NGOs' willingness and ability to do the work that they had agreed
to do and the MMU lacked adequate monitoring of the NGOs in the early stages to reveal the shortcomings
(aggressive corrective measures were started, however, in 1997);
(c) The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit had inadequate manpower, systems, and capabilities; as a r esult,
not only the follow-up of the NGOs was inadequate, but processing and interpretation of the collected
socioeconomic and implementation data were late or inadequate;
(d) The linkage between the financial recording and procurement decisions at the MMU was inadequate at
the end, allowing for an over-commitment of project funds;
(e) Many NGOs had poor administrative procedures that caused them to lose, for instance, control over the
costs of their operations. Also, their inability to deliver the necessary financial documents in time delayed
signing of annual agreements with the Government;
(f) Some NGOs had insufficient understanding or appreciation of the ways to find out the real needs of the
local population, resulting in oversized or only partially used structures and facilities; and
(g) Some NGOs were unable or unwilling to monitor and recover the credits given to local groups. (As
could have been expected, NGOs that had previous experience in credit operations succeeded much better
in this respect than those without).
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the project costs were estimated at US$19.9 million. Of this arnount, IDA credit was to be
US$9.7 million, co-financiers' (DANIDA, WFP) contribution US$5.6 million, Government contribution
-8 -



US$0.6 million, while the NGOs and beneficiaries would pay US$3.2 million. At completion, the exact
contribution by the NGOs and beneficiaries could not be estimated, but IDA credit was fully disbursed; it
amounted to US$9.9 million as a result of a change in the SDR exchange rate. DANIDA's contribution
was essentially exhausted already two years before the end of the project, and the Government contributed
FCFA 218 million (about US$0.3 million). The World Bank's disbursement record indicates that the
amounts withdrawn for the different components were within the limits reserved for them.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability of the project is uncertain because of the numerous risk factors still existing and
because the project activities cannot be expanded without a new project. There are positive factors as for
sustainability, however. The basic premises for rural development, including those for the food-insecure
groups and areas, are good: the Government is systematically following the market-oriented policies put in
place nearly a decade ago. These policies have removed most of the disincentives to increasing agricultural
production, and emphasized greater transparency, accountability, and private-sector involvement in
development of the rural sector.
Already in 1993, the Appraisal Review Meeting proposed that the sustainability of the project be assessed
at three levels: (a) micro-project sustainability at the community level, (b) transfer of responsibility and
capacity building, and (c) expansion and continuation of new activities beyond the project life.
The sustainability of micro-projects at the community level, (point (a)) will depend on how profitable they
are for the groups and on the extent to which the members feel ownership of these assets that they now have
at their disposal. The financial viability of the income-generating micro-projects has been evaluated as
being from satisfactory to good, and their continued success depends on the maintenance and financial
administration of the facilities created. MMU and participating NGOs have emphasized the importance of
financial viability during the last two project years, as well as the maintenance of the assets and
contributions needed for the socioeconomic and infrastructure micro-projects. The groups should also feel
a strong sense of ownership, because in most cases they participated in selecting and planning of these
investments, and in all cases contributed to their implementation. The main risk of sustainability is for the
small infrastructures that yield no concrete and immediate benefit for the users. This risk had been
alleviated by establishing user associations to look after the completed micro-projects and by training local
people in simple techniques of maintenance and accounting.
The sustainability of the nutrition components and the structures and facilities developed under it is much
less certain. If the Government were able to provide the necessary funds for the activities needed by the
Village Nutrition Councils, community nutrition workers, and the small pharmacies in the villages, their
continued operations would be secure, but in Benin, this is not the case. Three factors favor sustainability
in the present situation: (a) because the people appreciate the work of the local nutrition workers and the
value of village pharmacies and because the pharmacies have begun to charge for the medication and
nutrient supplements they provide, the village pharmacies are on their way to self-sufficiency; (b) because
the NGOs and foreign development agencies also appreciate that activity, they might provide more funds to
continue the programs; and (c) completely new programs are underway that will probably use the same
agencies and facilities, in particular the proposed AIDS Program under preparation.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The manuals, procedures, practices, eligibility criteria, and monitoring systems provide an excellent basis
to expand the type of operations that the project supports to new areas and population groups. The MMU
-9-



and nearly 20 local NGOs are now very familiar with the program, especially the financial and procedural
requirements that it places on them in the field. Already at mid-term, the IDA missions proposed that the
Govermment of Benin consider deepening and expanding the program to other areas. The Govemment has
taken gradual steps to ensure that the program is expanded and indeed, improved. Although the
Government failed to start the preparation work for a follow-up project in time, it requested the Wo Id
Bank to include a new project in the pipeline, organized workshops to evaluate the present project to find
out what could be improved in the next phase, and asked DANIDA to finance an interim phase, that is,
before a new IDA project will be prepared and appraised. As DANIDA was unable to entertain the
request, the Government has asked the World Bank to finance a PPF for the preparation of a follow-on
project. The Bank is in the process of reviewing its approach to supporting community-based operations
and would decide soon on how a possible follow-on operation will fit into this.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification is rated as satisfactory. The project took into
consideration the Government's priorities, as well as the Bank's strategy to support Benin's development
efforts. The project was designed in accordance with a pilot program that had been running for two years
and, although not fully completed, it provided adequate advice and knowledge to plan a larger project.
During the preparation phase, extensive workshops and consultations were held with all the potential
stakeholders, and the lessons from these were taken into account. Even then, the planners were careful not
to rush into a large-scale commitment or to make the project more complex than absolutely necessaxy,
partly because of fears that adequate implementation capacity would not be available. They chose ta
concentrate on operations in a few selected areas and on key activities.
The appraisal was carried out with adequate representation of all the potential co-financiers and skill mix
except for a rural finance specialist (the pilot project had not reached the phase of repayment of loans).
This shortcoming later caused problems in credit allocations and especially in loan recoveries, and no
attempt was made to start savings schemes during the project (IDA supervision missions later suggested
such schemes).
During the pilot phase a set of selection criteria were developed for the NGO needed to help implement the
program at the local level, and 25 NGOs were selected before the project started. It tumed out, however,
that these criteria were insufficient for larger operations, and they had to be strengthened later in the project
life (see Section 8). Also, project implementation and evaluation would have benefited from more specific
and impact-oriented monitoring indicators, but it should be noted that the Bank's requirement for detailed
logical frameworks had not been issued at the time of the appraisal of this project.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of PILSA is rated as satisfactory. The Bank carried out one or two supervision mission s
(implementation support missions) per year; this number was adequate, considering that advice and support
were available from an agricultural economist posted at the Bank's Country Office in Benin. Moreover,
the decentralization of the task management responsibilities to the Country Office in 1998 facilitated close
monitoring of and support to the project, including regular visits to the field, all of which was much
appreciated by the Borrower.
The reports of the supervision missions reflected their thorough work, and the aide-memoires provid,d
detailed advice to correct key shortcomings. The mid-term report in 1998, and already the supervision
report that preceded it in 1997, called attention to the adjustments necessary in the project for its success:
- 10 -



the project had to remove (suspend) the NGOs that were inefficient or otherwise failing from the local
implementation agencies; it had to enlarge the MMU to make it able to oversee and monitor the project
operations; and it had to reverse the converted pyrarnid of financing by transferring a larger part of funds
from the NGOs' internal financing to final beneficiaries. The Bank was also adequately flexible; it was
willing to make other minor modifications needed in the project.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The project was innovative, carefully identified and
prepared, and it met the Government's and Bank's policy objectives. During the supervision phase, the
Bank suggested or approved the modifications necessary to advance the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance in project preparation is rated as satisfactory. Aside from having carried
out studies on poverty and food security issues, the Government had had no earlier experience with similar
projects; hence it applied for and obtained financial assistance from DANIDA and IDA for a pilot phase of
the project, took an advance (Project Preparation Facility) from IDA, and recruited the FAO's Cooperative
Program to prepare the project. The Government also took responsibility, in collaboration with the Bank
staff, for organizing workshops for the potential stakeholders before the appraisal by the Bank to work out
the practical principles and procedures to be applied for project implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory in view of the project outcome and
outputs, although there were shortcomings in several operational aspects. The Government eventually
complied with all the project covenants, but the project effectiveness was delayed by nine months, largely
because of a delay in ratifying the Credit Agreement by the Parliament. The main problems during project
implementation were delays in signing the necessary annual contracts with the participating NGOs and
other partners (partly due to their own delays in submitting the necessary financial documents), failure to
organize meetings of the Coordination Committee as often as agreed, and late release of counterpart funds.
The delays in annual contracts could have been replaced by bi-annual or multi-annual contracts with NGOs
that had completed their first annual contract satisfactorily. As the Government's commitment for
providing counterpart funds was small (US$0.6 million), delays in its annual release did not greatly affect
project implementation. The Government's firm action in suspending the noncomplying NGOs (although
somewhat late, after the supervision missions had pointed out the problems), and then readmitting those
that had corrected their shortcomings, helped achieve the project objectives.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agencies--MMU, ONASA, DANA, and NGOs--is rated as
satisfactory. ONASA and DANA finally carried out their functions as required, but during the first two
years there were substantial delays (e.g., recruitment of staff, starting the nutrient and iodine deficiency
treatment and procuring bicycles for CNWs). In some cases these delays reflected the MMU's delays in
signing the annual contracts. MMU carried out its administrative functions well or satisfactorily (contacts
with the financing agencies and Government bodies, procurement, disbursement, accounting, and audits),
but fell short in monitoring the NGOs and processing the evaluation data on the socioeconomic aspects of
the project. MMU could also have been more proactive in identifying the problems before they were
pointed out by the Bank's supervision missions, but MMU took the necessary actions once the management
understood the direction to be followed (including dealing with the failing NGOs, restructuring the program
costs before mid-term, gradually improving its monitoring operations, and facilitating incremental training
to stakeholders in the field).
- 11 -



Although some of the NGOs performed poorly or were motivated by opportunism, NGO performarce, on
balance, has to be rated as satisfactory because of the outputs they delivered. Some NGOs did excellent
work, not only in helping complete more subprojects and helping install more CNWs than originall'¶'
planned, but also in recovering the credits at 100 percent or near it. They also trained village groups and
CNWs substantially more than was originally planned. However, they were not able to contribute lo the
project planned financing and their costs were high in relation to outputs, especially in the beginning. More
than one-half of the NGOs had to be suspended at least for a while because of their unacceptable
performance. It is to the credit of the better NGOs that the field targets of the project were attained.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In view of the objectives reached and the substantial impact estimated (to be confirmed after a couple of
years), the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The major lessons that have emerged from the implementation of PILSA are as follows:
(a) It is necessary to start new types of programs as pilot projects in order to learn about the problems that
will be encountered and to develop the principles, procedures, and initial implementation capacity for larger
interventions. However, a pilot project will not give all the lessons needed, and the design of the first
follow-on project must be flexible enough to allow for corrective actions;
(b) Projects aiming at improving food security and nutrition have rarely succeeded or produced lasting
results, usually because they have addressed only one or two problem factors at a time. Linking of the
nutrition and micro-project components and a community approach was essential for the success of this
project;
(c) Implementation of food security and other programs using micro-projects can be trusted to local
NGOs, but it is possible only if the Government has a positive attitude toward NGOs and allows that
borrowed funds can be disbursed for their programs. PILSA was the first project in Benin using such an
approach and it was used as an example for several other projects in Benin. Annual contracts with NGOs
are needed in the beginning, but for effective implementation the annual contracts should be replace,i by
bi-annual or multi-annual contracts with those NGOs that have completed their first annual contracts
satisfactorily;
(d) Strict selection criteria need to be applied when admitting NGOs into the program. Moreover, although
the "genuine" NGOs may have the necessary competence, the expansion necessary to carry out a new
program means that much new training is needed not only for the new staff but also for the original staff;
(e) Early and firm action must be taken in the case of NGOs that are failing or are misusing the financing
opportunities. They need to be suspended and given clear information about how to improve their
performance if they wish to be readmitted into the program;
(f) The accounting system and the payment and disbursement mechanisrns for agencies implementing the
field operations must be developed in advance and taught to all participating agencies. Decentralization of
decision-making on micro-project selection and implementation of the micro-projects by local groups are
necessary, but the operational, procurement, and disbursement procedures must be simplified early in the
project cycle (the Africa Region handbook Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement
- 12 -



Procedures in Community-level Projects should be used in these types of project. The handbook was not
available when PILSA was prepared and appraised);
(g) The use of NGOs is not necessarily cheaper than the use of Government agencies, but it usually yields
faster results and thus is more cost-effective. However, the costs of NGOs must be controlled, or most of
the funds for the program will go for their expenses rather than for the fnal beneficiaries. Cost ratios for
administrative costs and funds to be used for the ultimate beneficiaries need to be established, and if they
are reasonable, the NGOs will stay within them. Cost limits and a ratio for NGO costs and credits for
micro-projects were established in Benin, although somewhat belatedly. One caution: Expressing these
ratios as a direct percentage of the credit amounts may easily lead to oversize micro-projects and loans;
(h) Accelerating implementation quickly requires a relatively strong coordination unit that needs to be
expanded as the number of implementation agencies and field operations increases. Good communications
and computerization of the monitoring system help, but they will not fully eliminate the need to recruit more
staff to provide guidance and training to new entrants (NGOs, micro-projects, villages within the nutrition
component), to process the evaluation data (to learn more about socioeconomic aspects relating to the rural
communities and about the impact of project interventions), and to prepare generic informiation for all
field-level implementation agencies to use;
(i) Different components seem to attract different levels of interest among the population and the NGOs
helping implement the programs. In the case of Benin, the income-generating micro-projects were initially
very popular, whereas the socioeconomic, nutrition, and small infrastructure attracted much less interest.
(Poor people, especially women, proved to be very eager to increase their income immediately, and only
later to consider the "common goods") A special promotion effort was needed to get the latter types of
micro-projects "moving." Also, the strong response by women was not anticipated at appraisal. A social
assessment study at that time would probably have revealed the capacity and interest among women;
(j) Local contributions may be difficult to collect at the same rate in all areas and the project planners
should be flexible in this respect and perhaps in some cases accept only payments in kind as contributions.
The poorest areas in the project were unable to participate effectively until the local contribution percentage
was lowered for them. Such lowering may be justified already on economic grounds: the financial viability
in more remote and drier areas is less good than in more fertile areas near the market centers. It is
important to start savings schemes early for two purposes: to save for the contribution needed in the
micro-projects, and to learn the techniques needed for regular individual savings. Both of these should be
linked to the local credit and savings institutions when available. Although they may not be interested in
very poor customers, these institutions would agree to train groups of poor people and maintain their
savings accounts;
(k) Delays in administrative processes reduce the effectiveness of the program. With the project, the
annual contracts with the participating NGOs were signed several months after the beginning of the year
and the annual credits for micro-projects were so late that the micro-projects could not be implemented
during the year. (For other valuable observations, see the aide-memoire of the ICR mission carried out in
October 2000.)
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Community-Based Food Security Project (PILSA) has opened a new approach to tackling nutrition
problems by using the mechanism of field-level community development. The project has served as a
- 13 -



"laboratory" at several levels and on new approaches. The results warrant being followed up, especially when
promoting development of poor people in risk-prone areas or in areas where malnutrition and poverty are
linked. In these areas the solution for reducing the effect of these problems apparently lies in targeting the
activities to the poorest people and in using a combination of education and supporting actions (as was done
under PILSA), as well as in linking nutrition-improvement and income generating activities under the same
project.
Preparation and updating the food security and nutrition map by ONASA, financed by the project, has revealed
new districts, not covered by PILSA, that are in grave risk of malnutrition. It would be desirable to follow up
these findings through local interventions, taking into account the positive and negative lessons learned under
PILSA.
Based on the experiences gained when implementing PILSA, the recommendations for the parties involved are
as follow:
(a) Stakeholders in Benin should:
- Deepen the understanding of the role of NGOs in the process of development based on decentralized
activities;
- Define a framework for the collaboration between NGOs and public sector organizations or units in their
work for socioeconomic development at the community level;
- Develop a framework for exchanging views and lessons between different projects and programs that
aim to facilitate community-level development, in order to achieve common understanding and finding
practical solutions for field problems;
- Deepen the thinking and understanding of the potential contribution that the population can mdce in
planning and implementing microprojects; and
- Review the composition, functions, and working mechanism of the Coordination Committee, to make it
work more effectively than in the past in making decisions on project issues.
(b) The World Bank and other external financiers should:
- Review the terms, and conditions, and procedures of different co-financiers in order to harmonize them;
- Ensure that only one or two Task Managers will supervise the implementation of the project, thus
perrnitting support that is consistent and effective throughout the project life;
- Ensure that the consultants who participate in the implementation support missions will be sufficiently
informed about the details of the project, or at least about the activities where they are supposed to advise,
in order to help them provide relevant advice;
- Avoid making suggestions in the course of project implementation for changing the orientation of the
project on the basis of some similar projects working in different conditions; and
- Perceive the modifications needed in the organization and procedures to allow rapid readjustments in the
management and administration of the project at an earlier time than in the past.
- 14 -



(c) All the concerned parties should:
- Envisage the follow-on operation much more as a program than a project, thus ensuring reaching
permanent results;
- Indicate early the names of the public agencies that would participate in the project and the implications
of the new program for them; and
- Organize an operational audit of the PILSA Management and Monitoring Unit and participating NGOs
on the strengths and shortcomings to assure effective implementation of the follow-on program."
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments by DANIDA:
DANIDA, IDA's main cofmancing partner, ended its funding of the project in July 2000. DANIDA, which
had financed income-generating microprojects and paid part of the costs of the pilot project, was quite
satisfied with the progress of the project and was prepared to consider financing an interim phase between
PILSA and a follow-on project, but the government's request came too late and was inadequate. DANIDA
has already transferred the funds that might have been available to a similar project--the private sector
Marking Project in Benin.
Although DANIDA's funds are tied up for the next two years, DANIDA continues to support
private-sector development in rural areas while it reconsiders its role in rural development. In monitoring
PILSA and similar projects, DANIDA had made several observations like those summarized in this report
under "Lessons Learned". In particular, DANIDA believes that NGOs (or consulting companies, as
DANIDA views most NGOs to be) can play an imnportant role when projects like PILSA are getting started
but that villagers should gradually gain practical experience and the knowledge they need to continue their
local development efforts-especially income generating microprojects without external, and often costly,
technical advice.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The NGOs that were involved in implementing the project welcome the opportunity to contribute to the
evaluation of the project's performance. The observations by the NGOs cover the objectives and impact of the
project on the beneficiaries, NGOs, and the Government.
Beneficiaries. The project has achieved its objectives by contributing to:
- Strengthening of the beneficiaries' capacity to access resources for and manage small projects with the help
of additional training and advice which the project has facilitated;
- Reduction of food insecurity in the benefitting villages through improved preservation techniques and storage
of agricultural produce, construction of stores, and establishment of food banks, for instance;
- Increasing the income of the benefiting population (for both indirect and direct beneficiaries);
- Increasing the quantity and improving the quality of agricultural production and processing through
facilitating acquisition of appropriate technologies and machinery for rural population and construction of
processing facilities by them;
- Facilitating access to agricultural credit by linking villagers with local savings and credit cooperatives;
- 15 -



- Ending the isolation of numerous production zones from the markets and facilitating more selling of produce
through improved local roads and transport, thus reducing the losses caused by the previous hindrances to
marketing;
- Improving access to good drinking water by the drilling of wells, and thus reducing water-based diseases;
- Reducing malnutrition and mortality among the 0 to 5 year old children in the benefiting communities by
better monitoring of children, advising on nutrition, and treating children suffering from malnutrition;
- Reducing mortality of birth-giving mothers through regular monitoring and education of pregnant women;
- Improving substantially the incomes of mothers with children from 0 to 5 years of age in the benefiting
villages by providing incentive money to allow them to give children more varied food items and nubients;
- Reducing common diseases in the benefiting villages by providing essential generic medicines at low cost;
- Providing easy access for women to micro-credits intended to promote revenue-generating activities through
creation and good management of small, self-managed community funds with the help of incentive money.
Although the project-generated results for beneficiaries are satisfactory, the problems of poverty and food
insecurity have not been totally resolved in the communities involved. Furthermore, these problems are worse
in communities that did not fall under the project's purview. The realized impact of this project has encouraged
the project authorities to solicit assistance to resolve these problems also elsewhere besides the areas where the
project was active.
However, if consolidation of the achieved benefits will not take place in the project communities soon, there is
a danger that that the situation will again deteriorate.
Non-Government Organizations. The project has permitted the involved NGOs to strengthen their
implementation capacity and modify their intervention approaches. In fact, PILSA was the first project in
Benin under which the external development agencies have shown so much confidence in NGOs that they have
delegated to them the implementation of activities financed by public funds. Thereafter, several other projects
have drawn experience from PILSA to do the same.
Government. PILSA has contributed toward resolving two problems with which the Govermment striggles,
viz.:
- Unemployment, by providing opportunities to work and gain experience for university graduates, temporary
staff, and others; and
- Chronic shortage of competent field agents needed in rural development projects, through recruitment and
training of animators and supervisors, especially for the areas where there has been a void in NGO
interventions.
The outcomes of PILSA activities are too important to be left without a follow-up. They deserve to be
consolidated and made sustainable, and then be extended to areas not yet covered by PILSA. The experiences
gained should be shared broadly and benefited from in the fight against poverty that is still prevailing in the
majority of rural communities in Benin.
- 16 -



10. Additional Information
None
- 17-






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Imeact Indicators:
Development Objectives:
Improvement of the food security situation for Occurrence of food insecurity to be reduced Food insecurity prevalence was reduced by
the most vulnerable population groups  to 21 percent of the population in the  21 % in project areas
through introduction of income generating   selcted areas
project and small infrastructures
The necessary income increase to be  The microprojects, profit over investment
estimated                            substanbial (see annex 3)
Reduction of overall malnutrition rates in
project areas with a focus on children under
five years and on pregnant and lactating
women by:
- training and installation of community  Training to be provided to 400 CNWs and   451 CNWs trained
nutrition workers                  they be installed
- health and growth surveillance
- income generation through micro-projects  40,000 children to be followed up  36,572 children followed up
1,330 income generating subproject to be    1,539 income-generating sub projects
generated                            implemented
139 socio-economic and infrastructure  175 infrastructure sub projects Implemented
subprojects to be generated
Increase of NGOs' capacity to deliver
services to vulnerable groups        Provision of adequate training to improve    26 NGOs trained initially;
NGOs':                               15 of them demonstrated that they had
-   identification and design        adequate implementation capacity; of the 16
-   implementation of micro-projects  suspended, 7 were reaccepted after
-   financial management             complying
(The number of targeted NGOs was not
presented at appraisal or mid-term)
Strengthening the Govemment's capacity of Carrying out essential studies; ONASA to set Essential studies completed; ONASA has
food security planning, monitoring, and  up a price information system; DANA's    set-up a general price informabon system,
evaluation                           mandate to be redefined and DANA to be    and did not succeed to regionalize it; DANAs
reorganized                          new role has been consolidated.
- 18-



Output Indicators:
Micro-projects:
-       benefiting villages (number)  Not estimated                          462
Beneficiary groups (number):          300                                    1,288
-       Female groups                 Not estimated                          648
-       Male groups                   Not estimated                          331
-       "Mixed" groups                Not estimated                          306
-       Individuals                   Not estimated                          10
Individual beneficiaries:             32,500                                 34,515
-       Women                         Not estimated                          21,100
-       Men                           Not estimated                          13,415
Different types of micro-projects:
-       Income-generating (units)     1,330                                  1,564
-       Socio-economic (units)        705                                    348
-       Micro-infrastructures (units)  139 3/                                175
Community Nutrition Component:
Benefiting villages (number)          400                                    432
Community Nutrition Agents (number)   400                                    451
Children to be followed (number)      40,000                                 36,512
Children treated/healed               17,450                                 13,169
Occurrence of malnutrition in involved
villages (percent)                    21                                     14
Reduction rate of malnutrition (total
percentage)                           31                                     57
Lactating/pregnant women followed
(number)                              20,000                                 13,500
Household examined for iodine insufficiency
(number)                              Not estimated                          12,898
Households using iodine containing saKt  Not estimated                       12,031
(number)
Institution building, management and
monitoring:
Number of NGOs involved               Not estimated                          26        2/
Number of annual contract with NGOs   50                                     88
End of project
1/ In SAR or Logical Framework.
2/ Nine of these were suspended and not reinstated before the end of the project.
3/ Plus 242 km of feeder road subprojects (they represented in practice 24 subprojects) .
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost b Com onent in US$ million  uivalent)
Revenue earning and non-revenue eamlig                  7.30            8.39          119.9
Commtinity Nutrition Component                          2.60            1.80           69.2
Institution building, management and monitoring         3.80            3.69           97.1
Project preparation (Pilot project)                     1.50            1.12           74.7
1 otal Baseline Cost                                   15.20           15.00
Physical Contingencies                                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                    0.00
Total Project Costs              15.20            15.00
Total Financing Required               15.20           15.00
Project Costs by Procurem nt Arran ements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million eq uvalent
11. Works                     0.00           0.70          1.60          0.00         2.30
~~~~~(0.00)              (0.60)        (1.20)        (0.00)       (1.80)
2. Goods                       0.60     |    1.00          1.10    |     0.00         2.70
(0.60)        (1.00)        (1.10)        (0.00)       (2.70)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          2.00          1.90         3.90
NGOs services I               (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.00)        (0.00)       (2.00)
Consultants
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          1.00          4.90         5.90
Micro-projects Nutrition      (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          2.70          0.90         3.60
MMU, PPT refund              (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.20)        (0.00)        (2.20)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.70         0.70
Food (WFP)                    (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       0.60          1.70          8.40          8.40         19.10
<________________      | (0.60)        (1.60)       (7.50)        (0.00)        (9.70)
- 20 -



Proect Costs b Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                           0.00            0.06            1.12           0.18            1.36
(0.00)          (0.06)         (1.12)          (0.00)          (1.18)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.58            0.61           0.04            1.23
(0.00)          (0.58)         (0.61)          (0.00)          (I.1I9)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00            2.37           0.04            2.41
NGOs services /                   (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.37)          (0.00)         (2.37)
Consultants
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            1.64            4.68           6.32
Micro-projects Nutrition          (0.00)          (0.00)          (1.64)          (0.00)         (1.64)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            2.83           0.25            3.08
MMU, PPT refund                  (0.00)           (0.00)         (2.83)          (0.00)         (2.83)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
Food (WFP)                        (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           0.00            0.64            8.57           5.19           14.40
(0.00)          (0.64)         (8.57)          (0.00)          (9.21)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
X Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemrnent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Civils works               1.80       0.50                  1.39       0.05                77.2   10.0
rural infrastructure
Goods                      2.70                             1.19       0.04                44.1
Equipment/vehicles
Field Operations                                 4.50                             4.48                     99.6
Micro-projects
Nutrition                  1.10                             1.80                           163.6
Consultants services,      2.00                             2.37                           118.5   40.0
training and studies
Miscellaneous              1.20       0.50                  1.76       0.20                146.7   40.0
Operating costs,
Management & Monitoring
Refunding of the PPF       1.00       0.50       0.40       0.91                  0.38      91.0    0.0    95.0
-21-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis of the project or components were carried out either at appraisal or at completion.
Financial Rates of Return (FRR) at appraisal are reported in Annex 5 of SAR.
At the completion of the project, no FFRs were computed because most investments were of short duration,
but benefit calculations are available about numerous selected income-generating microprojects. Results
show that the profit margins range from 9.8 to 52 percent. Benefit calculations are available for numerous
others activities, but information was not sufficient to fill up the following table. For instance, marketing
of fish gave about 8 to 15 percent margin over the cost of fish purchased, but the credit amounts were not
included in the calculations.
Type of micro-project    Number and type    Total investment      Profit over
investment and sub-district   of participants in  (FCFA)           investments
the group                           (Percentage)
Production of maize, Kalale  16 men            553,280            52,0
Production of sorghum,      5 men              350,070            29.4
Karimama
Production of groundnuts,   22 women           400,000            46.5
KalaIl
Small-scale trading, Karimama   5 women        200,000             11.1
Processing of groundnuts to  10 women          386,000             17.5
oil, Karimama
Processing of groundnuts to  35 women          754,800            9.2
oil, Kalale
Processing of groundnuts to  12 women          232,000             16.7
oil, KalaIl
Palm oil processing, Cove                      41,900             42.0
Production of gari and tapioka,                1,050,120           10.0
Ab-Kalavi (1)
Production of gari and tapioka,                1,097,100          32.0
Ab-Kalavi (2)
Vegetable production,       20 men             198,000            24.4
Karimama
Cereal storage, Karimama     10 women          300,000            21.0
Cereal strorage, Kalale     5 men              784,000             19.2
-22 -



Cereal and bean storage and                  289,200            9.8
marketing, Cove
Storage, Karimama           10 women         252,000            13.2
Storage and marketing of red                 513,000            17.9
oil
"Culture Attelee", Karimamna    5 men        133,350            39.2
"Culture Attelee", Kalale   17 women         202,220            36.6
Poultry production, 100 heads,               108,000            35.0
Roro
Fish pond (10 m x 20 m), Roro                175,000            34.3
- 23-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
()Missions:
Stage of Project 1:yc_             No. of Persons and Spealty              Performance Rat
I .eg 2 Eom ists, I FMS, etc.)        Implementaion     Development
MonthYear    Count       Specialty                      Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/92                        4   ML, AG, EC, MES
4/93                         1   RFS
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/93                         8   AE, FSS, CDS, EC,
EC-DANIDA, AG,
Supervision
3-4/95                       1  FSS                                 HS                S
9/95                         3  AE, FSS, EC                          S                S
6/96                         3  MCS, AE, FSS, MCS                    S                S
12/96                        4  EC, AE, FSS, MCS                    S                 S
7/97                         5  EC, AE, FSS, MCS, ASS                S                S
4/98 (mid term)              8  EC, FSS, CDS, AE, ASS, IS,           S                S
OA, WIAS-DANIDA
4/99                         5  AE, ASS, FA, DS,                     S                S
ANT-DANIDA
2/00                         6  AE, RDS, FA, DS, TTA,                S                S
EC-DANIDA
6/00                         3  EC, AE, FA                           S                S
ICR
10/00                        4   AE, RDS, FA,TTA                    S                 S
AG=Agriculturist; AE= Agricultural Economist, ANT = Anthropologist; ASS = Agricultural Services
Specialist; CDS = Community Development Specialist; CF = Co-financier representative; DS =
Disbursement Specialist; EC = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; FSS = Food Security Specialist; IS =
Implementation Specialist; MCS = Micro-credit Specialist; MES = Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist;
OA = Operations Analyst; PS =Procurement Specialist; RDS = Rural Development Specialist; TTA =
Task Team Assistant; WIAS = Gender Specialist
(b) Staff
Stwe of Project Cycle                   Actua/Latet Estimate
No. Staffwee               1US$ C00)
Identification/Preparation             20.2                      171.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                 141.5                      282.0
Supervision                           141.9                      378.3
ICR                                    10.0                       22.9
Total                                 413.6                      254.3
-24 -






Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                             O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Fl Institutional Development            0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
l Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
lI Private sector development           0 H  S SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Public sector management             0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
-25 -






Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
N Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
2 Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
M Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  OU  O HU
X Overall                                           OHS Os Ou O HU
-26 -






Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Appraisal Report of the Benin Community-based Food Security Project, World Bank 3/1994
2. Report on the Midterm Review of the Benin Community-based Food Security Project, World Bank 5/1998
3. PILSA Management and Monitoring Unit: Contribution du Gouvemement du Benin a I'Elaboration du
Rapport d'Achevement du Projet d'Interventions Locales pour la Securitd Alimentaire, Dec. 2000
4. University of Benin: Evaluation de l'impact des activites du PILSA, August 1999
5. University of Benin: Enquete alimentaire et nutritionnelle dans les zones d'intervention du PILSA, 1999
6. PNCSA (Programme National Complet de S6curite Alimentaire) Vol. 1. Rapport Principal, Oct. 93. FAO.
7. PNCSA - vol. 3 Annexes, Oct. 93 FAO.
8. PNCSA vol. 2 Rapport Principal: les Sous-programmes" Oct. 93 FAO.
9. Rapport du Programme de Cooperation FAOIBM. Centre d'Investissement No 151 e Nov. 89
10. Rapport de Preparation Vol II FAO.
11. Etudes sur la Securite Alimentaire au Benin No 18. Synthese des Etudes ONC/GTZ - Dec. 91.
12. Etudes sur la Securite Alimentaire au B6nin No 19. Impact des Politiques Agricoles du Niger, du Nigeria
et du Togo stir la Problematique de la Securit6 Alirnentaire du Benin, ONC/GTZ, Mai 92
13. Rapport de Mission de Consultation effectu6e au Benin, sur le volet Carence en lode de la Composante
Nutritionnelle du PILSA, Lome Togo, Doc. No/94.
14. Bilan A Mi-parcours d'Execution des Actions du PPSA, Avril 92.
15. Evaluations des Actions Terrains du PPSA / projet SVA Kalale Volets d'Interventions.
16. Evaluations des Actions Terrains du PPSA /projet SVA Karimnama.
17. Rapport de Preparation No 15 1/89 CP-BEN 26 du 16/11/89 - FAO.
18. Mission de Preparation Vol. I FAO/BM. 12/01/93.
19. Etudes sur la Securite Alimentaire au Benin No 3 ONC/GTZ, Fevrier 93.
20. Etudes sur la Securite Alimentaire au Benin No 6: Le Role des Femmes dans la Commercialisation des
Produits Vivriers,ONC/GTZ, Juin 91
21. Etudes sur la Securit6 Alimentaire au Benin No 8 Donnees Statistiques Disponibles a l'IlNSAE par rapport
- 27 -



a la Securite Alimentaire au Benin ONC/GTZ, Nov. 90.
22. Etudes sur la Securite Alimentaire au Benin No 9: Statistiques des Prix des Produits Agricoles a La
Direction du Contr6le et du Conditionnement des Produits Agricoles a la Direction du Projet
23. Programme Special pour la Securite Alimentaire Document de Programme National vol. 1 juin 98
24. Evaluation de I'Etat Nutritionnel des enfants participant au PCN.
25. Criteria used to select NGOs for PILSA.
26. Contribution du Gouvemement du B6nin a lElaboration du Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
d'Interventions locales pour la Securite Alimentaire.
- 28 -



MAP SECTION






ALIGERIA                    6502
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                                           II,,Se~  I i 1TUoWo~.dlI'l
o~~oo~~o .     ..,"T          ~          ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~ ~               NIGEERCHA
G.-~~~                                                                                                            T..\ 1-
)XL        N GERIA                                     \Un
-tecw,    ~ ~ ~     ~     ~                CO50UKABIMAMA
T-   ~ ~    ~    ,MIool\3  Go .bUit,  G....
OCEAN ~~~~~~~~~/  ~4 L-ub- Loomboo
- .....Op.tOEsDEj                                           /                  7  Connporrl~~~~~K....Tii
j-                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  T-q.-TooN9o
B  U  R  K  I N'  A            0E                                                                                                                     13  Gnoo- Goror
F A S 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il1 4. Molig-og-og-o
MATERI                                                                                                           /      "     <15. G-on-T-ong
2  T-ko.ni       T. P..                                                                                                                                         17.G-roko,.boo
3  Bonporo   -    -                                                                                                     18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sT-dj~ BooAo
7  Tih-o                                                  9
6  Tie-g.igo     v/ R
9. sokon-                                                                                                                                                          KA,-A E
10  TAIon-Ko,,Koo        -       .     \oni 
1 2. Ko1o                       26 ,i                                                                                                                            2.Kid ....pen-
BUIKOUMBE                      1                                                                                                                               . G.iirg-do
A               (coon                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Si-odi                                              5. G-elderoon
2. Dip-nlok.-on  I                                      uS? 1       i                                                                                           7. M-09040
3  D--nt,,kor Polipot,                                                                                                                                          7. .MI1i~IBroAAA.B.Peong
4. Kooro--og..        BU JooiB.                  B    Ahnk                                                                                                         -Dogoz
S. Totoh,dieto                                                     f    -.9                                                                                          --
6 Tokli.to
7. M...-.-oro         NATTNO
8  Kotogn,yko        1 Doy.k..                                  N1kk
9  Toko..nto         2. D,t-nh...                                                                                                                                                     1
10  K.... dogo        3. Tonooboo
I11  Koonso8oo       4. K-ob-rpooPrr.                                                                                                                                I E    I
12. K-olm-goo         5NKIooGouEu                        K                                                                                                                    I090
13. Koonsclsongoo  ~~~~~~~~~~6. Diko....
I4. Kooko...o,qo      7  Tetmpo                  o
15. K--ksolsoino-    8. K-ueb, ,
16  D.donp.          9. K ... doro
15. Kootie     T
I1. Ti.np.fi
/MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
T OGO 0                                                                                                 0'COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD
SECURITY PROJECT
TARGETED VILLAGES
DEPARTMENT5                                                                                                       MINISTERE DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
OD  ALIBORI                                                                       00JGos-                       PROJET D'INTERVENTIONS LOCALES
®D ATACORA                                                                                                         POUR LA SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE
©BORGOU
0DONGA                                    IVILLAGES D'INTERVENTION
zou ~~~~~~~~~~~~I12 TARGETED VILLAGES
I  ]                         I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VILLAGES D INTERVENTION
0  PLATEAU                                                  i  iSUBPR'EFECITURES V6TH P054TARGETING
KOUFFO                                                                                                                      S    PS'REFECTURE D"INT'ERVANTION DE PILSA  U'
ATLANTIQUE
*    SUB PREFECTURE CENTERS
DUEME                                                                                                                       CHIEF-UEU. DR S00S-PREFECTURE
d~~~~~I   UllORAI                                                                           41 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
LITTORAL                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHEF LIEUO DE DEPARTEMENT
N -ATIONAL CAPITAL
U       Q       40      60                                                                                                           SECONDART ROADSS
ILMTE       I              IROUTE PRIPNCIPALE DE PRATiCABILITE PERALANENTE
Z                                   RO~~~~~~~~~~UBE PREECTUREBUDRE
LHEMITE DES05 PEREETR
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
Dc(~~~~~~~~~~~   ~I DANGBO                                               -        MrrES DES DBEPARTEMENTS
LOK SA~ ~ ~ ~~~uoko OORE                                             .
G    H   A    N   A                                                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ight  of B3enin
GHANA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 



