/C-41   tc C)/ - /s 6vA
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12253-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
COMMNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1994
'1 vpTe:  
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This dou.ment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
their official dutise Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorlizaon.



CRRENCY EQIJ'VALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFAF 575'
V9EIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YAfR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFVP                    Association francaise des volontaires du progrbs
APV                     Agent polyvalent de vtdgarmeation
Polyvalant extension agent
CARDER                  Centre d'ection r6gionale et de ddveoppement rural
Regional Action and Rural Development Center
CFO                     Caisse franaise do d6veloppernent (ex CCCE)
CIRAPIP                 Centre dlnfonatdon de recherche et d'action pour Is promotion des initiatives paysennes
CLCAM                   Colss, locale de cr6dit agrio   mutual
Rural Savings and Loan Cooperate
CNCA                    Caisse nationale de ordt agricole
National Agricultural Credit Bank
CNW                     Community Nutrition Worker
CONGAB                  Counci of Non-Governrnental Organizations
CREDESA                 Centre de recherche pour oe d6veloppernent et Ia sant6
DANA                    Direction de i'alamentadon et de I nutrition appllqu6ees
Food and Applied Nutriton Directorate
DANIDA                  Danish Cooperaton Agency
FAI1                    Local Initative. Support Fund
FAO                     Food and Agriculture Organization
FAOXCP                  FAO-World Bank Cooperative Program
GERAM                   Group.s d'expetise et dingeniede rural pour l'auto-promotion du monde paysan
GRAPAD                  Groups de reoherohe et d'aofon pour la promoidon de l'agdouitur. at du d6veloppernent
GTZ                     German Technical Coopertion Agency
GV                      Groupement viWgeci.
V'ilager Group
INSAE                   Institut national dee stadstiques at de I'analyVe doonomique
MDR                     Ministere du d6veloppernent rural
Minis%y of rural development
MMU                     Management and Monitoring Unit
MRJC                    Mouvement rural de Ia junesse chretlenne
NGO                     Non-governmental organization
GCSD                    Organisation canadienne pour Ia solidarite et l d6veloppement
ONASA                   Oftice national d'appui A la s6curiti alimntaira
National Bureau for Food Security Support
ONC                     Office national des cireales
Nadonal Cereals Board
SAD                     Service aUemandd d6veloppernent
SVA                     Service des volontaires aslemnds
UNICEF                  United Nadons Childrn's Fund
UNS                     National University of eanin
VED                     Volontaires europeens de d6velopperent
WFP                     Wold Food Program
1/      Exchange rate as of February 1994. The parity of the CFAF with the French Franc,
previously fixed at 50/1 has been realigned to 100/1 in January 12, 1994.



FOR OFFCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BENE
COmmiUNITT-ASED zOOD sECURITY PRnOaC
8TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TA1 OF CONTTS
DOCUMYNIS CONTAINED IN TME PROJEC  PILE                                     Li
CREDIT AMN PR8OJE  SuISRY                                                    v
I.    INRODUCIXON                                                             1
A.   Physical Characteristics                                     1
B.   Sociaeconomic situation                                      1
C.   Project Origin                                              2
II.  TEM AGRICULTURE 8ECTOR AND FOOD SECUPIM                                 2
A.   Agricultural Production                                      2
so   Food supply                                                 3
C.   Food Stability                                              4
D.   Access to Food and Malautrition                             6
so   Institutions Dealing with Food Security                     8
F.   Food Security Interventions                                10
G.   Food Security Strategy                                     11
S.   Role of IDA                                                12
I    Previous XDA Experience                                    13
J.    Data Base and Xdentification of Areas
at Food Security Risk                                     14
A.   Project Rationale                                           1S
B.   Objectives                                                  1S
C.   Summary Project Description                                16
D.   Detailed Features                                           16
a. Micro-projects                                         16
b , Community Nutrition Program                           20
c  Institution Building, Managesmet and Monitoring        21
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND PINANCING                                            22
A.    Cost Estimate                                             22
B     Financing                                                 23
C.   Procurement                                                24
D.    Disbursement                                              26
B.   Accounts and Audit                                         27
This report is based on the findings of the apraisal mission carried out in
Beninin June 1993, consisting of Mr. Adolfo Brisxi (mission leader and
agricultural economist), Mr. Thierry Brun (food security/nutrition specialist),
Mr. Abdou Salem Drabo (community development and NGO Advisor), Mrs. Sylvie
Tillier (econo mist), Mr. Abdoulays Toure (agronomist), Kr. Torben Lindqvist
(DJIXDA, economist), Ms * enriette Bonnevie  (DaMIDA consultant). Fbrther
assistance was provided by Ms. Bhagwanti Kushalani (operations assistant). The
report benefited fron the support of Ms. Betty Eanan (project officer). Messrs.
EarrY Walters (AFTER) and Cadman Mills (AF4AG) are the peers reviewers. Mr.
olivier Lafourcade is the Department Director and Mr. Theodore Ekodo the
Agriculture Division Chief . secretarial support was provided by Ms. andrea
VUsques.
This document bas a resticted distnrbution and may be used by recipient only in the per=nce of teir
official duties Its contents may rot otherwise be disclosod vdthout World Bak authodzaton.



Li
V.   PROJECT ORGANZATION AND MAaOBMENT                                       28
A.   Organization and Managoment                                 28
B.    Cost Recovery                                              31
C.   Monitoring, Evaluation &ud Reporting                        32
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                      34
a.   Expected Benefits                                           34
B.    FinancLal Implications for Goverment                       35
C.    Bnvironmental impact                                       35
D.   Risks                                                       35
VII. ALREyEMNTS AND RECOM3 NDATiONS                                          36
1*   National food sec xity policy and institutions
2.   Minutes of the workshop on micro-projects implemetation
3.   Methodology for the identification of the areas at risk
4.   Micro-rrojects implementation
5.   Project benefits - Micro-projects financial feasibility
6.    Community nutrition program
7.   Monitoring and evaluation
a.   Project Costs
9.   Implementation schedule
10.  Disbursement schedule
11.  Supervision schedule
Map



ii
REPUBLIC OF BENIZ
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Documents Contained in the Project File
Workino Documents
1.    Project Implementation Manual
2.    Food and Nutrition Sap in Benin, Identification of Areas at Risk
(Pilot Food Security Project, May 1992).
3.    Pilot Food Security Project, Preparation Report (FAO/CP, October 1989).
4.    Pilot Food Security Project, Evaluation Report (FAO/CP, July 1992)
S.    Community-based Food Security Project, Preparation report (FAO/CP January
1993)
6.   Finalization of NOOs' intervention proposals (T. Perreau, April 1993)



v
REPUBLIC OF EN
COJfhNITrY-BASD FOOD OSEcRTlY PROJeCT
CREDIT AND PROJECt SUU1 R
Borrows t         Republic of Benin
Beneficiaries:    Linistry of Rural Development (MMD)
Amlount2          8DR 7.1 mllion (US$9.7 mllion equivelent)
Torlogs           Standar IDA tems with 40 year maturity and a 10 year grace
poriod
Project
DescriLtions      Over a five year porlod, the project would assLst the
Government in improvLng the food security and nutrition
standards of the most vulnerable population groups of the
country. The project would focus on poverty allevLation in
prc-Ldentified problem-areas (Osous-pr6fectures"), however,
the situatLon would be regularly monitored and the suope of
the projeat adapted. Further targeting would be carried out in
those areas to ensure that assLstance be provided to the most
disadvantaged segments of the rural population.
The approach will build upon specific situations and
constraints, aiming at their solutLon through the empowerment
of local communities, with particular emphadsi on women
groups.* Selected NGOs would help rural groups design and
implement micro-projects aimed at developing sustaliable
income generating actLvlties, employmet opportunLtLes and
improve theLr nutritional standards. Moos would help raise
group interest and participation in the implementation of
development actLvltLes and help the community access sources
of financing and support.
The project would comprise three major componentst a) local
commuity support for preparatLon and implementation of mLcro-
projects, including L) income generating activities, small
agricultural projects and lLvestock raising, food processing,
small trading and marketing; 1$) socio-economic activities,
support to storage, land development and rural works (bottom-
land development, anti-erosica techniques), village tree
nurseries;   iii)   micro-infrastructure   such   as   the
rehabilitation of village access and feeder roads and of
market places, small structures (bridges, fords), village
wells, livestock watering points; b) nutrition activities,
through local community nutrition agents supported by Noos,
for the improvemmet of the nutritional status of womnm and
children in the target populations and implementation of a
beneficiary assessment; c) institution strengtheniag to
support the planning and monitoring of the nutrition and food
security situation, and management, coordination and support
of project activities in the field.



vi
Estimated Prolect Cost and Financina Plan (US$ million):
Components                    Local      Foreign       Total        of Base
__________                   ~~~~~~~costs
cro-projects                 3.7         4.3          8.0           54
Community nutritdon program   0.8         1.3          2.1          '.4
Policy, planning, monitoring and  1.s     1.4          2.9           19
managenent                 _ . .           ._.
Project preparat(pilot phase) 1/  1.1     0.8          1.9           13
Total Base Costs             7.1          7.8          14.9         100
Physical Contingencies     0.3          0.6          0.9           S
F dnancial Contingencies   2.8          0.S          3.3           22
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          10.2         8.9          19.1         127
I/ financed through PPF, DANIDA grant & NGOIGOB Contribution
_inancing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total      % of Base Costs
-UB---- US$ million -----
IDA                     4.3       5.4        9.7           51
DANIDA                  3.3        1.6       4.9           25
WFP                     0.3        0.4       0.7            4
NOos                    0.8        1.5       2.3           12
Government              0.6                  0.6            3
Beneficiaries           0.9                  0.9- 
Total                  10.2        8.4      19.1          100
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98       FY99     FY2000
…--------…------- US$ million -----------------------
Annual          2.1        1.3       1.6       2.0       1.6       1.1
Cumulative        2.1       3.4        5.0       7.0       8.6       9.7
Benefits and Risks:
The principal benefits expected from the project would be to alleviate
poverty and reduce food insecurity and malnutrition in the targeted sites
of intervention. Most benefits would have a direct on-the-ground
visibility. Income generating and socio-economic activities would
reactivate local initiatives and economies, enhance food supply, smooth
out before-harvest shortages, increase producer income and increase
production and consumption at the village level. Small infrastructure and
better access to enclave areas would facilitate village integration into
regional economies. Particular focus would be in direction of group
activities of women, who are already the main actors in crop production,
food processing, marketing and nutrition. Reduction of labor constraints
of women aund interventions in their favor for better education and



vii
increased attention to family and particularly children feeding would
improve family nutritional status and would generally set zhe basis for a
more responsive environuent. The project would intervene in about 20
Osous-pr6fectures* and 30 "communes*, and field activities would directly
reach some 15,000 rural households or about 100,000 people in various
rural areas with diverse features. Furtherore, small infrastructure works
are expected to have a broader impact and expand benefits to about 300,000
people. The coommunity nutrition program would directly monitor the growth
of about 48,000 children up to age 5 and about 20,000 lactating or
pregnant women. Through these interventions the aalnutrition rates in
project areas are expected to be reduced from 30% to about 21% (or a
reduction of about 30%). In addition to the direct benefits to targeted
populations, the project would contribute tos a) a better knowledge,
description and localixation of food insecurity situations; b) the
development of hands-on and replicable experience on ways and tools to
address identified constraints at the local commaunity level; c) the
monltoring and evaluation of food socurity indicators and a permnent
definition, updating and implementation of food security strategies; and
d) the preparation of a natlonal nutrition strategy. The institutional
approach  adopted  by  the  project  would  develop  partnership  and
complementarity between public services and MOOs ia the support of local
coAmuities.  Community   orgaulnation  is  indispensable   for  the
implementatlon of certain activities which individuals could not undertake
without mutual help. Within such framework, collaboration between Noos and
extension services would develop new opportunities for better addressing
specific problems and in promoting community-based initiatives.
The pilot phase has considerably helped in better understanding and
addressing potential risks in project implementation which may stem froms
a) changes in attltude and relationship, or lack of coordination and
understanding between Noos and the Government deriving from the relative
Lsolation of EGOs in the implementation of their activities or in possible
excessLve Government interference in project activities; thls will be
minisized by i) setting-up mechanisms of collaboratlon between rural
communities, NOOs, public and private services, and local authorities, in
micro-projects preparation and implementation; ii) maintaining a project
management unit with people from the private sector; and iLi) promoting
the dialogue between Government and NOOs through regular coordination
maetings at the central level for maximum transparency and developLng the
basis for further opportunities of collaboration and partnership; b) the
emergence of opportunistic NG0s with different agendas from those of the
beneficiaries and possible managerial and technical weaknesses of R0Is
deriving from their relative inexperience and difficulty in complying with
required administrative and finanial procedures and disciplino; this risk
would be mitigated by i) the strengthening and enhancement of the
Management and Monitoring Unit which would now be decentralized and would
provide technical, financial and administrative support to the NGOs in the
field; ii) the establishment of an Implementation Manual defining the
procedures and steps to be followed for micro-project preparation and
implementation to be discussed and agreed upon with the Government and the
NGOs before project starts; and iii) the pre-selection and training of
quallfied GOOs (already initiated under the pilot phase) according to
criteria of experleace, acquaintance with the zone and the communitles,
demonstrated capability and commitment in sponsoring the activities of
local groups; c) the slow implementation of the cost recovery system due
to the newness of the approach, slack monitoring and insufficient
appraisal of micro-project feasibility; elements of improvement for better
sustainability, compared to the pilot phase, have been Litroduced in
project design in terms of i) contractual arrangements between the MOO and
the group; ii) better control and sonitoring of reimbursed fundu including
default clauses with possible excluslon of the group and/or the Noo from
further support; iii) ensuring beneficiaries' commitment to the investment



viii
through their initial contribution and participation and by permitting
rotation of recovered funds at the local level for the same or another
activity; and iv) farmer/group training and outreach to sensitize and
explain the mechanisms of project appraisal and cost recovery; d) possible
institutional conflicts in the attribution of responsibility £or the
coordination of nutrition activities, due to the number of agencies and
4izistries  involved  in nutrition  interventions;  this  risk wll be
mitigated by i) the financing of a national nutrition strategy to better
define institutionsl role and national priorities; and 11) ensuring
coordination of NGOs field intervention with existing decentralized
structures and activities.
Internal Rate of Return: Not applicable
Poverty Cateuorv: Program of Targeted Interventions
Mas No. IBRD 2S996



URPUILxC OF r 3Th
COMRZTY=-BASND FOOD SECURITI PROJECT
APPRA!SAL REPORT
1. IMNTRODUCTON
A.          Phvuical characteristics
1.1        Benin has an area of 113,000 km2 ad a population of 4.9 million in
1991, 65% of whom live in ru:al areas. The population is icreasing at an
average annual rate of about 3.2%. Its geographical distribution is very uneven.
Population density varies from 340 inhabitants/krr  in the wd6partement  of
Atlantique to about 14 inhabitants/ks' in Borgou.  As a result, 63% of the
population is concentrated on 12% of the land area.   The urban population
accounts for 35% of the total and is increasing at 4% a year (8  in Cotonou).
Benin is divided into three main climatic zo8es; sub-equatorial in the south,
with rainfall between 900 m and 1,500 m annually; Guinean-Sudanese in the
center, with marked temperature variations and an average rainfall betvaen
1,000 mm and 1,200 mm/year; and semiarid Sudanese in the north, with rainfall of
900 mm to 1,100 mm/year and high evapo-transpitation. Plant cover is relatively
uniform, in the form of a very degraded savannah woodland extending from the
north of the country to some SO km from the coast. This savannah is interspersed
in places with gazetted forests. Further south are residual forests, small areas
of deciduous and semi-deciduous forest, oll palms on the sedimentary zomes and
coconr.t trees along the coast. Soils are generally poor, mainly ferruginous.
Bottom-lands have a higher agricultural poteutial, but are generally hard to
work.
B.          Socioeconomic situation
1.2         The annual per capita income was about US$410 in 1992. * enin's
principal resource is its arable land, which makes it potentially self-sufficient
in food in overall terms while enabling it to produce cash crops such as cotton
and palm oil as a source of foreign exchange. The primary sector accounts for
about 40% of GDP, more than 70% of domestic exports and 75% of employment. The
average annual rate of growth of agricultural production in the 1980-1988 period
was 4.2%, and it continued to maintain itself at rates above the demographic
growth thereafter. This performance, although remark0ble, was largely achieved
through more extensive utilization  of available land.   The geographical
configuration of Denin, together with the deep-water port of Cotonou and its
relatively good road and rail network, allows it to provide transit services for
landlocked countries to its north. The secondary sector accounts for about 12%
of GDP, essentially in the fom of maufacturing, cement production and limited
offshore oil resources. The tertiary sector basically consists of informal but
vigorous trading activities.
1.3        Between 1983 and 1987 Benin's economy grew only slowly, partly as a
result of a decline in trade and a collapse of the regional transit traffic, but
more particularly as a consequence of the inefficiency and poor management of the
productive sectors dominated by the State. In 1989 the Goverament introduced a
program of economic reforms prepared with the assistance of the Bank and IMF.
This program reflected a change in Benin's economic policies, the reduction of
the State's role in the economy and promotion of private sector activities, a
balanced management of public funds, and an improved balance of payment
situation. A major external adustment was decided in January 1994 by the
governments of all CFAP countries to devalue the FCFA to the french franc by 50%.
Tbh strategic choices adopted by the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) during
the seminar on the strategy of the rural sector held in Cotonou in July 1990 and
confirmed in a letter of development policy of May 1991, are in line with the



- 2 -
above objectives. These choices specitica:ly aim att a) increasing export
revenues through improved conpetitiveness and crop diveruification; b) redefiiang
the role of State while improving thb cost/effectiveness of its intervention; c)
promoting poverty alleviation and food security; and d) preservig its
environmental patrimony through a more sustainable use of natural resources.
C.          Protect oriagi
1.4         An PAO/CP identification mission undertook in 1987 a first assessment
of the food security situation with the objective of contributing to the
elaboration of a food security strategy. A poverty alleviation and food security
strategy paper was prepared by the Bank in 1989. The strategy led to the
initiation in 1990 (under PPV financing) of pilot local interventions through
XGOs, aimed at increasing revenues of the most disadvantaged segments of the
rural population and improving their food security and nutritional status.  Four
international NWs2 intervened in five usous-pr6fectures" with two objectivest
a) test the comparative advantage of X0O, to address food security issues at
local community level; and b) 'generate and collect additional informazion to help
better define areas and groups at food security risks. These operations
constituted the experimental basis for a larger in scope project prepared by
FAO/CP in November 1992 and appraised by IDA in June 1993.
U . TE- AGRICULMURE SECTOR AND FWOOD SECURITY
A.          Agricultural oroduction
2.1         Food r   production is relatl.ely dlverified and capable to moet
leni's food needs. However, it is very uuevenly distributed over the country,
and overall sufficiency bides important geographical differences and fluctuations
froa one year to the next at the local level. Maise was mainly predomia   in tl te
southern departments, but has now also spread in the Borgou and Zou Departmentb,
with a total production of 446,000 tons in 1991. Millet and sorghum are only
grown in the Bxorgon and Atacora Departmets and account for an aggregate of
138,000 tons. Yams and cassava predominate in the North and in the South
re spetively with a transition zone at the upper border of the zou Department and
production figures of 1,150,000 tons and 1,000,000 tons. 8eans and groundnut are
relatively spread with predominance in the North for groundnut. Production of
beans is around 50,000 tons and of groundnut is 65,000 tons. In most cases food
crops are grown in association, and yields are very unstable but remain low on
average. Rice production is marginal, although its consumption is steadily
increasiag, being met by imports.
2.2         Trends. apart from years of climatic accidents, food crop production
is relatively steady. Production of staple food grows on average at rates
comparable to or above population growth: maize 4%, sorghum/millet 5%, yams 4%.
Important fluctuations occur for cassava, beans and groundnuts, but their average
production stagnates. Agricultural growth results mainly from crops being
expanded to the North of the country where land ia still available. In the south,
population pressure and unadapted agricultural practices have led to soil over-
exploitation, severe degradation of natural resources and a growiug imbalance
between local supply and demand.
2-3        rash crops. Cotton cultivation has expanded rapidly in recent years
to cover about 140,000 ha in 1991-92, for a total production of about 170,000
tons of seed cotton (fom 14,000 tons in 1981/82) and 70,000 tons of fiber.
Yields are satisfactory (1,200 kg of seed cotton/ha), and the total area planted
is still increasing, particularly in the North. Cotton constitutes a well
1/AFYP from France, Bva from Germany, OCSD from Canada, and the Peace Corp from
the USA. The latter subsequently withdrew because of personnel problems.



- 3 -
organized sub-sector, guaranteeing a floor price to producers, supplying inputs
on credit, and processing and marketing the final product. Cotton production has
substantially contributed to economic growth. Palm oil production continues to
decline an a result of the aging of the plantations, a chronic water deficit that
limits yields, declining profitability in relation to other crops and very low
prices on an internattonal market domaiated by production from Asia.
2.4         Stockraisina, with about 1 million cattle, 2 million small ruminants
and half a million hogs, accounts for one fifth of agricultural production (4%
of CDP). About 7 million ha of available pasture are only partially usable in
the absence of watering points. Three quarters of this area is in the northern
provinces, where the low utilization of space gives rise to traditional extensive
stockraising. Total neat production is about 30,000 tons per year, along with
some 43 million liters of milk, about 200 million eggs and 20,W00 tons of game.
Potential animal production in northern Benin is high in terms of pastures, but
is limited by poor management of surface water resources, archaic production
systems and increasing competition from crops. Denin's fishino activities, with
a production of about 40,000 tons per year, provide some 50% of animal protein
r%'quire_aets.  Lagoon catch accounts for two thirds of production. Per capita
cons-r-ption has fallen by half in the last 25 years; production is still
declining as a result of problems of lagoon salinity, siltation resulting from
the deforestation of watersheds, and over-exploitation.
2.S         Fuelwood consumption, currently estimated at 5.2 million tons, is
increasing in line with the growth of the rural population; this has led to
significant pockets of deforestation in some areas and to all-around uncontrolled
exploitation. Wood is the principal source of fuel for at least 80% of the
population.
2.6         Agri-gultural groduction systems vary according to agro-ecological
Zones. Kowever, food crop production presents a number of characteristicss a)
labor proe-tctivity and remueration are low (CPA 400 to 600/day), and the labor
force is only partially utilixed; b) use of inputs is limited and soils bave been
exploited without regard to sustainable management; c) yields are steadily low;
d) subsistence agriculture prevail and attempts to establish market-ariented
production enterprises have failed; e) this is also true for animal production,
particularly cattle, with low labor productivity, few market-oriented enterprises
and extensive production methods; and f) the commercialization system has limited
stabilizing effect and results in high seasonal variability of food crops prices,
which have otherwise steadily decreased in constant francs over the past 20
years.
2.7         Small-holdings predominate, along with traditional methods of land
conveyance and allocation. Average farm size is about 1.7 ha for a seven-person
family, the average ranging from 0.4 ba in the south, where only St of farms
exceed 5 ha, to 12.7 ha in the north, with 20% of farms over 5 ha. Access to
land is extrmely difficult in the south, where it is increasingly common for
land to be sold and demographic pressure has led to fragmentation of the plots
under the laws of inheritance and over-exploitation of agricultural resources.
There has been no real improvemaet in production methods that would lead to a
sustained increase in productivity. In the north, trrditional shifting slash and
burn agricultural systems predominate; land is often negotiated and allocated in
symbolic terms but the concession remains precarious and, in the absence of
ownership recognition and access rights, the land tenure system fails to generate
security.
B.          Food SUDD1
2.8         During the last ten years, domestic food production has met on
average national demand. The supply of grains (maize, sorghum and millet), which
represent between 40% to 60% of the household food intake, Is of about 110
kg/person/year. Tuber intake is of about 300 Kg/person/year. The Table below



describes the domestic average staple food supply pattern in 1992, taking into
account post-harvest losses, seeds and self-consumption.
Crops (tons)   Production     Losses &        Self-          Theoretical
._____________  8_____________    Seeds       consumption     surplus
maise          446,000        89,000          210,000 (47%)  147,000
Sorghum/       138,000        21,000          110,000 (80%)  6,700
millet         I__  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Cassava        1,000,000      106,000         690,000 (65%)  265,000
Yamg           1,155,000      346,000         693,000 (60%)  115,000
Sources National Grain Board  ONC)
As such as 20% of the graia is lost after harvest in the South because of moist
condltioans, pests, parasites and poor storage; losses on yams are also important.
2.9        Food Dorts are dominated by rice, wheat and wheat flour (in 1991
respectivoly 245,000 tons, 81,000 tons, and 46,000 tons). These products are re-
exported to Nigerla, wilch declded to limit (and then ban in 1986), dlrect grain
imports from the world market. Re-export actlvitles have expanded conslderably
since 1985, creating an important commercial corrldor to the Nlgerlan border and
the developmeat of food import firms in Cotonou. Although such imports are not
directly meant for the lwanin sarket, they represent a buffer stock which
stabilizes rice price throughout the year. Such facility of access to rice and
bread has a direct influence on keeping the price of domestic food products low.
Food aid Li marginal and its impact on the overall food security strategy is
mInor. in some cases (Japan) food aid is indirectly used for budgetary support.
2.10       Food exAort. although official figures are almost non-exlstent and
the pemeability of the boundaries does not allow to account for food flows,
regional trade is very important. Major variations occur and trade is
particularly influenced by Nigerian policies which are of an overwhelming
importance for Senils export capacity and food security strategy. Nigeria was
in the past one of the main outlets for Benin's food production. The situation
has progressively changed with the depreciation of the naira and the trend has
reversed, with Nigerisa food competing on Bealens markets, particularly in
southern urban areas. However, this trend is likely to change again after the
recent devaluation of the CIAP, making lsninese products more competitive.
2.11       Exports of domestic products are officially almost no-existent.
However, the monitoring of border trade and markets reveals that the informal
sector is very active in marketing food crops in neighboring CPA countries.
Studies suggest that about 25,000 tons of maize, 12,000 tons of sorghum, 15,000
tons of yams and S,000 tons of "gari' are exported to Niger each year. Togo and
Gabon are also occasional outlets for maize and yam chips (22,700 tons of yam
chips to Gabon in 1991).
C.         Food stability
2.12       Although the  NatS,nal Grain Board" (ONC) (para. 2.32) was until
recently responsible for marketing, distribution, transformation and storage of
domestic and imported grain, the private sector has always been, unofficially in
the past and officially today, the main actor in food marketing.
2.13       The  arket network is quite well integrated, with local markets at
vlllage level, primary collection markets visited regularly by small itinerant
merchants and secondary collection markets usually located in district urban
centers or at important crossroads in rural areas where the products are grouped



-5  -
an  distributed to torminal markets (Datokpa In Cotonou, noundjro in abomey,
Porto Movo and Watitingou), which essentially sell to retailers and consumes.
owever, ther  are areas wLthin most departments which are extr_emly poorly
supplied. Their commercal isolation is maLuly due to limited marketable
surpluses, fraeta     of supply and distancefrm major consumption centers.
Markes prolferae saise and cotton are grow, while milet/sorghus
(mostly for oa-farm consumption) and tuber (overproduced alost everywhere) do
not seem to  timulate the development of commercial networks. iaise, "garLi and
to a lesser extend yams, are the core of the trading system and the main
regulators of Benim food seaurLty. Although producer cooperatlves and groups have
developed eosiderably ia cotton areas, they play a limited role in the marketLng
of food products, which still remains of an indivldual and dispersed nature.
2.14       The                  isat ag:wrk L organised on a family or ethnic basis at the
local level. nhse primmary collectors vender a very valuable service to rural
communities and are the flrst link between producers and traders. Differeat typs
of merchants and brokeor are to be found to cmplete the functioning of the
network untlc the urban consumer. Because Denis commercial system is largely
lnforml in matur, in most cases there is no access to bank credit, and the
system operates oan the basis of individual liquidity and rapid turnover of
capital. Thus, most often small farme   sell their output immediately after
harvest at low pricos, seekLig for lquiditly. This can also result in serious
pre-harvest shortages, the same farsers having to tur to the market to purchase
food for their own needs at Ligb prices. Moreovr, by its private and purely
comercial nature, the distribution system is oriented from the primary markets
in rural areas to the urban consumr. Distribution from surplus to deficit rural
areas suffers from liited comercial oortu        s and from the cometition of
urban demand.
2.15       Tere is lLttle iaformation on the storaa sLtuation ia rural areas.
it is believed to be genrally poor and mostly contituted by raisd and enclosed
adobe granaries or rough stores. Storage mainly concerns grains since tubers can
be stored in the field  for about oe year. in the south, storage is more
difficult due to the higher relative humity and the exLstence of a shorter and
random dry season Te importance of post-harvest losses is also an Indication
of the storage constraints at the farm loel. he lack of rural credit has often
iapeded the initial counstLtution and replenishment of workLng capital. Ts
situation contributes to the very high fluctuation     supply and prices during
the year.
2-16       Data on merchant storage is seldom available but considered to be
marginal (ezcept for rice). Btorage capacity at the secondary market level is
mnor and poorly maintained, with a high turnover (not more than one mnth) and
almost so reguJlatory effect.
2.17       Pubic storage does not enter In the goeral food socurity plcture.
OnC has a storage capaecty of 37,000 tons whichis Luue'ble because its bulk
storage tye i        pr t   for local commercial practices and elimatic
cdti . At preet, these storage facilities distributed throughout the
country are empty, with the exception of som 11,000 tons in Cotonou leased to
a commercial firm.
2.118          nsmrt facilLties play an essential role in the functioning of the
marketing system and food security strategy. Th tranort network determines the
fair distribution of the domestic supply over the country and the arbitration
betwee deficit and surplus areas. only about 1,200 km are paved roads out of a
total netork of about 15,500 km, consiating of 3,400 km of classLfied roads,
10,350 km of rral roads, and aroud 1,800 km of urban roads. The backbone of the
national road network is composed of two north-south axes that link Niger and
Burkina Iaso to Cotonou, plus the coastal Togo-Nigera highway. 2he rural network
mries 2,600 km of rehabiltated earth roads, and 7,700 km of feeder roads.
The latter are generlly Inadequate and often Impassable during the rainy season.



- 6 -
Lack of maintename represents a constant threat to the regular use of feeder
roads and represents a major barrier to rural access. fbis situation is a severe
constraint on food trade and often leads to the isolation of certain areas, the
department of the Atacora being the most affected. 2his is reflected in the
transport cost patterns in rural areas, with unit prices varying from one to nine
fold throughout the country. With the on-going restructuring of the regional
agricultural centers (CANDEMs, para. 2.30), about 90% of the road transport
sector will be in private hands, only the cotton marketing company (SONAPRA)
still possessing a transport fleet. 2he only railway line for freight transport
links Parakou with Cotonou.
2.19        Food  rocessin. is more important for tuber than for grains. it is
an Important traditional activity mainly undertaken by women who often also
control the marketing process of the final product. "Gari," tapioca" and chips
are the main products fros cassava processing; chips from yams; and *akassas from
maize. a potential export market exists particularly for "gari' in neighboring
countries, and for cassava chips to Jurope. Food processing provides an important
income opportunity in rural areas. It is, however, hampered by the poor state of
the equipment and the absence of sedium-term credit for its purchase. all
publicly owcnd food processing industries and units (maize in Bohicon, rice in
Natitingou and wheat in Porto Novo) are closed or have serious supply, management
or financial problems.
2.20       All food crop 2rjcs are set freely. f,wo farmer objectives are of
paramount importance in the price determination process3 the farmer must a) mest
his food needs for the year; b) ensure a margin of security or surplus that he
would sell at any price or at low labor remuneration, to meet minimal monetary
needs. For a given region, supply cames to the market all at the same time and
price variability is all the higher given inelastic demand, lack of storage and
little stability provided by the marketing system. Farmers often have to sell in
bulk at low prices and buy later at high retail prices. Price uncertainty is such
that the producer has little interest in expanding operations or improving his
technology, since he may not be able to recover resulting additional costs
through the sale of his output. The domestic market will continue to be
influenced by Nigerian crops whose lover costs of production in CFA terms have
contributed, until the devaluation of the CFaP, to depr*ss local prices. Unle8s
a stable market can be accsesed in a competitive way, food will continue to be
produced for self-consumption and could hardlty contribute to a growth strategy.
As a result of the recent devaluation of the Cna? it is expected that prices for
domestic production will increase, hence offering new development prospects for
the local products. Past attempts by the CARDERs or ONC to buy food crops
directly from the producers, have shown the capacity of the farmers to rapidly
respond to price signals and stable markets.
D.          Access to Food and Malnutrition
2.21        Te few studies available on consumption patterns confirm  the
presence of four main models: a) in the North, sorghum and yams predominate with
a consumption of about 93 and 225 Kg/person/year respectively; b) in the South,
mize is the main staple food with about 110 kg/parson/year and cassava
complemets the food intake with 113 Kg/person/year; c) an intermediate model
covers the center of the country with sorghum being progressively replaced by
maLze and yam by cassava; and d) a fourth model, increasingly spreading in
southern urban areas, is dominated by rice and bread. leans consumption is
constant throughout these models with about 5 Kg/person/year. On average, the
daily intake appears adequate and provides at least 90 to 95% of the Lamimu
theoretical daily requirements (daily per capita caloric supply was of 2,305 in
1989). However, seasonal food shortages occur together with severe unbalances
fro one area to the other which reduce substantially the caloric intake of some
population groups. Shis pattern leaves pockets of deficiencies in calory and
protein intake, particularly critical to pregnant women and young children. as
a result, possibly 18% of Benin's population are thought to suffer from one form



-7-
or another of food insecurity.
2.22        in rural areas limited access to food is mostly seasonal ard occurs
one or two months before harvest. There are also sociological or geographical
pockets of more chronic insecurity ins a) the overpopulated areas in the south,
where land holdi"gs are small and severe soil degradation is taking place; b)
some enclave areas in the north with poor soil quality or high degrees of
erosion; and c) coastal areas where fisherae are experiencing depletion of the
resource base and little diversification opportunities.
2.23       A recent study prepared under the IDA-financed pilot lood Security
Project shows that overall per capita agricultural revenues vary from some
thousands FCFA to more than 90,000 FCA in the cotton growing areas. Food intake
costs vary from about 10,000 FMFA to more than 30,000 FCFA, with the higher costs
generally occurring in the north, mainly because the caloric unit cost of food
(sorghum and yam) is higher than in the south. A comparative analysis of the
agricultural revenue to basic food intake cost ratio, shows that 13 "sous-
pr6fectures" have a lower than one ratio, even after taking into account non-
agricultural income This ratio is a useful approximation for comparing income
levels (including self-consumption) to cost of living and reveals potential
shortcomings in the purchasing capacity to meet standard food requirements. The
analysis reveals that, in general, all the areas in the higher income categories
have ratios above one and that food insecurity situations are most likely in the
low revenue zones.
2 24        In the medium to long torm, urban growth and substitution by local
crops of imported products which have now become more expensive, will push up the
demand for commercial production, which would be satisfied through an increase
in food crop production in the northern areas where land is still available and
through intensification of agricultural husbandry. However, for the lowest
income population in urban and pern-urban areas and in rural areas where supply
is in deficit and insufficiently diversified, with poor infrastructure, a weak
commercial network and limited opportunities of alternative employment, the lack
of income sources and instability will continue to be among the most importaat
constraints in accessing food supplies in appropriate quantity and quality.
2 25       The linkage between food insecurity and poverty is demonstrated by
the fact that food staples have been exported to neighboring countries while
large number of people in enmin did not obtain adequate nutrition. Moreover, it
appears that even with adequate supply, malnutrition levels are high, affecting
almost 30% of the children. Empirical knowledge shows that malnutrition in poor
areas is high even after many years of nutrition oducation, suggesting that
poverty is one of the main underlying factors of malnutrition. The "poverty
assessment* being prepared for Benin supports the assessment that nutrition
indicators are very good measures of living standards and of the spending choices
of the family toward a healthy life.
2.26        Xn addition to protein-energy malnutrition, which is directly linked
to food insecurity, micronutrient deficiencies of Lodine, iron and vitami a are
also prevalent. Goiter is endemLc particularly in the Atacora and northern 8ou,
where it mostly affects womne and retards the mental development of children.
Nigh prevalence of iron and folate deflciency anemia is widespread and has been
recorded particularly in the southern regions, including Cotonou, with a
frequency among women of about 50%. Vitamin a deficiency is also common in many
parts of Atacora and Borgou, where it leads to blindness among children and
pregnant women.
2.27       The health status of the population of Benin is among the poorest in
Africa. infectious and parasitic diseases, traumas and nutritional disorders
account for the high levels of morbidity and mortality. Death rates are high,



especially among women and children (the infant mortality was 1132 in 1990,
against an average of 106 for Sub-Saharan Africa). High maternity mortality
inflicts serious damage on family welfare; maternal morbidity and high fertility
contribute jointly to the poor health status of women and children. Comprehensive
data on the prevalence of malnutrition are not available; however, health
statistics indicate that childhood diseases are often accompanied by, or are
secondary to, malnutrition. Improper weaning practices are often the main source
of malnutrition for children between 6 months and 2 years. Mothers breast-feed
their infants as long as possible and weaning food does not have the autritional
density required. somaetimes, traditional taboos as well as the parents' lack of
nutritional education are the main culprits of infant malnutrition.
2.28        The food situation in the cities has been worsening. Urban growth and
little employment opportunities have created both nutritional and delinquency
problems. The quality of nutrition suffers from the compounded impact of low
income and poor health or sanitation services. The INSA1 1992 Budget/Consumption
survey (conducted in 1986/87) reveals that the higher children malnutrition rates
are in urban areas. The wasting rate' for Benin has been evaluated by this survey
at 20% which is three times more than in comparable countries like Togo, Congo,
Ghana or Burundi.
F.          Institutions Dealing With Food Security
2.29        The Ministry of Rural Develovment (MDR) is responsible for overall
agricultural policy, livestock, fisheries, .orestry and hunting activities, and
agricultural extension and research. The Food and Applied Nutrition Directorate
(DANA), is responsible for monitoring the country nutritional situation and
preparing nutrition rehabilitation schemes . DANA has also embarked lito
production activities and manages a baby food production unit and an hort-culture
center in Ouando (ou6m6 "Department"). 1 DR is undergoing a process of
reorganixation including a review and redefinition of the statute and role of
DANA, particularly in view of its overlapping functions with the liaistry of
Health and its contested production mandate. In spite of its structural and
operational weaknesses, DANA could play a useful role in nutritional plannLug and
monitoring, particularly for activities focused on prevention of malnutrition and
training. MDR also includes a Food Technology Laboratory, but its operational
capacity and funds are limited. It is however being strengthened in the context
of the Agricultural Services Restructuring Project.
2.30        Field  level dissemination  and  implemetation  of  agricultural
development policies are the responsibility of six Regional Action and Rural
Development Centers (CARDER) extending the MDR to each department. Prior to the
ongoing reorganization, the CARDERs had expanded their activities to a number of
commercial operations, which diverted them from their principal mission of
providing support and techni"cal assistance for producers. Each CARDBR has
received, to greater or lesser extent, foreign assistance to fin"nce most of its
capital and operating expenditures.
2.31        Significant institutional reforms are under way in MDR and the
CARDERs with assistance from IDA and other donors. The objective is to develop
a vital central tool for planning, monitoring and regulation, and to conc&ntrate
the activities of the CARDERs on public sector tasks such as extension,
monitoring and evaluation, supervision of rural works and legislation. Further
initiatives and projects, bringing the public and private sectors together, help
strengthen rural producer organizations and enterprises and promote the
development efforts of rural communities.
X/ Infant mortality is measured by the number of deaths between 0 and 1 year for every 1,000 life births.
.41 Wasting Is measured by the weight to height ratio



2.332        arketina Boards. The previous State management approach and dirigist
regime attempted since 1967 to control food supply and marketing through a series
of National entities. All but one have closed because of financial problems, poor
management and competition from the private sector. The only institution which
is still operating is the Natinal Cereal Board '9ffice National des C6rXales"
(ONC), created in 1983 under XSDR. ONC's initial mandate was to buy, store and
market cereals, regulate the market through storage, processing, distribution and
management of food aid, and advise the Government on food security issues. A
revLew of the food security sitiuation and of ONC performance, was carried out in
1991/92 by ONC with G!8 assistance. It concluded that ONC fell short of
expectations in its role of marketing and stabilixation of the grain market. It
never had the capacity nor the financial means to execute its tasks. Storage
management was a major cause of financial losses given the small volume of
activities, high amortization and management costs. Moreover, the private sector
has always been predominant, leaving ONC with very little room to manocuver.
2 33        in accordance with the recoamendations of the review, ONC was
restructured in September 1992 and its name changed to National Bureau for Food
Security suovort, (Office National d'Appui & la 86curitf Alimentaire - ONASA).
Its statute and mandate were redefined in the context of a liberal sconomy, where
the private sector will continue to play the ajor role in food marketing, and
in line with public functions aimed at improving the transparency and performance
of the food sector. ONASA's new functions are: a) monitoring of the food security
situation, prices and sarkets both nationally and regionally, and diffusion of
the information; b) monitoring and following-up the agricultural campaigns and
detecting in advance possible shortages through an early warning system - this
is already in place with assistance fro  FAO; c) improving the private sector
operations and export opportunities by centralizing international market
information and food requests and establishing an information exchange center;
and d) advising the Government in the formulation and implementation of a food
security strategy, inuluding possible proposals for food imports (comercial or
aid) if deemed necessary. at the same tine, two committees were created in the
context of the preparation of the Comprehensive Food Security Program with FAO
assistance, an interministerial National Comittee for Food Security Coordination
and a Committee for Food Security Monitoring and Evaluation, comprising
Ministries, donors and WGs.
2.34        The provision and administration of aaricultural credit has faced
serious difficulties in Benin. he bankruptcy and liquidation of the National
Agricultural Credit Sank (CECA) left a considerable void, which has been
partially offset by the ongoing rehabilitation of the Rural Savings and Loan
Cooperatives Network (CLCAUs/CRCAMs). This constitutes a national network which
has kept the confidence of the farmers Nowever, its activities are essentially
developed in cotton growing areas. The network is presently the only vehicle of
formal credit in rural areas. It operates on a purely autualistic and commercial
basis, with safety ratios for lending, mandatory preliminary savings, 100%
repaymet requirement for new lending, and interest rates of 2% per month NGOs
are also involved in the management of small credit lines to local communities.
2.35        Yillase arouls (GV) are very active in the cotton zones. Their
success is explained by the clear economic advantages for group initiatives in
that context. Cooperative or groups activities in food marketing are limited.
However, insofar as the villagers are convinced of the advantages of common
services for storage, marketing, credit, processing, transport etc., they can be
expected to collaborate within similar groups.
2.36        More than three hundred Non-Governmental Oroanizations (MGos) and
Development Associations are registered in Benin and involved in different
domains of socio-economic and cultural activities. Some of them have become
actlve in the promotlon and support of villager groups or grass-roots initiatives
and the development of the poorest sections of the rural populatLon. NCO
development in Benin is recent and, so far, the preponderant role in the flold



- 10 -
has been played by foreign NOs. However, the recent political changes aud the
new encouragement for private initiative have led to a remarkable growth of local
development associations and national W8O that are destined to play an expanding
role in providing support for the rural sector. A Council of Non-Governmental
Organizations (CONQAD) and a National Federation of NGOs (FPWOG) were created
respectively in 1988 and 1991 to coordinate KOO activities and promote
discussiQns with the government; however their activities are hampered by lack
of funds and their role and representativeness are not fully accepted by all
WOOs.
2.37        Many local NGOs are constituted by groups of persons sharing common
interests, often working in public services, but with little experience in field
activities. However, some EGOs are also present in the field in support of
development activities, mostly stemming from the local communities to which they
belong. To that extent, the difference between NOOs and Development Associations
is not always clear. The latter are present in most usous-pr6fecturesz and,
although some have political interests, they play an important role in helping
and mobilizing local community participation and replicating and sharing
successful projects.
2.38        NGO activities include support to income generating activities,
natural resources management at local community level, management of small
avings and credit schemes, provision of basic health care, training and
education, and construction of small infrastructure. EGOs operating in the field
receive financmLE support from bilateral, multilateral and non-governmental
sources. The Ministry of Plan is aware of the necessity to coordinate NOO
activities and is setting up a unit responsible for establishing a roster of NGOs
and for studying the possibility to promote collaboration and partnership.
F.          Food Security Interventions
2.39        A number of interventions are on-going with donor support in the food
security and nutrition sector:
a) the Early Warning Project within OMC started in 1988 with FAO support.
It helped improve knowledge on food production, agricultural campaign
forecasts, and price and market information through the publication of a
monthly bulletin;
b) the GTZ-financed Food Security Project within ONC has undertaken since
1989 a thorough review and diagnostic of the food security situation in
the country and assisted ONC in its restructuring process and in the
preparation of a National Food Security Strategy;
c) pilot field operations were launched in 1990 with IDA financing by four
international WGOs in support of food security at rural commuity level in
S usous-pr6fectures" identified as being at food security risk;
d) Development Funds, like the Local Initiatives Support Fund (FAIB),
financed by UNDP and G2Z, are set up to promote local development and to
finance equipment for micro-projects;
e) a new initiative has started in 1992 with FAO support to study the
decentralized storage system;
f) UNICEF assisted DANA in 1988 to start a pilot phase (two "prefecturesw
in the Sou Department) of a children nutrition improvement project;
g) DANA institutional strengthening including support for a nutritional
health program in the field and for a baby food production unit has been
undertaken with Italian assistance since 1986; and is presently being
phased out;



- 11 -
h) a program of maternal and child health services is being implemented by
the Ministry of Health with IDA support;
i) Cathwel, through the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, monitors
children' s nutritional status through a network of relief centers and
distributes froe food; and
j) the World Food Program implemets a program of food and tools supply
for community assistance and "food-for-work".
2.40        Two additional inltiatives are presently under preparation, both
within ONASA. The first, with FAO support, is assisting the GovernmeAt to prepare
a Comprehensive Food Security Program, and the second, with OTZ assistance,
envisages support for food crops marketing schemes.
0.          Food securlty Strateov
2.41        The seminar on agricultural policy held in Cotonou in July 1990
defined the major goals of Benin's rural development, which are part of the new
national policy framework. These goals are- (a) to increase export receipts and
improve the competitiveness of national production while reducing public
expenditure; (b) to improve rural living standards by raising individual incomes
and upgrading services and infrastructures; (c) to ensure food security; and
(d) to ensure rational management of natural resources. The food security
strategy was further refined in 1991/92 together with an institutional reform
aiming at the retrenchment of the State's role to public functions, strengthening
the implementation capacity of its new mandate, and recognizing and facilitating
the private sector role. However, there is yet no clear national nutrition policy
defining the role of the many different institutions intervening in this domain
and providing a set of priority actions to be undertaken at the national level.
2.42        in spite of an overall satisfactory food security situation from a
macro-economic and supply stand-point, the objective of providing "access by all
people at all times to enough food for an active and hea3thy life" is not
reached, and the analysis reveals the presence of groups of population or areas
at food security risk. While food insecurity in Benin is far from being as
serious a problem as in Bahel countries or regions which have suffered from
drought or major conflicts, the percentage of malnourished people is such higher
than in countries where physical and climatic conditions are comparable. Given
the diversity and the sociological and geographic distribution of these "pockets"
of food insecurity or malnutrition, specific approach need to be tailored to the
real needs of local communities.
2,43        The main thrusts of the government strategy would be to: a) ensure
sustalnability of domestic food supply by, in the South, increasing productivity
and intensifying agriculture through better technology, and, in the Worth,
stopping the natural resources degradation and better maintaining the food crop
production potential for the future; b) reduce seasonal instability of supply by
developing the local sarkets, improving collection and diffusion of information
on prices and markets to limit speculative operations while allowing for more
transparency and facilitating private trading, encouraging storage at village and
community level, reducing isolation of enclave zones to perait a better
integr.tion in the marketing network; and c) liprove access to food supply and
to better diets by developing new employment opportunities and income generating
activities for increased revenues, diversifying agricultural production and
introducing nutritional training programs for mothers and children. The recent
devaluation of the CFAF will offer new market opportunities by rendering local
products more competitive for export and permitting the development of more
traditional crops on the domestic market by substituting food imports which would
now become more expensive. Therefore, the strategy should be seen under the
perspective of a government effort to create an enabling environment that would



- 12-
result in faraers responding favorably to market signals for increased reveues.
At the same time, the strategy should aim at reducing the number of people
incapable of producing and of purchasing.
2.44        in addition, by its geographical situation, Benin will have to
integrate its food security strategy into a regional perspective in terms oft a)
establishing institutional links aad information networks with neighboring
countries; b) moitoring the regional market situation and facilitating access
to export markets; and c) participating and encouraging triangular operations in
the context of regional food aid lnterventions.
2.4S       To the extend possible, food ald from  foreign donors should be
purchased locally and sold through commercial channels rather than in the foar
of commodity aid, whlch has a negative impact on agrLcultural prLces and private
marketing agents. Overall, most elements of a viable food security program are
an iategral part of the agricultural growth strategy.
B.          Role of IDA
2.46        XDA and the French Cooperation have financed in depth studLes on the
rural sector of Seni. The objectlve of the revLew was to analyze needs and
problems in the sector and identify development actioas. A July 1990 national
sominar led to the preparation of a new rural development strategy and to a rural
development policy letter which served as the basis for negotLations of the
Agricultural Services Restructuring Project in May 1991. An agricultural sector
revLew report was completed in June 1992 and an agrlculture Round Table, with IDa
and CFD as leadlng donors, is expected to take place in early-1994.  The
conclusions of the various studLes, the experlence derived from earlier projects
and the recommendations of the various preparation missLons have made it possible
to sustain a fruLtful dialogu with the Government and donors and to propose
pollcy actions, Lnstitutional changes and specLifc investments designed to
address the main rural development and environmental issues.
2.47       Future IDA financed operations in the agrlculture sector will be
goared to Benin's strategic options.   The Eavironmental Action Plan, the
restructurLag of agricultural services, natural resources management, and local
interventions for food security will help address the princpal Lissues i  the
strategy and propose action programs for the envlronment and natural resources
anagement, the  institutional fraework,  support services for the rural
population, and address food insecurity situations where they occur. These
activities will at the saum tlme promote beneficiaries participation in the
design and implementation of remedial actions. *IA would also help the goverment
address the opportunities created by the devaluation of the CPAF, by promoting
agricultural diversification and the development of new crops for the export
market through private sector initiatives.
2.48        The policy dialogue which is being conducted between the Government,
IDA and interested donors regarding a rational approach to food seocurlty enabled
the Bank to prepare in 1990 a Food security and Poverty Alleviation Strategy
Paper for eonin. It also perditted to lay the foundations of a national food
security strategy and to launch a pllot operation seekLng an innovative way of
collaboration between IDA, the Government and Voos. This is in line with the
overall Bank's poverty reduction strategy and particularly in helping the
Government target and reach specLfic groups of rural poor in aras at food
security risk. This project would fall under the Targeted Intervention Program
Objectlve and its focus on womnm activities would also be in line with the Womea
in Development initiative.
2.49       The dlalogue on poverty is broadening in the context of a Soclal
Dimension of Development (8DD) initiative impleeated by the Government and has
expanded to other sectoral and central ministries to develop a sound policy base
in support of government efforts to reduce poverty. In addition, a poverty



- 13 -
assessment is being prepared by the Bank for better integration of poverty issues
into the design of the Bank's assistance strategy. By dovotailing with the policy
dialogue effort, this project would represent an opportunity to rapidly translate
into actions the objective of distributing the benefit of growth among the
poorest segments of the rural population.
2 * 50      Moreover, recent political changes and reforms promoting private
sector initiatives, offer opportunities of new approaches in rural development
operations and poverty alleviation programs. In particular, the recognition by
the Government of the role to be played by NGOs in the development process and
in the eaergence of the civil society entails new ventures of partnership in
favor of decentralized decision-making and in consolidation of the democratic
exercise.
I.          Previous IDA excerience
2.51        In the past, rural development has often been planned and implemented
within a sectoral and regional frame, along objectives elaborated without
involving the local inhabitants in the decision-making process, and through
forma. administrative structures. The approach suffers from institutional and
bureaucratic constraints, lack of flexibility and high overhead costs in
addressing specific problems of the local communLties or in targeting assistance
to vulnerable groups.
2.52        5he present policy of reducing State involvement in the management
of production and overall assistance strategy in favor of community development
is conducive to larger NOO involvemenut and farmer participation in the design and
implementation of action plans. In this coutext, a fced security pilot operation
was initiated three years ago with IDA assistance and the partnership of four
international NwOs intervening in five different "sous-pr6fectures". A
Coo4ination Committee composed by representatives of the Admnistration and of
the NoOs, has been entrusted with the role of general coordination and
orientation of the activities* A small monLtoring and evaluation unit carries out
the technical follow-up, administration and management.
2 53         The activities undertaken by the rural communities with NGO
assistance vary considerably according to the specific situation of each area of
intervention. In general, the actions that resulted in the most evident and
beneficial impact on the food and nutritional status weres a) small
infrastructure and rehabilitation of feeder roads, which helped reduce the
isolation of certain areas, permitted a better integration into the market and
increased or diversified the food supply; b) support for women's marketing and
trading activities and the establishmant of storage facilities contributed
greatly to a better stability of the supply and price of food, and improved the
producers' marketing capability; c) financing for various types of activities and
small equipment for processing, cereal banks operating funds, marketing and
diversifying the sources of incom, which generated new economic opportunities
and  increased  income;  and  d)  nutritional  training  and  agrieultural
diversification, which permLtted the introduction of new crops of high
nutritional value (beans, vegetables, soja-beans and groundnut).
2.54        Three years of pilot activities have developed hands-on experience
and helped test both the JGOs technical impleaentation capacities and the new
institutional formula in favor of a decentralized approach to project manageament.
Although this approach is still experimental in Benin, preliminary results show
thats a) the EGOs have demonstrated a clear comparative advantage with respect
to governmaent structures in targeting assistance to local communities and
facilitating their participation; b) community response was generally very
positive and proved motivated in getting organised for better delivery of
services, maxll works, nutritional training and new income opportunities; c)
although it may still be too early to assess, the impact of the actions
undertaken has in general been positive by reducing the food security risks of



- 14 -
the targeted groups or areas; however, emphasis should be devoted to a performng
monitoring and evaluation system; d) Noos have had some difficulties in coping
with the necessary discipline and administrative requirements of public fund
management, in meeting disbursesent requisites, in preparing progress reports and
in willingly accepting Government supervision; a) technical support is required
to compensate for possible Noos limited managerial and technical capacity; f)
closer links have to be established with various Government services to permit
strategic coherence of actions, and increased long term development impact; and
g) the scope and scale of Noo interventicns remain limited but yet effective for
the type of activities required when addressing specific food security situations
and targeting vulnerable groups.
2.55        The institutional set-up of the pilot phase indicates that the
Coordination Comittee (associating the Government and the XGOs), proved useful
to ensure overall guidance, define the intervention strategy, approve the budgets
and maintain the dialogue. However, it expanded beyond its lintial mandate and
got excessively involved in day-to-day project managemet issues with too
frequent and lengthy meetings which, to some extend, affected negatively the
relationship between Government and NOOs at the central level. It also appeared
that technical support, central administration and management of the NOOs'
operations in the field should benefit from a goeater autonomy to be best
responsive to the type of approach adopted. At the same time the Government will
have to ensure that required financial, managerial and technical criteria are
respected. The Government and the Noos have confirmed their interest in
continuing along this approach. The emergence of national NGOs with field
implementation capacity is still recent. Rowever, although the pilot phase was
mainly conducted tbrough international NGOs, the emphasis would now shift towards
a larger integration and participation of local NGOs.
J.          Data Base and Idenification gf Areas at Wood Security Risk
2.56        In line with the objectives of the pilot oper:ation, considerable
information was collected during the first three years of activities. A data bank
has been constituted to help identify the areas at food security risk and to set
the basis for larger food security and poverty alleviation interventions. Data
on fourteen parameters related to food insecurity causes and effects were
gatherod extending over a period of 10 years and for the 77 "sous-pr6fectureso
of the country (Sources: MDR, CNC, DAMA, INSAN, Cathwel). a study was conducted
to analyse the available information and retrieve the data on a multi-variable
approach (see Annex 3 and working document 2). Typologies have been constituted
for the different "sous-pr6fecturesa based on the causes and effects leading to
food insecurity and maps produced for the various indicators. A sensitivity
analysis was also carried out on the basis of different combinations of
indicators and different weights showing the robustness of the conclusions. The
results were also compared and confirmed by empirical knowledge, field visits and
other studies carried out particularly by ONABA, and which led to the preparation
of a food security atlas.
2.57        Given widespread poverty and limited adaminstrative capacity, initial
identification of areas at risk will facilitate further targeting of vulnerable
groups, focus interventions and allow for better monitoring. The information
collected represents a considerable improvement in the poverty data base and
performance indicators for -enin, and would greatly help in amoitoring the on-
the-ground development impact of poverty and food insecurity reduction efforts.
It constitutes a most useful analytical and operational tool for the setting up
of a dynamic food security information system, monitoring populations and areas
at risk and revising the initial diagnosis. It would have to be maintained and
updated systematically for meaningful evaluation and planning of remedial
actions.
2.58        The analysis highlighted the presence of 11 first priority areas "at
risk" and 9 which, although in a less precarious situation, present a number of



- 15 -
potentially risky factors (second priority areas at risk). These areas (shown
below and in the Map) are generally characterixed by low revenues and
predominance of agricultural activities. Marginal production areas with natural
resources or infrastructure constraints are often at risk. Instability of supply,
leading to difficult shortage situations before harvest, is magnified by low
revenues and high food prices and it particularly affects small farmers in non-
cotton growing areas. Isolation due to impassable roads during the rainy season
is also a recurrent factor, which is conducive to little market integration, poor
marketing and limited opportunities for other income sources.
Atacora      loukoumbe, Materi               Natitingou, Cobly
Atlantique   Ouidah                          So-Ava, Kpomass6
Borgou       Karimala                     __.
Mono         9opa, Com6, Grand Popo          Dogbo
Ou6m6        Aqu6gu6s, S6m6-PodjLi           Dangbo
Zou          Za-Kpota, Agbagnizoun           Zaqnaqnado, Zoqbodom6, Cove
III. THE PROJECT
A.          Proiect Rationale
3.1         Activities in support of food security in Benin, have focused until
now on obtaining a better knowledge of the food sector, setting up information
systems and helping prepare a food security strategy, while the more traditional
agricultural projects were mainly directed in support of the supply side.
However, the main food security problems, although studied, have not yet been
addressed properly in the field and little has been done to improve the situation
of the groups concerned. It is important that concrete efforts, consistent with
the diagnosis and the strategy, be undertaken to improve access to food and
nutrition standards of the most vulnerable groups of the population in a
sustainable way.
3.2         The proposed project is in line with the food security and poverty
alleviation strategy. It aims at providing assistance to the most disadvantaged
segments of the rural populations. Its activities will be focused, monitored, and
based on the delegation and decentralization of management of field
interventions. The approach will build upon specific situations and constraints,
aiming at their solution through the empowerment of local communities with
particular emphasis on women groups. Experience has demonstrated that traditional
development projects alone cannot reach effectively the people lacking food
security. Moreover, administrative structures usually prove unadapted in
targeting and accessing the poorest segments of the populations to provide
services tailored to local community needs.
3.3         The IDA/NGO supported pilo- project has proved that it is possible
to intervene effectively to address specific food security constraints at the
local community level. Moreover, the recent development of local ROos with
relevant experience, offers a good opportunity to expand activities. The existing
data base and the food security and nutritioA map represent an important tool
that will permit better interventions and targeting of areas and groups.
B.          Objectives
3.4         The project would focus on poverty alleviation and would assist the
Government in improving the food security and nutriti-.n standards of the more



- 16 -
vulnerable population groups of the country. The project would support simple
agricultural, commercial, fisheries and peri-urbau activities aiming at improving
the income base of those rural groups through new employment opportunities and
regular access to food in the more risky areas. it would also aim at reducing
malnutrition rates with particular focus on children under five years and
pregnant and lactating women. The active involvement of the local population
groups concerned with each activity would be sought at the identification,
planning and implementation stages.
3.5         The project would contribute to a better knowledge of the household
situation and local strategies by maintaining and updating the food security data
base initiated under the pilot phase. Xt would help improve the information
system for better planning and targeting of vulnerable populations and areas at
risk, and it will feed in the periodic review of the food security situation
process and overall strategy definition.
3.6         The project would also act as a catalyst in developing and
strengthening partnership between the Government and the NOOs, improving exchange
of information and seeking collaboration between NOos and public structures in
the provision of assistance and services to the rural population on a mutual
trust basis and with reciprocal support.
C.          Summary Prolect Descrnition
3.7         The project would be implemented over a five year period and would
be focused at the organization, implementation and management of local
interventions in support of vulnerable groups. Xt would also promote institution
building and help the Government assess and monitor the situation of vulnerable
groups for better design and implementation of strategies and actions.
3.8         The project would comprise three major componentas
a)   micro-projects  and  local  community  support  for  development
initiatives and income generating activities including small
agricultural projects and livestock raising techniques, food
processing and marketing, storage and food conservation facilities
and improvement of small infrastructures;
b)    nutrition activities through local nutrition community agents
supported by MOOs for the improvement of the nutritional status of
women and children in the target populations and realization of a
Beneficiary Assessment;
c)    institution building, including preparation of a national nutrition
policy, strengthening of the food security planning and monitoring
capacity, updating the data base on vulnerable populations and
information systems; and coordination of field activities including
project management, monitoring and evaluation, technical and
administrative support, and training.
D.          Detailed Features
a)    Micro-orojects
3.9         Based on the experience gained under the pilot project, it is
proposed that selected Moos assist rural communities in designing and
implementing micro-projects aimed at improaing their food security situation and
develop sustainable income generating activities. Project activities would
concentrate  in the problem-areas pre-identified  (para.2.58), however the
situation would be regularly monitored and the scope of the project adapted
accordingly. Moreover, in those areas, further selection of rural commauities
wiuld be carried out to ensure that the most vulnerable populations are reached.



- 17 -
Although food insecurity situations appear to be chronic in certain areas, in
may cases food insecurity is seasonal and shifts fom one area and population
group to another. This, combined with the increasing demand fro  producers'
groups and N0os for financing sall rural projects, offers oprortunities for
enlarging the scope of the proposed interventions.
3.10        Community  development would be  the main  vehicle  to  addresa
constraints identified as conducive to food insecurity and poverty. Deneficiaries
of the local development initiatives would be rural groups, averaging about 10
members, recognised by traditional and administrative authorities. In all cases
the approach would be to seek close participation of the beneficiaries in tho
identification, design and implementation of the activities. The project would
channel funds and technical services through R00s to rural groups which would
undertake to provide in-kind and/or cash contribution for the implememtation of
several types of income generating, socio economic or micro-infrastructure
activities. As demonstrated during the pilot phase of this project, it is
particularly for this type of operations that NOos have the best comparative
advantage in their capacity to ensure group interest and participation in the
implementation of collective activities and in targeting specifically vulnerable
groups and areas.
3.11         The nature and type of initiatives to be supported may vary from one
area to the other according to prevailing circumstances. A description of the
type of micro-projects is summarized below, and some costs estimates and budgets
are given in Annex S. An implementation manual (para. S.13) provides the criteria
to be met for their eligibility and financing.
1)   Incoe aeneratina activities refer to micro-projects benefiting
specific organized groups. The project would finance the purchase of
equipment, assets and inputs required for the implementation of the
activity and the related training. They comprise:
*   agricultural development activities, including: i) support for crop
production and diversification (rice, vegetables, plsciculture), group
marketing and small trading activities; and Li) establishment of
pisciculture ponds, beekeeping, and promotion of breeding activities as
poultry raising and fattening of small ruminants; and
*   simple food processing techniques, includings i) transformation units
for KaritU-nut and saponification; Li' processing of cassava into "gari4
and chips, and of maize into flour; i1i) extraction.of palm and coconut
oil; iv) conservation units for tomatoes and fish smoking; and v) shelling
of groundnut and rice.
2)    Socio-economic activities refer to community micro-projects aiming
at improving income and food security and requiring sall constructions,
land development or rural works of a productive nature, and related
training. They comprise:
*   support to storage and marketing. This activity would aim at avoiding
temporary shortages by increasing group and village stability of food
supply throughout the year and at reducing post-harvest losses. Activities
would also aim at regulating price instability and limiting peaks and lows
before and after harvest through the construction of food stores (mostly
for cereals), for marketing purposes. Construction and sanagement
approaches may vary according to local circumstances; in general
traditional or improved stores or granaries would be built, managed at the
group, village quarter or village level. Ustablisbment of cereal banks
would be undertaken only with sufficient evidence on their sustainability
and management capacity of the group. In some cases, the iitial food
revolving capital for small scale group or village granaries could be
provided through WFP support; and



- 18 -
*   small works such as bottom-land management, establishment of home or
group gardens for self-consumption, small scale water control, tree
nurseries and assistance to seed multiplication farmers, agro-forostry and
anti-erosion techniques in particularly degraded and marginal zones. Other
small works include construction of some office facilities for groups or
cooperative activities and improved stoves to reduce fuelwood use.
3)    Micro-infrastructures. Most of these activities aim at provLding
assistance in the solution of clearly identified constraints particularly
in the most remote and unaccessible areas. Small works would mainly
consist in improvement of village access and feeder roads, the
rehabilitation of small structures (small bridges), the rehabilitation of
market-place facilities, village wells and livestock watering points. It
would particularly help resolve modest but very common and widespread
transport constraints, which, although requiring little financi&l input,
are neglected by usual public interventions. Willing participation and
commitment to maintenance of the micro-infrastructures by the local
communities concerned would be mandatory and would represent the most
important and reliable insurance for the sustainability of these
operations.
3.12         Activities would be identified, prepared and appraised in accordance
with strict established criteria and procedures contained in an Implementation
iManual defining implementation and financing procedures (para.5.13). Criteria
used for the selection of the appraised operations are that they be: a) directly
productive or of a socio-economic type, improving food security and living
standards of the poorest segments of the populatiot; b) financially sound in the
case of income generating activities, to be demonstrated through simple income
statements or farm budgets and increased returns to labor; c) capable of being
maintained by the beneficiaries for increased sustainability; d) environmentally
sound; and e) designed and implemented with the assistance and sponsorship of a
pro-qualified WGO in targeted areas. EGOs will be selected on the basis of
eligibility criteria permitting to assess their acquaintance with the zone,
experience, demonstrated capability and willingness to sponsor the activities of
local groups.
3 13        For the small works to be carried out at the village or community
level they would have to be requested by and with the direct involvement of the
local populations for construction and maintenance. Local labor would normally
not be remunerated, with the exception of some wfood-for-work" to be provided by
WFP or "cash-for-worku in cases of works of more general interest. Financing for
major social infrastructures would be sought under other programs and therefore
are also excluded under this project (health centers, schools, electrification).
3 14        Activities are targeted at the most vulnerable groups in pre-
identified areas at food security risk where transfer of funds to rural groups
is justified in view of the limited productive resources available and lack of
access to foryal or informal financial institutions. For the rural groups to be
eligible under the income generating activities of this component, manifest
interest, ability to sustain the activity and commitment on the part of the
beneficiaries would have to be assessed. The group would have to provides a) a
contribution. in kind and in cash, of at least 20% of the investment budget of
the activity; b) a commitment for replacement of assets and equipments, through
cost recovery (para. 5.15-20), and for operation and maintenance; and c) a
commitment to provide all unskilled labor for development activities,
construction and maintenance with no remuneration.
3.15        The pilot phase demonstrated that income generating initiatives ara
generally most effective when they are in support of women groups. In order to
support productive female-initiated activities, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that about 50 of the financing allocated for income generating
activities would be reserved to groups entirely constituted by women. The



- 19 -
percentage would be reassessed during the project mid-term review. The 50%
allocation would not prevent women to join other mixed groups in order to access
project financing.
3.16        Most of the  activities  in  support of women  groups would be
predouLnantly directed to diversLfy thelr source of income, ease womsaes time
constraiats and facilitate access to alternative income generating activities.
In that respect, the potential Lipact of these activities would be particularly
relevant in conjunctLon with other proposed iLnterventions aiming at promoting
labor saving devLces which would free women's time that could be devoted to other
nutrLtionally-useful actLvitiee. Moreover the thrust of women-oriented
ilnitiatives would be to make sure that increased access to food by vulnerable
households will also liprove autritlonal status of women and chLidren (para3.22).
3.17         In order to ensure a rapid start of project activities, an MOO
selection process has already been carried out during the piot phase and project
preparation as followss a) pre-selection of 26 interested national and
international Noos, according to criteria of experience and reputation as being
"bona fide" NGOs; b) information and sensitization on project objective and
strategy of the 26 N00s, which were also requested to provide a detailed
presentation of thear organization, manageamet and field experience, CVs of
members, and a first proposal of approach in the context of a food security
interventlon; c) seventeen NGOs were retained after analysis, they were provided
with all relevant documentatLon and informatLon on the experience of the pilot
phase and given the opportuaLty to identify and prepare, together with the local
communities, an lntervention proposal in one of the selected area to support
local group's initiatives; d) thLrteen lnterventLons proposals were finally
submitted by 6 national and S international pro-selected GOos together with a
justification of the different activities and a budget. In some cases local and
international NOOs would intervene in joint ventures, as presented below:
Dertment          Sous-prafecture         International MOO    National NGOs
ATACORA           1. Bouktumb6            AFVP                  GRAPAD
2. Iaterf               ACCORD
BORGOU            3. Karimla_             SAD
4. Kalat6               SAD
ATLANTIQUE        5. Ouidah/                 AFVP 1/
MONO              6. Grand-Popo            )
7. Com6                                      HRJC
8. eopa/possotoM6       OCSD                 ADESCOP
OUEME             9. Sem6-PodJi           VED/AFVP              CIRAPIP
__________________   10. Dangbo                            CIRAPIP
ZOU               11. Cov6                                      ) GERAN 2/
12. Zagnanado                                )
13. Kdrd/Dasse 20u    OCSD                  FADECK
1/ AFVP project extends over the two neighboring areas of Ou1dahGrantd-Popo
2/ GERAN project extexds over the two nelshboring areas of Covd/Zagnanado
AFVP: Association Franqaise des Volontaires du Progres
SAD: Service Al emnd de Odveloppement
OCSD: Organisation Canadienne pour la Solidarit6 et te D6veloppement
VED: Volontaires Europ6ens de D6veloppenent
GERA: Groupes d'Expertise et d'Ingenierie rural pour l'auto-promotion du monde paysen
CIRAPIP: Centre d'Information de Recherche et dWAction pour la promtion des Initiatives Paysannes
MRJC: Iouvnent Rural de la Jeunesse Chrtfenrne
GRAPAD: Groupe de Recherche et d'Action pour la Promotion de l'Agriculture et du D6veloppement
ADESCOP: Association de D6veloppement socio-fconomique de ta commure de Possotom6
FADECK: Fonds d#Appui at Developpement de la Coamune de K6r6



- 20 -
3.18       The proposed interventions are still subject to further refieoment
and would have to be evaluated under the project according to established
criteria and procedures. Zight of the targeted 0sous-pr6fectures" correspond to
first priority areas at risk and three to second priority areas (para. 2.58). Two
more areas do not belong to the two above categories but they have been
maintained in the selection as a continuation of on-going pilot phase actions and
after justification of the specific focus of the proposed interventions on
vulnerable groups and the absence of other activities in the sone.
3.19       The EGOs sponsoring the activities in each "sous-pr6fecture' would
also work in close collaboration with the existing Development Associations, an
an opportunity to better access the local populations and as privileged partner
to take over or extend MOO support. Some of the proposed interventions
(Boukoumb6, Dassa-Zoum6, Possotom6) already included participation of the local
Development Associations at the design stage and mostly as a continuation of the
activities initiated by the international NGOs during the pilot phase. Where
international NGOs intervene, joint ventures with national NOOs would be required
to facilitate the emergence of experienced local NWO s. Considerable efforts would
be devoted by each NEO to strengthen the capacity of the rural groups in managing
the technical and financial aspects of the operations to be promoted.
3.20       NoOs selected during the course of the project would enjoy a large
autonomy in conducting their field activities in support of the rural groups.
Financing to support the local development initiatives would be made available
to them on the basis of a formal agreement signed with the project specifying the
rights and obligation of each party and in accordance with an agreed work program
and budget (paras. 5.S and 5.14). EGOs would finanes their staff as part of their
contribution to the project. The project would finance the goods, works and
services for micro-projects implementation, the MOOs' incremental operating costs
for carrying out field activities, and the related training of beneficiaries. NCO
administrative costs would be negotiated when approving work programs and budgets
and would not exceed 15% of the investment costs of the micro-projects.
b)    Communitv Nutrition Prooram
3.21       The community nutrition program would be directed to women's groups
to improve family nutrition standards with particular focus on children under
five years and pregnant and lactating women in the areas of project intervention.
The project would increase household awareness of malnutrition causes and effects
through education, growth monitoring, supplementary feeding if needed and referal
to health rehabilitation centers when required.
3.22       The general strategy of this component would be to*
a) ensure a close linkage between income generating activities and
nutrition interventions. Empirical evidence shows that nutrition education
carried out in isolation from poverty alleviation efforts has very 144ted
impact on the improvement of the nutritional status. It appears that in
the medium/long term, poverty alleviation is the leading factor to
improvement of nutritional standards.   Therefore, the project will
encourage intervening NOOs to combine income generating and nutrition
activities. This should serve to broaden the effect of both interventions
and be a more cost-effective approach to development impact. Moreover, the
nutrition education intervention would benefit from the structure already
in place for the micro-project. Where limated NoO capacity or experience
in nutrition interventions is a constraint, the project would seek
participation of nutrition-specialized NGOs. the latter would specifically
implement the community nutrition program and also promote initiation of
income generating activities; and
b) ensure a preventive approach to reducing malnutrition through
empowerment of local community nutrition workers (CNN), their regular



- 21 -
training and better use of existing resources. Monitoring of children
growth monitoring and nutritional supplements distribution would be
decentralixed at the village level under the responsibLlity of a female
community worker selected by the village. Regular nutrition education and
supervision  would  enable  the  community nutrition  agent to pursue
preventive malnutrition control even without the project and therefore
ensure sustainability at the ground level.
3.23       The CNN would be provided with the required materials and supplies
to monitor the growth of children up to age 5 and provide assistance ins
treatment of diarrhea, support for breast feeding, oerichment of the diet in
protein, reduction of 'vitamins and mi4erals deficiencies (iron and folate,
iodine, and vitami A), preparations of weaning foods by groups of womnm. Large
growth charts for village discussions of the causes of malnutrition would be
used. CENs would be given food rations in compensation for their work.
3.24       Qualified NGOs would implement the program and are expected to be in
close and periodic contact with the CNWs, and ensure their regular training and
support through locally recruited supervisors who would be provided with motor-
cycles. Arrangements would be sought with existing decentralixed structures and
staff from the DANA (posted in the CARDERS), the trained agents of the local
primary health care centers and CATWMEL social centers staff, to implement
supervisory work. Supervisors would belp CWas to better organize their
activities, to better counsel women and plan resources needed for training,
supervision, feeding and min rals distribution. Supervisors would also be in
charge of linklng with Goos and regional edical services. Sao staff and
supervisors would be trained on the different packages and on nutrition education
More details on this component are provided in Annex 6.
3.25       Deficiency disorders eradication campaigns with particular focus on
iodine, vitamine A and iron, would also be implemented in areas of high
prevalence of malnutrition. Emphasis would also be devoted in the implementation
of an information, Education and Communication program. specialized organisations
would be used for such purpose (DANA, MNB, CRUDEA, Ministry of ealth). The
project would also finance a Beneficiary Assessment in each targeted sous-
prefecturea to better identify and define the different concerns as expressed by
the targeted population and reorient or refocus activities and mesages.
c)   institution Buildin,  anaaement and Monitorina
3.26       The ONAUA, under MDR, would be the Governmt's focal point for the
design and implementation of food security strategies, as th  new agency in
charge of food security support, planning and aonitoring. OGAua would be
responsible for ensuring that the data base constituted during the pilot phase
be systematically updated and analyzed and the results published. This would
contribute to the setting up of a permanent system of food security monitoring,
which would feed into a geographical information system aimiag at better
understanding household strategies and constraints and at updating the overall
food security strategy. To that end, ONaAS would complete the setting up of a
price observatory in each uDepartmeta and undertake market and price surveys ia
the project-targeted areas to determine the impact of project interventions
related to marketing and price stabilization.
3.27        The project would support the preparation of a national nutrition
policy and help better define the role of the different institutions and 3o(0
involved in its implementation and monitoring. It would also assist DANA in
redefining its mandate and reorganizing its activities in line with the
restructuring program of MDR.
3.28        Coordination, supervision and central aanagemnt of fleld activities
would be entrusted to the existing Management and Monitoring Unlt (NW), within
ONASA. It would be staffed with seven national professionals (some of which



- 22 -
already in place), to be recruited on the domestic private market, comprising a
head of the Unit, a training and community development specialist, a monitoring
and evaluation specialist, a statistician, a nutritionist, a rural works
engineer, a financial controller and an accountant. Given the gradual increase
of project activities, some flexibility would be allowed to permit adequacy
between the staffing and the workload, particularly for support in project
administration. The Unit would call upon and be regularly supported by national
and international consultants in various domains, particularly to help in the
preparation, appraisal and implementation of projects. An accounting and
monitoring system for all the operations would be set-up by a specialized firm
before project starts (para.4.18). The University of Benin (UNB) would be
entrusted with the evaluation of project impact in the targeted areas of
intervention. Particular emphasis will also be devoted to training of NoOs in
implementation capacity, community development and nutrition education. The mNu
would organize regular seminars for all intervening NGOs to share experience and
successful activities.
3.29        Two decentralized project units would be created, one for the north
and one for the south of the country. Each one would be staffed with two
professionals combining the profiles of agro-socio-economist with expertise in
community development. They would support NGOs and farmer groups in micro-project
preparation, ensure that eligibility criteria are met and accelerate micro-
project evaluation. Their role would also be to liaise with local authorities,
representatives of the Ministries concerued (MDR, Public Works, Health), NGOs,
Village Associations and other on-going activities, to vet sub-project proposals,
coordinate approaches and facilitate micro-project approval.
3.30        The DOU would also be responsible for centralizing the information
and progress reports of the different NGOs. The Unit would promote exchange of
information and experience among NGOs by organizing annually a two week seminar
wLth all the NGOs to: a) review constraints in implementation and the overall
technical aspects of their operations; and b) organize specific training sessions
on micro-project management, financial management and administrative procedures.
The project would finance some vehicles and motorcycles, equipment, consultants
and contracted personnel, training, ONASA, DANA and UIS monitoring and evaluation
activities, and the incremental recurrent costs.
3.31        The MMU would help organize and coordinate financing for the
nitiation of development activities in the field and promote NGO sponsorship.
*n the medium run NGO efforts in support to the targeted communities are expected
to be taken over by the comunities themselves and by the Development
Associations. Moreover, the XGOs would become increasingly capable to generate
funding from other sources or from the supported groups or villages to expand
their activities. The MMU would therefore serve the purpose of providing the
initial catalytic role in bringing together and developing Government-NGO
relations for the proposed targeted interventions at the request of the rural
communities.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.          Cost estimate
4.1         Project base costs are estimated at some CFAF 8.0 billion over five
years, i.e. about US$14.9 million at the exchange rate prevailing in February
1994 (US$1 = CFAF 575) and at the before devaluation rateS for the pilot phase
(US$1 = CFAF275). Physical and financial contingencies would raise thc total cost
to some CFAF 10.4 billion, i.e. US$19.1 million net of taxes and import duties,
of which about 47% in foreign exchange. Villager contribution has been estimated
in a conservative way at about US$0.9 million, mainly as labor and cash
Erlhe exchage rate of the CFAF to the frenh frac previy ixed at son has beo reaG8ned to 1OOt an Jauawy 12,1994.



- 23 -
contribution to the execution of project activities and works, and included in
project costs.
Summary of Proiect Costs
Local    Foreign   Total    % of
I Exchange            Base
j_________      cost
----- US$ million -----
Micro-projects 1/                           3.7        4.3      8.0     54
Community Nutrition Program                 0.8        1.3      2.1     14
Inatit. Building, Mgt.& Monitoring          1.5        1.4      2.9     19
Project preparation (pilot phase) 2/        1.1        0.8      1.9     13
Total Base Cost                             7.1        7.8    14.9    100
Physical contingencies                    0.3        0.6      0.9      5
Financial contingencies                   2.8        0.5      3.3     22
TOTAL COST                                 10.2        8.9    19.1    127
1/ Includes MGO and beneficiary contribution for the implementation of field
activities (about 17% of project costs)
2/ financed through PPF, DANIDA grant & lOO/GOB contribution
4.2         Financial contingencies reflect Bank projections for world inflation
for foreign supplies and services for the period 1994-2000 at an average price
increase of 2.8% per annum, and estimated inflation in Benin for costs in local
currency at 25% in 1994, 10% in 1995 and 3% onwards. Physical contingencies
account for 5% of base costs. A cost summary is given in Annex 8.
B.          Financinu
4.3         The IDA Credit of about US$9.7 million, would be provided at the
usual conditions of the Association and would be granted for a period of 40
years. The Government is expected to contribute US$0.6 million and would also be
responsible for paying the salaries of all non-contractual staff and taxes on
imported goods. DANIDA would contribute a grant of US$4.9 mainly for the field
operations of which US$450,000 has already be made available to finace WOO
activities under the pilot phase. WFP is expected to finance the foodstuffs and
tools for an estimated amount of US$0.7 from their on-going program in Benin. NGO
contribution to the project would cover all their personnel cost (about
US$450,000 during the pilot phase).
Financing Plan by Proiect Component
(US$ million)
IDA  DANIDA  WFP  NGOs   GVT   BENEF  TOTAL
Icro-projecs                2.8     4.5   0.6   1.9              0.9   10.7
Community Nutrton Program   2.6            0.1                           2.7
InsLBulding Mgt.& Monitoring  33                          0.5            3.8
Project preparation (pilot phase)  1.0  0.4       0.4    0.1             1.9
Total                       9.7     4.9   0.7   2.3    0.6    0.9   19.1
U Fmancing share (%)        1%      25%    4%   12%      3%      S%



- 24 -
Financinet Plan by Disbursement Cate@ory
(Us$ million)
______________________ .IDA   DANIDA  WFP  NGOs  GVT  BENEF  TOTAL
Mlao-lnfrastr. & Works               1.8                                      0Q          2.3
Vehicles and Equipment               2.7                                                  2.7
NGO Services                                                   1.9                        1.9
Field Operations
- Mico-projects                            4.5                               0.4        4.9
- Nutrition                        1.0                                                  1.0
Food                                                    0.7                               0.7
Consult.Services                     2.0                                                  2.0
Project ManagementiMonioriag         1.2                                0.5               1.7
Project preparation (pilot phase)    1.0     0.4         _     0.4      0.1               1.9
TOTAL                                9.7     4.9        0.7    23       0.6    0.9       19.1
C.             Procurement
4.4            The table below summarizes the project elements and their estimated
costs and proposed methods of procurement.
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arranaements (U8$ mlion eqivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                                       ICe     LCB    Other  N.I.F.  Total Cost
1. Civil Works
1.1. Rural Infrastructure                                   0.7    1.6             2.3
(0.6)   (1.2)          (1.8)
2. Goode
2.1 EquipmentNehicles                               0.6    1.0    1.1               2.7
(0.6)   (1.0)   (1.1)          (2.7)
3. Field Operations
3.1 Micro-projects                                                         4.9     4.9
3.2 Nutrition                                                       1.0             1.0
(1.0)          (1.0)
4. NGO Services                                                               1.9     1.9
5. Consultancies
5.1. Consult. services, training & studies                          2.0             2.0
(2.0)          (2.0)
6. Miscellaneous
6.1. Operating Costs Management/Monitoring                          1.7             1.7
(1.2)          (1.2)
6.3. Food                                                                  0.7     0.7
6.2. Refunding of the PPF                                           1.0    0.9      1.9
(1.0)          (1.0)
TOTAL                                                  0.6    1.7    8.4    8.4    19.1
(0.6)   (1.6)    7.6)          (9.7)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA credit.
N.l.F.: Not IDA-Financed



- 25 -
4.5         All goods and services financed under the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. The M1KU is the agency respnsible
for coordinating project activities, including most of the procurement. The same
staff has been managing satisfactorily the IDA-fi4naced pilot phase for the last
three years and has benefitted from procurement and disbursement seminars,
gaining experience in goods procurement.
4.6          Micro-infrastructures.  Contracts  for  office  space,  storage
facilities, market rehabilitation, land development, rural works, village feeder
roads rehabilitation and maintenance are of a dispersed and modest nature and are
to be undertaken with direct coamunity participation.   Individually, each
contract should be less than the equivalent of US$SS,000 and contracts in excess
of US$30,000 would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) up
to a total of US$600.000. For LCB, standard bidding documents will be used. The
bulk of the contracts for micro-infrastructures would be under US$30,000 up to
a total of US$1.2 million and be executed by small enterprises, artisans and
local communities organised by the Woos on a labor intensive basis. Consequently,
competitive bidding is not considered for contracting these works because they
are small, labor based, and scattered. In these cases estimates would be sought
from at least three contractors whenever practicable.
4.7         Contracts for vehicles and eaui2pent would be grouped into lots to
the extent possible and those in excess of US$150,000 would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) and of standard bidding
documents. For such ICB, local manufacturers would enjoy a preference margin of
15i or applicable custom duties, whichever is lower. Local competitive bidding
(LCD), using procedures acceptable to IDA, would be used for procurement
involving contracts less than US$150,000 but greater than US$50,000, up to a
total of US$1.0 million over the life of the project. Contracts for vehicles and
small items of equipment under US$50,000, up to a total of US$1.1 million that
cannot be grouped may be procured by local or international shopplng (inimum
three quotations).
4.8         rleld Onerations would comprise a broad spectrum of activities to be
undertaken with direct participation of the beneficiarles and NOO assistance in
order to respond to the poverty alleviation objective of this projects a) for
icro-projects strict eligibility criteria, included in the lmpleoentation
Manual, would be followed for the selection of MOos (see Annex 4). Expenditures
would be made against a contract betwsee MM3 and the sponsoring NOO, specifying
the budget and the working program, no contract would exceed the annual amount
of US$70,000. The main purchases to be made with the proceeds would consist in
small equipment, material and supplies, small ruminants for fattening, soam
construction material, training and the MOOs' operating costs. Material and
equipment contracts would be less than the equivalent of US$15,000. The grouping
of these purchases would not be feasible because they involve different operators
and different beneficiaries in scattered areas. These purchases will be financed
by DANIDA and procured through local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. b)
for nutrition activities it would comprise the operating and administrative costs
for carrying out the nutrition component, contractual staff, travel allowances,
transport and supplies. The nature of these expenditures does not involve
procurement.
4.9         Consultants and technical assistance personnel financed by IDA will
be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. Whis
includes audits and accounting services, capacity building and Noos training,
food security monitoring aud evaluation activities, implementation of a nutrition
Information, Education and Communication program. given the specific nature of
these activities, contracts would be awarded directly to institutions, MoOs or
consultants satisfactory to IDA on the basis of work programs and terms of
reference or in a competitive way from established short lists. Prior review
would be required for contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent
each.



- 26 -
4.10        Proset- manacemont, including administrative coats, paymets for
contractual staff, staff travel allowances, vehicle operation and maintenance,
equipment and office costs, given their individual nature, does not involve
procurement.
4.11       Local competitive bidding would include local advertising, clearly
defined evaluation criteria, eligibility of foreign bidders, public opening of
bids and award to the lowest evaluated bidder. IDA-financed works and goods
contracts and blddiug packages estimated to cost over US$50,000, purchases of
computer hardware and external tochnical assistance would be subject to prior
review by IDA, as would the award of the contract. All ICB procurement will be
subject to prior review. Random post reavew for contracts below threshold levels
would be made out of certified Statements of Uxpeniutures (503) by IDA staff and
for annual audits. Procurment would be reviewed by supervision missions for
about 20% of the mlcro-projects. OMU would also audit ex-post mlcro-projects
purchases made by N0O for field operations and compare prices with provailing
market prices. noS may declare msprocurement and docline reimbursement of
expendltures lf the agreed procedures have not been followed.
4.12        Procurement actions have overall performed satisfactorily for IDA-
financed agrlcultural projects. Sample bidding documents have been established
for Benin, and a new procurement code, reviowed by IDA in 1992, has been approved
by the Government and ls expected to be adopted shortly by the Parliament There
ls an adequate au"ber of small and medlum suxe contractors who meet the
appropriate standards of performance.
4 * 13     Procurement information would be collected and included in the
semiannual progress reports to be prepared by project sanagement so as to revise
cost estimates and timing of procurement actions. The information to be provided
includess a) contract award data; b) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total costs; c) revised timing of procurement actlons,
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts; d) compliance with aggregate limits on  specified methods of
procurement; a) compliance of procurement with the implementatlon manual and
systematic review of procurement procedures; and f) a completlon report by the
government withln six months of the credit closing date. The project
implementation manual deflnes procurement procedures in detail for better
understanding and dlrect use by the implementinl agencies (OMM and Noos). The
Project Implesentation Schedule is indicated in Annex 9.
D.          Disbursement
4.14        aiven the Government's limlted ability to pro-finance  project
expenditures, a special account denominated in cIa? would be opened in a
commercial bank in Cotonou, acceptable to IDa. IDA would make an initial deposit
of US$ 700,000 equivalent into the special account, covering 4 nonths of IDA-
financed eligible expenditures, once the credit becomes effective. The special
account would be replenished monthly, provided that requests are in excess of US$
100,000 equiyalent. The project coordinator and the financial controller would
be responsible for managing the special account and would be its signatory.
4.15        The disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Benin suggests
that the project would be disbursed over a period of seven and one half years
(see disbursement profile in Annex 10). all reimbursements would be fully
documented except in the case of expenditures of US$ 20.000 equivalent or less
which may be submitted on the basls of 8013  which must be certifLed by the
project coordinator and the financial controller. All relating documents must
be maintained on location in Cotonou for review by IDA's supervision mission and
the external arditors.
4.16        The disbursement procedure for the Field operations would be based
oan the formal agreement signed between 34U and each sponsoring NOO. Each WOO



- 27 -
would be directly responsible for payments made against field operation budgets.
Zxpenditures will be justLfied on the basis of invoices, 808 and suporting
documents. Ilcoea generating activities would also be subject to an agreemt
between the Neu and the beneficiary group, indicating the group*s contribution,
which should be of at least 20% of the total activity budget.
4.17        The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
ALLOCATION AND DISHURsNKENT O' T13 IDA CRUDXT
Amount           I Financed by 1DA
(US$
I ____________________________    Million)
|icro-infrastr. & Works             1.5       So0
VehLcles,xquipment & Supplies       2.4       100%
Operating Costs
- Nutrition                      0.8       100%
- Management/Monitoring          1.1       l00o
Consult.services, Training          1.8       100l
PpF                                 1.0       Amount due
|Uallocated                         1.1
Total                               9.7       _      ___
B.         Accounts and Audit
4.*18      In order to  ensure rapid and efflcient establishmet of the
accounting and finmcial system, an internationally  known firm  would be
contracted as a condition of effectiveness of the credit for a period of two
months to train the accountant in preparing regular financial reports and
monitoring field activitLes    Together, they would set up a computerized
accounting and budget system to permit rapid consolLdation of project
expenditures and breakdown of costs by site and by activity. Analytical
accounting would be particularly useful as a tool to assess intervention costs
and compare Noo advantage in carrying out project actionss. Further periodlc
support of about one month per year could bo provided by the same firm.
4.19       The project accountant would be responsible for consolidating all
accounts and keeping the records.  oe would al'o ensure that the mGOs perform
correctly the billing and receipt collectic   and send them  to the OMW as
regularly as possible.  The financial controsler would ensure that project
expenditures conform to the regulations and expenadture authorizations included
in the budget for the project sites, oversee general and cost accounting, and
prepare the dlsbursemet requests. The MMU would have to ensure tbat the
situation and performance of the cost recovery system is regularly reported ad
would consolidate the information for presentation to the Coordination Committee.
4.20       Project accounts would be audited by competent independet external
auditors, whose appointment would be a eondL01t  of credit effectiveness.
Audited accounts and reports would be submitted to the CoordinatLon Committee and
IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's
report on project expenditures would include an examination of the documentation
substantiating expenditures and a verification thats (a) project accounts permit
identification of all receipts and payments; (b) goods had been received or work



- 28 -
performed; (C) payments had been made; (d) all expeniturs ad boee legitimte;
and (e) the special account has been used appropriately; along with en oPinion
oan the reliability of the 80S procedures nd on whether tho goods and ervices
acquired under the project were being utilised in accordance with its objectives.
The auditors would also include the management report revealing possible
shortcomings in staffing and systems, and evaluate the accounting systoe and
effLciency of the internal control procedures. Auxugal8 in this regard were
obtained during negotiations.
V. PROQM gJMKXAZIXQLAM   MI
A.         OruanlxatioLn and Management
5.1        Project organization and manageamet draws oan the lesons from the
pilot phase experience taking into consideration the following main principlels
a) project focus on the implementatLon of sound demad-driven development
activities in support of rural group initiatives for food security and poverty
alleviation in targeted areas; b) the specific approach of Goos, which requires
management autonomy for implementation of the field operations with which they
are entrusted; a) integration of project activities in the framework of the
national development policy and food socurity strategy, and in support of the
development of natioal information systems; and d) Governmt's role to monitor
the food securAty situation and to ensure that public funds to be invested in the
project are used in accordance wLth domestic legslation and wLth agreed ariterLa
of sound financial and technical performance.
Plield Level
5.2        Field operations would be demand-driven an  implemented by rural
groups and village communities with the assistance of sle             GOs and
Developaent AssocLations acting as sponsors of grassroots developmet initlatives
and micro-project proposals. Sponsorship of technical proposals and requests for
financing could be submitted only by oligible support agency having a recognized
legal status, demonstrated technical competence and satisfactory records of pest
experience. activities should be a) in line with project objectives of improving
the food security and nutrition situation and alleviate poverty; b) technically
and economically feasible; c) replicable; and d) should            strat  the
beneficiariesI interest through initial contribution, commitmet to recover the
initial capital and capacity to maintain the inve sten (par. 3.14). Income
generating activities would ensure that the cash flow is sufficient to cover all
operating costs and to remunerate labor adequately. Eligibility oriteria and
micro-project preparation and implementation procedures aro descrLbod in the
implementatLon manual and summarized i annex 4.
5.3        Large autonomy would be delegated to the fLeld teams in support of
communty developmeat. The EOO approach would be characterized by the active
particLpation of project beneficiaries in the identification, preparation, and
implementation of activities tailored to the specific needs of the targeted
communities.
5.4        Before being submitted for appraisal and approval to the Management
and Monitoring Unit (HUM), each intervention proposal by an NGO would be reviewed
by a local consultative group comprising representatives of beneficiaries and
Village Association, the sponsoring *GO, the MinLstries concerned (MXM, Publie
works, Health), local authorities and the project decentralized unlt (para.5.9).
The group would have responsibility for reviewing the proposed activities and
ensuring their adequacy with local developsent plans and coherence with other on-
going operations. The decentralized project unit would assess project conformity
with eligibility criteria and ascertain benficiaries commitment.
5*5        Each intervention proposal submitted by a sponsor could comprise



- 29 -
several micro-projects for different groups or communities in the same area.
However, the total annual budget foz any proposal, excluding personnel costs (to
be contributed by the MOO) would not exceed FCFA 40 million (US$70,000).
individually, micro-infrastructure projects would not exceed FCFA 30 million (US$
55,000). Financing for equipment or assets subject to cost recovery for income
generating initiatives would not exceed CFAP 1.5 million (US$2,600) per
beneficiary group. MU would evaluate each request on its merits, however, for
micro-projects below FCFA 7 million (US$12,000) the decentralized project unlts
would be entitled to approve them locally. Any changes made during appraisal of
a new operation would be explained to the sponsor of the proposal for aaendmets.
If approved, a formal agreement including work programs and budgets would be
signed between the sponsor and MMn for the implementation of the operations. The
agreement would define a binding framework of collaboration and the obligation
of each party. A sample form would be included in the Implementation Manual. Any
new  GOO would have to be approved by IDA. Asaurances in that res2ect were
obtained at neqotiations.
5.6         The assistance and training to groups or individuals by MoOs would
be articulated and coordinated with public extension work and should create
opportunities for better knowledge of specific problems and needs at the
community level and the possibilities to generate improved and move adapted
techniques. In that respect CARDER extension agents would collaborate in the
targeted areas with the NOO teams to establish a relationship of complementarity
and mutual cooperation. The district agricultural officer (RDR) would ensure
oversight of the operations oan behalf of MDR.
5.7         Micro-infrastructure projects below IFA 3,500,000 (US$6,000), simple
in nature and requiring mainly manpower investments for rehabilitation and
maintenance, would be implemented under the responsibility of the community and
the WOo. Works will mainly be undertaken through local craftsmen and villagers
labor; food-for-work would be provided by WFP as required. For works costing more
than FCFA 3,500,000, MNU would enter into contracts with small and medium scale
enterprises. In both cases MU would make sure that the community and the XOO
receive assistance from the provincial civil works public services (CARDBR or
MTPT) as required and that the community is organized for the construction and
maintenance.
5.8         The community nutrition program would be implemented in the field
through nutrition-qualified MGOs and village community members. Selected MOVO
would visit coamunities to explain the objectives of the program and help the
community select a female nutrition agent and organize the implementation.
Supervisors would regularly visit CNWs at a mutually agreed time for the amount
of time required to make the community nutrition project work. Supervisory work
would diminish in intensity with the progressive transfer of capacity and proven
acquaintance of the CNWs with work requirements. Supervisors' work would be
regularly reviewed and incentives would be discussed with the responsible MOO
according to their performance in reducing malnutrition. A guidelines booklet for
the use of NGOs and CNWs explaining the organization of the activities would be
prepared by MIU in collaboration with DANA and participating MOOs before the
start-up of nutrition activities.
5.9         Two decentralized project units would be established under the DMU,
one for the Atacora and Borgou Departments and one for the Zou, Mono, Atlantique
and ou4m6 Departments. Each one would be staffed with two professio"als covering
sociological and agro-economic aspects, with experience in communlty developament.
The main tasks of these units would be to get the project closer to the
beneficiaries and facilitate their understanding of the procedures and modalities
required for their participation and for micro-project preparation and
implementation. More specifically they would be responsible for: a) providing the
information and sensitization required to potential beneficiaries and MOOs on
project objectives, intervention and participation strategy; b) technically
supporting micro-project preparation and implementation, providing early feed



- 30 -
back on the projectIa content and its suitability for fimnacing and facilitating
appraisal and approval procedures; and c) organizing and facilitating field
coordination with other agricultural support services (public and private) and
local authorities. The NMU way also help technically and financially for the
realization of feasibility studies if required.
Central Level
5.10        Central oversight of the project would rest with the Ministry of
tural Development through ONASA, including overall monitoring of the food
security situation in the field, updating and maintaining market intelligence and
information system. Given the joint-venture nature of the project and the number
of parties involved, a Coordination Comittee would be established as a condition
of Credit effectiveness to ensure overall coordination and maintain the dialogue
between the Government and NOos in the implementation of project activities. The
Committee' s would comprise representatives of the concerned Ministries, project
financiers and 0oos; lt would meet twice a year. The Committee would not have
operational responsibilities in project management. The Director of Analysis and
Planning in MDR would be its President on behalf of the Minister, and the ONASA
Director its secretary. Its main tasks would be to: a) share information on the
progress in implementing project activities, examine the results on the basis of
MUI s progress report and make recommendations, b) enforce compliance by Moos and
MUU with their respective legal obligations and ensure proper use of funds; c)
review and approve proposed annual programs and budgets for field operations and
for the MMW, and d) ensure consistency and relevance with other on-going project
activities within the overall national strategy. Specific problms exceeding the
responsibility of the WMM would also be discussed including possible arbitration
on conflicts that may arise among the different parties.
5.11        Coordination and support of MOO operations, project management,
accounting, administration and monitoring of field activities would be entrusted
to a small Manaaement and Monitoring Unit (RMU) within ONABA. Competent staff
with qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to IDA would be appointed to NW as a condition of oroieat effectiveness.
Asurances were obtained at negotiations that the MNU and the Coordination
committee would be maintuined for the duration of the project.
5.12        The MM,Ws role is necessary by the nature of the approach and the
need to provide technical and administrative guidance and support in the
selection and implementation of field activities by the NoOs. The main tasks of
the Unit would be tot a) authorize expenditures, carry out financial mawagemnt
and accounting, programming and budget preparation; b) ensure technical and
financial coordination and support of field operations and adherence to the
implemetation manual by the NGos; a) carry out regular field supervision and
support missions and organize contracting of consultants for technical and
financial assistance, training and annual audits; d) ensure proper monitoring and
evaluation of field activities, directly and through the other official
structures concerned (ONASA, DANA, CARDERs, UMB); e) appraise and approve the
proposals for the financing of micro-projects together with the decentralized
units, and sign the formal agreements with the MOos; and f) ensure centralization
of MoO progress reports and prepare its own, for submission to the Coordination
Committee and the donors concerned. The head of the Unit would provide the
technical and administrative support to ONASA in its role of secretariat of the
Coordination Committee and help prepare the documentation to be reviewed by the
Comittee (programs and budgets, balance sheets, monitoring and progress reports,
etc.).
5.13       hMM has prepared in collaboration with IDA a draft implementation
manual describing criteria and mechanisms for submission and implementation of
micro-project proposals to be financed by the project in the course of its
lmplemetation. The manual defines the main principles of aicro-project
preparation and implem,ntation, type of activities, eligibility criteria for the



- 31 -
beneficiaries and the NOOs, financing mechaism, procurement and disbursement
procedures, and the functioning of the cost recovery system (para. 5.15-20). A
workshop was held during appraisal with representatives of the Government and
NGWs to discuss and agree on the main principles and content of the manual
(minutes in Annex 2). A second workshop has been held in October to review the
draft manual before formal negotiations. With the receipt of the draft manual the
respective condition of negotiations has been met, and its content has been
approved by ZDA and the Government during negotiations.
S.14        A formal agreement would also be signed by the MUW with nutrition-
specialized Goos or training centers for the organization and implementation of
the nutrition component and training program. This includes the organisation of
the community nutrition program in the areas of interveation, preparation of
nutrition messages and packages to be conveyed to the targeted groups through the
selected NGOs, training for the community nutrition workers and their
supervisors. Coordination and support would be a collaborative effort of the
IOU's nutrition specialist, DANA and its decentralized personnel in the CARDIRs,
the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of social Affairs through Cathwel.
S.          Cost Recovery
5.15        The only credit facility officially existing in rural areas is the
rural savings and loan cooperative network (FCECWA), operating under autualistic
principles, with strict credit policy and eligibility criteria. Most of the
credit is for short term needs. Access of the targeted groups to this savings and
loan network is limited. The stringent eligibility requirements of the vaczcax
system and its credit policy in terms of interest rates, initial mandatory
savings and required creditworthiness would initially exclude most of the
beneficiaries of this project, who belong to the poorest segments of the
population. However, NOOs would promote the establishment of ties between each
group and the local savings and loan branch (CLCAM) to foster progressive and
sustainable integration of project beneficiaries into the existing credit network
for short term credit needs. The project would particularly encourage
registration of the targeted groups in the local CLCAE and promote the
establishment of small savings and loan groups. Project activities would help
address the needs of disadvantaged communities during a transitional phase before
they can have access to an official financial intermediary system and hence
enlarge the scope of the network's activities. A formal agreement would be passed
between the UmU and F3C3Ca6 so that they would train the project beneficiary
groups in simple managemeat and accounting procedures and explain the principles
and mechanisms of the mutualistic approach.
5.16        The project will provide grants only and will not act as a lending
agency. However, for incAone generating activities benefiting selected groups, the
NGOs would set up and manage a credit scheme in order to have a rvolving fund
and ensure sustainability of the activities and programs. A contract would be
signed between the sponsoring MGO and tho beneficiary group defining the
respective rights and obligations of each party, including definition of the
group's contribution (para. 3.14) and repayment mechanisms. Cost recovery, with
adequate interest rates, would be the general principle to be applied for the
financing of income earn"ig micro-projects. its scope would encompass the cost
of assets required for the establishment of the activity and the small credits
needed for the operations.
5.17        Only groups which do not have access to the CLCAN network would be
eligible for seasonal credit. Cost recovery mechanisms and interest rates would
be fixed in collaboration with the CLCAM network to ensure a consistent and



- 32 -
progressive approach towards integration into a permanent credit system ft.
Insistence on a market rate of interest from the start would defeat the objective
of income transfer or support to income generating activities for food security
and poverty alleviation of the most vulnerable segments of the populations in
areas at risk.
S.18         An account would be opened in the local CLCAX in the name of the
sponsoring KoO, where the beneficiary group would reconstitute the initial
capital cost, including adequate interest rates. Savings would accumulate through
payments calculated at replacement cost, inflation being estimated at about 3%
per year, interest oan deposits at the prevailing CLCAM rate (currently 3%), and
the useful life being estimated conservatively. The repayment schedule, to be
specified in the contract, would be determined according to the nature of
activities and to the agricultural calendar but would not exceed 3 years.
Transactions on the account would require two signatures from the sponsor and the
IOU. Once the cost of the investmet has been completely recovered, funds would
be used for another initiative or micro-project, for the same or another group.
MMU would keep approval authority for continuation of the activity or initiation
of new ones.
5.19        In case of default in refunding, responsibilities would be assessed
and no further financing would be provided to the group or the MoO, the equipment
would be repossessed and group collateral seized as specified in the contract
between the group and the sponsor. The INU would decide, according to prevailing
circumstances, on the use of funds already deposited. Description of the
functioning of the cost recovery system would be contained in the implementation
manual and prior agreement would be a condition for each micro-project approval.
5.20        For each sub-project, the sponsoring NGO would keep the accounts and
report on the cost recovery situation to the MM who, in turn, would report to
the Coordination Committee semi-annually. The WMM would also provide assistance
to each NOO for training the user groups on the concept and functioning of the
cost recovery accounts.
C.          Monitorina. Evaluation and Renortlnig
S.21        The head of the RMM would be responsible for sonitoring project
execution, including the proper implementation of activities and achievement of
objectives. Be would prepare a semiannual progress report, to be submitted to the
Coordination Committee and IDA, indicating the implementation progress and
institutional and budget status of the project in relation to a previously
approved annual program of operations. External assistance in setting up a
financial and accountant monitoring system would be provided at the start of the
project with periodic annual support (para. 4.17). The head of WNU would also
prepare, for the approval of the Coordination Committee, annual work and training
programs and a Project Completion Report (PCR) within the six months following
the IDA Credit closing date. Assurances in this regard were obtained during
negotiations.
5.22        A simple central and field monitoring system would be established,
together with key monitoring indicators to cover technical and budgetary aspects
(see Annex 7). Monitoring will refer to the day-to-day supervision of the
progress made towards delivery of goods and services, construction of
infrastructures, disbursement, compliance with reached agreements, etc...
Monitoring would therefore be considered as a *process" oriented task and as a
follow-up of "inputs" aiing at verifying whether the project is implementing the
i/ The present CLCAM short term interest rate Is 24% per year. It is consideed    beneflcbry groups benefiting
from Income generating activtes would progressively join the CLCAM after about three years; the Iitdia rate
wouW be of at least 12%. No mediun term credit Is presently provided by the CLCAM network.



- 33 -
intended interventions as planned. in addition, the degree of bonefLciary
ownership and involvement in the decision-making process related to micro-
projects preparation and implementation would be assessed as a prerequisite for
continuation and sustainability of the activities. The supporting Noos would
submit progress reports every six months focused on actual implementation of
proposed actions compared to targets. Regular NM1 field supervision missions
would also monitor physical execution. Implementation of the income generating
activities and the performance of the cost recovery system would be closely
monitored by MNU, on the basis of standard forms and note books to be maintained
by the GOO sponsoring the operation. The specialist in charge of monitoring in
the MMU would have to consolidate and analyse the results.
5.23         Evaluation will refer primarily to the impact of the project on the
beneficiaries according to pro-established indicators and gauge progress towards
the achievement of project objectives. It is therefore an "output* rather than
"process" oriented approach. Evaluation of project impact would be external and
entrusted to the University of Benin in collaboration with specialised
institutions (DANA, CRDZESA, etc.). A sample of micro-projects and nutrition
interventions would be selected and an initial baseline survey would be carried
out to provide benchmark socio-economic and nutritional indicators. On that
basis, together with the monitoring information collected by 1MU, a final survey
would be undertaken at micro-project completion to carry out the evaluation.
5.24         The project would support ONASA expand its monitoring activities
from the present coverage of 15 primary markets to 13 additional secondary
markets located in project areas. This information would enhance relevancy of the
information already available and would help evaluate project impact in selected
areas in terms of food access and stability. The NDR's Sectoral Analysis and
Planning Directorate (DAPS) would also be involved and participate in monitoring
project activities on behalf of MDR, as part of its role of overall agricultural
project planning and coordination, and ensure coherence of project activities
with sectorial strategies and other projects.
5.25        Implementation of field activities would have to be flexible.
Because of the in-built participatory and demand-driven approach, details on
locations, type and number of investments are difficult to foresee.   The
implementation timetables would have to be adjusted annually to respond to the
demand of the communities (see Annex 10).
5.26          WOO performance would be assessed yearly, when approving budgets
and working programs, on the basis of progress sade in achieving targets and
ensuring beneficiary ownership. If an NOO is not performing satisfactorily, a
justified decision will be made by the Coordination Committee, after proposition
of the WUU, regarding the continuation of the WGO's agreement.
5.27        A supervision. schedule is presented in Annex 11.  Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that a mid-term review would be carried out at the
latest three years after the credit signature, by an outside team of experts in
collaboration with IDA and DANIDA. The DAPS would participate and represent the
Goverment during the review. 5he recommendations, once approved by the
Government and financiers, would be implemented as soon as possible. The review
would cover Later-alias (a) project management; (b) progress made in moitoring
and evaluation and a first assessment of project results and impact; (c)
implementation of field activities according to schedule; (d) performance of the
NOO teams in supporting local initiatives and functioning of the cost recovery
system; (a) financing of new studies and programs identified during project
implemetation; (f) effectiveness of the preparation and selection process; g)
possible extension of the project's scope to new areas; and h) cooperation
between Governmental and non-Governmental Organisations, and the project
institutional set-up. IDA resident staff and supervision missions would also play
a catalytic role in maintaining and expanding the dialogue between the Government
and NGOs, and provide necessary support.



- 34 -
VI 2 ADEFITS AMD RISKS
A.          Excected Denefits
6.1         The nature of this project's approach and its objectives in term of
expected improvement in the food security and nutritional status make the formal
quantification of benefits uncertain. Moreover, project impact on poverty
reduction would have a spill-over effect on larger areas than the targeted ones
and on the rest of the economy. Similarly, the cost to the economy of localized
but relatively important food insecurity situations and subsequent malnutrition,
morbidity, and rural exodus cannot be assessed. A financial evaluation has been
carried out for the main type of activities proposed by the projects 1 ha bottom-
land development, 0.4 ha of vegetable garden, cassava processing unit,
establishment and management of cereal banks, pisciculture, feeding of small
ruminants (Annex 5). They generally show a rate of return ranging from 20% to
more than 50% and labor remuneration increasing by 50% to more than 100%. Direct
inducements, financing for income generating activities, village infrastructure,
rural works, and food for work are justified in view of national objectives for
food security, poverty alleviation and sustainable resources managemet.
6.2         The principal benefit expected from the project would be the
reduction or the eli4ination of the factors conducive to food insecurity and
malnutrition in the targeted sites of project intervention. Most benefits would
have a direct on-the-ground visibility. Land development, diversification and
better product conservation would enhance food supply, smooth out before-harvest
shortages, increase producer incomes, and increase production and consumption at
the village level. Crop processing, marketing, and new income generating
activities would reactivate local initiatives and economies. Small infrastructure
and better access to enclave areas would facilitate village integration into
regional economies. Some activities would have a longer term impact. Natural
resources management, tree-nurseries, agro-forestry and anti-erosion techniques
would require longer tine for relevant evaluation but yet appear in some areas
as the main priority.
6.3         Particular focus would be in direction of activities of women groups,
which are already the main actors in crop production, food processing and
marketing. Reduction of women labor constraints, interventions for their better
education and increased attenxtion to family and particularly child feeding would
improve family nutritional status and would generally set the basis for a more
responsive environment. Similarly, training related to better access and use of
drinking water would have a positive impact on health by reducing risks of
contamination and improving hygiene standards.
6.4         The project would intervene in about 20 "sous-pr6fectures", and field
activities would directly reach some 15,000 rural households or about 100,000
people in diversified rural areas. Furthermore, small infrastructure works are
expected to have a broader impact and expand overall project beneficiaries to
about 300,000. The community nutrition program would directly monitor growth of
about 48,000 children up to 5 years of age and about 20,000 lactating or pregnant
women. Through these interventions the malnutrition rates in project areas are
expected to be reduced from 30% to about 21%, or about 300 reduction (see Annex
6).
6.5         ln addition to the direct benefits to targeted populations, the
project would contribute tot a) a better knowledge, description and localization
of food insecurity situations; b) the developmet of hand-on experience on ways
and tools permitting appropriate and replicable actions to address identified
constraints at the local community level; c) the monitoring and evaluation of
food security related indicators and a permanent definition, updating and
implementation of food security strategies; and d) the preparation of a national
nutrition strategy. The institutional approach adopted by the project would
develop partnership and complementarity between public services and decentralixed



- 35 -
decision making by Goos in support to local communities. Community organization
is indispensable for the implementation of certain activities which individuals
could not undertake without mutual help. Within such a framework, collaboration
between NOOs and extension services would develop new opportunities for better
addressiag specific problems and in promoting community-based initiatives.
S.          Financial Implications for Government
6.6         There would be no directly generated revenue for the Government since
none of the project outputs are commodities on which taxes are levied. However,
by increasing beneficiary incomes, it is expected that the project would
contribute to agricultural growth and to an increase of expenditures on consumer
goods on which indirect taxation is applicable. Activities initiated by the
project would be continued by the rural communities themselves with or without
XGO support. Further NGO assistance or expansion of activities in other areas
would depend on their ability to attract sources of financing (public, private
or rural communities), but would be neutral with respect to the Government's
recurrent budget. The ability to mobilize community-based resources for local
development would lead to a greater sense of local ownership and the
sustainability of the activities at the ground level.
c.          Environmental Imoact
6.7         The project would not entail any potential onvironmntal risk. To the
contrary, some of the proposed activities would contribute to better natural
resources  anagement and conservation through agro-forestry and anti-erosion
activities. Moreover, by intervening in the poorest areas of the country and by
promoting the development of new initiative and income generating activities, the
project would contribute to poverty alleviation, limit rural exodus and i' in
line with the objectives and strategy defined in the recently completed NatAonal
Envirounental Action Plan. The environmental category of this project is C.
D.          Risks
6.8         The pilot phase has helped considerably in better understanding and
addressing possible risks in project implementations which may stem frosm
a) changes in attitude and relationship, or lack of coordination and
understanding between NGos and the Government deriving from the relative
isolation of NMOs in the implementation of their activities or in possible
excessive Government interference in project activities; this will be
ainiaized by i) setting-up mechanisms of collaboration between rural
communities, NGOO, public and private services, and local authorities, in
micro-projects preparation and implementation procedures to promote
exchange of information, sharing of experiences, coordination and better
integration of activities within a broader development strategy; $$)
maintaining a project management unit with people from the private sector;
and iii) promoting the dialogue between Government and MOOs through
regular coordination meetings at the central level for maximu
transparency and developing the basis for further opportunities of
collaboration and partnership, IDA resident staff and supervision missions
would play a catalytic role in this respect;
b) the emergence of opportunistic NGOs with different agendas from those
of the beneficiaries and possible managerial and technical weaknesses of
EGOs deriving from their relative inexperience and difficulty in complying
with required admi"nstrative and financial procedures and discipline; this
risk would be mitigated by i) the strengthening and enhancement of the
Management and Monitoring Unit which would now be decentralized and would
provide technical, financial and administrative support to the MOOs in the
field; $$) the establishment of an Implementation manual defining the
procedures and steps to be followed for micro-project preparation and



- 36 -
imlemetation to be discussed and agreed upon with the Government and the
X0Gs before projest starts; and iii) the pre-selection and trainiag
(already initiated under the pilot phase) of qualified NOs according to
criteria of experience, acquaintance with the zone and the comunities,
deonstrated capability and comitment in sponsoring the activities of
local groups;
c) the slow implemetation of the cost recovery system due to the newness
of the approach, slack monitoring and insufficient appraisal of micro-
project feasibility; elements of improvemet for better sustainability,
compared to the pilot phase, have been introduced in project design in
terms of 1) contractual arrangemets between the GOO and the group; ii)
better control and monitoring of reimbursed funds including default
clauses with possible exclusion of the group or the Eoo f rom further
support; iii) ensuring beneficiariesI commitsment to the investment through
their initial contribution and participation and by permitting rotation of
recovered funds at the local level for the same or another activity; and
iv) farmer/group training and outreach to sensitixe and explain the
mechanisms of project appraisal and cost recovery; and
d) possible institutional conflicts in the attribution of responsibility
for the coordination of nutrition activities, due to the number of
agencies and Ministries involved in nutrition interventions; this risk
will be mitigated by i) the financing of a national nutrition strategy to
better define institutions' role and national priorities; and ii) ensuring
coordination of EGo field interventions with existing decentralized
structures and activities.
VIZ. A-RZTS AND RXCOHN3NDIMAONS
7.1         !he following assurances were received during negotiations:
(a) at least 50% of the financing allocated to income generating
activities would be reserved to groups entirely constituted by women
(para. 3.15);
(b)   project accounts would be audited by competent independent external
auditors satisfactory to IDA and their reports submitted to IDA for
review, at latest in the six months following the close of the
fiscal year (para. 4.20);
(c) selection of now ENOs would have to be approved by IDa (para. 5.5);
(d)   no6 and the Coordinating Committee would be maintained for the
duration of the project (para. 5.11);
(e)  1MM and selected MGos would prepare a semiannual progress report,
indicating the implementation progress and the cost recovery
situatio. 11W  would also prepare, for the approval of the
Coordinating Comittee, annual work and training programs and a
Project Completion Report (PCR) within the six months following the
IDA Credit closing date (para. 5.21); and
(f)   a mid-term review would be carried out at the latest three years
after the credit becomes effective, by an outside team of experts in
collaboration with cofinanciers and IDA. Its recommendations, once
approved by the Government and IDA, would be implemented as soon as
possible (para. 5.27).



- 37 -
7.2         Conditions of effectivenesso
(a)   an intenationally know  firm would be contracted for a period of
two months to net up a computerised accounting managemet and
monitoring system and related training (para. 4.18);
(b)   comptent  idpet external auditors would be appointed (pra.
4.20);
(e)  MW's professional staff has been appointed with qualifications,
experience and torms and conditios of em7lolment satisfactory to
iDa (para. 3.28, 3.29 and 5.11); and
(d)   a project Coordination CommLttee would be established comprising
reprosetatives of the Ministries, the Moos and the donors concerned
(para. 5.10).
7.3         With the assurances and coaditions mentioned above, the project would
be eligible for an IDA credit of am 7X.1 aillion (us 9.7 million equivalent).



39                                     ANNEX -
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC Of BENIN
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
National Food Security Situation and Policy
A.    Current Food Security Situation
1.           Benin has achieved a high degree of food self-sufficiency due to sustained growth in food
production at an overall rate comparable or above population growth of 3.2%. Trotal food production in
Benin is theoretically sufficient, in the aggregate, to cover domestic neAs. However, despite this
relatively favorable situation, the food security objective of providing access by all people at all times to
enough food for an active and healthy life is not reached. About 18% of Benin's population and 30% of
the children are considered to suffer transitorily or chronically from insufficient food intake or other
forms of malnutrition. While food insecurity in Benin is far from being as serious a problem as in the
Sahel countries or other regions suffering from unfavorable natural conditions or major conflicts, the
percentage of malnourished people is significandy higher in Benin than in other neighboring countries
of coastal West Africa with similar climatic and physical conditions.
2.           The main population groups and/or areas at food security risk are: a)low income nrral
populations, in areas where food supply is in deficit and agricultural production insufficiendy diversified,
with limited opportunities for alternative employment and often a poor infrastructure and a weak
commercial network; and b) the urban poor, who have few employment opportunities and suffer from
the highest infant malnutrition rates in the country. In rural areas, limited access to food is mostly
seasonal and usually occurs a few months before harvest. Pockets of more severe and chronic food
insecurity are located in: (i) some enclaved areas in the northern part of the country, where the lack of
adequate communication is compounded by poor soil quality and a high degree of erosion; (ii)
overpopulated ares in the south, where land holdings are small and increasingly fragmented and severe
soil degradation is taking place; and (iii) coastal areas, where fishermen are experiencing depletion of the
resource base with little diversification opportunities.
3.          'Me lack of income sources and financial means, combined with weak distribution systems
in remote areas, are the main constraints in accessing food supplies in adequate quantity and quality.
Domestic food prices for main staples have shown a distinct declining trend over the last 10-15 years,
with a concomitant reduction in food costs for urban consumers. Ibis, however, has had litde or no
positive effet on food security in urban areas, as employment opportunities have remained extremely
limited and urban wages have also been on a declining tred. The declining profitability of agricultural
production, at least in those areas where no major export crop such as cotton can be grown, has
contributed to a significant out-migration from nrur to urban areas; in the absence of any significant
development of alternative employment opportunities, this ha, translated into an increase in the number
of under- or unemployed people in urban areas, who experience serious difficuldties in obtaining adequate
access to food.



- 40 -                                 ANNE&I
Page 2 of 6
4.           Declining prices for food crops are explained by a combination of factors. In the late
1970s and first half of the 1980s, substantial quantities of food products (mcluding yams, cassava and
maize) were exported to neighboring Nigeria, where the oil boom had translated into a significant
increase in food prices and consumers' demand together with a marked decline of the agricultural sector.
From the mid-1980s onwards, economic difficulties in Nigeria resulted in a decrease in consumers'
demand and purchasing power which, together with successive devaluations of the Nigerian currency,
led to a substantial reduction of food imports from Benin. Since then, the monetary and economic policies
adopted by the Nigerian Government have fostered a resumption of agricultural production in Nigeria,
together with a decrease in food prices expressed in CFAF and a reduction in the competitiveness of
Benin's food production. Food imports (e.g. maize) from Nigeria to Benin are not uncommon. The unit
prices of rice and wheat flour imports on Benin's market have also been on a declining trend which,
together with the low purchasing power of most urban consumers, leads to increased competition for
domestic food production thus pushing its prices downwards. The recent devaluation of the CFAF will
offer new market opportunities by rendering local products more competitive for export and permitting
the development of more traditional crops on the domestic market by substituting food imports which
would now become more expensive.
5.           In rural areas, low food prices only benefit those producers who have alternative
production or income opportunities and who possibly grow cash crops to purchase food. Li areas where
food crops are the major or even the sole agricultural production opportunity, low prices lead to the sale
of an increased share of production in order to meet the farmers' incompressible monetary needs. As the
productive capacity is quite limited under the prevailing rudimentary hand-labor techniques, this translates
in some cases into serious restrictions in the quantitative and qutlitative food intake of the producer and
his family. Indebtedness and/or other pressing monetary needs also lead to a disproportionate share of
production being sold immediately after harvest, at a time w'i a prices are at their lowest, only to face
later in the season the need to purchase food at a much less favorable price and credit conditions. Storage
constaints, particularly in the south where conservation is made difficult by the humidity and insects,
also hamper the farmers' capacity to store their uroduction for home consumption and/or sale at a more
favorable time of the year.
6.           Seasonal price fluctuations are quite high, particularly for maize and other cereals. This
reflects both the limited storage capacity at farm level, and the commercial practices of food traders and
other intermediaries in the food trading chain, who are often short of working capital and try accordingly
to achieve the highest possible rotation of their food stocks. These large price fluctuations have a negative
influence on food security, as low income consumers are particularly hurt by large seasonal price
increases. The producers' incentive to invest in agricultural intensification, food production and/or
processing for the market is also reduced by the high commercial risks involved in these activities.
7.           In the long run, achieving durable food security in Benin will depend primarily on the
adoption of appropriate macro-economic and sectoral policies that would be conducive to improvements
in the competitiveness of the economy and in the productivity of labor for food crops and other
agricultural products, while at the same time fostering the emergence of alternative employment
opportnites both in rural and urban areas. The recent adjustment of parity of the CFAF will go a long
way in fostering the path to restoration of competitiveness of domestic production and growth. Education
of women and girls for better population control as a way to promote more demand for family planning
measures would also be important for long-term food security and general poverty alleviation. In the short
and medium term, measures that would contribute to the alleviation of food insecurity for those segments



- 41 -                                  AN          I1
Page 3 of 6
of the population who are most at risk should aim in particular at: () restoring the productive capacity
of the most impoverished producers and consumers, by helping them to invest in small scale production,
processing and service activities; and (ii) improving the fluidity and stability of food markets, in particular
through improvements in the communication network and in the circulation of market information,
developmant of on-farm and village-level marketing, credit and storage facilities, and measures to
facilitate the activities of private trade operators and encourage increased food trade among the countries
of the region so as to promote price stability.
B.    National Food Scurty Policy and Institutions
8.           Until the early 1990s, the concern of Benin's Government for food security was mainly
focused on the problem of periodic droughts and on feeding the urban population at a low price.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, the Government made several attempts to control food markets and
prices, mainly for the intended benefit of urban consumers. These effbrts were, however, quite
unsuccessful and food crop marketing has always remained largely in the hands of the private sector, with
prices set according to market forces. Adminishive hassles, road controls, and cumbersome regulations
or prohibitions nonetheless prevailed until the late 1980s, thus contributing to high transacton costs. Food
crop marketing was officially liberalized in October 1988, but in practice this change took effect only
very gradually as Government agents and/or local authorities have cotinued to try sporadically to control
the circulation and in some cases the prices of food products.
9.           The far-reaching policy changes introduced in Benin from 1990 onwards have led to a
redefinition of the role of the public sector, in the context of a liberal economy where the major role of
the private sector in food marketing is now clearly acknowledged. The strategic choices adopted by the
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) have been stated durming a seminar on the strategy of the rural
sector held in Cotonou in July 1990, and further confirmed in a letter of rural development policy
(LRDP) signed by the Minister of Rural Development in May 1991. The role of the State has been
redefined in the context of the structural adjustment process, with a retrenchment into public functions
and a withdrawal from most direct production, marketing and credit activities. According to this policy
statement, the main objectives of the Beninese Government's rural development policy will be to raise
living standards by winning markets for and improving the competitiveness of Benin's small farmers.
Combating food inseity in the more vulnerable geographic areas and smooth out the 'hungry period'
price peaks has also been singled out by Government as one of its main policy objectives in the LRDP
of May 1991, with a focus to the marketing and processing sector. Particular emphasis has been given
to: opening up and mantning ruril roads; relaxing cusoms and export procedures md improving the
discipline of the road contol services; developing techniques and financial instruments to facilitate
processing and storage of agrictural food products on the farm and at all stages the marketing chain;
regional integration of agricultura markets and their protection, where appropriate, against imports
subsidized at origin; and installation of a system of support for exporters and local dealers, including in
particular a system of continuous information on domestic and world market prices. These measures
would all be tonducive to improvements in the domestic food markets and a reduction in the instability
of food prices.
10.          The Government is also promoting a policy environment conducive to private sector
operations in the distributio, marketing, transport and credit systems. The Government is also aware of
the growing importance of NOOs in intervening in support of grassroots activities in the food security,
nutrition and health sector.



- 42 -                                 ANEX
Page 4 of 6
11.          The various public institutions put in place by Government in the mid-1970s for domestic
marketing of food products had closed down by the early 1980s, as a result of insufficient funding,
mismanagement and stiff competition from informal private trade both domestically and with neighboring
countries. This led to the establishment in 1983 of the National Cereals Office (ONC), which was in
charge of ensuring an adequate supply of cereals to the consumers with a main focus on urban areas.
ONC's initial mandate was to regulate the domestic market through purchase, storage, processing and
marketing of cereals, to ensure the management and distribution of food aid, and to advise Government
on food security issues. ONC was, however, never in a position to fulfill its regulatory function. Its
maize purchases, done mainly through the CARDERs, reached a maximum of about 7,600 tons in 1985
or less than 3.5% of the domestic market and quickly dwindled thereafter to less than 200 tons per year
during the 1988-90 period. Lack of funds was also associated with technical deficiencies resulting in high
physical losses. ONC's storage capacity of more than 37,000 tons was never significantly used for its
initial purpose, and its metallic silos turned out to be largely inappropriate for local commercial practices
and climatic conditions; the Bohicon maize mill with a processing capacity of 30,000 tons, also under
ONC's management, was never put in operation as its completion appeared to be financially unviable
despite substantial sunk costs.
12.          From 1987 onwards, ONC's activities have been in fact quite limited in comparison with
its original mandate, and centered mainly on the conduct of various studies and the establiQhment of a
data collection system with the help of external donors:
(a)   In 1987, a food security study fiuded by FAO concluded on the need to improve food
marketing conditions; reorganize the ONC from a food marketing, storage and processing
agency into a marketing information and assistance agency; establish an early warning
system; set up village and farm level cereal storage capacity; and prov; .e credit to private
traders.
@b) The FAO-assisted Early Warning Project", which started its activities within ONC in
1988 with Norwegian funding, has collected valuable information on the prices, markets
and trade flows of food products throughout the country. It has helped establish a
permanent system for monitoring the prices of food crops on 15 main markets, with
publication of a monthly bulletin describing production and market trends. The
monitoring of production and prices covers the 7 main food crops of Benin (maize,
sorghum/millet, rice, cassava, yam, bean and groundnut). The monthly bulletin is,
however, often published with some delay, and the main recipients tend to be the various
ministries and external aid agencies. Starting in 1992, efforts have been made jointly by
ONC and the CARDER-Borgou to disseminate prices on a wider scale and on a more
frequent basis, by using radio broadcast services and placarding weekly price information
on markets and other strategic places. This service has been appreciated in particular by
producers and consumers, but its effectiveness remains limited and more should be done
in order to broaden the diffusion of price information as a tool for promoting improved
market transparency and facilitating the operations of traders and other private operators.
(c)    The German bilateral aid (G0Z) has provided technical assistance to ONC from 1989
onwards for an initial period of two years, in order to help define a coh'zent national
food security policy taking into account the new liberal policy ciientations of
Government. A total of 19 studies have been completed on specific subjects, which have
contributed to an improved knowledge of Benin's food security sitation and in particular



-43 -A-
Page 5 of 6
the functioning of its food marketing systems. Assistance has also been provided to ONC
in its restructuring process (para. 13 below), and a general cartography of food secudty
issues in Benin has been produced.
13.          In this context, the mission of ONC has been redefined and it has been restructured by
a decree of September 23, 1992, which formally endorsed a study of ONC's restructurlg done in 1992
on the basis of the analysis carried out with the help of GIZ. Rather than trying to regulate the market
through the constitution of rarely needed and costiy 'strategic' stocks, as had been the case in the past,
the new agency - now called National Office for Food Security Support (ONASA) - will aim at
facilitating the commercialization of food crops by private operators both within the coutry and at the
regional level, and focus on the consolidation, analysis and diffusion of food security information
collected by various entities. ONASA will thus be mainly responsible for managing information on food
prices, markets and production trends, as well as specific data on vulnerable groups; it will retain its
advisory function to Government on food security issues and continue to manage eventu  food aid from
extal donors, while expanding its advisory and information functions for the benefit of private
operators. Storage, on the other hand, wiUl now be mainly enusted to the private sector at village and/or
traders' level.
14.          The preparation of a Comprehensive National Food Security Program (PNCSA) was also
undertaken in 1992-93 with FAO assistance by a team of national and inteational consultants, under
guidance from the National Committee for Food Security Coordination (CNCSA) which has been
established by Government in March 1992. This study, which was debated by a large audience during
a seminar held in Cotonou in May 1993, emphasizes that very few concrete actions have been undertaken
so far in favor of population groups who are at food security risk, both in urban and rural areas.
Accordingly, the PNCSA focuses mainy on areas and population groups at food security risk, and
provides a comprehensive list of actions and programs to be undertaken in order to:
(a)   foster increased food production by households at food security risk in identified priority
geographical areas, mainly through the introduction of susainable technical improvements
in existn production sytems, improve land tenure security, development of farmers'
organitions and improvement of technical services, and promotion of fisheries and
small livestock production;
(b)   stabilize food supply and prices in areas at food security risk, mainly through
improvements in storage and crop management at farm and village level, development
of local markets and improved diffusion of price and market information, construction
and maintenance of feeder roads; and
(c)   improve access to food supply and to better diets for these populations/areas, both
through short term actions (development of alternative income sources in mral areas,
promotion of labor-intensive public works in urban areas, development of small scale
food processing activities) and in a longer term perspective (nutritional training and
family planning programs, improvement of living conditions in mrual and urban areas).
These actions and programs are to be implemented both by public and private entitiaes, with a significant
contribution expected from NMOs and other private operators. A participatory approach will be adopted,
with a main focus on women given their crucial role In ensuring household food security. The study
emphasizes that main pre-requisites for ensuring PNCSA's success would be a broadening of credt



- 44 -                                 ANNEXI
Page 6 of 6
access, increased regional intgration between the food security policies of Benin and its West African
neighbors, and adequate coordination between the various national entities Involved in food security
issues.
1S.          Aside from ONASA, te other main Government institutions Involved in food sewrity
within the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) include the Regional Action and Rural Development
Centets (CARDERs), which are in charge of rura development activities in the field and are currenly
undergoing a process of restructuring, and the Food and Applied Nutrition Directorate (DANA). The
latter is mainy responsible for monitoring the country nutitional situation and preparing nutrition
rehabilitaton schemes; it has also embarked into production activities and manages a baby food
production unit established with Italian aid. The role of DANA is still under review in the context of the
overall reorganization of MDR and, more generally, public services, particularly in view of its
overlapping functions with the Ministry of Health and its contested production mandate currenty
performed at a loss (see Annex 5 for more on nutrition insttutions).



-45 -
Page 1 of 7
RIU3PUBLIC OF DE=I
COMDuMllr-BASE!D FOOID SECURfflY PQS
Mm=te of the Workbh on )Mico roeets blmntto
BackWround. Tbis Annex rWorts the outcome of the major conclusions and recommendations reached
during a workshop on micro-projects implementation held in Cotonou from June 15 to 16, 1993. Were
present at the workshop represenaives of the Govemment, of about 15 national and interaional NGOs,
of DANIDA and of the World Bank.
1.    Introduction
1.    Dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du Projet d'Iterventions Locaes pour la Securitd
Alimentaire, la mission d'evaluation du projet composee de reprseants la Banque Mondiale et de
DANIDA a organise du 15 au 16 juin 1993, un atelier de concertation pour dE=re des mecanismes et
des modalitEs pratiques devant permettre la mise en oeuvre harmonieuse du projet d'interventions locales
pour la sdacrite alimentaire (PILSA).
2.    Le Ministre du Developpement Rural, la Cellule du Projet Pilote et les ONG partenaires ont
participe I cat important debat qui avait Egatement pour objectif de discuter les dispositifs I prendre en
vue de favoriser les participations des ONG dans le processus d'elaboration et de mise en oeuvre du
projet
2.      Obiectif du Poect
3.    Le projet proposo a pour objectif essentiel do permettre au Gouvemement Beninois d'assurer la
securit alimentaire et d'ametiorer la situation nutritionneile des poputidons rurales des zones a risques.
Le projet serait execute par les populations organies avec l'appui des Organisations Non
Gouvernementates qui joueraient le r6le d'intrmEdiares entre los beneficiairos et les sources de
financement, et les garants do la bonne conduite des opErations.
3.    Partenariat Etat-ONG danm le Cadre du PPSA
4.    La phase pilote du projet a permis de promouvoir l e p paeat entre IEtat et les ONG. La mise
en place de structures de gestdon et de concertaton a favors une interaction entre les deux partenaires
et une plus grande fluidite dans la gestion du projet. Les ONG ont alnsi pu garder leur autonomie et leur
approche spcifque en vue de fidre paniciper les IoImunats I leur propre ddveloppement. A cet
egard, des resultats tangibles out Ete obte  sm   dans les domaines de l'augmentation de la
productivitE, de la gestion des micro-projets, de l'augmentation des reveus et de Ia raisation de micro-
infrastructures.
5.    Un consensus s'est par aflleurs ddgagd sur le fait qu'il fallait amdliorer la capacite des ONG
(surtout internationales) dans les domaines du diagnostic participatif et d'une meileure comnssnce de
l'environnement soclo-ulturl des projets. La coordiation el l1 rapprochelent des bEnEficiaires avec
les services techniques d'appui au monde rural prEsents sur 1e terra, s'av ait galement nEcessaire



-  46 -                                ANNEX2
Page 2 of 7
et devrait etre un domaine d'amelioration du PILSA.
6.    D'une maniere generale, ce partenariat vient conflrmer la tendance actuelle des Etats Africains
engages dans un processus ddmocratique de promouvoir la participation de la societe civile dans le
developpement socio-4conomique des pays. La participation des ONG dans la mise en oeuvre du PILSA
s'inscrit dans cette dynamique.
4.    La Mise en Oeuvre Institutionnelle et Technique du PILSA
7.    Les debats fructueux du seminaire ont abouti a un consensus general sur les mecanismes
techniques et institutionnels du projet. Nous retiendrons:
4.1. LePartenardat
8.    Le projet PILSA prendra "ses racines" sur les experiences de la phase pilote et renforcera le
partenariat Beneflciaires-ONG-Etat par la promotion d'une approche participative garante de son succes.
Un mecanisme de collaboration plus etendu entre les groupements villageois, les ONG et autres
intervenants dans le monde rural. L'objectif devrait consister a instaurer un climat de confiance et de
complementarit6 dans la mise en oeuvre harmonieuse du projet Le m6canisme de partenariat devrait
prendre la forme de contrats specifiant les droits et les devoirs de chaque partie prenante dans le projet.
9.    Le PILSA devrait avoir comme caractdristique principale d'8tre un projet ouvert qui viendrait en
appui dans la realisation des micro-projets identifies et mis en oeuvre pendant toute la dur6e du projet par
les groupements organises, avec lappui des ONG (sponsors) qui seralent des intermedisires entre les
communautds et les sources de financement, et le garant de Ia bonne marche du projet. Un manuel de
procedures serait elabore pour reglementer le partenariat et definir les criteres d'eligibilit6, les
m6canismes de mise en oeuvre et les procedures d'evaluation.
4.2    Les critbres d'Elidbilitd des b6ndficdaires
10.   Le projet PILSA devrait intervenir prioritairement dans les zones I risques definies antEicurement
dans la phase pilote. Toutefois, une mise I jour de la cartographie alimentaire permettait l'actualisation
de la situation des zones I risques. A l'int6rieur de ces zones, le projet interviendrait selon une approche
communautaire privilegiant les groupes organises par rapport aux individus, les interventions devant
toutefois We ciblees en priorite vers les groupes vulnerables. De plus un effort de sensibilisation et de
regroupement dokt ee mene & 1'endroit des individus marginalises.
11. Dans le cadre de la realisation des micro-infrastructures, la demande devrait Wre exprimee par
les communautes villageoises organisees.
4.3. Les criteres d'eligibilite des micro-projets
12.   Trois types de projets ont ete d6finis. La liste ci-dessous pr6seate quelques exemples
Les projets gdnrateurs de revenus: i) petit dlevage(mouton, porcin, volaille); ii) fabrication de
l'huile de palme, d'arachide; iii) fabrication de beurre de karite; iv) sdchage de poissons; v)
transformation des cdrdales et tubercules; vi) pisciculture. Etc..



- 47 -                                 ANX
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
Les projets socdo-conomiques: i) banques de cereales; ii) accroissement de la production
(techniques culturales, fosses fumibres); iii) jardins maralchers; iv) lutte anti-erosive; v) amenagement
de bas-fonds..Etc..
Les projets micro-infrastructures: i) pistes rurales; ii) ponceaux; iii) guds; iv) puits; v) radiers
Etc..
13.   Ces trois types de projets, auxquels s'ajouteraient les interventions nutritionnelles, devraient Otre
conformes aux objectifs globaux du PILSA. Les micro-projets devraient faire l'objet d'une etude de
factibilit6 a mener par les sponsors avec l'appui du PILSA en vue de determiner les activites a mener et
leur coherence avec le milieu. Une contribution initiale des beneficiaires serait requise en nature et/ou
en especes (voir crit0res mise en oeuvre du projet).
14.   La prioritd serait donnee aux projets generateurs de revenus presentes par les groupements de
femmes ( au moins 50% des financements).
4.4. Les critbres d'eligibilite des sponsors (ONG)
15.   Le sponsor est une Organisation Non Gouvernementale (ONG) confessionnelle et non
confessionnelle officiellement reconnue et capable de jouer un rOle d'intermndiation entre l'Etat et les
bdneficiaires dans la mise en oeuvre du PILSA.
16.   Le sponsor devrait avoir au moins 2 ans d'experience dans le domaine des micro-projets
communautaires et une expertise technique dans la sensibilisation, la formulation et l'execution des micro-
projets. 11 devrait en outre avoir des capacites et experience de gestion financiere et de transfert de
competences aux comnrnautes rurales pour une perennisation des activites. Son personnel de terrain dans
le cadre du PILSA devrait Wre experimente et libre de toute autre obligation.
17.   Si le sponsor est une ONG internationale elle devrait avoir une bonne connaissance du milieu et
etre capable de s'associer a une autre ONG ou association locale de developpement pour une meilleure
intdgration du projet dans le milieu et une continuite de Plaction.
18.   Le sponsor devrait Wre capable de collaborer et de tisser des liens de cooperation avec les services
techniques de l'Etat, les autorites locales et autres personnes ressources ou services presents dans la zone
du projet (reseau de credit mutuel). Le sponsor devrait Wtre responsable de l'information et de la
sensibilisation des populations cibles mx objectifs du projet.
19.   Une association de dhveloppement ne pourrait pas Wtre directement eligible en tant que sponsor.
Par contre elle aurait un rOle important I joaer pour faciliter une meilleure integration dans le milieu et
hventuellement assurer la releve.
20.   Par ailleurs les bailleurs de fonds devraient Otre consultds avant acceptation et financement de
toute nouvelle ONG dans le PILSA.
4.5. La mise en oeuvre du projet
21.   Un consensus s'est dEgage que la comprehension des enjeux culturels et socio-conomiques du
milieu revftent une importance primordiale dans le succts des activites et devront sous-tendre tout effort



- 48 -                                 ANNEX2
Page 4 of 7
de sensibilisation, d'identification, de preparation et d'execution des projets. A cet effet il faudra assurer
: a) une comprehension et une appropriation du projet par les beneficiaires; b) une approche participative
pour stimuler la motivation des groupes locaux, une meilleure comprehension des blocages et une
identification et formulation des projets qui puisse veritablement tirer parti des connaissances locales.
22.   En outre les sponsors seraient charges d'assurer la formation des beneficiaires dans les techniques
de gestion, d'organisation, de maintenance des equipements, d'organisation des activites et d'auto-gestion.
ls devraient faire appel aux techniciens existants dans la zone en cas de besoin.
23.   L'intervention des ONG sur le terrain s'apparente I une approche Tetude-actionM dans laquelle
toute la partie relative I l'etude du milieu et l'identification des projets fait partie du projet lui-m8me.
Dans cet esprit une participation du PILSA au financement des etudes preliminaires aux activites
d'intorvention proprement dites, serait necessaire.
24.   Le PILSA devrait par ailleur appuyer les ONG dans ce travail de prdparation et jouer beaucoup
plus un rOle de facilitateur et orientateur au service des beneffciaires et de leur sponsor.
4.6. Les =rojets generateurs de revenus
25.   L'augmentation des revenus des populations cibles dans les zones du projet serait poursuivie par
.e promotion d'activites generatrices de revenus et en permettant aux groupements beneficiaires d'accEder
k des sources de financement.
a) Le credit I court terme
26.   Un consensus s'est ddgage pour deconseiller des pratiques qui pourraient porter atteinte ou
exercer une concurrence deloyale au reseau de credit mutuel qni represente actuellement la seule source
de credit court terme durable. Toutefois, la majorite du monde rural, particulierement dans les zones les
plus defavorisee, n'a pas acces I ces services. Les ONG pourraient jouer un rBle de catalyseur, en
collaboration avec le rEseau mutuel, et permettre de toucher un public plus vaste avec l'objectif de
mobiliser progressivement plus d'epargne et de faciliter l'intdgration dans un systeme d'intermediation
financire durable. Dans cet esprit les ONG pourraient octroyer du crEdit court terme avec les modalites
suivantes:
Dans la mesure du possible les beneficiaires seraient encourages I constituer des
groupements d'epargne-cidt.
Le tax d'intEr8t du crddit devrait Wtre apprecie selon les circonstances de la zone en
collaboration avec le reseau mutuel et devrait tendre progressivement vers les taux
CLCAM (actuellement 24% par an) sur une pdriode ne pouvant exceder trois ans.
GEnEralement le taux initial serait autour de 15%. Les beneficiaires devraient par
consequent ouvrir un compte I la CLCAM afin de shabituer I ce service charge de
l'octroi de credit I court terme dans le monde rural.
Le sponsor veillerait au suivi et au recouvrement du credit. Un contrat lierait le sponsor
et les beneficiaires definissant les droits et obligations de chacun et les modalites de
remboursement.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
b) Le credit a moyen terme
27.   II serait essentiellement appliqu6 aux beneficiaires engages dans des activites generatrices de
revenus pour le financement d'equipement.
28.   La contribution des beneficiaires serait de 20 % du cost de l'investissement (equipement),en
espece ou en nature. De plus, pour assurer la durabilite du financement et permettre la constitution d'un
fond de roulement local, les beneficiaires devraient reconstituer au moins le capital initial et assurer le
prise en charge des coOts recurrents et d'entretien. La duree de remboursement ne devi pas ddpasser
une periode de trols (3) ans. Le sponsor veillerait:
-     I effectuer les etudes de factibilite de I'activite et a s'assurer qu'il s'agit d'une demande
solvable et d'une activitd rentable
-      i aider les beneficiaires dans le choix de l'equipement et I sa maintenance
-     au suivi rigoureux des activites, de la gestion du  projet et du recouvrement de
l'investissement
-     I la constitution d'une epargne volontaire aupres des beneficiaires afin de resoudre les
problemes eventuels de charges recurrentes.
-     Un contrat lierait le sponsor aux beneficiaires du credit de moyen terme.
c) Le credit aux individus
29.   Le credit aux individus devrait Wre coherent avec l'objectif du PILSA et pourrait 8re octroye
dans la mesure ot il facilite et maximise d'une facon generale les chances de succes des activites
generatrices de revenu dans la zone. 11 s'agirait en fait d'appui a la micro-entreprise privee et devat faire
l'objet de pratiques de type commerciales. Par exemple: la constitution d'un petit atelier de reparation
de motopompes, l'installation d'un forgeron, etc..
30.   Dans ce cas le credit devrait 8tre cautionne par un groupement, le beneficlaire ou/et le sponsor.
Une contribution initiale devrait aussi etre requise. L'individu devrait pouvoir demontrer qu'il reprEsente
les interets d'autres individus organises et qu'il fait partie d'un reseau de services potentiels. Le sponsor
appuierait le beneficiaire dans la formation et la gestion de l'activite. Le credit serait place au taux de 15
d) Lea mecanismes de recouvrement du credit
31.   Le sponsor serait responsable du recouvrement du credit. n devrait ddposer les sommes pergues
dans un compte bloque de la CLCAM qui serait sous sa signature et celle du chef de la Cellule
decentralisee du projet. Des recouvrement de la totalitd du credit, le compte serait debloque et les fonds
reconstitues pourraient Wre utilises localement pour le financement de nouveaux projets pour le meme
ou un autre groupement.
32.   En cas de non recouvrement du credit par le sponsor, les responsabilites seraient etablies avec
la possibilite d'exclure le sponsor ou/et le beneflciaire d'autres formes d'appui par le projet.



-50-                                    ANNEX2
Page 6 of 7
4.7. Les projets socio-economiques
33.   Pour ces types de projets une partie des costs pourraient Wtre subventionnes selon les
circonstances locales et les types de projets. La contribution des b6neficiaires aux projets socio-
economiques consisterait principalement en une participation en nature dans la realisation des travaux.
En cas de credit les modalites decrites plus haut s'appliqueralent.
4.8. Les micro-infrastructures
34.   Le projet subventionnerait les micro-infrastructures I hauteur de 80 %. Les beneficiaires
contribueraient pour au moins 20 % du collt de l'ouvrage en nature ainsi qu'aux travaux de maintenance
n6cessaires. Le PAM pourrait participer I la realisation des micro-infrastructures sous forme de 'food
for work".
35.   Le sponsor et le projet veilleraient k s'entourer des competences necessaires k l'Etude de facthbilite
des micro-infrastructures. Selon l'importance des travaux la responsabilit6 du suivi et du contr6le sera
I definir en concertation avec les services techniques competants.
5.    La Formation et l'Informatlon
5.1. La formation
36.   La formation a ete retenue comme prioritaire dans la mise en oeuvre du PILSA. Elle s'adresserait
aux sponsors-ONG-associations et responsables du projet. Elle devrait s'articuler autour des themes
suivants : diagnostic et etude du milieu, organisation et mode d'intervention en milieu rural, gestion et
evaluation des projets, gestion du credit. L'accent serait mis sur l'approche participative.
5.2. L'information
37. La circulation de l'linformation k tous les niveaux du PILSA est jugee necessaire. Le PILSA devra
essayer de developper des synergies et de capitaliser les experiences des differentes interventions en vue
d'enrichir les methodes et les activites. La cellule centrale devrait assurer un feed-back aux sponsors afin
qu'ils prennent en compte les recommandations qui pourraient ftre formulees pour une amelioration dans
l'execution du projet.
38.   L'echange d'information et la concertation avec les autres services d'appui au monde rural et avec
les autorites locales est egalement I ameliorer. Ainsi, une revue locale des differentes activites devrait
8tre encouragee. La Cellule centrale et les sponsors devraient mener une campagne d'information aupres
des populations des zones I risques retenues avant le dEbut du projet.
39.   La necessite de mettre en place un bulletin de liaison a egalement ete discutEe. Les modalites de
production de ce bulletin devraient etre precisees.
6.    Les structures de gesdon du PILSA
40.   Le PILSA contrairement I la phase pilote aurait trois structures, une cellule centrale et deux
cellules d6centralisees: l'une pour le Nord du pays et I'autre pour le Sud.



-51 -                                    ANNE2
Page 7 of 7
6.1. Le rdle et les attributions de la celtule centrale
41.    La cellule Centrale devralt avoir pour rOle de gerer le PILSA. Eile aurait pour tiches principales
de: a) Veiller I la mise en oeuvre du projet, assurer une bonne information des ONG sur les modalites
de participation au projet sur la base d'un manuel de procddures, evaluer et approuver les propositions
d'intervention, et coordonner les differentes activites; b) ameliorer l'efficacite des ONG sur le terrain en
appuyant leurs actions en matibre d'animation, diagnostic et mise en oeuvre technique; c) assurer un suivi
regulier de l'execution physique et financiere du  projet; d) organiser des seminaires de
formation/information I l'endroit des sponsors et des beneficiaires; e) evaluer l'impact des actions de
terrain en termes d'alimentation et de nutrition; f) preparer les rapports annuels d'activite; g) r6pondre
aux missions d'audit et de contrOle que pourraient realiser l'Etat ou la Banque Mondiale; h) superviser
les activites des Cellules decentralls6es; et i) etablir des contrats de cooperation entre le Projet et les
sponsors.
6.2. Ie r6le et les attributions des cellules decentralisees
42.   Les deux cellules d6centralisees du PILSA auraient pour but de rapprocher le PILSA des
bdneficiaires et faciliter la comprehension des modalites de leur participation aux activites du projet. De
meme, elles favoriseraient l'interaction entre les bEn6ficiaires et les sponsors pour une plus grande
efficacit6 dans la gestion des micro-projets.
43.    Les cellules decentralisees seraient responsables de: a) apporter un appui technique aux sponsors
dans la formulation de projets; b) analyser et approuver les micro-projets avec l'appui de la Cellule
centrale; les decisions d'approbation des micro-projets se prendraient collegialement; c) faciliter les
contacts entre les services techniques de l'Etat dans la zone, les sponsors et les autorites locales; d) jouer
un r6le catalyseur dans l'organisation et la tenue des revues locales.
7. Le suivi et l'evaluation du projet
44.    Le suivi et l'evaluation du PILSA se ferait I deux niveaux:
(a)    La cellule centrale assurerait un suivi global (suivi d'exdcution, suivi technique et suivi
d'impact) du prejat et sera appuye en cela par les cellules dEcentralisEes. Un rapport
annuel de l'etat d'execution physique et financier du projet serait dtabli I cet effet. Des
indicateurs qualitatifs et quantitatifs seraient formules 4 chaque niveau de suivi pour
mesurer la progression du projet vers ses objectifs globaux et sp6cifiques.    Ds ffli
de suivi d'execution devraient permettre aux sponsors de rapporter leurs activites au
moins semestriellement. ls assureraient le suivi permanent des activites avec la
participation des bEndficiaires.
(b)    L'evaluation du projet devrait 8re effectuee par une structure exterieure au projet.



- 53 -
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIQPB8N1
COMMdUNITYr-BASED POO SECURM
MAodolos  used for thl ienfco
of areas atnd gmOupS at food secut risk
A.           &YMM
1.          Tlb  idetaication of areas and groups at risk of food Iscrity and malutrion was
conducted as part of the pilot phase of tis projecL A food security data bank coverig 77 'sous-
Prdfectures' with series of infomniations over a period of 10 yeas was stablished. It Includes 14
indicators such as annual rainfl, food prices, income, conumption and malition rates among
children. Altogether, over 20,000 data reated to the identfication and the monitoring of household food
security problems were collected. The identification of populaons at risk was conducted as a two stage
process: first the identification of areas where food insecurit is prevaent, then, wthin these areas, the
identification of households at food securiq risk. Ih  firs stage led to the idendfication of 11 first
priority 'sous-Pr6fectures" with a high risk of food shortage and malntiton, and 9 second priority
'sous-Prdfectum" where fators of risk existed, but at a lower degree of severt. Within these areas,
a 'fbod Inseaift  household grid" has been proposed to allow better targetng of the most vlnerable
groups.
B.           Creation of a food secri  dataase
2.           During the pilot phase a data bank was constte with irmaton gathered from a variety
of insttu       and studies. This raised a number of difficulties because data were heterogewous, often
limited to specific regions, and were not always comparable between regions or over time. Additional
first hand data were collected dtrough field work. The analyis has separted caual factors of food
insecrt  (e.g. popuation density, production,...) from their outcome (e.g. matition). Two disdnct
key concepts were used: tha of "areas at ra and of 'populaions at risk".
3.           The method for the identification of the groups at risk is a two stage process. First, the
identification of areas where food insecurt appars prent on the basis of statstical data at the "sous-
PrEeicture' level. Then, within these areas, the identificadon of food inece households, by using a
small mmber of household level indicators collected at the time of micro-oject prepaation. Most of
the indicators selected reflect the limis of land producvity, isolation, mliion and their combination
expresses to a large extent the predominant detemina   of poverty. This 'conergence of evidence'
excludes the poor from rich agrictdual areas becas it intends to focus in a more cost-effective way
on areas of high concentration of poverty or high risk of food inseurity rather than to att t to locate
the poor nationwide.
4.           Popuations at risk of food inseurty are not necessarily malourished at the time of data
collection. On the basis of the local frquency of climatic accidents, some populations can be at high risk
even if the last harvest(s) have been above average. Nor are they necessriy located in regions of highest
ecological risk, since populations livi  In high-risk emvironments may have developed better coping



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
mechanisms than populations located other areas. Moreover, because of a highly variable population
density, the largest number of people suffering from food insecurity are not located in the areas mostly
at ecological risk. The two concepts of 'population at risk" and *areas at risk" are therefore
complementry and do not necessarily overlap.
C.           The indicators used for the identification of areas at risk
5.           Eight indicators were selected to caacteize the leading "causes" of food insecurity: four
of them are linked to agricultura production, two to isolation (enclave areas), one to prices and one to
population pressure on land. Two indices of malnutrition were used to assess the "effect of food
inscurity. At a later stage of the analysis an index of income (REV) was determined from field visit and
prior study. The table below summarz  the indicators used:
Determinants                          Description of the variable
Agricultural production (PRODI) (Low  Food production converted in food energy
level)                                (calories)
Agricult. production (PROD2)(Low level)  Cash value of agricultural production (FCFA)
Agricult. production (PROD3)(Low level)  PROD2 divided by the cost of the daily food
reqireeat(ratio)l
Variation of agricultural production  Coefficient of variation of PROD 1 (perentage)
(PROD4)
Limitation to land use (DEMO)         Area of cultivated land per capita (ha)
Cost of basic diet (PRICE)(High level)  Cost of daily food requirement (CFAF)
Isolation of the "sous prdfecture (ISO!)   Index of isolation of the district Capital
Isolation of villages from markets (1S02)   Index of isolation of villages within the District
Effects                               Description of variables
Malnutrition (NUT1)                   Average rate of malnutrition among children 0-
l______________________________  3 years
Seasonal variation of malnutrition    Ratio of highest to lowest annual rate of
(NUT2)                                malnutrition
6.     Food production converted in food energy per capita (PRODI) indicates that most sous-
Prefectures, with the exception of highly urbanized ones, produce enough food for their basic food
requirements. Three classes were deermined : above 2,000 Kcal per capita; from 2,000 to 1,600 Kcal
per capita; and below 1,600 Kcal per capita. The sous-Prefectures with the most severe food deficit were
located in North Borgou, West Atacora and Mono.



- 55 -
ANNEX3
Page 3 of S
7. The cash value of agricultural production (PROD2) was calculated from food crops and cotton
production using prices from 1986 to 1990. Having taken into account estimates for the cost of inputs,
it is a proxy for agricultural income. Income varies from a few thousand CFAF in poor areas of Mono,
West Atacora and Northern Borgou to over 70,000 CFAF in rich cotton growing zones. There is a
marked overlap between areas suffering from food deficit and low income areas.
8.    The third indicator (PROD3) is the ratio of per capita income to the cost of the per capita daily
food requirement. The food consumption pattern of the population of Benin varies from North to South:
in Borgou and Atacora, the staple food are sorghum and yam. Descending South, in the Department of
Zou, maize and cassava replace gradually sorghum and yam, and in the coastal Departments of Mono,
Atlantique and Oueme, maize and cassava are the staple foods. Using the FAO mapping of food
consumption patterns (in Kgcal/capita/year) and local prices in each "sous-Prefecture", it was possible
to compute the cost of the per capita daily food requirement given prevalent diet patterns. Such cost
ranged from less than 15,000 CFAF to more than 25,000 CFAF. Food intake tends to be more expensive
in the North than in the South, mainly because the caloric unit cost of food (sorghum and yam) is higher
than in the South. 'Sous-Pr6fectures' were classified as food insecure when their average per capita
income equals less than 90 % of the cost of the food requirement, and as food secure when their average
income is equal or over 110 % the cost of their basic diet.
9.    The indicator PROD4 expresses the variability of food production (PROD 1) over a period of ten
years. It is measured as the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean of annual production, expressed
as a percentage.
10.   The two indicators used for isolation are the type of access available to reach the District capital
(ISOI) and the accessibility of villages and markets within the District (IS02), expressed as a percentage
of villages which have a difficult access or no access a all in the rainy season.
11.   Population pressure on land was expressed by the ratio of cultivated land area per the nuber of
household in each sous-pr6fecture. "Sous-prdfectures were grouped in four categories, ranging from over
3 ha per household, more often in the center and the north, to below 0.5 ha per household, a frequent
situation in coastal "sous-Prefectures'. All southern sous-Pr6fectures are in the lowest two categories,
with less than 1 hectare per household.
12.   The two indicators selected to assess the effect of food insecurity are the rates of child
malnutrition by 'sous-Prefecture" and the variability of these rates over time. This was based on the data
collected by Cathwel over almost ten years (1982-1990) of infant and child (aged 0 to 3 years) growth
monitoring using weight for age as the key index of malnutrtion. The threshold of malautrition was 80
% of Harvard growth charts. These data were the best set available in Benin, but they have some
limitations related to the indicator itself - weight for height or height for age are generally considered
as more significative - and to the representativeness of the samples with respect to the population of the
Osous-Pr6fectures'.
13.   Malnutrition rates were divided in four classes: low (below 33%), intermediate (33 to 37%), high
(37 to 40%) and severe (above 40%). Malnutrition rates tend to be higher in the South than in the North;
however, there is no clear geographic pattern. Variability in malnutrition rates was calculated from the
average monthly deviation of the malnutrition rate from the mean. They tend to be more stable in the
South than in the North. In Atacora and Borgou in particular, rates fluctuate by more than 27 % from



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of S
one season to the next. Overall malnutrition peaks from May to July, during the "hungry season", and
is lowest during harvest (September).
D.    'Sous-Prefecures" at risk of food insecui4t
14.   There is not a strict correspondence between the severity (and the variability) of the rates of
malumron and the convergence of indicators of food inscrity. TIis apparent lack of correlation
between *causes" and effects" is not surprising: malnutrition is not caused by food insecurity alore. It
also results from low education levels of mothers, iapopra  weaning practices, inadequate access to
health care, lack of inizon, etc... In addition, food insecurity has the most severe effects where
there are no alterative survival strategies such as migration or off-farm income opportuities, and where
people have not succeeded in developing successful coping medhanisms.
15.   For each indicator, thresholds have been set to determine degrees of severity. In order to test the
sensitivity of food insecurity, a composite index has been computed as the sum of the different indicators,
using different combinations of weights for each indicator. First and second priority zones at risk have
been identified in this way.
16.   The corresponding sous-Pr6fectures' are indicated below.
Department                 First priority areas           Second priority areas
Atacora                    Boukoumb6,Materi               Natitingou, Cobly
Atlantique                 Ouidah                         So-Ava, Kpomass6
aBorgou                     Xr=ma__
Mono                       Bopa, Com6, Grand-Popo         Dogbo
Oueme                      Aguegues, Sem6-Kpodji          Dangbo
Zou                        Za-Kpota,Agbagnizoun           Zagnagnado,
Zogbodom6,Cove



- 57 -
ANiNEX3
Page 5 of 5
E.    C        
17.    Not all households within a sous-Prdfecure  can be expected to be equally at risk. To fiuther
target iterventions, therefore, sinple criteria were detamined to Udenfy the most vulnerable households.
To be opeaonal such criteria have intentionaly been chosen so that they could be easily measurable or
directly visible and avoid more unreliablo and embaasing questions directly reated to income levels and
sources, which may require more in deph aalysis and time.
Crkea                                           J Point acording to crit
lAnd/pon =dio        1. Ar cukad pw capt          1las tha- 0.5 ha; 2- 0.5 to 3 ba, 3Sbove 3 ha.
Depeondey rado       2. No.of ona acvIadivo pae s  Im-over 2; 2-1 to 2; 3m lower than 1.
Equpment and Asid    3. Ownerhip of a plough      1-no; 2-bas asoe; 3   Owne
4. Owneshp of a bicycl       1-no; 2-bis access; 3- owner
5. OwnehIp of MADo           1no; 2-has acocs; 3- owner
HyS&w                6. Safe war                  1-rier, pond or ake; 2-wel; 3-funtain or tap
..       f   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aer.
Cied                 7. Acoe to cred              1-no; 2-tontin only; 3- CLCAM
Food crops           S. P_odu do vs. requremAn of    1 -defic  2-balac; 3-surpl  of sab food
!! ___________       staple  o                                        _food
Chb crops            9. nual inoome fom vegble I -none; 2- 500 to S000 CFAP; 3'- over 5500
I _______   ga8dening                             CPFA
____________  10.Pm oilndor coownUttree           1-      n202- 21 to503ovw50
11. Cotton                   1-none; 2-ls tdan 0.5 ha 3- over 0.5 h.
Animal ownerp        12. Numbr of anml (sheep,    1 -aon; 2-1 to 5; 3- ovwr S
go  Cow,po) pip)
Housing              13. Roof of mai dwln         1-s=r,w 2-old ocorougt baa; 3-now cougated
hV&.
14. Walls of main dwlit      1-mud; 2-xunfrco mud (bleawoo); 3-aemen
Lieacy               15. Number of yes of shootg    1- none; 2- 1 to 3 yean; 3- over 3 yar.
?4alnur              16. M _nutin (am             1-pawen 2osmct be dmnod; 3-sbsut
mesurmn"t of IStb below 5
yn)
20.    On the basis of the above crteria, households to be considered for support through the project
would be asigned a score, lower scores are associated wih greater vulnbility, hence indicating
households to be given priority for inclusion in project interveion. he ceria and the intpretaton
of the resuls may have to be adapted acoording to the diffent regions ad to the relative positon of the
final score in a range varying, in this case, from a maximum of 48 points to a minimum of 16.



- 59 -                                  ANNEX4
Page 1 of 6
KRIHPEG1 OI7 BENIN
COMMUlNITY-BASED POOp SECURJITY PROJ3C
Micmrojects ImlmeWo
A.    InoductiQn
1.           Based on the experience of the pilot phase and preparatory studies, it was found that a
significant share of rural groups and households are deprived of the financW support needed to enhance
productivity. A large demand exists for small tool, mateial, equipment and inputs, and for initat
new income generating activities. Moreover, lack of training in conductng these operations, and poor
financial management of small investment are pervasive. Experience has shown that financing of
equipment only, for the promotion of new activities, without providig the necessary service and support,
leads often to unsustnale inestments. Insufficient preparatory studies of the specific socio-economic
enviromnt and of the feasibility of the operations, has also been conducive to inappropriae financing.
2.           The approach to these constrains requires to build on each specific situation and
bottlmecks and aim at their solution through the empowewaent of the local comuit  and the
promotion of loca development activities at the grassroots level. To be specific and tailored to the
particular needs of the rural groups, activities have to be identified and stdied in dose colaboration with
the local communities themselves. k is proposed, under this project, that selected NGOs woud assist
nrual groups in designing ad implementing micro-projects aimed at imprving their food security
siuton and alleviating poverty. NMOs would be the sponsor of the proposed opeations, and would
help the beneficiaries access sources of financing. A formal agreement woud be signed between the
project Management Unit and the NGOs for the implementation of the approed micro-projects.
3.           'he approach and the activities proposed are conceived so as to provide the initi
required financia and technical assistance to improve group capacity in managing micro-investments and
reconstituting the financial capital invested in the activity. The project would encourage registration of
the targeted groups in the local CLCAM and promote the establishm  of small savings and loan grups.
Therefore, the project would help address the needs of disadvantagd communes during a transitional
phase before they can bave access to an official financial Intrmediary system and hence enlarge the scope
of their activities. Close coordination with the existing savings and loan coopeative network woud be
sought to foster progressive and susainable integration of project beneficiaries into the existing credit
network for short term credit needs.
4.           An implementaon manual has been prepared in order to define the main criteria for
paticipation to the project and the steps to be completed for microproject preparation and
implementation, as well as procrement and disbursement procedures.
B.    Typ of miroprj    and eliibt  criteria
5.           Below is a pre]mnri list of possible type of micro-projects and their financing critea.
However, the project w   i       : a) activities and works of high technicality, difficult to manage,
that cannot be maintained by the beneficiaries or that reqWire the per=ma     intervention of the NGO; b)



- 60 -                                 AN4
Page 2 of 6
operations already included in other programs or which have been eliinaed fom t  public lnvestnt
program; c) major social inrucres, health centers, schools, electification ad the purchas of land;
and d) micro-projects with a negative impact on the environment
1. Income geneajgativites
6.           These actvities specifically benefit to organized groups and are Intended to impro
communies' food self-sufficisecy and cash Income. Ihe project would fiance, In the form of grants,
the purchase of the equipment, assets and inputs required for theplemetaton of the activities, and the
related ting. However, the NGO responsible with implementing the operations would set up and
manage a credit scheme in order to have a revolving fond and ens   sustalnabUity of the acties.
These include:
(a)    fang of small umina, fisheries, honey poucton, poultry raisng, etc
(b)   food processing and transoation: proceing of cassava into "garl and chps,
traction of palm and coconut oil, conservation unt, fish smokng, shelling of
groundnut and rice, saponification, etc.;
(c)   suport to agricutual production: small Irrigation pumps, oxen carts, veriny
Material, etc.;
(d)   small wading actvities for women groups and food marketing.
7.                          rteh l bese micro-project will have to dmonstrte that:
(a)   they have a financi  rate of retur of at least 15% and thy pennit to hiprove
significantiy the retuns to labor of the family;
(b)   sva:'bifity of produce outdet and maket  capacit of the group;
(c)   existence of sufficient intemal cohesion of the group for the orgnizatn and
management of the acvi and setting up of a management committee;
(d)   they will be subject to a formal agreement between the beneficiary and the NGO defining
cost recovery arangements;
(e)   financing for equipments and inputs, subject to cost recovery, would not exceed FCFA
1.5 million per group;
(M)    finaning does not substitute other source of fuids and is taged   to groups which do
not have access to formal sources of credit;
(g)   they include the co ning  aining prog



- 61 -
Page 3 of 6
2. Socio-eonomic mlgMEQrjects
8.           They refer to community micro-projects aiming at improving income and food socrity
and requiring small constructions, land development or rural worss of a productive nature, and relatd
trainng. They comprise:
(a)    decentalized community storage;
(b)   land development, small irrigaton, bottom-land development, vegetable gudens,
watershied management, compost production, tree nurseries; and
(c)    handicraft activities and transport facilities (carts) that could ease womens' workload,
improved stoves to reduce fuelwood use.
9.           Fiancing criteria. These activities must demonstrate that:
(a)   they improve food security or nutrition standards, they have a financial rate of retu  of
at least 10% and improve significandy the returns to labor of the family;
(b)   they include satisfaory aran_gemen for the coverage of recurrent costs, operationS and
maintenance, and a management committee has been set up;
(c)   availability of produce outlet and marketing capacity of the group;
(d)   land tenure arrangements are clearly established and there are no conflicts;
(e)   they are subject to a formal agreement between the beneficiary group and the NGO
defining cost recovery arrangements;
(t)   financing for equipment and inputs, subject to cost recovery, would not exceed FCFA
1.5 million per group;
(g)   financing does not substitte other sources of funds and is targeted to groups which do
not have access to formal sources of credit; and
(h)   they include the corresponding training program.
3. Micro-infastructures
10.          Most of these activities aim at providing assistance in the solution of clearly dentified
constraints particularly in the most remote and unacemsle areas. They would particarly help reolve
modest but very common and widespread transport constraints, which, although requiing ittl financial
input, are neglected by more classic public interventions. They comprise:
(a)   improvement of vilage access and feeder roads, the rehabilitation of small structures
(small bridges, fords);
(b)   the rehabilitation of market place facilities, village wells and livestock watering point.



- 62 -
Page 4 of 6
11.          Fiing criteria. These projects will have to demonstrate:
(a)   that their cost does not exceed FCFA 30 million;
(b)   that the volume of traffic, transport means, accessibility period, nber of direct and
indirect beneficiaries, present alternatives and costs and benefits justify the proposed
investment;
(c)   the willing participation and commitment to the mainteance of the micro-infrastructures
by the local communities concerned is assured;
(d)   that works are technically feasible and must receive the support from available specialized
technical services (NGO, CARDER, MTPT, or consultant), to verify their adequacy with
the requirements;
(e)   that the costs for rehabilitation and mantenance of feeder roads are in conformity with
observed local norms and the labor intensive approach is preferred to the mechanical one.
C.    Beneficiaries and eligibility criteria
12.          For income eenerating and soclo-cnomic activities, project beneficiaries are the rural
groups legally or traditionally recognized. To be eligible it would have to be demonstated that:
(a)   they are composed by at least 5 persons, including a president, a treasurer and a secretary
(names to be provided);
(b)   they are an homogenous group, socially coherent and mutually responsible, capable to
mobilize the required resources to implement and maintain the micro-project;
(c)   they are eligible according to the household evaluation grid (see Annex 3);
(d)   they have no access to formal sources of credit;
(e)   they keep simplified forms of records or accounts;
(     they prove their motivation and commitment by contributing at least 20% of total project
costs in kind and/or cash, the cash contribuion wll have to be of at least 10%;
(g)   they accept to be "sponsored" by an eligible NGO, follow its advises, respect the rights
and obligations of the formal agreement to be signed with the sponsor, and comply with
cost recovery requirements; and
(h)   they do not have outstanding debts with other instittions or projects.
13.          Individuals could benefit from project financing only if their activity is guarteed by a
group and by the sponsoring NGO. In addition to the mandatory 20% inWial contribution, they also would
have to provide collaterals covering the amount of the financing. In these cases it has to be demonstrad



- 63 -                                   ANNEX4
Page 5 of 6
that the activity proposed would have an Important impact on the feasibility and sustanability of the other
micro-projects in the zone (blacksmith for oxen equipment, mechanics for pumps repair).
14.          For micr&-infiutructures, the beneficiaries would be the local governments and organized
rural communitis who express the request through a NGO, after approval of local authorities. The
community will have to be represented by a management committee and will have to provide its labor
for maintenance with no remuneration. Beneficiaries' in-kind initi conribution will have to be of at
least 20% of the total cost of the investment.
D.    Sponsors and eligibility criteria
15.         ITe sponsor is a non-governmental organization or association officially recognized and
of non-lucrative purpose. Its objectives are the development of local rural communities and it is capable
of playing a role of intermediary between the State and the bneficiaries. Sponsors must comply with
the following general conditions:
(a)    be legally constituted and officially recognized in the Republic of Benin;
(b)   have at least two years of experience in the preparation and implemeion of community
development micro-projects;
(c)    have demonsted financial mangement and technology transfer capacity to rural
communities;
(d)   field staff for project implementation is competent and at the complete disposal of the
project;
(d)   interaonal NGOs would accept to enter into "joint ventures" with national NGOs or
Development Associations to ensure contiity and susailnaity; and
(e)   each sponsor intevention proposals would not exceed the total annual cost of FCFA 40
million (US$70,000), NGO staff cost excluded.
16.          Other specific eligibility critia would be checked against the following table. The
sponsors would need 50 points to be eligible.



Page 6 of 6
l ______________________________________________  Maximum    Points  Criteria  for Attribution
A. Experience
* Years of activity in Benin or in the sub-region  5          1 per year
e Number of similar projects                    10            1 per project
'Experience of the proposed field staff         15           judgement CV
e Number of field staff                         10            1 per pers.
* Knowledge of the Intervention area            10           judgement
B. Management
* Accounts available                             6            yes/no
Propect budgets manoed (2 at yea)               5            111.000.000CFA
* Experience of support technical staff          10           Judgerient CV
o Number contractual staff (central)             5            1 per pers.
C. Organization and logistic
* Logistic capacity (office, vehicles)           5            judgement
* Previous donor financing                       5            judgement
* Established at local level                    15            judgement
and enjoying community confidence          I
,LTOTAL                                            100
E.                              .
17.          The Implementtion Manual describes the procedures and the steps to be followed for
micro-project preparation, implementation and financing. Such a manual has been prepared by the
Government, the N5O community and IDA during two workshops and agreed upon between the
Government and IDA during negotiations. Once a micro-project has been appraised and approved, MMU
will sign a contract with the sponsoring NGO clearly defining the rights and obligations of each party,
including the obligations of the sponsor to enforce the reimbursement of the capital costs, where
applicable. In that respect, NGOs and the beneficiaies' groups they are supporting, would also enter
into a formal agreement specifying the cost recovery schedue and mechanisms. The NGOs performance
would be reviewed anually agait moniorable tget nicat  when prepartig and discussing the work
plan and budgets for the following year. The case of non-perfrming NGOs would be discussed at the
Coordination Comnittee level at the request of the MMU, and contracts could be tminated if required.
18.          For income generating and socio-economic activities, within the financing limits set
above, NGOs and beneficiaries' groups would be responsible for imple ion and will enter into
contracts, if necessary, with artisans, local outreach agents ( anima ), small enterprises, and
suppliers. For micro-infrastructure projects below US$6,000, the NGOs and the beneficiaries' committee
will be responsible for organizing the work, supply of *food-for-work, and contract individual workers
('tcherons').
19.          For works above US$6,000, the MMU would eater into contracts with small enterprises,
and may also contract technical assistance (NGOs, local units of technical Ministries, engineers) for the
preparation of preliminary studies and specifications. For works above US$30,000 local bidding would
be used for contracting small and medium enterprises to carry out the works. MMU would contract local
consultants or engineer services to prepare the technical specifications, supense the works and cary out
the preliminary acceptance.  The decentralzed technical sevices of the CARDER and MTPT would
conduct the final acceptance of the works. The project would not finance works above US$55,000.



- 65 -                                   ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURlTY PROJECT
Proiect Benefits - Micro-ProJects Financial Feasibility
A.    Overall Proect Impact
1.    The Project aims at improving the food security and nutritional status of the most disadvantaged
segments of Benin's rural population, in selected areas which are identified as particularly prone to food
insecurity and/or nutritional disorders. A total of about 20 sites wsous-prefecturesu have been selected
for initial project acdvities, encompassing a total population of about 1.1 million people of which about
75% living in rural areas. In those targeted zones, and possibly others to be identified during project
implementation, the project will provide financial and technical support to conduct various income
generating and socio-economic activities, infrastructure development and nutrition interventions. All field
activities will be carried out with the assistance of NGOs and the active participation of the beneficiaries.
2.    Over the five-year project implementation period, it is estimated that some 1,500 farmers' groups
of about 10 members each on average (.e. a total of about 15,000 farm households, or 100,000 people
with an average of 7 persons per household) will be direcdy involved in the project's income generating
ocio-onomic activities. These activities will contribute to communities' food self-sufficiency and
better revenues through: a) the development of food and animal production (food crops, fish, livestock);
b) small scale food processing; c) improvement of the population's storage and marketing capacities.
Through these activities, not only will the community benefit from added agricultual production capacity
and potential, but also from the fact that many services which were previously provided by outside
operators, such as trade and small scale food processing, will be increasingly undertaken at the local level
with a concomitant increase in local value added and incomes. The project will thus contribute to
reducing food insecurity by reactivating local initiatives and economies. Corresponding costs and benefits
are fiurher analyzed below for a number of typical activities.
3.    The development of rural inf u  will be of benefit to a larger share of rural population,
which can be roughly estimated at about 30% of the total population in the project area (i.e. an estimated
300,000 people). In particular, improvement of the rural roads and tracks network and associated
structures (e.g. small bridges), will contribute to reducing the isolation which characterizes many food
insecure areas, thereby facilitating village integration io regional economies. Other rural infrastructure
such as village water supply, improvement of market places, etc. will also translate into a significant
increase in living standards and in the development of local economies.
4.    The nutrition interventions of the project will permit the improvement of the nutritional status of
the most disadvantaged populations who currently suffer from serious proteino-energetic, vitamin or
mineral deficiencies (e.g. vitamin A, iodine, iron). Nutrition interventions are designed to broaden the
development impact of the micro-projects by ensuring that increased income and access to food will be
used in ways which improve nutrition. The commuiy nutrition program to be implemented at the
village level would monitor growth of about 48,000 children and about 20,000 lactating or pregnant
women. The intervention aims at an overall reduction of malnutrition of about 30%.



-66-                                    ANNEX
Page 2 of 11
5.    In addition to these various benefits with a direct impact on the beneficiary population, the project
will also contribute to the financing of a national monitoring and information system for food security.
It will thus improve the understanding of the food security situation in Benin, and allow a continuous
updating of the national food security strategy together with improved targeting of actions on vulnerable
populations and areas at risk. The project will also finance the preparation of a national nutrition strategy
and contribute to a better definition of the role of the different institutions and actors involved for
enhanced strategic coherence and better use of scarce resources according to national priorities.
6.    The project will help develop hands-on experience and define appropriate and replicable tools for
addressing identified food security constraints at the local level. The institutional approach adopted by
the project will help develop partnership and complementarity between public services and decentralized
decision-making by NGOs for support to local communities. Such a collaboration between NGOs and
public services will foster new opportunities for better addressing specific problems and promoting viable
community-based initiatives. The Project will encourage the emergence and development of local NGOs
in Benin, which will subsequently be in a position to play an expanding role in providing support to the
rral sector.
B.    Financial Feasibility of Selected Project Activities
7.    The project would finance activities on a grant basis o"lv, and therefore would not act as a
lending agency. However, for the implementation of income g   ating and socio-economic activities,
the NGOs sponsoring the micro-projects would put in place at" manage small credit schemes so to
constitute a revolving fund at the local level and promote sustainability.
a)    Income generating and socio-economIc activities
8.    Both income generating and socio-economic activities are expected to generate additional food
production and/or revenues, thus contributing to the alleviation of food insecurity and poverty in the
project area. For these activities, an initial contribution in cash and/or in kind from the beneficiaries,
equivalent to a minimum of 20% of the total investment cost, will be required. Project financing would
be granted as follows:
i)    financing for equipment, assets or inputs for income generating activities (e.g. equipment
for fishermen, breeding and/or fattening of small ruminants or pigs, production and /or
processing of cassava and other food products, small scale trading, etc.) will be
authorized by the project with full cost recovery and adequate interest rates from the
beneficiaries, as these activities allow a faidy quick return on the initial investment;
ii)    socio-economic activities (e.g. bottomlands development, establishment of fish-ponds,
vegetable home-gardens, storage facilities, etc.) will usually require some rural works or
constructions which are beyond the means of most impoverished village communities.
These initial investments costs would be financed by the project on a grant basis. Such
financing is justified on the grounds of their food self-sufficiency objective and of their
socio-economic impact. They are expected to be of benefit mainly to the poorest
segments of village communities.
9.    Short term financing would be required mainly for agricultural production and processing
operations, and revolving fumds for small trading activities. The interest rate requested would be fixed



- 67 -                                 AN
Page 3 of 11
according to prevailing circumstances and in coordination with the local cooperative credit branch
(CLCAM). The interest rate would gradually increase to reach the level practiced by the CLCAM mutual
credit network (presently 24%) over a period of three years. The initial rate would usually be of at least
12%. Only groups which do not have access to formal sources of financing would be eligible. In this
way, short term financing provided by the project will not create any unfair competition with the CLCAM
network. On the contrary, the NGOs will aim at transferring progressively their short-term financing
activities to this permanent source of short term credit. By encouraging the beneficiaries to take
membership in the CLCAM network, the expansion of the network will be fostered for the benefit of the
poorest fraction of the rural population, who are currently unable to avail themselves of these existing
credit facilities.
10.   At present time, there is no formal institution providing medium term credit in rural areas, as the
CLCAM network only deals with short term credit. Medium term financing would be granted by the
NGOs for income generating and socio-economic activities involving assets or equipment. Full cost
recovery would apply, the initial capital would have to be reconstituted over a maximum period of three
years. Savings would accumulate through payments calculated at replacement costs, inflation being
estimated at about 3% per year, interest on deposits at the prevailing CLCAM rate (currently 3%), and
the useful life being estimated conservatively. The amounts repaid by the beneficiaries will be deposited
in an account opened at the local CLCAM, with transactions requiring two signatures respectively from
the sponsoring NGO and the Project Management Unit.
11.   Cost recovery from the beneficiaries will be under the responsibility of the sponsoring NGO.
Once the cost of the investment has been completely recovered, funds would be used for another initiative
or micro-project for the same or another group. Towards the end of the project implementation period,
remaining funds would either be used for grant financing of rural infrastructure or socio-economic
activities in the community area, or for the continuation and/or expansion of the project concept to other
beneficiaries or areas of food insecurity.
12.   For illustrative purposes, the financial profitability of several typical activities is analyzed in the
attached tables. During project implementation, the actual feasibility of eacn activity or micro-project
will have to be analyzed in detail, taking into account actual farmers' demand as well as the costs and
parameters specific to each area and the corresponding market opportunities. Financing conditions and
the repayment schedule for medium term credits will be determined on a case-by-case basis, based on the
above general guidelines.
13.   In the indicative tables below, crop output including self-onsumption has been valued at local
market prices, and labor at market agricultural labor wages i.e. 500-600 CFAF per manday on average.
Financial rates of return on total investments (including labor) usually range from 20% to more than 50%
and a two to threefold increase in return per labor-day. They can be summarized as follows:



- 68 -
Page 4 of 11
Financial    Labor          Labor
Activity             Total initiali  rate of     remuneration    tremuneration
investment      retum I/    before finano.   dfter finenc.
(CFAF)         t%)           ICFAF/day)     (CFAF/day)
Bottor-land development 11 ha)        523,00o         201 %5    aoo to  20            to 13
Fisheries development (1 ha acada)    6554,000        60%          1;
Establishment of fish-pond lextensve)  97,5            %          *      * 700
(37% after
financing)
Vegetabie garden (400 sq.meters) -     136,000        6i4%-        1,175          1,3S
Pig breeding nuclews R females, 1 male)  1 000        100%         1.550          900
C=s9va proesising unit (gad)          3               58%          1,140           1,010
Cereabank(tons)                   1 45 000       144%          11,140         1700
11 Financial rate of return  f roposeactvtcalcuTante total Investment nclucing labor . without taking into
aooount the proposed fnancing temus.
b)    atuhr
14. The development of rural infrastructure will consist mainly of small works to be carried out at
the village or community level, upon request fom the local population and with its active participation.
Contribution from the beneficiaries will be mainly in the form of labor, with a possibility for the use of
food-for-work from WFP. These activities have to demonstrate that they provide a solution to a clearly
identifed constraint particularly in the most remote and unaccessible areas. The community would
have to be organized in a Committee which will be in charge of organizing local participation to the
works and maintenance. Other indicators would be requested before approving the micro-project such
as: number of potential direct and indirect beneficiaries, traffic importance, present altematives,
benefts and costs.



- 69-ANNEX S
TOW" I                                                                                              Page 5 of 11
A_                                   .
...o    de
caftuftmn    d.,          lOs. 'a                        M          saaim 
-                      10..~~~~~~~~a                   1.05       1AMC
__d                           W_r                             Xo           t
nnb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%                               _ flti
10t                            elm _om
10.                            17.000      00W
_                          W     "     tu tom        nW        mo
_ " ~~~~~~tm
coo.momambso tqIaO00in fcFAb:                        00.7in7XI              66778
Mm. o00om bob 85
2am  _*. Cub kusodA:^
-                                                          m O7
"-     4t    ..l    I                                                            I I
Iim                           t      I n              1.t                    .0W0
-                 ..    Ii                 sa~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~m two
Sam. ooftrn nob                             n
I     80 I_ 1n
Tomomdosw  .ms N1                          MA      M          8.4W                   8.
tOt _a. br_ ' n Wt
sub*W                            J?  1I.4
0008-0    ~ ~ ~    ~    JT 11.0
20W. cauo. Cub 85.0
;   .d                     if      n 
-      m%*ownJr  tao
6bUbsq~~                         Si * o 8^0te s         .
3Omosokuft knob u5W 
S    1_.    t
m              51'  11.0~~~~~~~~2'14            40M        =lM
*_11                   4O.M                  eO04 MIn
usb_oa                                                22014       420         2.6
ubw .d                                                      76 V  O*6   104     12 12 0
subvsdmkodmoa                                              21%        1%
_      h4   0 02
su.CT 71                                                   S7 t28                 071M
-er,
_om                                                     ft.flO                 u.w
00116 307 ANIS 88000ffA1:~ ~~~~~~~IOA12ZIJO
It bCh.m                                              2esm271     .106*12    3i
do  dnoftb                                               107*0 1w6de21u7.00
W _bl                                                   1*12
abso At               SI
21Pu *toud. aob .stba.os I% do seotom d hvohm.*bh
43 to itamido .boooo buestehs 4sg d At
d "    1     *    _~2   d
00 PtAet       wd tea_  d aWI
71 C8dttE n_d*_bdtWrolbd
US 1- ppgOO _pWd   o           m
00% do.000.0.ud'whsmst
71 C04dil swuat t., pMOt _r VA Ne     Md O d      sb dt t         tod_     asd
t6% rSW  bopel. 10 .mako
3~Unkuoodobjodomn utoptteas uqsw  bsu                   _dhook44se  ogs
:.zr Iseou obg 04.ds d_ag 1_mb p0bsopfao.d Con 01t1



1dId13) Mpod"(.wQ Sp Wn"05,Ii4no  " A-o sqwnj 0,VoMP SWp .q in no "uap"       : SW
gsu09uPAq U'.AU.M -n M .W top p4mw 0f amt wswopdiuags sopus Cm
usoqod q 30 sIneqog 03i2t GP liUmodft5 -o id Sp0400J  - 10    lp 109 4 Lp Uq13q04b0*   1*a
.sm *            aauoqwmG- Sp Bp o
*%3                  puwi )1ppp 5 8
*s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f 1W, 40 p sc WWOUOUS
onw-spi sooaq sq  ps uqpi %-sW--imp wwsqMq sollfuo  890 sq 458950 md -wp u.IAW 3pO  i
NPP* B *p- 1P WOIDOI G.AM"  MP WOaUaSOW
op am" OR 18b apw  uAu*p.p snaq asi            w 0-0 - oP
:            e I P - 90W"Wnik op Wpr  IV
-9stad sop aimsoo a. uawpf   in~ se b a"'! v4sed DI P0.8w. *os.I ep UuIoisaII.p 5O00    1 i
*lu a-Da op PM[ jd  ait 0oo
9 9649A4SW OotpMdgoq Sp  nom)mWad.o0 in 5088 Uw*apij GP50o006 1  13
009`1U9q 0 W*  lowU  l*O"a     ,ab    wp t  swanw         'IAto     d us  s 10035810000AM
co,         00a g   SWaBvi      SPWCIS   0bCS03    000.6Ws                                                       ±  W   JiUUUNd              B  00
O        0           0          0           0                                                                                 1L SUP9S,
o o      0           9          0           corm ooe.rn                                                                   Is in *W3
O        0           0          0           0             0  'A0[                                                     Ws   OpAO
000,908   000.t4    000.50      000.55*    ocel03         009'00                                    IV 5015)09Uq * 0W uopioq9ws
030.1                                          unvia_ I"" up UOp of93
.                                S~~~~~~~~~Owt                                        4P_d 0"   P uagmm
%09                                   ORPO"~~~~91~0  gqqw   up tow
000.83*    000.83    00069      000         000.890      02WL        Owen           003   A0033   0NVV SKOW
000003        a      ow OWO 003   0000      00W00                   0Co0en          0S3    000   04                                    od,ls
000.018    own.      oonT       own           w         o            ownb           O t    or     i) 134  0009
003* 000       0009        0000       000*          000000 D                  a       Ds    At39'Ssoq
oes  rDW                   ooo*      e eocr       oo wu         oows          0__   g _ A
eowl  eow              eowl           owl         C&             m            anco Iet  o                                         weo NO _W[
000WO      00*33   0o*3         o00 t    0*  O339                    00503          OR             At                           in _
0          0                    0           a             e                                                           I0053  0M00*  0 *  0*  e  0  uro a"
W0        000        0W1         0ow        *WV           00eo           *Mt   0                It                     -         "P
OwL       O;W        00*5        OWL        OW ON                        OR     01    ii       M
S owa     oos        eoo'                   arODt         ooos" eo                            -                                  s
oW o      OW:>       0e0e1       0                        0d  oouoswi oil                    qast                                Sp""
owe*     §           ootro                  xowes          Weol         _o      s      NO_m mgpW"00g
owoo    ow  0a   owoo            Woot e ws v    oowow et                                                               am"OPPM4
e000o*   000.9e   000.5   e000.9            00'oooS                     0003   t                1
oo"gr    ODD0a    eooolm         oooo       oooo          eeto                                      IL  W"SMM             _ -UP    1     a
0000*~o 00.0  000.0*  *0.0       -0.0          0
0000W0S  *           00001                  00V001        Q0W0                                  13                                -
00003         00            00003e                -at GP _                          S_
g X3NNt                                         - ~~~~~OL -



- 71-                                           ANNEX 5
Tableau 3                                                                                           Page 7 of 11
Pisciculture extenshie Itrou A a issom   20m x 24m x I.ml                                s
du,e    mm t6 Wnt  Prix uni. panuede ow tO.nw       An 0        An 1
_nordm                   MCFA) 8voo onordesen                      A 10
Coft totaux d'invesdwemen  (FCaA) : I/                                           9,750         97,500            0
tewxa de dduhebog etplquetep 21        10tOm     Jr    1.        0              7             750
areueav moanudl du toou 2V             10 VW     Jr    112    500            6,800         56.000
bllFtion doe 4guac 21                  10        JT   12.1    500 W625                      8,250
otu"ge c- ano wnmuniaofn 21            10 am     JT      9      500            450          4.100
pett mnbel (bbchs, peg". seoux m.0n ..J  31w                                 3.000         30.000
Cot mon6talreo d'wploitatln (FCFA): 31                                                0                          0
Travan deorixplotant: 2/                               Jr    16    500            8,000                      8,000
mine an oW. (branehe gee                         Jr    1.5
mib on ehoe (pissono                             Jr    1.6
entetn (dehbgl                                   Jl       1
otae (25 JT Iu    3 enw)                         Jr      7
rdlhe (p'l)                                      i Jr                            .
Revenu brnt IFCFA)                                                              20.800                      20,800
vaeur poison vewdu cu euec_oeommn  4             klg    10    260           20,000                      20,00
SOLDE NET AVANT FUJANCEMENT (FCFA)                                                3,060        4S7,500      12.800
taux de rentabiiit6 finaolre                                                  5%
remuneration du tvil IFCFA/JT                                                691
PLAN DE FNANCEIUENT IFCFA)
contribution initials exploitant 5/                                         3,900        39.000            0
subvention invsstissement                                                   5,850        58,500            0
cr6dit MT                                                                       0              0           0
oredit CT                                                                       0                          0
SOLDE NET APRES FINANCEMENT (FCFA)                                                8,900        -39,000      12,800
remuneration du travail FCFAIT) aps f1nanement                              1,OS6
1/ CoOt. totaux, y compris Is contribution doe bWneficiaires sous forms de trvasi.
2/  La valour monetaire du travail oet osftnim  on moyonne A       500 FCFA par Jour de travai (JT).
3/ Pour m4moire. Los coOto monetaires sont consldir6 commo nigiloeables danm lo modNie de piscioulture
extensivo (empoissonneonent nara per inondation et/ou ohenai do cotmunication et p6ohe done to fleuve
voisin, fertilisadon et arimentadon naturoilo par utillsaton de branchages eticu sous-produits agricoles).
41  Lo randament moyen, qui fluotue fortomnt on raison notammont du caract6re oMatoire de l'empoissonnaftent
naturea, set estime e                     2 tonnes/hat n.
S/ Contribution does exploltants b6n6ficlaires ostim6e a:                               .
40% des oo0t, toteux d'investbssmont.
Note:;      La rentabilite intrinseque de la pisdouture extensive set faibie. compto tnu de l'invostissement initial 6l*v6
on travail valorise A 500 FCFAIJT. Des possibiit6s d'intonoatin plus pousso exitont male no pourront
etre introduites quo progressivemont. La mndeie extwnsif prisent lo ost envisog commne une actvit
dtappoint, destinee avant tout & ameliore Paiamntatdon au nivoau local awvc n6oossiti d'une subvention
partieilo du coOt initial d'invastissement.
La miss an place et l'expiitation du trou A poisson soem offectueo par un groupoment d'uns dizaine de
personnes.
Souree      Estime our Ia base des donndoe fourmis per l projet pOh. elaunaire. mis an oouwe par Is Direction des
POoh, eaw  laide de Is GTZ.



-72-
- 72 -                               ~~~ANNEX5
Page 8 of 11
TobatLez 4
Jo n mweaher 1400 m2l
dudo    W*i com   p.b miL   6afl.stoSW 10 fl        An 0         An 1
.70A)    twaa^l   .mma t _ n               b10
Coat.totaux dlinvestasanord(PCA: 1t                                              31,500        136,000        1.000
PA"                                    10 e.000                                             00,000
sm4li                                  nlae               2   6.000           1.000         1o0.0
bmouett.                                so at                 60.00           4.00            .0
bwmi                                    lam               2   4.000           1.Wo           8.00
pOW,                                    :sm               2   5.000           2,000         10.000
hoaa                                    gem               2   1.000           1,00           RAW0
ehe4                                   2Sam               2   .,ao00          1.0             0
oGu,64upo                     2 *am             2   1500            1.100          3.000
_Ots.                                   SatSerum              1,00      t       0           110
bhiata                                  1son              1   4.000             o00          4,000
outdo at pul                             I an             I 1   1.000         1              1.000        1.oo0
Coat mon6tak" d'xpiltathan (PFCFAj:                                              19,760           .     -    19.760
"Oh"      85    310                                      12,210
a      a               0                          0
a  Im.cda3dee                                  h.ll.~~~~~~~~~~~~~af  5   14250  7.600                    7.500
TwvsU de rexkoutu: 21                                  nT    122    600          73.200                      73.200
RFvenu bnat (FCFA): 31                                                          192.000                     192.000
Obam. (mablm ponam                                      200   1.200         12000                       12.000
Leima. (aata)aw - aIt.                                    0       0              0                           0
SOLDE NET AVANT FiNANCEMENT (FCFA):                                              70,160       4138,000       98.060
tmade              *                                                          84SSMfnaore
rdmmirsdan ddu trmva (FCFAIJT)                                               1,176
PLAN DE FINANCEMENT (FCfA):
comibudon iit  exploitant 41                                                 5.780        27.200          200
subventon lnvst"nismnt                                                     23.120        108,800          800
or"dd Mr                                                                        0              0            0
crdt CT 6I                                                                 1S,750                      19.750
&itb _ _i wd CT:
P*                                                                     790tS                      19.750
8.160                      8,ISO
SOLDE NET APPES FWANCEMENT (fCFA):                                               90,110         427.200      06.600
rdmwmlrston du ttwd (FCPAAITM) pebe fnonm                                   1339
11  CoOt. totseux y corpie to contrbution des bdn6fidalrs.
2/ Lo travail de rexpkotnt dam la _sus-pndfectuoo de ComE aet viois A
600 FCFA par jour de trvail nJTI.
31  Eatuen dso recatts bnutos baos  am to vuew nmrhardo totalo do Is prodution maratdr, sprk
d6duction des porte etms A             20%.
41  Contution dos exploitants bnoiw  ostbln6 A:
20% des coOts tncuxm d'lnestsrmst.
51  CrEdit court temu pour oui   clts monlta re6 doxptaietsilnp  I in tAnt   ditir` t amuni do
24% renbour*d srE 8 mois.
lote:       Le modE do ,ardhn matduher  t  ltai pour un groupdenmt dawron 8 prsnns. Un fracdon
uignficadvo de to production seto autocansomm6o.
$auroa,     Ete :a to bos des dndom fournles por lo sous.icrdfow  do CO   MRJCI



- 73~~~~~~~~ ANNEXt f
Page 9 oft 1I
Novhu dd Mvu  nasa1 tU od+ I wand
as_6 qsi PtWi          mS..u6m          An0         AnI       An2        An3 f      n4        Ar
0.000001mm d1avootnmt* (PPA): It                                          11.00        81.00           0          0      60*0          0     .2.000
bob"    ~ ~ ~     ~    ..4.000                                      2.0
-..1*w4O"wm                        SiJu1Q00                                        6.00000                                              1.
bqd                            I.e.            6                 4.000 Ut.m 20o
V"                                  -t                $AN      o     A            SA
"~~~~~~~w                              1   6.t           1,0            .0
CoOm mondmm  ddrtodo  O :                                                10e                      110.000   110*0    i1bs    1100           110.00
_imd                                       W  dod         cox                                  su,m       ox=13s2z
48"                                                40                11St=                    13AM0      CAN00      13.80     3.        13.00
TmvO dotl'm     : 2/                              if    40    W0          20.000                   2000      20.000     20.000   20.000      20000
_ Remu bnm 0se sS                                                        1040e4.000    184A.0    184.000  184.00    14.00
_gpw   w                                   _.       40    .0        1" k m                     164 00     108 0     164 . 0  00         16  000
SOLOSt r1        v AVANT HNAiiCWiV OA):                                  42.200        4100       53.w00     53.200     47.200   53.200      ".20o
umae de mnud fnlh.m                                                  100_ 
,6untuimaed  do m.Aui (P080/fl)                                       1.56
PSAM 0I AMNANO (Pl (OPA) :
owlb4ofi dde esptaut 4/                                              2.200        10,200          0          0      0.000        0      .2.000
'sbver.      dem                                                           0            0          0          0          0         0          0
orddt MT 5I                                                          6.600        40.800          0          0          0        0          0
Oda cT of                                                           110.600             I   11o0t600    tio."o0    110.6001  iio.aol   110.,800
t10                    20,400     20,400          0        0          0
99 sn3,264                        1.532         0         0          0
1 0O,O              I   1t O,0     iw.e0ool   nO.10001 t1,woa2    ttOAOO
/s                                                             "XS21                    26.59*    2.6921    26,02    26.5921    2S.592
SOLOA NILT APR8 HNANCOM T OPA:                                            l8,20        40.2001     28441      4.5761    20.8081  26.601    2.8.8
It CoOL tate00  compel tos caubon do b&Md**.
21 tisyd de rou_plolm  WdesaS h6o t,tPOM     ew                 T.
31 Cheq  wti tt**  an m    e              0 pow  _mmuddWokm p. as.
41 CcO*Ibde 1'wot" bi&WldWo             4:
20%S dos coOw Wtmm4'hwudmwsu
SI Cd4dit uwms 8mewe tmveltv tlr soO 1_41m dlgesmyam soaSsg    baa ujauo
_a%tMO do uddit MT            80% dos c=am t"_N dwcot     a
Um dlet                         es *S
pdutede do remmabmem             2 m
of Cred& so tm mm  u 0m  EbIt  de             24%
!tesLi    Cbwap is    s d'dls6w o wa e d S un  m .      We e       d      m
$*weu     rce: im mo bee du d;_io fmadam pw in soW*1oo_e do Covw.ZWgtdo (OIAMI
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Tean.formaton du mOI&C en aail
d8.6    WaM   _WAIi p*t. 0. ttt=b.WOasa              AntO         An I        An 2        An13       An4       Anf5        AnS
.~ ~~~~~~~000"                               .OI eo  motor
CotO tot. Awoseam           C IMA3,l t                                            MM,          309,000            0           0           0          0          a          0
p.saw mAM APtA5                          S.                t 150250                         1.O0
p     PAM At.-4owA                      ea.                t  65A.0           14,107         6SSpC
attt ttt   CV (1600 "wAd                4oa.               t 120.000          20.00         12.O00
patk. _%let                             48..                                   7.500         20.00
uIt _ *A*Gtos WpR401120"p IFC9:                                                  511.00                      511.000    511,00    511.000   511.00   511,0            511.000
p6obdopbMpeodsatb                           kg  41,a0       5           05.000                    20s,000     20SA100     20t,000    205.0eo    20SA.00     205000
pls d.o twed                                he  165o        10         186,000                    105.000     15500        155.00 t6500         165sp.0     tos6oc
boh . tO%VAb                                                                               10S.000                   106AM0      10500     10.000    106.000      tos5m
I_Not                                                                         ta,Z                       10.000      t1,o000      18S.0     16,0      t16.000      100O0
M__AVd. p.m  -                                             2   2.6o            5.000                      S00          50M         6.000      .00o      5A000       6.000
-mo.      WA                                         t i                 7,000  ?P00                 7.0eo       7.000o ,000            700       700         7.000
818.m t.. 25   ago. d'.aM4o                                              6.000                      0.000      6C0M          DAN0      0.000      SAM0        6.000
Trwdo r.zhat.t: 21                                      if    300    600         100.000                     1E0.000    1900000    180,000   180.000   190.000    180.000
Iewut Me WFA)                                                                    930.000                     930.000    3M0.000    83,000t  93.000   0307,00          030.000
.MeA do gd:
vatilbwOnd"8ad.                             kg   5.000     57          510.00                     510.00      510.00       610.00    510.000    510.00      510.000
P0. do ,#mm4                               k4   3.0080   II7           420.000                    420,000     420.0a0     420.000    4200    420.000        420.000
SOIM MrF AVAl?T FEIANC       T FCFMAI:                                           1C2333         .130.000     239.000    239000    239.000   239.000   239.000           MW%000
tde       t-m_ A ruwa16 bmidk8%                                                                                                                                                          C
rfidimme.dm,  &s    WWaA ATM                                                  1.141
PIAN DE F    _UTCM   ffCFAI:
arW hulr on kfttdo =lqitul  31                                               15,333         77.000           0            0           0         0          0           0
fhdolntion irlVOthUleAllt                                                         0              0           0            a           0         0          0           0
Cidit MT 41                                                                 61,333        300.000            0           0            0         0          0           0
wddh CT U                                                                  811,000                     611.000    S11.0o0    611,000   811,000   611,000    811,000
_                                                                     51,333                     102,667    1066J    102.67Z              0         0           0
Alf"or                                                                 8,213                      24,640      16,427        ,23           0         0           0
r     _.Aamle nd  CT:
PA-4w                                                                sillooo,511,000                          11. flow    659,100 6Z19000   511c,00    611W00
44800                      44080 NO       508      40ooo    445617    4880           4r0,80
SOWDEETAP     PIEC ITfCMAI:                                .                      123.240        .77,000      70,M13    r,79.027    .87,240  119.120   106.120    1S8,1
r&.e*adm, 61. trwl# (FCPA/JtI s stm       ut                 t,Ott1.011
It  Coes totem, y coxd Is cwntution des bkIfldae.
21  Trcel do 'ol'eot  vodr  A                600 fCMA par out de traval MII.
3t Coatribu6n des bltolaieso x*m60 &:
20% doe  Oft. totsux dkwaesl.e.w. nt
41  CrOdit tmtn tm  pows  euwi We cobts ilixu d'ivmaostehnt, od.im  st Ns beo suivanue:                                                                                                 1m
ttAlt  dut ct6t MT               80% ds CcOts ttmalx dblwnvm1Ioo
uux dcrkt&6 arud                   8%
pdrod do rwmboursmnt                 3   w.                                                                                                                                   -
6t  Crdit court term  pour couwvr We coOt. tnondtw6 d'oxpbPtla^ A un tex dkAttt trui de
24% t     _oro    aptha 4 ntic
SoeU   .    Estikm maw to bow des dorauEs ftouW. pourt la S1out-pidtoCtu  do Com6 (MICI



- 75-ANX
lo= de 06d   t t me. - a  x                                                                              Page 11 of 11
&O"      Wm   _md   Opb_w       __ao  tO Wm        An          An
Go" Wm do droloer      eow- I1AQ                                                             a= 
MOMMO&WAMM-                                         GAJ       ra msM41
Motels.                                                                         _. .eO
bohd    p                        loam      O4 tl    NoA0 14             t 3    O
I__               13    310            41"          4.200
ta Sm..                          lo o               6                  1.300        M200*
Clo dwo. el.- rdig. mt         0w6                                                 0.0
M.h4.m msowl  n e  z21
_c i  1      3_ smtmo tlt 4      Om                 2,
-0"  a. P. 4'.m0 Oak   ww                           6                SKM
11tbmbm.imUZ , m.l.pa         lam        .1     a5                  '*            6.0
WING~~~~~
SOP.  AerMT FU.A.m4.b                               SoW:0NA                             44 46  6.1000
WsvAqmo 3D                                  m as   g    31    *0A0.10                      .         2600
sins...o  WOW  0Waaft                                                      16.020                 * 10 
sus otbnlk_asso..m-mo$4 '*0                                                                             a
P dMT4                                         a         0    76 
FOd   CT lW:  /                                       if     6      O         i70                      2 67.000
NsteW o   0*: 6/                                                             43.00*    427*60
__OO_                                                                      AM                       437V&
8012  1IEr AVNtt tWAM0304 IU:                                                 60*60         4.4 0       61700
t6w6mdoa  tm iw                                                             se 44a
* ~ ~ ~ ~~&mdeod t       _        o 41 t 1A J1                                               1.187
2  _        bteefen  6wWe eopl@itA * ilow.6e                                            05400           0
St  vodtls t bSdselswteu 8/                       0dw          d0 am.000                                0
cr44 MT                                                                       0             0           0
crCTdt   U 6/                                                           244-000                   34e1000
41 EmbrA  w ft b~ dm sedw p  100 ko d"00                                            dM00
80tDII NET AE FI         t C UWE  t0*                                          8.1SO        .06.30      16.700
edndododmov  01AJ3 ep4slessammt66
11 Cdt1 t61=. y p_rspptls  et lMen dpa  erfllda co hw  4eans do   d  mdwm  0   snde nwo.
2     2 M    dTepowt vdo   do I    a00 de1A   pa Jeo  do  pw sIT).
ttd de a                 a                    10O          0           510.
41 (mS ow bo bed  _sm pw            v     1C0 ISt do iE. cSWdu
5/ Trae eAdnaxa baa _tvg _:
11 .5ot preopo_edn 0 aloe.pwrchldu  ies. o'ptid. ddon .no7 jesd   ad
pa mod ad   mon i
3.5?da pOn okloo  .0qu46eui  1 rimt senanooh
72 4? pow  (avst  . iids0 powieod o%o.uw   hw 40cfesrerla p " am 16% At un. tdwtdomf        dd
toliodojra annmob,   qft1 nk
6/ t.d...rbn de retss bas. 4 h vb do  to d   deast4 duo    o en p        owo. apeS
7/ Molktsmi beam  61 mdu.pooxd mw pew ot eesa nu.den rIne Oah          b do d _eloh4oA
_/ Os*vmtdon I    rL pest oouvfrIt iso cos dedut dn duL  do e   peto" po lporoedu sren do etungs
r    cowln     edox d"r w "04M pow cuspub  . ebo    2 *4m tarndadeirb aWd do
24   ahwSae t eeumorbm b10bbends.
per to Cdd    d vests bwt bodreds    w xv  raw  vo eu" wmspsse It a a dM onA
on dielld70 lsat on pbbtoqr W&wW~ e IItedo              do    5.4111  I    Cat mol
am sw iSW km       rumat ebsmnh   on l   dosu shoisd  d V  se pmII. islew isPjtph
ower dwo   0  p1x*u a p4i44 d-   Wuoop b     110-15 cl u 1     pur_dio . emwr t dr_ t
b la *kWum tn " A ue b in dft utofrat dun pldhd Un asid. p65mg pauis p 1s Pri.
hMeifokowrsuo. . I.yOm loo b Wi. ho  bade.   Si V    resini an Is has kd4In,. am hoe
p_ c iww t  o IbI pelt ev -m pet4 di nd           2 4S  reno pmdw pwa dt
Se crEos maPedteA   er    do  .4w   _wv           do   eewru   crd.  se tCRnP
0 et iomb 101*1*2).



-77-                                ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC-OF BENI
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SEC=IMMROJE!C
Conmmnit NutritionaM
A.           BackuOW I
1.           Although, at the national level, the mean dietary energy intake of the population is above
energy requirements in Benin, regional disates and marked seasonal flucuaions in food availability
inflict in certn years, severe food restictions to some groups of inhabitants. The diet of a large portion
of the population is monotonous, poor in esential vitamins, mineras, and low in protein and essential
faty acids, causing widespread anemia, localized iodine deficiency disorders and sin of vitamin A
deficiency in specific areas. Household food consumption surveys were conducted by DANA in 1987-
1988, on five consecutive days twice a year, among 869 household, in eleven districts of Benin. In the
11 districts surveyed, the mean dietary energy intake (by district) ranged from 1,650 to 2,400
Kcal/capita/day I/ Among these, a mean dietary energ intake per capita lower than 1,900 Kcal (93
% of requirements) was recorded in the districts of Ze, Dangbo, Seme-Kpodji and Grand-Popo, at one
season or both of the survey. High prevaence of growth retadation was found among children,
indicating severe chronic malnuritIon. Low weigt for height fess than 2 standard deviations below
the mean according to the National Center for Health Statstics) indicating moderate to severe
malnutriion, was recorded in 25 % to 35 % of the chldren below 2 years of age, in the "sous-
prdfectures' of Zogbodomey, Agbangnizoun, Materi, Boukumbe and Kandi. Malnutrition is most severe
before the age of 2 years and low weight for height usually declines to 10 % or 15 % by age 5 years.
Ten percent of the babies born in Benin are underweight (ess than 2.5 Kg); 70 % of the children
examined in pediatric departments are malnourished; one third of those admitted for malnutrition at the
National University Hospital Center of Cotonou, die (Source: DANA). Generally, infanto-juvenile
malnutrition in Benin appears higher than in regions of similar economic and ecologic conditions as
shown in the table below:
Wasting ratesli Africa
CountvowYew             Age map        dediatewe wasing 1%)
set"        10S35       0.-50m9MUis    20.0
Togo        1036        0O-.mmt        53
Cemroun     177-76      3.46 ont       0.2
go&         1083-64     Ov50 month    21A
cor         1o6         0-t            .
Ghan        196740      0 -50 monfts   7.3
CtoIo    iss            0.56 ,ots       .
U.          1907        0 -3_Moth     11.0
W           109865      0    l59 mUas  23.2
Cap-Ve      1085        12-72 onth    3. 3
Sumndi      1067        -36 m  -       5 L6
Woro UNICE;I    and W        A giobai  ginal and countr  sM t of chid mantiOn, April 1990).
a/Dan, food eV requrnit are edhoed by FAO at 2041 KalkapI.



- 78 -                   ~~~~ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 10
2.           High prevalence of iron and folate deficiency anemia was confirmed again recently by
epidemiologic surveys in Southern provinces, including the city of Cotonou: over one third of all males
and females tested were anemic, and among women, prevalence of anemia was 40-55 %. Half of the
cases of anemia were attributed to iron deficiency which was particularly frequent in children and
menstruating women. The same high level of anemia exists in urban and rural populations, indicating
that public health preventive measures are not more effective around urban health centers than in rural
areas. Malaria is also an important contributing factor to anemia: more than 95 % of the individuals
tested and affected by anemia were infested by malaria (Plasmodium falciparum).
3.          Iodine deficiency disorders, are clinically evidenced by the high prevalence (19 %) of
endemic goiter in some north-western districts. This has been documented for many years and confirmed
again in 1983, in the Departments of Zou and Atacora. Prevalence was highest in Natitingou, Copargo,
Ouake, Bassila, Djougou. It was particularly frequent among females and it increases with age. In
enclave areas of Atacora, Zou or Borgou, peasants consume almost exclusively home-produced staple
food, grown on soils which are of low iodine content. As a result endemic goiter prevails, causing
hypothyroidism, slow growth, mental retardation and cretinism. Diversification of food sources by more
intense inter-regional trade could reduce or eliminate this disease over a period of years. However,
iodization of salt or other forms of iodine supplemetation could be more effective in the short term.
4.           Surveys conducted by DANA have shown that vitamin A deficiency is relatively frequent
in the department of Atacora, particularly among children. Severe vitamin A deficiency is the leading
cause of blindness among children while night blindness occurs at the end of the dry season among
children and pregnant women. In 1989, DANA recorded a prevalence of 8 % of hypovitaminosis A in
Materi (North Atacora), with a prevalence of 3.4 % of night blindness. According to World Health
Organization standards, vitamin A deficiency is a public health problem in some districts of the Atacora
and Borgou Departments. In a recent pilot intervention program, the prevalence of avitaminosis A was
significantly reduced by retinol supplementation in ten villages of Atacora.
5.           Many institutions, research centers and NGOs play a role in the field of nutrition
interventions, mostly with very little coordination and often with overlapping responsibilities. The
Ministries concerned are: the Ministry of Health through their decentralized structures, hospitals and
primary health centers; the Ministry of Rural Development througi DANA and its decentralized staff in
the CARDERs; and the Ministry of Social Affairs through the intervention of Cathwel child monitoring
progrm. The Ministry of Health implements a decentralized health and nutrition program through
primary care centers. Cathwel monitors the weight for age of about 45,000 children aged 0-3 years in
98 monitoring centers. This represents 5% of the population of children in the 0-5 age range (900,000
children). Percentage of malnutrition of 30% to 40% are common in a number of centers despite many
years of nutrition education and food dist, :bution to mothers. Interviews of mothers of malnourished
children suggests that poverty, rather than ignorance, is the main factor of infantile malnutrition. The
University of Benin, NGOs, Research Centers (e.g. CREDESA) and others also intervene in nutrition
training and education, sometimes in association with income generating activities for women groups.
6.           In spite of such a diversity of adors, nutritional standards in mral areas remain low. The
effectiveness of the various activities remains to be proven in terms of acual decrease of rates of protein-
energy malnutrition, micro-nutrients deficiencies and morbidity. The access of the vulnerable populations
to social services is inadequate and the results of interventions are poor. The fact that the Government
does not have a concerted national nutrition policy is probably a key factor in the lack of clearly set
priorities and in the attribution of institutional responsibilities for the implementation of an agreed action



_ /9 -                          ANNEX6
Page 3 of 10
plan. It is therefore proposed to build on the experience of the proposed community nutrition program
and other on-going activities to test the effectiveness of strategies to reduce the prevalence of nutritional
deficiency disorders and prepare a national nutrition strategy. The Consultative Group on National
Nutrition Policy (CGNNP) should be reactivated to help a) assess the relevance and effectiveness of
nutrition intervention techniques; b) explore other intervention strategies as recommended by international
consultative groups (e.g. IAVGG); and c) design coordinated set of actions to reduce effectively the
prevalence of major nutritional disorders in association with anti-poverty programs.
7.            DANA, in recent years, has been unable to adjust its role in the context of the
restructuring process which took place in the Ministry of Rural Development and has remained
operationally weak. Its commercial functions (baby food production unit and horticultural center) absorb
most of its resources and are today contested. Moreover, although DANA could probably play a relevant
role in the coordination and monitoring of nutr:ion activities, particularly if related to the preventive
aspects of interventions, overlapping functions with the Ministry of Health are still a source of
controversy. Institutional capacity building centered on identified needs, could markedly raise the
effectiveness of existing institutions so as to refocus their ObIectives towards the actual reduction of the
prevalence of malnutrition. The redefinition of the role os DA NA in line with the restructuring process
of MDR and the preparation of a coherent and feasible action plan would be an important element for
DANA intervention in the project.
B.            Objectives and Strategy
Targets and obJectives
S.           A study conducted during preparatory activities of the pilot phase of this project (see
Annex 3 and Working paper N.2) has identified the areas which are most vulnerable to food insecurity.
Tbis was made on the basis of observed rates of malnutrition during eight years, seasonal and regional
distribution of mainutrition, dietary energy equivalent of food crops, cash value of crops, cost of basic
diet, access roads, distance to nearest town and availability of arable land. Different composite indices
have been tested to rank areas in terms of risks. Using these scores, eleven "sous-Prefectures" ranking
highest in term of vulnerability to food insecurity have been classified as "first priority areas at risk".
Nine 'sous-Prefectures ' with slightly lower vulnerability scores, have been classified as 'second priority
areas at risk'. These are the areas targeted for micro-project and nutrition in,terventions by the project.
9.            The table below indicates the targets and objectives of this component in terms of
coverage and reduction of malnutrition. The community nutrition program would directly monitor the
growth of about 48,000 children between 0 and 5 years of age and follow-up about 20,000 lactating or
pregnant women. Through these interventions malnutrition rates in project areas are expected to decline
from 30% to about 21% (or about 30% reduction).



-80-                                        ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 10
Toioto hdoatoam                      19965      1938       197        1996        1699
a) R_t popdoo of _ MJo ama           670,000    896.000    922.000    9448.000    976.00o
bh  Ctin 0  Voa                      166.300    170.000    170 ,000    18S,000
el NbF.n-ulwuohod cNdun 130% of b)   46,600     51.000     52.000     54.000     55.600
U Nb. CNW                            so         100        200        300        400
*) me. ehidn In hWiWth Our naa ach   .000      10.000     20.000     30.000     40.000
f) Mbe eavntad tma of _nmd. by       1,750      3.500      7.000      10.600     14.000
guravl. (35% of a)                                    I_____
el F.e.ohidmn In suplkm tlodng 126% of   1,250  2.600      S,000      7.500      10.000
1) faw. AM= tnfamd to dnhabcentom  1SO         375        760        1.125      1.500
115%  of g)                                                                  _ _ _ _
U  Nb. pu vanted caeo of _nhwtby     431       o8n         1.725      2.588      3.460
aupplam feedin & thab cent_i (30%
p  TOW Me. pe*atod caoes of umL.     2.161      4.363      3.725      13.088     17,460
hi Puawno of eunut In pomjt am_      26%        27%        26%        23%        21%
(dth prJeect)                                  _
U  Oma rducdon  of m    _ddO.         4%         9%        17%        24%A       31%6
ad IsdMteA d S an  P.enactedno   26.100         26.900     27.600     29.400     29.300
") Wom  in moandy fosow-up 126CI"W)   1.2S0     2.600      5.000     7.500       10.000
el Womn hI lacttIn bloww 12/CtW      1.250      2.500      6.000     7.,00       10.000
General srtg
10.             The general strategy of this component would be two-prong oriented:
a)      Ensure a clese linkage between income generating activities and nutrition interventions.
Most of the micro-projects to be implemented through the project for income generating,
socio-economic and micro-infrastructure activities, will not specifically address the
reduction of malnutrition, but rather aim at alleviating poverty, producing food
iL  The number of children in gwth surveiance should be approximately fifty by Cl 'V at all times.
Childrn with satisfactoy growth (about one third of the monitord cohort) or who reach age S, will
cease to bi monitored evevy month and would be teplaced by children in need of assisance. Therefore,
eah CNW will monitor the grwth of about twice the number of S0 child:en per year. It is estimaed
dhat 48,000 children will hae been monitored for grOwth and/or will bave reeived supplementay
feeding. Under these assumptions, approximately 24,000 cases of severe malnutrition will have been
prevented.



-81  -                             ANNEX6
Page 5 of 10
commodities, rehabilitating small infrastructure or providing services. However, since
improvement of nutritional well-being of vulnerable populations in the targeted areas is
a central objective of the project, intervening NMOs will be asked to facilitate in the same
villages, the initiation of nutrition interventions along with micro-project implementation.
Empirical evidence shows that nutrition education carried out in isolation from poverty
alleviation efforts has very limited impact on the improvement of the nutritional status
and that in the mediumilong term, poverty alleviation is the leading factor to
improvement of nutritional standards. Therefore, the project will encourage NGOs to
combine income generating and nutrition activities. This would broaden the effect of
both interventions and be a more cost effective approach to development impact.
Moreover, nutrition interventions would benefit from the structure already in place for
the micro-projects. he project would seek participation of nutrition-specialized NGOs
or from DANA. The latter would be responsible for specifically implementing
eradication campaign of deficiency disorders in collaboration with other specialized
agencies.
b)    Ensure a preventive approach to reducing malnutrition through empowerment of local
community nutrition workers, re-"lar training and better use of existing resources.
Implementation of child growth monitoring and nutritional supplements distribution would
be decentralized at the village level under the responsibility of a female community
worker selected by the village. Regular nutrition education and supervision would enable
the community nutrition agent to pursue its preventive malnutrition control even without
the proj,_t and therefore ensure sustainability at the ground level.
C.           Organization of the community nutrition program
11.          The community nutrition program would be implemented in the field through nutrition-
qualified NGOs and village community members. Coordination and support would be a collaborative
effort of the DANA and its decentralized personnel in the CARDERs, the Ministry of Health and the
Ministry of Social Affairs through Cathwel. The University of Benin through its Nutrition and Food
Science Department would be responsible for part of the training and the evaluation of project impact.
12.          In the areas of project interventions, NMOs qualified for nutrition interventions will visit
potential beneficiary communities to inform them of: i) the objectives of the project, ii) the type of
interventions envisaged, iii) the potential benefits for the community, iv) what is expected from local
groups interested in participating, and v) how to proceed to become eligible. During the first visit, the
NGO will meet with community leaders and primarily assess their interest in participating. If the
villagers are interested, a date will be set for a second appointnent.
13.          This second appointment, made two to four weeks later, is meant to discuss more specific
aspects of the nutrition interventions envisaged, after community members have discussed among
themselves whether they wish to participate, as it requires their contribution in time and efforts. During
the second meeting, questions from community members will be answered. The relationship between
nutritional surveillance and income generating activities will be made more explicit. The NGO would
continue to assess the degree of interest of the community. If the community is willing to participate In
the program, the NGO would explain how villagers would have to select a community nutrition worker
(CNW) on the basis of specific criteria. A village nutrition advisory committee would also have to he



-82-                            ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 10
constituted. If villagers are interested and want to proceed with the nutrition intervention proposed, a third
appointment will be made for a date two to three weeks later.
14.          During the third appointment, questions will be answered and the commitment of the
community assessed again by the NGO. The CNW selected by villagers will be interviewed and his
qualifications ascertained. Individuals selected to become CNW should preferably be mature women,
living in the community, with some basic education, and skills in traditional medicine recognized by the
community. The composition and representativeness of the village nutrition committee would also be
ch,cked. If all basic requirements are met, an agreement will be signed between the intervening NGO
and the CNW defining the work program and the commitment of each party. If, on the contrary, the
village community has not selected a community nutrition worker and not demonstrated a genuine interest
in the project, the NGO in charge will cease to visit the village concerned and will move to other villages
which might be interested.
15.          CNWs should accept to be responsible for the nutritional surveillance, growth monitoring
and mineral and vitamin A supplementation of children aged 0-5 years of age, and pregnant and lactating
women, in their neighborhood. Only malnourished children or suspected cases of malnutrition would be
monitored. Recovered cases of malnutrition and children reaching the age of 5 would be replaced with
new children. Overall, every CNW would monitor an average of about 50 children per month, or about
100 children and 50 women per year. Families are usually ashamed by the malnutrition of their children
and reluctantly show them to strangers, community-based nutrition agents have the best chances to access
these cases of malnutrition.
16.          Qualified NGOs are expected to be in close and periodic contact with the CNWs through
local supervisors. When a CNW has been selected, arrangements will be made for her training and for
meeting regularly with her supervisor. krrangements would be sought with existing decentralized
structures and staff from DANA (posted in the CARDERS), the trained agents of the local primary health
care centers and CATHWEL social centers staff, to implement supervisory work. To the extent possible,
maximum use would be done of staff from existing structures and only in case of unavailability would
contractual staff be recruited by the NGO for supervisory work. Supervisors would help CNWs to
organize their activities, to advise women and plan resources needed for training, supervision, feeding
and minerals distribution. Supervisors would also be in charge of linking with NGOs and regional medical
services.
17.          Supervisors will initially visit each CNW about every two weeks at a mutually agreed
time for the amount of time required to make the community nutrition project work. It is estimated that
initially, on average, a supervisor would visit about fifteen CNW per fortnight. This will be flexible and
adapted to the needs of the CNWs, the complexity of nutrition problems in the area and distances to be
travelled. Supervisory work would diminish in intensity with the progressive transfer of capacity and
proven acquaintance of the CNWs to work requirements. After the first six months of operations,
supervision would be made once a month and after the first year, supervision would only be carried out
for CNWs experiencing difficulties in implementation. Supervisors will remain in close contact with the
responsible NGO and their performance regularly reviewed. Incentives to the supervisors would be
discussed with the responsible NGO according to their performance in reducing malnutrition.
18.          Equipment. Each supervisor will be provided with a motorcycle to visit the CNWs and
allowances will be made for fuel, repair and maintenance. Each CNW would receive an allowance in
kind of about 2.5 Kg of staple food per day of work. Food from the WFP can be requested for this



- 83 -                              AN
Page 7 of 10
purpose. A bicycle may be required in certain cases for CN?V's visits. Each CNW would be supplied,
via the responsible NGOs, with a basic equipment and supply kit to carry out the program. Equipment
will include: one infant scale (spring type with hanging trousers, max. capacity 25 Kg); height and length
measuring istume, forms, pen, pencils, eraser; iodine in salt measuring kit; thermometer, bandage,
gauze-pad, scissors, tongue depressors, towel, soap, basin, miscellaneous. Estimated cost: US $ 700 per
equipment kit.
19.          Supplies. The minerals, vitamin supplements and drugs will include: antianemic ferrous
sulfate, folic acid, iodinated oil, iodized salt, vitamin A, diarrhea rehydration salt (ORT), antihelmintics,
analgesics and disinfectants. Weaning food would also be included in collaboration with DANA and
UNICEF. Supplies would be renewed as needed during the project life.
D.           Description of the community nutrition program
20.          The objective would be to move from direct assistance and provision of services to a
progressive transfer of responsibility to communities themselves on a self-help basis. The role of
supporting NGOs and CNW woud evolve along three levels of support to care-providers of children,
ranging from short term to long term goals:
a)    Immediate delivery of services to reduce the severity of malnutrition and health problems
of children. Controlling the three major micromntrient deficiencies (iron, Iodine and
vitamin A) and combating protein-energy malnutrition.   Referral of severely
malnourished children to nearest health center.
b)    Educating women by frequent discussions and demonstrations. Ihis will have more
medium term impact on their ability to reduce the prevalence of malnutrition.
c)    Empowering women to control resources and generate additional income. Promotion of
household food security by increasing availability of food, preservation and access to
food by poor segments of the population. This third aspect, which is aimed at long term
impact, is the major link with the other activities supported by the project.
21.   In order to achieve the goals indicated above, each CNW will conduct the following activities:
1. - Growth monitoring of children aged 0-5 years to identify children 'at risk' and provide
assistance in recuperation whenever necessary: treatment of diarrhea, advices on breast feeding,
enrichment of the diet in protein, vitamins and minerals, preparations of weaning foods by groups
of women, weighing children and using large growth charts for village discussions of the causes
of malnuition...etc. Micro-nutents deficiencies would be addressed by the distribution of
supplements. In the case of iodine deficiency, the technique of Slicone lastome, releasing
iodine in drinking water from village wells would be used. This technique requires very little
input or supervision and its cost effectiveness has been proven in neighboring countries. For
vitamin A, "gari flour"V/ enrichmen offers a very good opportunity to link income generating
activities with nutrition improvemens. The production and distribution of palm-oil capsules rich
in beta-carotene would also be promoted.
3/Gari is a roasted coarse flour made from cassava. It can be enriched
in beta-carotene (a provitamine A) by adding a small amount of palm oil.



- 84 -                              ANEX6
Page 8 of 10
2. - Education of women: an analysis of the causes of malnutrition would be conducted by the
nutrition community worker once she is trained. Malnutrition, infant mortality and growth
retardation observed in the villages will be used primarily to raise awareness of villagers on the
causes of this situation and assist them In the selection of appropriate micro-projects to correct
poverty and malnutrition. NGOs will use participatory methods: discussions with villagers,
theater play by children, examples of successful recuperation of children from malnutrition and
other demonstrations to conduct food security and nutrition education sessions. Initiation of
micro-projects wiUl follow the Analysis-Action-Assessment (triple AAA) approach of UNICEF.
Successive initiatives are tested in a AAA cycle until the interventions produce the expected
outcome. Records of these activities will be kept by each NGOs for the on-going monitoring and
the final evaluation process.
22.          M     r . Data collection wil be organized together with the NGO and the project
management and monitoring unit. It will include collection of morbidity and mortality data. Mothers or
caretakers will be instructed to record episodes of diarthea, fever and anorexia for all children aged less
than 5 years, using printed pictograms. Ihe evaluation of the impact of the nutrition component would
be carried out by the University of Benin (see Annex 7).
E.           Eradication of defli=  disorders
23.          In project areas of particularly high prevalence of deficiency disorders (iodine, Vitamine
A, and iron), DANA would also implement eradication campaigns together with other specialized
institutions. DANA, in cooperation with OCCGE (Office de Coordination Contre les Grandes Endemies
in Togo), and the Ministry of Health could in particular help for the eradication of iodine deficiency
disorders. This would include: a) mapping the prevalence of iodine deficiency disorders (IDD); b)
select  for each zone or village, the most appropriate method of intervention: iodized salt, intramuscular
injection of iodized oil, oral intake of iodized oil, equipment of village wells with silicone Elastomer
releasing iodine in drinking water, c) implementi6 and monitoring the impact of such interventions in
areas of high prevalence of IDD.
F.           Trini
Traiing of NMOs staff and supervisors
24.          DANA nutrition etension workers, supervisors and NMOs field staff qualified.in nutrition
intervention would be trained, if required, at the National University of Benin (UNB) in cooperation with
DANA, UNICEF, CREDESA, the Agricultural University in Wageningen (Holland) which has
cooperated successfully with the UNB since 1983 and trained agriculture students in several field related
to nutrition. Tbis would consist in training sessions twice a year, (five days each time) in community
nutrition interventions. It would include assessment techniques on the impact of poor nutrition and poor
health on work productivity, comparative impact of alternate strategies to reduce malnutrition, cost
effectiveness in the reduction of mineral and vitamin deficiencies (iron, folate, iodine and vitamin A
deficiencies), use of nutrition surveillance for intervention design and nutrition planning. The maximum
number of participants will be 20 per session. DANA and NGOs field staff will be invited to present
case-studies. This training will be as decentralized as possible and include practical field experience,
short visit to project areas by professors or invited academics from neighboring countries as well as
discussions and observations in villages.



- 85 -                                    AM=  6
Page 9 of 10
25.          Some of the former students who have received such traiing are now woddng with local
NGOs in Benin and have created likages between field work and academic actives. Ihe assistace
of such competent agencies in the desigp of the nutrition taining package will ensure an adequate level
of expertise for both the implemeion and futher evaluation of the project.
26.          In some area of project intervention, community nutrition activities and education may
already have been initated by vaious organzations and NMOs through local "Aaices rurales
female extnsion agents, "Centres de Promotion sociale^, "Centre de santo maternelle et intle", or
^Centres horticoles et nutritionuels'. .oordination and collaboration with the staff aheady in place would
be sought including, If reqred, provision of training9 supply and eqpment so that they could participate
in the implem  on, supervision and monitoring of the nutrAion Interventions. Nutrition extension
workers supervising CNWs would also receive regular suppor and guidance from the NGO in charge
of Implementing nutrition activities in his area.
27.          A 'guidelines mamlal" for the use of supervisors and CNWs would be prepared in
collaboration with the project management unk, DANA and intevening NGOs. Ihis mamnal will specify
in a simplified way aU the tasks to be conducted by each party in the implemenation of the community
nutrition program and the differen steps required for proper combination of nutrition and income
generatig activities.
28.          NGOs staff conducting nutrition  terventons and the nurition agents involved in
supervision (DANA, health centers, Cathwel), wil be responsible for strengthen  the skll of the
CNWs by frequent and pertinent training so that they would be able to undertake the following tasks:
- Growth monitoring of hildren 0-5 years
- Use of cere-pulses mixed flour as weaning food
- Oral rehydration against diarrhea
- Promotion of breast feeding
- Reducdon of parasite infestation
- Reduction of iron deficiency and folate deficiency
- Reduction of iodine deficiency disorders
- Reduction of vitamin A deficiency
- Referral of most severe cases to nearest health center or nutrition rehabilitation centers (Centre
de recuperation nutritionnelle or CREN) in the area of inevention.
- Group discussion of causes of malnutition
- Identification of income generating projects
- Asess_m of cost and benefits of micro-projects
G.           Nsks
29.          During the pilot phase, it appeared that some NGOs involved In agricultura or
infrsruE ure micro-projects do not necesarly have th experti to improve food consumption and the
nutrional status of vulnerable populaions. Consequenty, they often pereived "nutriion intervendons"
as a tedious and secondary activity in relation to their main objectives of agricultural production or
costruction of infrastucture. Some NGOs indicated that weighing and examining children, was a
cumbersome task imposing a burden on mothers to whom no immediate assistance could be given. In



- 86 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 10
order to solve this potential cause of failure, nutridon intaventions will be entrusted only to qualified and
trained NGOs. They would be equipped with required instruments and supplies to provide some direct
form of assistance and enhance the relevancy and acceptance of their advices. Such NOOs have already
indicated their ierest to participate. In addition, close supervision of CNWs will ascertain that the
nutritional status of children responds positively to the inuvention within a period of a trimester or less.
30.          Another risk comes from the populations themselves: often they do not seem to perceive
the reduction of malmntrition and infat mortality as a priority. Consequently they are not always
motivated to participate in monitoring growth and malnurition among children. Their main concern and
highest priority is to find means to increase their cash income. It is therefore central for the proposed
program to link reduction of malmntition with income opportunities. Therefore nutrition interventions
would also be used, to a large extend, to assist the mothers of vulnerable children increase their access
to food and additional income.



- 87 -
ANNEX7
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
A.    Background information
1.    A cle. distinction will be made between the terms of "monitoring' and of 'evaluation' both in
the concept and in choice of the executing agencies.
a)    Monitorin will refer to the regular supervision and follow-up of the progress made
towards delivery of goods and services, construction of infrastructures, disbursement of
credit, compliance with reached agreements, etc... Monitoring would therefore be
considered as a 'process' oriented task and as a foUlow-up of Winputs' aiming at verifying
whether the project is implementing the intended interventions as planned.
b)    Evaluation, on the other hand, wiUl refer primarily to the impact of the project on the
beneficiaries according to pre-established indicators and gauge progress towards the
achievement of the project objectives. It is therefore an *output* rather than "process"
oriented approach.
2.    In order to increase the objectivity of the evaluation process, monitoring and evaluation will be
conducted by separate institutions. Monitoring of the implementation of microprojects and mntrition
interventions will be under the responsibility of the project monitoring unit, whereas the evaluation of
its impact will be conducted mostly by the Faculty of Agricultural Sciences of the National University
of Benin (UNB). For both monitoring and evaluation work, other relevant insttutions will be called upon
to collaborate, provide assistance or carry out part of the M & E. The Ministry of Rural Development
and project cofinanciers will also monitor project imrltementation through reports, monitoring studies,
audits, supervision missions and beneficiaie3 assessment techniques.
B.    Monitoring of project activities
3.    Monitoring will be the responsibility of the MMU, based on reports from participating NMOs,
field visits by MMU staff and 'ad hoc" surveys requested when necessary from  consultants. Each
participating NGO will indicate every semester progress made on each of the microprojects under their
responsibility. These forms would be designed by the MMU according to each project implementation
schedule and objectives, in such a way as to be processed by a computer data managnment system. Key
indicators to be used for monitoring would be elaborated in collaboration with the UNB in charge of the
evaluation to ensure and enhance their relevancy for future evaluation. The information would be
analyzed and transmitted to UNB so as to permit appropriate planning. The information generated will
be consolidated by MMU and used for the preparation of its semiannual progress repots to be sent for
discussions to the Coordinating Committee and project financiers. The table hereafter provides an estimate
of monitoring indicators for project activities. However, given the demand-driven approach adopted,
flexibility will be essential and timetables will have to be adjusted annually to respond to communities'
demand.



- 88 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 7
a) Key indicators used for monitoring
4.    In view of the diversity of the microprojects, the selection of indicators will be tailored to each
combination of interventions. However, a number of specific indicators will be similar for the same type
of intervention to ensure comparability in assessment of progress and achievement In addition, the degree
of beneficiary ownership and involvement in the decision-making process related to micro-projects
preparation and implementation would be assessed as a prereqisie for the contnuation and sustainability
of the activities. For each micro-project, data to be collected by the NGO and MMU would refer to:
Income generating microgrojects
Number of participants/beneficiaries.
Area to be developped for irrigation, bottom land mnagemet,..
Completion of works
Workload of women
Characteristics of productions/services
Agriculural output produced and sold by household
Prices of commodities affected by microprojects
Days of work required/microproject
Average cost per microproject
Status of storage facilities (rotation of stocks, % of fillin)
Credit stats (amounts lent, amous outstai, cost reovery situation, inte  rates, etc..)
Income generated
nkaastturs
Number of direct and indirect beneficiaries
Status of works
Number of working days supplied by the community
Number of jobs created (person/days)
Food for work distributed (daily rations)
Cost of construction
Maintenance capability
Access before and after microproject completion (transportation cost, traffic importance,
Nutrition interventions
Anthropometic and mntrition status before and after intervention
Level of nutritional knowledge of care-providers
Quantiy of food distributed
Number of children weighed
Number of mothers attending sessions
Iron, folate, iodine, vitamin supplements distributed
Oral rehydration therapies initiated
Morbidity and mortality
Cases of rehabilitation of severe malnutition
Initiation of income generating activities



- 89 -
ANNqEX 7
Page 3 of 7
b) Monitoring of N(OOs performance
S.    In addition to the information collected through the forms to be filled by the NGOs, supervision
missions will visit micro-projets and community nutrition interventions at regular intervals to assess the
progress made. NGOs performance would be assessed yearly, when approving budgets and working
programs, according to progress made In achieving targets and the capacity to mobilize beneficiaries
participation. If a NGO is not performing satisfactorily, a decision will be made regarding the
continuation of the collaborative agreement between the project and the NGO by the Coordinating
Committee after proposition of the MMU. This will be made on the basis of all relevant information
availaible to the Project and the decision will be notified within mutually agreed delays to the NGO.
c) Monitoring of compliance with financial and procurement covenants
6.    MMU would set up an analytical accounting and financial management system to monitor costs
by activity and by site to develop standard costs of works, goods and services and maintain their level
at competitive standards. An audit firm would be recruited by the Government to verify compliance with
the procurement and disbursement arrangements under the Credit Agreement and the implementation
manual. They would also review the financial statements, the performance of the cost recovery system
and of financial management.
C.    Evaluation of impact
7.    Since the project aims at alleviating poverty and reducing food insecurity and malnutrition,
evaluation will focus on a) food supply, stability and access indicators; b) household income, stocks,
workload of women, socio-economic standards of living; and c) nutritional status, anthropometric
indicators, health of participating populations.. .etc. The objective of the evaluation is to assess whether
the project has improved the quality of life of the beneficiaries inside and outside the direct intervention
areas. The project might have a spill-over effect beyond the targeted communities. The indicators used
will also include non quantitative features, such as community participation, access to information,
mobility, preservation of valuable skills and traditions, status of women and other variables which will
be part of the evaluation scheme.
a) Organzatio
8.    The Faculty of Agricultural Sciences (FAS) of the National University of Benin (UNB) would
be the lead agency responsible for the overall evaluation of project impact. As such, it will have the
responsibility of conducting an initial benchmark survey and a final appraisal of micro-projects' impact,
out of a representative sample of micro-projects. UNB and MMU will carry out the sampling design of
microprojects to be evaluated. UNB will make arrangements with its own staff, students or with reliable
technicians to survey the households before and after completion of the microprojects.
9.    The MMU will review the proposed evaluation scheme and will sign a formal agreement with
UNB for each set of microprojects indicating the methods of evaluation, the cost and the dealine at which
the evaluation report will be handed to the MMU. The methods will be based on approved scientific and
ethicals standards of biological and social sciences. If blood samples are considered necessary, the
informed consent of the participants will be obtained prior to the surveys.



- 90 -
ANNESX7
Page 4 of 7
10.   UNB will be authorized to commission specific evaluation tasks to other centers or institutions
(DANA, CREDESA, CATHWEL...) provided that these institutions are not already part of the
microproject to be assessed. Whenever possible surveys would be grouped in such way as to minimize
transportation costs and duration of field work.
11.   Intermediate beneficiary assessment would also be conducted with participating NGOs to gauge
relevancy of the interventions with respect to beneficiaries' expectations. Effective targeting of rural
groups would be evaluated to ensure that the most disadvantaged segments of the rural population benefit
of project activities. Group discussions with villagers would be the basis of beneficiary assessments,
therefre villagers should have a strong say in the evaluation of the microprojects and a clear perception
of its impact, if any.
12.   To the extend possible, micro-projects' impact on targeted groups would be compared to a
without project situation of similar groups in the area, to assess the changes in standards of living and
nutritional status brought by the project.
b) Nutrition activides
13.   The most valuable input for the evaluation of the nutrition component would be the Information
collected by the Community Nutrition Workers (CNW) during her monitoring activities. CNW will in
particular instruct mothers on how to record episodes of diarrhea, respiratory diseases and clinical sign
of nutritional deficiencies in the children aged 0-5 years that they monitor (Proteino-energetic monitoring,
iron deficiency anemia, iodine deficiency disorders, and vitamin A deficiency). Anthropometric indicators
for children will include height for age, weight for height and weight for age. If this has been performed
in a satisfactory manner, it will also be used to evaluate the changes in wnorbidity among project's
beneficiaries.
14.   Family members in vrlnerable groups benefitting from the project, will undergo a rapid survey
on sgns of nutritional defieiencies including anthropometric measurements (weight, height, arm
circumference and age of children) by the evaluation team. Adults will be interviewed on their food
consumption. Dietary recalls and food frequency records will be used to assess changes in the dietary
pattern of children and adults. Food composition tables will be updated and computation of caloric and
nutrients content of the diet of the beneficiaries will be undertaken by DANA and UNB. If detrminations
of biochemical indices are necessary as part of the interventions against iron, iodine or other
micronutrients deficiencies, a contract will be made with DANA for the laboratory analysis of the
samples.
15.   Results of measurements and salient observations made (anthropometry, clinical exam, biological
tests,...) should be explained and displayed to participating villagers. Clear and visible explanation of
progress made should be given and shown regularly to villagers to generate interest and support for
nutrition activities.
c) Micro-projects
16.   Micro-projects evaluation will not be limited to quantifiable outputs and pre-identified targets but
will extend to a qualitative analysis of behavioural changes of groups in community development and
sustainability at the ground level.



- 91 -
ANNOU 
Page 5 of 7
17.   A number of indicators will assess the intrinsic qualities of the microprojects from a long term
perspective:
a)    tho relevance of the microproject as a response to the identified causes of food insecurity,
b)    the adequacy of group targeting in reference to the most vulnerable segments of the
community,
c)    the replicability of the intervention considering its cost and nature,
d)    its sustainability in term of likelihood of continuation beyond the micro-project's life,
e)    the changes in attitude affecting the community's capacity and willingness to undertake
other activities,
f)    the long term impact on the environment of the selected microprojects.
18.   The evaluation of the immediate impact on beneficiaries will compare the before/after status of
relevant indicators on a representative sample of micro projects. They include:
a)    Diet diversification: estimates of consumption of staple food and frequency of
consumption of valued foods such as pulses, fruits, vegetables, meat and fish.
b)    Availability and marketing: food prices, food processed and food sold, stocks.
c)    Revenue: household income, debt situation, performance of the cost recovery system,
income distribution among the group, udlisation of income...
d)    Work load: work load of women, changes in use of tools, distances to markets, mode of
transportation... etc.
D.    Taining in monitoring and evaluation
19.   Practical training sessions to NGO staff in project monitoring and evaluation techniques will be
given at an early stage by the project monitoring coordinator together with the UNB. This will include
the selection of appropriate indicators, verification of accuracy, data collection techniques, reliability and
statistical valididy of data.
20.   Some short term additional training would be provided to DANA and ONASA officials in
monitoring and evaluation techniques for food security and nutrition, and in establishing and maianing
relevant and effective data base for better use and integration into national information systems.
E.    National monitoring of food security and nution
21. The National Bureau for Support to Food Security (ONASA - Office National d'Appui a la
Securite Alimentaire) has been restructured in 1992 with the following main functions: a) monitoring of
the food security situation, prices and markets both nationally and regionally, and diffusion of the
information; b) monitoring and following-up the agricultural campaigns and detecting in advance possible
shortages through an early warning system; c) improving the private sector operations and export
opportunities by centalizing international market information and food requests and establishing an
informaf'n exchange center; and d) advising the Government in the formulation and implementation of
a food   -Ity strategy, including possible proposals for food imports (commercial or aid) if deemed
necessat,
22.   A number of markets are regularly monitored as part of a national prices and markets monitoring
system. The project would complement ONASA monitoring activities by expanding the present coverage



- 92 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 7
of 15 primary markets to 13 additional secondary markets in project areas. this information would
enhance relevancy of the information already available and would help evaluate project impact in r -!ected
areas in terms of food access and stability of supply and prices.
23.   The project, which has monitoring sites in areas at risk, will therefore contribute to the expansion
of ONASA data base and also help identifying and documenting new opportunities for investments in
income generating activities in those sites. It would communicate the indicators collected by NGOs to the
monitoring and evaluation unit of ONASA, which will be in charge of mapping all food security
initiatives at the national level and have a more pro-active role in promoting private sector activities. The
project would also help ONASA updating and analysing the present data bank on areas at-risk and
contribute to the setting up of a permanent system of food security monitoring and information systems.
24.   The MDR's Sectoral Analysis and Planning Directorate (IAPS) would also be involved and
participate in monitoring project activities on behalf of MDR, as part of its role of overall agricultural
projects planning and coordination.
25.   A Coordinating Committee comprising representatives of the Ministries concerned, NGOs and
donors would be established before the project starts to maintain the dialogue among the different parties
and monitor overall project implementation. It would meet twice a year.
26.   Monitoring of the nutritional status of vulnerable groups at national level is normaly under the
responsibility of the Directorate for Food and Applied Nutrition (DANA). This institution has conducted
a limited number of localized food consumption and nutrition surveys, thank-s to foreign support.
However, DANA has been unable to adjust its role in the context of the restructuring process which took
place in the Ministry of Rural Development and has remained operationally weak. DANA could play a
relevant role in the coordination and monitoring of nutrition activities, particularly if related to the
preventive aspects of malnutrition. The project would assist DANA redefine its role and prepare an action
plan. This would be made by taking into account the diversity of actors intervening in monitoring
nutrition activities (Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Affairs through Cathwel, various NGOs).



- 93 -
ANN1EX 7
Page 7 of 7
Key Monitorina Zndicatozs
Yeas               1       2    |3          4    IS
Micro-roiects                                                    _
Nbr. Contrats NMOs               1S      30      40       S0      50
Income generating  nbr I/      IS0      220     260     300      300
Socio-economic
- storage    nbr              40       S0      60       60      60
- land developmentZiha         10      IS      20       20      20
- land development nbr        40       60      80       80      80
Micro-infrastructure
- rwal roads   kms            25       40      60       60      60
- wells/small bridges nbr     20       20      20       20      20
-constructions    nbr        3        6       10       10      10
Nbr. direct benefic.
- Income generating            10.000  15.000  18.000  21.000  21.000
- Socio-economic               6.500   8.000   11.500  11.500  11.500
Nbr.direct & indirect benef. 3/  30.000  60.000  70.000  70.000  70.000
Nbr. CNW                         50     100      200     300     400
Nbr children in growth surveilce   5,000    10,000  20,000  30,000  40,000
Nbr prevented cases of malnutrition   2,181   4,363   8,725    13,088  17,450
by supplem. feeding, rehab. centers
& surveillance
Prevalence of malnutrition (with  29%   27%      25%     23%     21%
project)                                                I
Overall reduction of malnutrition  4%   9%       17%     24%     31%
Women in lactating/pregancy     2,500   5,000   10,000  15,000  20,000
follow-up                              I     _I
/Ife number of micropojects corespond to the number of beneficiaries' groups. Eah NGO's intervnion may
comprise several micro-project for different groups.
Z/vegetable gardens, smal irigation, p-:icultr, bottom-land developmut
3/ including micro-iastructures



Benin
Community Based Food Security Project
Project Cost 8ummary
(CFAF Million)                                  (US$ Million)
%     % Total                                  I      t Total
Foreign    Base                                Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Micro-Projects                   2,332.8  2,621.7  4,954.5          53       62       4.5      4.8       9.3       52        63
B. Community Nutrition                434.1    755.5  1,189.6         64        15       0.8      1.3       2.1       64        14
C. Inst.8ldg./Monit./Mgmt.
Sec.Pol/Plng/Monit.                126.9    103.9    230.8         45         3      0.2       0.2      0.4        45         3
Project Management                 804.4    773.7  1,578.1         49        20      1.6       1.5      3.0        48       21
Subtotal Inst.aldg./Monit./Mgmt.    931.3    877.6  1,808.9           49        23       1.8      1.6       3.4       48        23
Total BABILNlE COSTS                 3,698.2  4,254.7  7,953.0         53       100       7.0      7.8      14.8       53       100
Physical Contingencies               175.8    317.5    493.3         64         6      0.3       0.6       0.9       64         6
Price Contingencies                1,631.5    312.1  1,943.6         16        24      2.8       0.5       3.4       16       23   '
Total PROJECT COSTS                  5,505.5  4,884.3 10,389.9          47      131      10.2      8.9      19.1       47       129
Mon Feb 07 17:22:27 1994
oII



Benin
Community Based Food Security Project
Project Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (CFAF Million)                     (US$ Million)
1995     1996      1997      1998     1999    Total   1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
A. Micro-Projects                    1,168.6  1,122.2  1,366.3  1,430.7  1,369.1  6,456.8   2.7   2.0   2.4   2.5   2.4  11.9
B. Community Nutrition                 154.6    233.7    331.9    452.6    401.2  1,574.0   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.8   0.7   2.7
C. Inst.Bldg./Monit./Mgmt.
Sec.Pol/Plng/Monit.                 155.5     24.4      72.6      21.0      32.8    306.3   0.3   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.5
Project Management                 673.1    341.3    327.5    426.2    204.7  2,052.7   1.5   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.5   3.9
Subtotal Inst.Bldg./Monit./Mgmt.    828.6    365.7    400.1    447.2    317.5  2,359.1   1.7   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.6   4.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                   2,151.8  1,721.6  2,098.3  2,330.5  2,087.7 10,389.9   4.7   3.0   3.6   4.1   3.6  19.1
Mon Feb 07 17:26:04 1994                                                                                                                0
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Benin
Community Based Food Security Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Inst.Bldg./Monit./Mgmt.
Community                       Project
Micro-Projects Nutrition Sec.Pol/Plng/Monit. Management Total
S. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                             2.2          -                   -         0.1   2.3
B. Vehicles/Equipment                      0.8        1.2                 0.1        0.5   2.7
C. rield Operatlons
Micro-projects                          4.9          -                   -          -   4.9
Nutrition                                 -        1.0                   -          - _ 1.0
Subtotal Field Operations                  4.9       1.0                    -          -   5.9
D. Consultant/Training/Studies             0.2        0.4                 0.4        1.0   2.1
E. N*GO Services (Staff)                   1.9         -                               -   1.9
F. Food                                    0.6       0.1                               -   0.7
G. PPF & DANIDA Grant                      1.4          -                   -        0.6   1.9
Total Investment Costs                        11.9        2.7                 0.5         2.2  17.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Management and Monitoring                 -          -                   -         1.7   1.7
Total Recurrent Costs                            -          -                   -         1.7   1.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                            11.9        2.7                 0.5         3.9  19.1
Taxes                                           _          _                   _
Foreign Exchange                              5.5        1.6                 0.2        1.7   8.9
Mon Feb 07 17:22:30 1994
413



Benin
Community Based Food Security Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (CFAF Million)                    (US$ Million)
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999    Total   1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                      163.6    243.9    297.5    306.2    315.2  1,326.4   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.5   2.3
B. Vehicles/Equipment               400.3    220.1    257.9    431.1    214.4  1,523.8   0.7   0.4   0.4   0.7   0.4   2.7
C. Field Operations
Micro-projects                   282.5    489.5    676.9    690.6    683.2  2,822.8   0.5   0.9   1.2   1.2   1.2   4.9
Nutrition                         42.8      76.5    126.4    161.7    153.9    561.4   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.3   1.0
Subtotal Field Operations           325.4    566.0    803.3    852.3    837.1  3,384.2   0.6   1.0   1.4   1.5   1.5   5.9
D. Consultant/Training/Studies    314.1    233.8    249.9    212.8    175.9  1,186.4   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   2.1
E. NGO Services (Staff)             176.6    207.8    213.9    232.0    238.7  1,068.9   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   1.9
F. Food                              63.8      61.8     80.5      89.7      99.4    395.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   J.2   0.7
G. PPF & DANIDA Grant               528.0         -         -        -         -    528.0   1.9      -      -     -     -   1.9
Total Investment Costs                1,971.8  1,533.5  1,902.9  2,124.1  1,880.6  9,413.0   4.4   2.7   3.3   3.7   3.3  17.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Management and Monitoring        180.0    188.2    195.3    206.4    207.1    976.9   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   1.7
Total Recurrent Costs                    180.0    188.2    195.3    206.4    207.1    976.9   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   1.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                    2,151.8  1,721.6  2,098.3  2,330.5  2,087.7 10,389.9   4.7   3.0   3.6   4.1   3.6  19.1
Mon Feb 07 17:26:07 1994



- 99 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 1
REPUBIIC OF BENIN
COMMUNITY-. BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Proiect Implementation Schedule
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Negotiations           -
Board presentation      -
Effectiveness             _
Prep.Implement.Manual ----
Information campaign
Project launching         _
Establish decentr.units    ---
Staff recrutement        __
nMU procurement
Finalize existing micro-
projects
N-projects preparation     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
N-projects appraisals      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Implement. m-projects      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Training                   -- -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Select nutrition NGOs    ---
Prepare community          ---
nutrit. progr.
Organization communities    _ _       __     __
Vmplement nutrit. progra      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Monitoring                   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Evaluation                     - -  -  -  _-  -  -  -  -
Super ision missions        _ _  _  _  _          _  _  _  _  _
Mid-term review
Audits                        _  *  -  *  _  *  _  *  -  *
Completion review
Completion
Closing                                                            T



- 101 -
ANNX 1
Page 1 cf I
RUPUDIC OF BENIN
CONMUNIYT-DABED FOOD SECURI!! PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA FY                   Disbursement
and                                                    Cumulative
semester       semester            Cumulative          Disbursement
-------  ms$ aillion-    -              (SDR millioU)
FY95    1        1.7                   1.7                   1.2
2        0.4                   2.1                  1.5
1T96    1        0.6                   2.7                   1.9
2        0.7                   3.4                  2.5
1Y97    1        0.8                   4.2                  3.0
2        0.8                   5.0                  3.6
me98    1        1.0                   6.0                  4.3
2        1.0                   7.0                  5.1
F119    1        0.8                   7.8                  5.7
2        0.8                   8.6                  6.2
112000  1        0.6                   9.2                  6.7
2        0.5                   9.7                  7.1
gft:s This schedule assumes that the Credit becomes effective in July 1994. The
project preparation advance (US$950,000) will be repaid and the intial deposit
(US$700,000) made during the first semester of M95. IDA calculated at SDR/TS$
- 1.38



- 103 -
ANNEX I1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Tentative Proiect Supervision Schedule
Y(ars             Activities          Skill requirements      Staff
weeks
1994
Task Manager            2
2nd semester   Project Launching   Procurement analyst     2
Workshop            Food Sec./Nutr. spec.   2
1995
1st semester   Supervision         Task manager            2
Community dev.          2
Food Sec./Nutr. spec.   2
2nd semester   Supervision         Task Manager            2
Community dev.          2
l__________________   Financial   analyst   2
1996
1st semester   Supervision         Task Manager            2
Monitor. /Benef. asses. 2
Food Sec./Nutr. spec.   2
2nd semester   Supervision         Task Manager            2
Sociologist            2
Financial analyst       2
1997
1st semester   Mid-Term Review    Task manager             2
Community dev.          2
Food Sec./Nutr. spec.   2
Rural infrastruct.      2
2nd semester   Supervision         Task manager            1
Monitoring/Evaluat.     1
1998
1st semester   Supervision         Task manager            2
Financial analyst       2
Food Sec./Nutr. spec.   2
2nd semester   Supervision         Task manager            2
Community dev.          2
___________________  Agronomist             2
1999
lnd semester   Supervision         Task Manager            2
Food Sec./Nutr. spec.   2
2nd semester   Completion review  Task Manager             2
Financial analyst       2
Food Sec./Nutr. spec.   2
_________________   _______________Community    dev    2



r                               -  .'I        i     I
j                  X--   j    C.  AIGERA   ,     2o                                 r
wUUUJRTANKA       ' ' '.  M.,!\,.IAU_*., 
NIE
M[r.A         AAVi E g."                    1 C fjWE/y
/ CHAD                                          i.NG R                .
/ rJ                                                                                'H W0 H  * i
SI    AAtG>O U  o_                                        NI                                ' /  , R
00M'- o3oso'sj                             s-GRI  '                                     ToNI'. ,;                    ".
/-K A"IIIC                 AC ,,* )'NE                                                                                             |
J<f~<tR, / C A.E
U R K I                 TA N A
F As                S                 i  soia           X             cI 
Kf ToUkoo.mo,r 
OUKUMB                                                                                               N  I G  E"  R I/
10'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
9*                                         ;9'b                  1              z                       9NT)A  AIA
/}  \_   < \ ~              FOO   SECURITY PROJECT
PDAP  W         |                  POUA
T     0* FRTPIRI OE TRS
,.,,, 0                                       SCOND SLOR  ZONES AT RISK
O'   zO   40   o0         ' 2     | \    Djidja      \  \  \   K#o   tXDEPARTMEN CAAT
IIN         - iANGADO  - HNIFNAIONABOUNDA ES
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SBPEETR   i\BOUNAIESi, ,
L-L- r                To                                                                                     BOUNDOEEr
Aplelt|   O1.-t                                                                                           7-,4
C~~~~~~~~~~~OS   Di .                                                                 



