Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2601 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Community-Based Food Security Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 6, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2601 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from Danish International Development 
Agency (DANIDA) a grant (the DANIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to 
assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the DANIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
DANIDA; and
(C)
the Borrower has obtained from the World Food Program (WFP) a grant (the 
WFP Grant) in an amount in foodstuffs and tools equivalent to $800,000 to assist in 
financing Part A of the Project under the WFP Program in Benin; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CFAF" means Francs de la Communaute Financiere Africaine, the currency 
of the Borrower;
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
September 28, 1989 and February 6, 1990, and September 7, 1992 and December 4, 1992 
between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"ONASA" means Office National d'Appui a la Securite Alimentaire, the 
Borrower's National Bureau for Food Security Support;
(e)
"Project Management and Monitoring Unit" means the unit established 
within ONASA by the Borrower to manage and monitor activities related to the Project;
(f)
"Coordinating Committee" means the committee to be established by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Implementation Manual" means the manual furnished to the Association on 
December 16, 1993; and
(h)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
7,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
Page  3
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied fro m the next payment date in 
that year as specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.       
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1, commencing June 1, 2004 and ending December 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2013 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through the Project Management and Monitoring Unit with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Manual 
through NGOs selected under the procedures set forth in such Manual, and approved by 
the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
Page  4
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management and Monitoring 
Unit and the Coordinating Committee for the duration of the Project.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through the Project Management and Monitoring 
Unit and with the assistance of the NGOs selected to assist in Project activities:
(a)
by December 31 in each year, submit to the Coordinating Committee for its 
approval, annual work and training programs for the following year; and
(b)
by June 30 and December 31 in each year prepare semi-annual progress 
reports indicating, among other things, progress in Project implementation and in the 
recovery of monies invested for the implementation income generating micro-projects 
under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term 
evaluation of the progress achieved in carrying out the Project no later than three 
years after the date of this Agreement. The recommendations of such evaluation, once 
approved by the Borrower and the Association, shall be implemented with due diligence. 
The review shall cover, inter alia: (a) Project Management; (b) Project monitoring and 
evaluation and a first assessment of Project impact; (c) progress achieved in 
implementing Part A of the Project; (d) the performance of the NGOs and the operation 
of cost recovery systems; (e) financing of studies and activities identified during 
Project implementation; (f) effectiveness of the micro-project preparation and 
selection process; (g) the possible extension of the Project's geographic scope; and 
(h) cooperation between the Borrower's agencies and the NGOs and the institutional 
set-up of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause at least 50% of the financing for income 
generating micro-projects under Part A of the Project to be allocated to groups 
constituted entirely by women.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the Implementation Manual in such a manner 
as to materially affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of its 
objectives.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  5
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has appointed to the Project Management and Monitoring Unit 
the following staff, all having qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment satisfactory to the Association: a unit director, a training and community 
development specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a statistician, a 
nutritionist, a rural works engineer, a financial controller, an accountant and two 
specialists in agronomy, sociology or economics for each of the two field branches; 
(b)
the Borrower has appointed auditors having qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association for the purposes of auditing Project 
accounts;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed consultants having qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference acceptable to the Association to establish a computerized 
Page  6
accounting management and monitoring system in the Project Management and Monitoring 
Unit and to train the relevant staff of the Borrower in the use and maintenance of 
such system; and
(d)
the Borrower has established a committee to coordinate Project activities 
comprising of representatives of the Borrower's agencies, NGOs and donors involved in 
the Project.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B. P. 302
Cotonou, Benin
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINFIN 5009
Cotonou 5289
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Candide Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Page  7
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed         Expenditures
     Category             in SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                1,080,000        80%
(2) Vehicles,                  1,730,000        100%
    equipment and
    supplies
(3) Consultants'               1,300,000        100%
    services and
    training
(4) Operating                                   100%
    costs:
    (a)  under                  580,000
         Part B
         of the
         Project
    (b)  under                  830,000
         Part C
         of the
         Project
(5) Refunding of                685,000        Amount due pur-
    Project                                    suant to Section
    Preparation                                2.02 (c) of this
    Advance                                    Agreement
(6) Unallocated                 895,000
         TOTAL                 7,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Costs" means the 
expenditures related to the Project on account of contractual staff salaries, travel 
allowances, office rent, supplies and utilities, maintenance of vehicles and 
equipment, and transportation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts not exceeding 
$20,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the food security and nutrition 
standards of the most vulnerable population groups in the territory of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:
Micro-projects
 
Financing the design and implementation of income generating and small 
infrastructure micro-projects aimed at improving food security and alleviating poverty 
among rural communities in selected areas at food security risk.
Part B:
Community Nutrition Program
 
1.
Carrying out, in selected areas at food security risk, activities, through 
community nutrition agents, aimed at decreasing malnutrition among children aged five 
years or less and among pregnant and lactating women, including education, monitoring 
of growth of children and, where necessary, supplemental feeding and referral to 
health rehabilitation centers.
2.
Provision of training to community nutrition agents and other personnel involved 
in the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project.
Part C:
Institution Building, Management and Monitoring
 
1.
Strengthening of the Borrower's food security planning, monitoring and 
evaluation capacity including preparation of a national nutrition policy, and 
evaluation of the Project's impact.
2.
Coordination of Project activities including technical and administrative 
support, monitoring and training.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part A hereof, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
international recognized standards forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and equipment shall be grouped 
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
3.
Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third-party 
inspection firm.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Benin may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  9
1.
Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $150,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, and works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $55,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $600,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,100,000, and works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $1,200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for computers, and each contract estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract, required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall 
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall 
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  10
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
equivalent to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  11
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
