RESTRICTED
Report No. DB-90a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO)
May 8, 1972
Development Finance Companies Department



Ouzency Equivalents
lbpiah 1               US$0.0024
US$1             = Rupiah 415
:upiah 1 miion  s Us$2,I4o



APPRAISAL OF
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDNESIA (BAPIND)
Table of Contents
Page
SJMMARY                                                    i-ii
J.   INTRODUCTION                                                 1
II.   HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE                                      1- 2
III.   INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMET                         2- 7
Industrial Environment                                2- 4
Financial Environment                                 4- 7
Interest Rates                                         7
IV.   THE REORGANIZATION OF BAPINDO                               8-13
The Act                                                8
Policy Statement                                      8- 9
Supervisory Board                                     9-10
Board of Managing Directors                            10
Organization and Procedures                            11
Accounts                                             11-12
Financial Structure                                  12-13
V.   OP0ATIONS, PORT)LIO AND FINANCIAL POSITION                 13-17
Operations                                           13-15
Portfolio                                            15-16
Financial Position                                   16-17
VI.   PROSPECTS                                                  18-23
General Outlook                                       18
Business Forecasts                                   19-20
Resource Requirements                                20-21
Future Financial Results and Position                21-23
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements                   23
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                            23-24
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of
Messrs. Hasan, Dinh, von Stauffenberg and Lord (IFC), which
visited Indonesia in September 1971, and on subsequent dis-
cussions.






LIST OF ANNEXES
I.  Draft Policy Statement
II.   Organization Chart
III.   loan Operations, 1968-1971
IV.  Lending Operations Under Joint Financing Scheme
V.  Analysis of Medium-Term Loans Comnitted under Joint Financing
Scheme up to June 30, 1971
VI.  Sectoral Distribution of Short-Term Portfolio
VII.  Balance Sheets, December 31, 1969-1970, March 31, April 1 and
December 31, 1971
VIII*  Income Statements for the Years lhded December 31, 1969, 1970
and 1971
II. Current Interest Rates - Received and Paid
1.  Forecast of Operations, 1972-1975
XI.  Projected Income Statements, 1972-1975
XII.  Projected Balance Sheets, Year-lhd 1972-1975
XIII.  Projected Source and Application of Fbnds, 1972-1975
XIV.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of the Proposed IDA Credit
MA P
Location of Branches






SUMMARY
i.        In June 1970 the Government of Indonesia and the Association
agreed on the steps necessary to reorganize the Development Bank of
Indonesia (BAPIND0). This reorganization is a key element in ration-
alizing the institutional set-up for the provision of resources for
long-term investment in industry and in increasing the effectiveness
with which resources are channeled to industry. At present there are
no active specialized institutional sources for long-term finance for
industry. The vacuum has been partially filled by the five State com-
mercial banks.  After BAPINDO's reorganization is complete, it should
become the principal institutional source of term finance for medium-
and small-scale industries.
ii. *The reorganization of BAPINDO involved, inter alia, appointment
of a new President and enlargement of its Board of Management, selection
and secondment of four Advisors by the Association, strengthening of
its financial structure by increasing its equity, eliminating from its
portfolio of many loans to State enterprises and providing for bad debts
establishing a new charter and adopting a policy statement.
iii.      BAPINDO's auditors were unable to certify its accounts for
1969 and 1970 because, in their opinion, internal control and account-
ing systems were too weak to enable them to express an opinion. How-
ever, as a result of the reorganization and improvement of procedures
carried out in 1971, the auditors have expressed an opinion, although
qualified, on BAPINDO's Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1971 . The
Auditors' Report is acceptable. BAPINDO's financial condition is now
much better and is expected to improve further as the Government pays
in additional amounts to increase BAPINDO's equity, as agreed with the
Association.
iv.       BAPINDO expects to make new loan commitments amounting to about
Rp. 40.6 billion in the 1972-75 period. This amount does not include
the estimated loans that BAPINDO will make for the maritime sector, for
which the Association is considering an additional credit.
v.        Although BAPINDO's overall resource position appears satisfac-
tory for the two-year period 1972-73, some of its resources are restricted
in use. Moreover, it needs to build up its liquidity to lay a basis for
later operations. A credit of US$10 million would serve these purposes
and would also enable BAPINDO to meet financing requirements for imports
during the period.
vi.       The terms of the proposed credit include a "free limit" of
US$100,000 with an aggregate limit of US$2.5 million. BAPINDO's indebted-
ness would be limited to three times net worth. The rate of interest at



- ii -
which the Government would relond the proceeds of the credit to BAPINDO
would be 7k% per annum, the Bank's current rate, or such higher rate
as would leave BAPINDO a spread of not more than 4%. BAPINDO's re-
payments to the Government would conform to its own collections from its
borrowers in respect of each sub-loan. Other terms and conditions would
be similar to those in recent Bank loans to development finance companies.



APPRAISAL OF
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since late 1968, the Association has been working with the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) to improve the conditions for the provision
of resources for medium- and long-term investment in industry. A key
element in this process has been the reorganization of the Government
development bank, BAPINDO. In June 1970, GOI and the Association agreed
on a plan for strengthening and reorganizing BAPINDO. Substantial progress
having been made in implementing that plan, a mission visited Indonesia in
September/October 1971 to appraise BAPINDO for an IDA credit. This report
is based on its findings and on subsequent discussions.
II. HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE
2.01      BAPINDO was established in 1960 to succeed Bank Industrl Negara
which had been in existence since l951. During its first five years BAPINDO
was used as a conduit for Government funds for purposes specified by the
Government; these were not necessarily developmental. It had no autonomy.
Its resources were exhausted by 1965, and its operations virtually stopped.
In 1966, BAPINDO's functions were enlarged to include commercial banking
and it began to accept deposits from the public. In 1966 and 1967 it
operated mainly as a commercial bank. In 1968 and 1969 the Government
allocated budgetary funds to BAPINDO for lending to selected State enter-
prises. Also,in April 1969, BAPINDO became a participant (together with
the five State commercial banks) in the Joint Financing Scheme (JFS)l/aimed
at providing medium-term finance to both public- and private-sector enter-
prises. In October 1970, Bank Indonesia (Indonesia's central bank) stopped
BAPINDO from term-lending to new clients because of its critical financial
position and organizational problems. Bank Indonesia withdrew that
restriction on December 10, 1971.
2.02      The Association's first detailed examination of BAPINDO in December
1969 revealed that BAPINDO was an inefficient institution, poorly managed and
in financial difficulties. It had a staff of about 1,350 employees, which
was clearly excessive for its needs, located in 20 widespread branches.
The organization suffered from poor coordination at all levels. The standard
of record-keeping was not good. BAPINDO was not equipped to make adequate
appraisals for term-lending, and it did no follow-up work. Its liabilities
were uncertain; its debt/equity ratio was unsound3 the quality of its port-
folio was in doubt; its books and accounts had never been audited by inde-
pendent qualified accountants; and its financial condition at the end of
1969 could not be exactly ascertained.
1/ See paragraph 3.14.



-2-
2.03      BAPINDO's management had had relatively little experience of
either term financing or commercial banking. Moreover, the degree of
autonomy allowed to BAPINDO was severely restricted. Except in short-term
lending, it had almost no independent powers of decision.
2.04      Discussions were held in Djakarta in May 1970 between representa-
tives of GOI, BAPINDO and the Association to chart out a course of action
for strengthering and reorganizing BAPINDO. GOI agreed that BAPINDO should
concentrate mainly on term finance and should gradually withdraw from its
commercial banking operations except on behalf of its term clients. It
was agreed that EAPINDO would lend to medium- and small-sized enterprises,
mainly in the industrial and transportation fields. GOI also agreed that
BAPINDO would have autonomy to carry out its operations in accordance with
sound financial and economic criteria within the overall framework of
Government economic policy.
III. INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
3.01      For information on the current economic situation and prospects,
reference is invited to the latest Bank Economic Report "The Indonesian
Economy:  Recent Developments and Prospects for 1972-73" (EAP 27a
November 30, 1971). Industrial problems and prospects were analyzed in an
earlier Economic Report 1/ and in April/May 1971 an industrial sector mission
visited Indonesia for further investigation. Its draft report, "Planning for
Industrial Development in Indonesia" is being discussed with the Government.
The following paragraphs summarize those aspects of the industrial and
financial situation that are particularly relevant to BAPINDO's operations.
Industrial Environment
3.02      Industrial structure.  Manufacturing is not well developed in
Indonesia; its share of GDP is estimated to be between 7% and 8%, against
10%-12% in developing countries of comparable size and per capita income.
Statistical data are inadequate and there has been no industrial census
since 1963. There appears still to be a proliferation of small establish-
ments. In 1967 only 14% of employment in all branches of industry was in
firms having on the average more than 50 workers and only 6% in establish-
ments of over 100 workers. The Chinese community is important in providing
entrepreneurship and capital (both of which are relatively scarce) for
industrial development, although large establishments are mainly State or
foreign enterprises. Domestic industrial firms are in general under-
capitalized and rely excessively on very costly short-term bank credit.
Within the manufacturing field, the group consisting of food, beverages
and tobacco is the most important, contributing nearly 50% of value added,
followed by industries based on rubber (about 20%) and textiles (below
1/ "The Indonesian Economy: Development Trends and Foreign Aid
Requirements, 1970-72'", Vol. III, Chapter I, EAP-19a.



- 3 -
10%). Industrialization has so far been directed largely to import
substitution. Djakarta is the largest industrial center but manufacturing
is fairly evenly distributed throughout Java. Outside Java, wood and
rubber products are the only significant manufactures.
3.03      Before 1966,  the previous Government emphasized industrial
development through public sector enterprises, and also nationalized many
foreign, particularly Dutch-owned, industrial operations. Although the
present Government favors private sector industrial development, State
enterprises still dominate production in a few industries, including
fertilizer, cement, paper and spinning, and account for many of the
largest plants. Accurate statistics on the relative importance of
Government-owned and privately-controlled industries are not available.
State enterprises accounted for about 15% of industrial employment and
value added in 1963; the proportion now is likely to be even less, be-
cause some have been returned to private ownership and growth of output
has been mainly in the private sector.
3-04      Indonesia has an open economy with few foreign exchange restric-
tions, but the structure of the tariff, the customs regulations and
administration and the sales tax structure all present obstacles to effi-
cient industrial growth.  The Government is fully aware of the problems
involved and has taken or is considering steps in each field to remove or
reduce the problems.  The tariff structure in particular has been substan-
tially adjusted to reduce unrealistically high duties; further changes are
planned.  Because illegal trade is still prevalent, consumer goods industries
often receive much less protection than nominal duty rates suggest, and are
therefore exposed to substantial international competition. Import bans were
important as a protective device until 1966 but are now in limited use.
3.05      Recent expansion.  The political upheaval of the mid-sixties
disrupted the economy. It is estimated that the industrial output of
1963 was not equaled until 1969. There is no index of industrial pro-
duction but available data indicate that most industries achieved sub-
stantial increases in output during 1970 and in the first half of 1971.
In the most important manufacturing industry, textiles, yarn output rose
by about 30% in 1970 and is estimated to have increased further by about
20% in 1971.  The output of ready-made garments and knitted goods in-
creased by 25% in 1970. Other industries, including paper, chemicals and
cigarettes, have also shown considerable increases in production. Production
of fertilizers and cement showed little increase in 1970-71 because exist-
ing plants had been operating at or near full capacity; but significant
increases should be achieved with the implementation of expansion programs
currently under way. Crumb rubber production was expected to show a rise
from 35,000 tons in 1970 to 100,000 tons in 1971.
3.06      Government incentives.  The highly protectionist and heavily
state-controlled system of the Sukarno era has been largely replaced
since 1967 by a more liberal system of industrial incentives based on
tax and tariff relief, which is stimulating industrial investment and
growth. The investment climate has also been greatly improved by the



success of the financial stabilization program in 1966-69, the removal of
import, exchange and other controls and t+he evidence of strong support for
the new economic policies in the form of project and program aid by member
governments and institutions of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia.
Incentives are offered within the framework of the Foreign Investment Law
of 1967 and the Domestic Investment Law of 1968. Both provide exemption
from import duties on equipment and on the initial stock of raw materials,
exemption from corporate income tax for periods of up to six years and from
dividend tax for periods of up to two years, accelerated depreciation, free
transferability of earnings, and the right to own land. Indonesia has been
a member of International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes since
October 1968.
3.07      Demand for investment.  Private investment has accelerated since
the enactment of the Foreign and Domestic Investment Laws. Investment in
manufacturing has been growing consistently; that in other sectors, parti-
cularly forestry and mining, reached a peak in 1969. From January 1967 to
June 1971, 402 investment projects were approved by the Foreign Investment
Board involving a total planned investment of US$1,495 million, of which
US$428 million is in the manufacturing sector. From November 1968 to June
1971, 642 investment projects were approved by the Domestic Investment
Board involving planned investment of about Rp. 262 billion (US$630 million
equivalent) of which over one-half was in the manufacturing sector. Total
investment expenditures for projects (manufacturing and other) approved
under the two investment laws appear to have amounted to about $75 million
equivalent in 1970. It is estimated that private manufacturing investment
in 1971 may have reached about $130 million equivalent, with domestic
enterprise accounting for up to one-half of that total. Tentative estimates
suggests that private investment in manufacturing will grow annually by at
least 25% between 1971 and 1975, and that the domestic component may expand
even more rapidly, if funds are available.
3.08      Obstacles to industrial development.  Significant improvements in
industrial output and in the investment climate notwithstanding, important
impediments to further growth include the following: (a) the geographical
configuration of the archipelago and the lack of adequate transport and
communications systems; the former results in considerable smaggling, the
latter in high transport costs; (b) the scarcity of entrepreneurship,
management and accounting skills and technical know-how; (c) administrative
and bureaucratic obstacles which still cause investors considerable delays
and difficulties in getting decisions and obtaining interpretation of laws;
and (d) the scarcity of capital.
Financial Environment
3.09      Present financial network.  The existing banking network consists
of Bank Indonesia (the central bank), the State commercial banks, the State
development bank (BAPINDO), and a group of national private banks and



- 5 -
branches of foreign banks. There are five State commercial banks which to
some extent specialize in various sectors of the economy. 1/ Together they
have about 600 branches in the country of which about half are those of
the Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, the biggest commercial bank.  Indonesian
private banks number about 120, with some 250 offices. Their importance
in the banking system has declined in comparison with the 3tate banks.
They now account for less than 5% of total banking assets. There are eleven
foreign bank branches, all of which are in the Djakarta area, but their
total loans represented only about 3% of total outstanding bank loans as of
December 31, 1971.
3.10      Total bank credit has been increasing rapidly in the past few
years. The proportion going to the private sector has also increased.
All banks in Indonesia make both short-term working capital loans and
medium-term investment loans. Outstanding bank credit increased from
Rp. 135 billion at the end of 1968 to Rp. 231 billion, Rp. 341 billion and
Rp. 477 billion at the end of 1969, 1970 and 1971 respectively. At the end
of 1971, Bank Indonesia supplied about 48% of the outstanding credit, but
this proportion has declined. The largest gain was by the State commercial
banks which now account for about 43% of the total. At the end of 1968 the
public sector held two-thirds of the total; by the end of 1970 the private sector
held over one-half of the total credit outstanding. (Similar data as at
the end of 1971 are not available.) There has also been a dramatic increase
in bank deposits during the past few years, stimulated by retirning monetary
stability and by high interest paid on deposits. At the end of 1967 total
deposits amounted to Rp. 2.2 billion; at the end of 1970 total deposits
amounted to more than Rp. 65 billion. The deposits increased further to
Rp. 136 billion at the end of 1971. The increase in deposits started towards
the end of 1968 when a new interest rate structure (substantially the same
as at present, see paragraph 3.17) was introduced. For all practical pur-
poses there is no capital market in Indonesia at the present time. However,
studies are continuing, under the auspices of Bank Indonesia to develop both
money and capital markets. At the request of GOI, an IFC mission visited
Djakarta in late 1971 to review the work already done by Bank Indonesia's
Money and Capital Markets Team, and to assess priorities for further actions
by GOI.  In January 1972, the Team was dissolved and a Money and Capital
Markets Development Board was established in order to carry out the prepara-
tory work for the creation and regulation of money and capital markets.
IFC is considering what technical assistance it can give GOI in fostering
the development of money and capital markets in Indonesia.
3.11      Facilities for term financing. The bulk of long-term finance
to the manufacturing sector is provided (mainly by Bank Indonesia) under
the Joint Financing Scheme (paragraph 3.14) through the five State com-
mercial banks, particularly Bank Negara Indonesia 1946. The only insti-
tution other than BAPINDO specializing in providing long-term finance
1/ These are Bank RakJat Indonesia (agriculture), Bank Exim Indonesia
(export and estates), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (industry, trans-
port, agriculture and export), Bank Bumi Daya (mining, export and
estates), and Bank Dagang Negara (export and mining). In practice
their activities often overlap.



- 6 -
is the Indonesian Development Finance Company (IDFC). The authorized share
capital of IDFC is Rp. 4 billion (about US$9.6 million) of which Rp. 1.6
billion has been jointly subscribed by Bank Indonesia and the Netherlands
Overseas Finance Corporation. For some time the owners of IDFC have hoped
to make it a multinational company by obtaining official British, German
and possibly Australian and New Zealand participation.
3.12      Preliminary discussions are also under way concerning establish-
ment of a new, broadly-based private development bank, in which private
entrepreneurs in Indonesia and private foreign investors would find it
possible to participate. The Government supports the idea and is receiving
Bank assistance in developing the project.
3.13      BAPINDO, IDFC and the proposed private development bank will thus
constitute the specialized institutional sources of term finance for the
industrial sector. The investment outlook appears to offer good scope for
business for all the three institutions.
3.14      "Joint Financing Scheme". Until the JFS was started early in 1969,
little institutional finance was available for even the mediuw-term needs
of industry. Under this scheme, sub-borrowers are required to contribute
25% of project costs. The remaining 75% is provided by Budget funds, at
no cost to the participating banks; by Bank Indonesia, which charges the
participating banks 4% per annum; and by the participating banks themselves
from their own resources. As of December 31, 1971, nearly 70% of funds dis-
bursed under JFS had been provided by Bank Indonesia, about 10% by the Budget
and 20% by the participating banks. Priority for financing is given to
projects for rehabilitation, modernization and expansion, and the use of
funds is restricted to financing fixed assets. Of the total funds disbursed
up to June 30, 1971 (Rp. 58.7 billion), 42% have gone to the manufacturing
sector, 29% to transport and tourism and 29% to agriculture. Slightly more
than three-fourths of the total amount has been disbursed to the private
sector, and about 60% has gone to finance imports.  JFS disbursements in
1970 to the manufacturing sector were Rp. 15 billion,or about 50% of total
manufacturing investment for the year. The cost of funds to the borrowers
is 12%. Individual loans above Rp. 100 million require approval by
Bank Indonesia.
3-15      "Development Loans Through the Banklng System".  To utilize capi-
tal aid given on a government-to-goverment basis by foreign countries for
the manufacturing sector, a new arrangement called Development Loans Through
the Banking System (DLBS) has been introduced. Under this arrangement,
foreign exchange loans will be made available to banks to relend to the
industrial sector for periods of up to 12 years. The exchange risk is to
be passed on to the borrowers. Other terms will be similar to those under
the JFS, except that an interest rate of 9% per annum will be charged to
the sub-borrower, who will bear the exchange risk. An initial loan of
Y3.6 billion (about $10 million equivalent) by Japanese Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) has been finalized but was not effective as of
February 29, 1972. Procurement will be tied to purchases from Japan.
Repayment by BOI to OECF will be according to a fixed repayment schedule.



- 7 -
The loans made by the participating banks under the DLBS arrangement will
be subject to Bank Indonesia's approval;  those above 1100 million (about
$325,000) will also require prior approval by OECF. The five State com-
mercial banks and BAPINDO will participate.
3.16      The JFS has been successful in providing mach needed investment
funds to the private sector. However, there are two main shortcomings in
the present arrangements for term financing. The period of loans, five
years, is too short for many projects, and there is no provision for the
financing of permanent working capital. The DLBS scheme will remove the
first shortcoming but its scope is limited in that it relates to loans
tied to procurement in specific countries. It has been agreed with the
Government that the proposed IDA credit, if approved, will be subject to
neither of those shortcomings.
Interest Rates
3.17      The interest rate structure applied by State commercial banks as
well as BAPINDO is determined by Bank Indonesia, while private commercial
banks are free to set their own interest rates. The range of interest
rates is wide. The State banks charge from 12% per annum for medium-term
investment loans to 30% for short-term working capital loans. The 12% rate
for medium-term loans is a subsidized rate made possible by the fact that
the bulk of the funds for medium-term lending is provided to the State
banks by Bank Indonesia at 4% per annum, and from Budget funds at no cost.
Interest rates charged by private banks vary widely from bank to bank and
from borrower to borrower, ranging from 3% to 6% per month. Interest is
paid by State banks on demand deposits at rates ranging from 6%-12% per
annum depending on amount, and on time deposits from 12% on deposits for
less than three months to 24% per annum on 12-month deposits. Interest
received on deposits was until recently free of income tax. A 15% with-
holding tax has now been introduced.
3.18      The interest rate structure has remained largely unchanged since
January 1970, although the value of money has remained relatively stable
throughout the period. The present rate structure has contributed, as noted
in paragraph 3.10 above, to a remarkable increase in total deposits between
1967 and 1971. But it has obvious defects. Rates on short-term funds for
working capital are high (30% per annum and upwards) while the cost of funds
for medium-term loans to purchase capital equipment is a subsidized 12% per
annum. Moreover, the medium-term rate of 12% is only one-half of the
interest rate on 12-month deposits. Modifications of the current interest
rate structure are under discussion. In particular the 12% rate for the
JFS may be raised, to bring the strong and growing demand for investment
funds more nearly into equilibrium with the supply.
3.19      Since tthe JFS was introduced in 1969, all BAPINDO's term-lending
has been made under that scheme and BAPINDO has charged the rate of 12% per
annum set by Bank Indonesia. That rate is expected to be applied to BAPINDO's
on-lending of funds made available under the proposed credit. The Govern-
ment has decided to bear the exchange risk on those funds. A rate of 12%
per annum with no "maintenance of value" clause seems low in relation to the
supply of and demand for industrial credit, but as noted in the preceding
paragraph, the interest rate structure is under review.



IV. THE REORGANIZATION OF BAPINDC)
4.01      Paragraphs 2.02 and 2.03 outline some of BAPINDf's main weaknesses
as they existed in May 1970. This section discusses in more detail those
weaknesses, measures agreed between the Government and the Association to
remedy them and the progress made in taking those measures.
The Act
4.02      BAPINDO's charter was originally established by Act No. 21 of
1960. The hyper-inflation of the next seven years, the monetary reform of
1965 (when the nominal value of the Rupiah was divided by one thousand),
the passage in 1967 of a general Banking Act, No. 14, and in 1968 of the
Bank Indonesia Act, No. 13 (both of which included provisions affecting
BAPINDO, in common with other banking institutions), had by May 1970 com-
bined to make it desirable that the BAPINDO Act be revised. The Govern-
ment prepared a draft amending Act, which the Association commented on
and discussed with the Government and BAPINDO. The draft is satisfactory.
The amending legislation is expected to be introduced into the Legislature
shortly, and the Government expects that legislative action will take some
months to complete. However,since the draft BAPINDO Act closely follows
the wording of the Acts governing the other State-owned banking institu-
tions in Indonesia, the Government does not expect the amending legis-
lation to be controversial.
4.03      The draft  Act provides that term-lending will be BAPINDO's
main activity. Other important features are that BAPINDO s authorized
oapital will be increased from Rp. 60 million to Rp. 20 billion, and that
the Supervisory Board (see paragraph 4.07), which presently consists only
of the Minister of Finance and the Governor of Bank Indonesia, will in
future consist of at least four members. Persons with experience in
finance, industry and other sectors ought to be included. The Government
has not yet decided on the composition of the expanded Supervisory Board.
4.04      An increase in authorized capital from Rp. 60 million is neces-
sary to accommodate increases in BAPINDO's paid-in capital that the Govern-
ment has undertaken to make. The Association estimates that BAPINDDXs
paid-in capital is likely to have been increased to about Rp. 10 billion
by April 1973. In view of the substantial role envisaged for BAPINDO in
financing industrial development, further increases in paid-in capital
after 1973 are likely to be necessary. The proposed figure of Rp. 20
billion for the new authorized capital appears reasonable. Pending the
formal increase in the authorized capital, BAPINDO's paid-in capital in
excess of the presently authorized amount of Rp. 60 million is being
treated in its accounts as capital reserves.
Policy Statement
4.05      BAPINDO's Board of Managing Directors has adopted a comprehensive state-
ment of policies which is expected shortly to be approved by its Supervisory Board.



- 9 -
The Statement (Annex I) states that BAPINDQ will concentrate on development
finance and will gradually curtail its commercial banking operations. Its
principal role is envisaged as being to provide medium- and long-term loans
to medium- and small-sized enterprises, mainly in the industrial and trans-
portation fields, both for new projects and for the expansion and moderni-
zation of existing enterprises. The Statement lays down guidelines to be
observed by BAPINDO with regard to the scope of its activities, the invest-
ment and financial criteria it will observe, relationships with enterprises
financed, financial and portfolio management and the building of an effective
organization and staff. Among other matters the Statement provides that
BAPINDO will assist only enterprises that are soundly managed and that are
Judged to be viable after careful economic, financial, marketing and engineer-
ing appraisal; will not incur indebtedness greater than three times its out-
standing borrowings; and will protect itself against foreign exchange risk.
4h06      BAPINDO's Policy Statement is generally in line with those adopted
by many of the development finance companies associated with the Bank Group.
Since RAPINDO also engages in commercial banking, and its short-term liabi-
lities are significant, the debt limitation (three times its equity) relates
to total liabilities rather than to long-term borrowings only. The Policy
Statement calls attention to the need to assure that the maturities of its
assets will be appropriate to its liabilities. The proposed credit docu-
ments provide that the Policy Statement cannot be changed by BAPINDO without
pXrior approval of the Association.
Supervisory Board
4.07      The Supervisory Board (see paragraph 4.03) has the right to be
kept informed by the Board of Managing Directors and the duty to see to it
that the management and affairs of BAPINDO are properly conducted. On paper,
the Supervisory Board's control over the Board of Yanaging Directors is of
a negative rather than a positive nature. It is the Board of Managing
Directors that determines BAPINDO's policies and is responsible directly
to the Government 1/ (not through the Supervisory Board) for executing them.
But the Board of Managing Directors has to submit annually to the Supervi-
sory Board, for approval, what amounts to a financial and operational
program and budget for the coming year.
4.08      In practice, however, it has been the Finance Yinister and the
Governor of Bank Indonesia, acting in their respective capacities, who have
taken important decisions affecting BAPINDO.  Moreover, the Government's
ability to influence BAPINDO's operations is reinforced by regulatory and
advisory powers, conferred on Bank Indonesia by the general Banking Act and
by the Bank Indonesia Act, which are applicable to all banking institutions
in Indonesia.
1/ In effect, the Ministry of Finance.



- 10 -
4.09      In the circumstances described, it is clear that the effective-
ness of RAPINDO's operations must depend in great measure on the quality
of its Board of Managing Directors, as well as on the degree of autonomy
and support that the Government (specif1ically, the Minister of Finance
and the Governor of Bank Indonesia) is willing to give it.
Board of Managing Directors
4.10      In May 1970 the Government agreed with the Association that
BAPINDO's management needed strengthening: by the appointment of at least
one additional managing director; by the engagement of qualified advisors;
and by the appointment as chief executive (BAPINDO's President) of a
person of strong will and integrity, able to command the respect of the
Government and business community. In pursuance of this agreement, the
Government appointed, in January 1971, as BAPINDO's President Mr.
Kuntoadji, an electrical engineer by training and a brigadier-general
in the Indonesian Army. He had also been Dean of the Bandung Institute
of Technology. There is already evidence that, with the assistance of
his Advisors, Mr. Kuntoadji is providing the necessary leadership and
drive to complete the transformation of BAPINDO.
4.11      Besides Mr. Kuntoadji, there are now three other managing
directors: Mr. Priasmoro, Mr.Sardjono and Mr. Hendrobudijanto. The
appointment of an additional managing director with responsibility for
BAPINDO's proposed Maritime operations (see paragraph 6.03) is expected
to be announced shortly. Mr. Priasmoro was promoted to his present posi-
tion in 1968 and supervises BAPINDO's Research, Personnel, Planning and
General Services Departments. Mr. Sardjono, who was appointed to the
Board of Managing Directors from outside BAPINDO late in 1970, supervises
the Commorcial Banking, Project Promotion, Finance and Accounting and Branch-
office Sapervision Departments. Mr. Hendrobudijanto, a senior official of
the Ministry of Industries, joined BRPOLDO as from February 1, 1972 and
supervises the Credit and Follow-up, Legal and Collateral, Ehgineering and
Collection Departments.
4.12      To strengthen BAPINDO's management still further, the Association,
at the request of the Government and BAPINDO), recommended four Advisors.
They are Mr. Ichiro Fujita (formerly a senior officer of the Bank of Tokyo)
as Advisor to BAPINDO's President; fr. Amal K. Bose (of the Bank staff)
as Advisor on long-term financing; Mr. Ronald H. ELms (formerly with IFC
and then with WHO) as Advisor on financial management and accounting; and
M&. Melvin S. Lord (of the IFC staff) as Fngineering Advisor. Messrs.
Fujita and ELms took up their appointments with BAPINDO in July and
August 1971 respectively. Both will remain with BAPINDO for a period of
three years. Mr. Bose joined BAPINDO in May 1972 and Mr. Lord will join
in June 1972, each for two years assignments. The Japanese and Australian
Governments are bearing a part of the costs of Mr. Fujita and Mr. Elms
respectively.
4.13      BAPINDO's management has been greatly strengthened in the past
12 months, and it is now capable of raising to an appreciable level BAPINDO's
effectiveness within a reasonable period.



- 11.-
Organization and Procedures
4.14      BAPINDO's management faced and continues to face serious problems
of reorganization. The change in emphasis from commercial banking to long-
term financing will not be achieved easily. The retrenchment of several
hundred surplus staff is likely in Indonesian conditions to be slow and
difficult. Of BAPINDO's 18 existing branches (down 2 since 1969)
about one-half are uneconomic; and BAPINDOI, in consultation with Bank
Indonesia, intends to find ways of shedding them. Some may be closed;
some may be transferred, by negotiation, to other State-owned banks.
4.15      BAPIMD's management, in oonsultation with the Advisors, has
recently regrouped its activities among its departments, with sharper
definition of responsibilities than applied heretofore, and in the process
has created many new departments. The organization chart is shown in
Annex II. The departments have been arranged in four groups, each super-
vised by a Managing Director, with the Secretariat and Audit and General
Inspection Departments reporting directly to the President.
4.16      Features of BAPINDO's reorganization scheme are:  a Collection
Department has been established; a Branch Supervision Department has been
created to coordinate the work of, and connected with, the branches; a
Project Promotion Department has been set up to work on new investme t
opportunities; and legal and engineering personnel has been concent-:ted
in two new departments instead of, as previously, being spread throughout
BAPINDO's organization. In course of time, BAPINDO intends to handle
letters of credit and other foreign exchange transactions through its
Commercial Banking Department. Selected staff to handle that business
are receiving training from Bank Indonesia.
4.17      Internally, BAPINDO's procedures and controls have improved sub-
stantially but still need further upgrading. (The need is particularly
acute in accounting procedures, referred to below.) BAPINDOfs new manage-
ment has made a start on training staff for better appraisal and follow-
up work, on the basis of recommendations made by P. E. Consultants, Ltd.
following their 6-months study of BAPINDO in 1969/70. One group of 16
members has already completed the training. Procurement and disbursement
procedures still need to be tightened up. It is expected that, with the
appointment of two new managing directors and the recruitment of two
additional advisors in 1972, the general level of BAPINDO's internal orga-
nization and procedures will improve further and quickly. BAPINDO's
appraisal, follow-up, procurement and disbursement procedures were spe-
cifically discussed during negotiations for the proposed credit held in
March, and satisfactory understandings were reached.
Accounts
4.18      Through 1968, BAPINDO'a books and accounts did not undergo an
audit by independent qualified accountants. On the Association's recoin-
mendation, the Government arranged for such an independent audit of BAPINDO's



- 12 -
accounts for the year 1969, and subsequently. BAPIND0 appointed as its
auditors the firm of SyCip, Gorres, Velayo & Utomo (styled now Drs. Utomo,
Mhlia & Co.), an affiliate of SyCip, Gorres, Velayo of Manila, well known
to the Association.
4.19      The auditors found that BAPINDO's books and records were not
satisfactorily maintained and that internal controls were inadequate. The
auditors were not in a position to state that all transactions affecting
the financial position of BAPINDO as at December 31, 1969 and 1970, and
the results of BAPINDD's operations for those years respectively, were
duly taken up in the accounts. In the judgment of the auditors, the
matters referred to entered materially into the determination of BAPINDO's
financial position and the rosults of its operations. The auditors did
not, therefore, express an opinion on BAPINDO's accounts for the years
1969 and 1970.
4.20      The auditors, in the course of their audit of BAPINDO's accounts
for the years 1969 and 1970, made many recommendation for improving
BAPINDO's accounting methods and procedures. BAPINDO sought to act on
the auditors' recommendations, and improvements were gradually brought
about. The pace of improvement greatly quickened after the arrival in
BAPINDO of the Accounting Advisor. The reality of those improvements has
been confirmed by the fact that the auditors hare signed BAPINDO's
Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1971. The Associalion has found the
Auditors' Report acceptable. BAPINDO's accounts for the year-ended
December 31, 1971 are the first ever to be certified by independent
auditors.
Financial Structure
4.21      In MIy 1970 the Government agreed that BAPINDO's financial struc-
ture needed extensive change. The Government also agreed that these matters
could not be completed until there had been a satisfactory audit of
BAPINDO's accounts and its portfolio had been reviewed in detail.
4.22      Following the audit of BAPINDO's accounts for 1970 and a detailed
review of BAPINDO's portfolio by an Association mission in November/December
1970, the Government undertook:
(a) To remove from BAPINDM's portfolio and to relieve
BAPINDO of all liability with respect to its loans
to 19 state enterprises. The amount involved was
about Rp. 5.6 billion.
(b) To convert into equity Government funds amounting
to about Rp. 2.6 billion.
(c) To convert into equity Rp0 4 billion of the loans
(which amounted to Rp. 6.9 billion subject to
audit) outstanding from Bank Indonesia to BAPINDO.



- 13 -
(d) To increase BAPINDO's equity by an additional
amount of Rp. 4 billion, in the form of budgetary
allocations in cash of Rp. 2 billion in April 1972
and April 1973.
(e) To make arrangements that would insure that the
conversion of loans amounting to Rp. 4 billion
from Bank Indonesia referred to in (c) above was
represented by cash payments to BAPINDO before the
end of 1971. */
(f)  To write off as uncollectible about 16% of BAPINDO's
outstanding term-loans portfolio and about 14% of
BAPINDO's short-term portfolio, both subject to
later detailed review and the auditors' findings
on the accounts for 1971.
The M'inister of Finance and Bank Indonesia, by directives to BAPINDO, gave
effect to the actions noted in (a), (b), (c), (e), and (f) above as from
April 1971. The amount written off as of April 30, 1971, pursuant to
item (f) above, was about Rp. 2.5 billion. Following a detailed review
of the portfolio, BAPINDO has now created a reserve for possible bad debts
amounting to about Rp. 3 billion in place of the amount written off earlier.
V. OPERATIONS, PORTFOLIO AND FINANCIAL POSITION
Operations
5.01      Details of BAPINDO's recent loan operations are given in Annex III.
The portfolio consists of the categories of loans listed below.
5.02      Medium-term loans.  The total medium-term loans (up to 5 years)
outstanding was Rp. 8.5 billion as at June 30, 1971. Details of approvals,
commitments, etc. for such loans in recent years are given in Annex IV.
About 23% of the medium-term portfolio consists of loans made for crumb
rubber projects under a program whereby the necessary equipment was
imported against bilateral credits from France and Britain. In February
1969, BAPINDD was appointed administrator for the program and by June 30,
1971, with approvals totaling Rp. 2.7 billion to 21 clients, the program
had been completed. The medium-term loan portfolio also includes 6 loans
made against a U.S. bilateral credit; the amount outstanding in this
category was Rp. 22 million on June 30, 1971.
1/ BAPINDO was to retain collections from its clients, and to the extent
total collections fell Short of Rp. 4 billion, Bank Indonesia was to
pay cash to BAPINDO.



- 14 
5.03      Between October 1970 and December 1971, BAPINDO did not make
any term loans to new clients, under instructions from Bank Indonesia.
However, it did not make additional loans to its existing clients, amounting
to Rp. 1.3 billion in 1971. Bank Indonesia's restriction on BAPINDO's
term-lending was removed on December 10, 1971.
5.04      Annex V gives the breakdown of medium-term loans by size, geo-
graphic sector, industry, maturity, etc. The average size of BAPINDO's
medium-term loans has been Hp. 63 million (US$153,000 equivalent). Loans
are somewhat concentrated in West Java (41% by number and 49% by amount),
reflecting the geographic concentration of Indonesian industry. Loans to
the textile industry account for 23% of approvals; the rubber processing
industry also accounts for 23%. Other sectors receiving BAPINDO's assist-
ance are transportation, tourism (hotels), pharmaceutical, paper and
chemicals. Although the JFS emphasized rehabilitation of existing projects,
46% of BAPINDO's approvals went to new projects.  Most loans are for under
5 years, in compliance with Bank Indonesia regulations. A few loans are
being repaid over more than 5 years because of rescheduling.
5.05      Short-term working capital loans. With additional budget funds no
longer available after 1966, and having few other resources, BAPINDO was
authorized in 1967 to accept deposits from the public and to engage in
commercial banking.  Its short-term loan portfolio increased to Rp.6.9 billion
(1,309 clients) at December 31, 1970.  On April 1, 1971, 418 short-term
loans fcr Rp. 1,334 million were written off. Also, following the instruc-
tions of the Ministry of Finance and Bank Indonesia, BAPINDO transferred
to other State banks between April 1 and June 30, 1971 a number of short-
term loans amounting to Rp. 235.7 million, with a view to reducing BAPINDO's
commercial banking operations and improving its liquidity. BAPINOW's
short-term portfolio as of June 30, 1971 consisted of 593 loans for Rp. 4.5
billion. Of this amount, Rp. 1.3 billion or 28% were loans to BAPINDO's
medium-term loan clients. Sectoral distribution of BAPINDO's short-term
loan portfolio since 1969 is given in Annex VI; the most important bene-
ficiary has been the textile industry.
5.06      Short-term credits are made formally for periods not exceeding
one year, but in practice they are often renewed. )bst short-term loans
are secured, not by stock and other movable assets, but by fixed assets.
An estimated 90% of outstanding credits has gone to private firms. The
interest rate charged by BAPINDO on short-term credits is 27% per annum.
5.07      According to its new policy orientation, BAPINDD will be cur-
tailing its commercial banking operations in the future. The transfer of
loans to other State banks, mentioned in paragraph 5.05, was a step in that
direction. Eventually, BAPINDO will be making short-term loans only to its
term borrowers.



- 15 -
5.08      Short-term  cotton loans.  In 1967 BAPINDO was designated to
administer a Government scheme for financing the industrial use of raw
cotton imported under PL 480 agreements with the U.S.A.,for distribution
to selected spinning mills at prices subsidized by the Government. The
loan arrangements are part of a general program of subsidies to the
textiles sector which may be modified and eventually eliminated. The
spinning mills purchase the cotton on credit; the loans are made by
BAPINDO using funds provided by Bank Didonesia for the full value of the
cotton. BAPINDO lends its own funds for the local expenses. BAPINDO
takes title to the cotton, but the risk of loss arising from a fall in
price is practically nil as the contracts for sale of the cotton are
signed before the shipment is effected. The loans are for 6 months from
the date of raw cotton delivery, and are often renewed for an additional
period of up to 6 months.  BAPINDD pays 4% interest to Bank Indonesia,
while interest charged by BAPINDO to borrowers is 12% per annum for the
portion of the BAPINDD loan covering the cost of raw cottono (Interest
is 27% per annum for the local curmency part of the BAPINDO loan, which
covers additional expenditures such as handling, stevedoring, insurance,
etc.) Credits for cotton constitute a sizeable part of BAPINDWs portfolio.
Cn the basis of the June 30, 1971 figures, these credits amounted to
Rp. l1.2 billion or about 45% of the total portfolio. The number of
clients is less than 15. Pending any change made in the cotton subsidy
arrangement, BAPINDO assumes that these operations will continue at about
the present level.
Portfolio
5.09      As at December 31, 1971 RAPINDW's pcrtfolio consisted of Rp. 11.2
billion in medium-term loans, Rp. 4.1 billion in short-term working capital
loans and Rp. 13.3 billion in loans for raw cotton. The amounts in arrears
on the same date were as follows (Rp. million):
Total     Principal   Interest
Outstanding   Overdue     Overdue   Total
Medium-term loans        11,160         940         6ll     1,551
Short-term loans          4,083       3,184       1,293     4,1477
Loans for raw cotton     13,349         664         153        817
Total               28,592      4,788        2,057     6,845
5.10      Provisions for possible losses on account of bad debts, on a cumu-
lative basis, amounted to Rp. 3.0 billion as at December 31, 1971. BAPINDO's
management, on the basis of detailed review of individual loans, believes
that the provision is adequate. The auditors in their report have not
expressed an opinion on the adequacy of the provision.



- 16 -
5.11      The large amounts of provisions and arrears reflect both the
poor quality of BAPINDO's past appraisals and some important factors out-
side BAPINDO 's control.  Such factors include the political pressures that
put a number of bad loans on BAPINDOts books. They also reflect some
restrictions imposed by the terms of the JFS. Under the JFS, loans may
not be made for permanent working capital, the scarcity of which causes
many defaults on short-term loans. Another requirement of the JFS is that
term loans shall be for a period not exceeding five years.  The debt ser-
vice burden resulting from the short repayment term sometimes proves
beyond the servicing capacity of the borrowers. In May 1970 the Govern-
ment agreed that BAPINDO would be free to set the duration of loans it
made from sources of finance other than the JFS in accordance with the
nature of these resources. During negotiations for the proposed credit,
in March 1972, the Government confirmed that BAPINDO) would be free to set
the terms of loans made from sources other than the JFS in accordance with
project needs, and that BAPINDO would be free to use such other funds in
making term loans to provide permanent working capital.
5.12      The arrears situation is expected to improve appreciably over
the next few years. Better appraisal and follow-up work and improved
accounting procedures, which BAPINDO's new management can be relied upon
to introduce, and the setting up of the new Collection Department, should
contribute to the reduction of arrears. The conversion into medium-term
loans for the financing of permanent working capital (see paragraph 6.06)
of short-term loans amounting to Rp. 1.5 billion each in 1972 and 1973
will reduce arrears in the short run and should further improve collec-
tions in the long run. Moreover, BAPINDO's ability to finance the perma-
nent element of working capital by medium- and long-term loans, and to
make loans for capital expenditure for terms longer (if necessary) than
the 5 years maximum set by the JFS, sbould further reduce the number of
new loans falling into arrears.
Financial Position
5.13      BAPINDO's Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1969 and 1970,
March 31, 1971 and April 1, 1971, the last reflecting the adjustments
referred to in paragraph 4.22 above, are given in Annex VIIo That Annex
also includes figures as of December 31, 1971, the first certified by
independent auditors. As between December 31, 1970 and December 31, 1971,
BAPINDO's equity increased from Rp. 1.9 billion to Rp. 7.4 billion, as a
result of the adjustments, made in 1971,    referred to in paragraph 4.22.
The total debt to equity ratio declined from 15:1 at the end of 1970 to
3.3:1 at the end of 1971; the long-term debt to equity ratio declined
from 8:1 to 1.2t1 during the same period. The liquidity position as of
December 31, 1971 is also satisfactory.  BAPINDO's total deposits amounted
to Rp. 2.2 billion at the end of 1971 of which about half were time
deposits. BAPINDO proposes to liquidate the time deposits before the
end of 1972 and it does not plan to accept any more of them.



- 17 -
5.14      It will be noted from the above paragraph that the total debt
to equity ratio as at December 31, 1971 exceeded the 3:1 limit prescribed
in the Policy Statement (which appears also in the proposed Project
Agreement). The ratio will be within the limit as soon as the Government
pays in the amount of Rp. 2 billion as additional capital for BAPINDO,
for which budgetary appropriation has already been made. As noted earlier,
the Government has agreed to make a further payment of Rp. 2 billion into
BAPINDO's capital in April 1973.
5.15      Profitability.  BAPINDO's Income Statements for the years 1969,
1970 and 1971 are given in Annex VIII. Only the 'tatement for 1971 has
been certified by the auditors. The statements for 1969 and 1970 show
profits although in fact BAPINDD had lost money as bad debts were not
written off and provisions were not made. The statement for the
year 1971 showa loss of about Rp. 1 million, after making a provision for
possible bad debts amounting to Rp. 2.6 billion. BAPINDO has enjoyed an
average spread of about 12% on its borrowed-funds. Details of interest paid
by RAPINDO on its borrowings, amd of interest charged by it on its
various loans are given in Annex IX. One thing is clear from the income
statements: personnel and administrative expenses are extremely high
(amounting to about 5% of average total assets in 1970) for the obvious
reasons of surplus staff and the large number of uneconomic branches.



- 18 -
VI. PROSPECTS
General Outlook
6.01      The prospects for further industrial development in Indonesia
are good. Although private domestic investment in manufacturing, aided by
the tax incentives provided under the Domestic Investment Law and by the
funds made available through the JFS, has expanded rapidly, it is still a
small part of the total investment in the economy. Government investment,
investment by Government-owned enterprises and foreign private investment
in the aggregate are far larger. There is evidence that the principal con-
straint on the growth of private domestic investment is the limited amount
of resources available, rather than a lack of enterprise or inadequate
opportunities for investment in the private sector. Retained earnings of
enterprises are limited, private savings which can be mobilized through the
banking system, although they have been growing, are also limited, and cre-
dit creation is of necessity restricted indirectly by balance of payments
considerations. Such transfers as can be made to the banking system from
Government savings need to be augmented by foreign aid and private inflows
if domestic enterprise is to grow at a significant rate. BAPINDO is ex-
pected to become the principal source of term finance for the private indus-
trial sector. If it is endowed with adequate resources, it should not lack
investment opportunities. It is seeking, by the re-organization described
earlier in this report, to equip itself to take advantage of those
opportunities.
6.02      In November 1971, the Indonesian Government selected BAPINDO as
the intermediary to be used to channel a proposed IDA credit of US$8.5 million
for the purpose of rehabilitating the existing Regular Liner Service fleet
through loans to shipping companies. BAPINDO and the shipping companies
would augment these funds with local currency loans. The credit would be
part of a much larger program for the rehabilitation of Indonesia's mari-
time sector carried out through bilateral assistance and facilitated by
institutional reforms effected by the Government in consultation with the
Association. It is expected that BAPINDO would begin lending operations
under the proposed IDA credit for shipping towards the end of September
1972.
6.03      A new Department is being set up within BAPINDO exclusively for
maritime operations. An additional Managing Director for shipping is to be
appointed from the Indonesian shipping community. The Association has
asked the UNDP to finance three Maritime experts as advisors, and UNDP is
considering the request. The new department will ckaw on existing BAPINDO
staff for personnel to the extent possible.
6.04      The discussion of BAPINDO's future estimates of business,
operating results and financial condition in the following paragraphs
does not include maritime operations. Estimates made for the maritime
project indicate that its calls on BAPINDO's Rupiah resources during
1972 and 1973 are not likely to exceed Rp. 2 billion.



- 19 -
Business Forecasts
6.05      At this time, the difficulties of quantifying estimates of total
private investment in manufacturing during the next few years in Indonesia
are great. The Association has tentatively estimated that total private
investment in mamufacturing could amount to about $1,200 million in the
five-year period 1971-75. Of this amount private foreign investment is
estimated at about $500 million (about 42%) and domestic investment at about
$700 million.  However, in the Association's opinion, these figures could
be exceeded by a wide margin. BAPINDO has used these figures as a guide to
forecasting its own operations during the next few years. (For BAPINDO, at
least in the next few years, processing capacity is more likely to be a con-
straint on its volume of operations than either lack of resources or lack
of business opportunities.) BAPINDO's forecasts of its operations, shown
in Annexes X through XIII, can therefore be regarded only as indicating
BAPINDO's present view of the operations it can and should handle during
the 1972-75 period.
6.06      BAPINDD has estimated the amount of long-term  loans in the total
estimated investments for the whole period 1971-75 at about Rp. 140 billion.
BAPINDO assumes that, during 1972-75 period, it will provide about 25% 1/
of the total long-term loan financing, or about 13% of gross private manu-
facturing investment. The aggregate figure is finally broken down into
yearly forecasts on the basis of past trends in domestic and foreign invest-
ments and on the basis of the Association's estimates of yearly increases in
total investment. BAPINDO's forecast of yearly commitments is as follows
(in Rp. billion):
Short-Term
Medium- and Long-Term Loans                Loans     Total
Total    Domestic Currency    Foreign Currency   Domestic  Commitment.r
1972       6.5             h.7 2/                1.8             0.8         7.3
1973       9.0             6.1 2/                2.9             0.8         9.8
1974      10.0             5.7                   4.3             0.5       10.5
1975      12.5             6.6                   5.9             _.5       13.0
38.0           23.1                  14L              2.6        40.6
The medium- and long-term domestic currency loan commitments include loans for
permanent working capital. BAPINDO estimates that such loans (for financing
permanent working capital) will amount to 25% of the loans for fixed assets.
1/ This is ambitious, but given BAPINDO's strong management and the absence
of other active specialized long-term lending institutions, it may not
prove unrealistic.
2/ Includes Rp. 1.51 billion of conversion of existing short-term workin_
capital loans into medium-term loans for permanent working capital.



- 20 -
'he reason for projecting medium-term loans for financing working capital
.s that enterprises in Indonesia have, in the past, usually financed total
Torking capital requirements (including that part which remains in the busi-
iess permanently) on a short-term basis, which results in heavy pressure
n liquidity and frequent defaults. BAPINDO will need to be particularly
:areful in each case in estimating that part of the working capital require-
ient which it will finance on a medium-term basis. The relationships between
she current long- and medium-term, short-term and deposit rates of interest
Lre such as to encourage the diversion of money borrowed at long-term rates
;o short-term users.  During negotiations, the Association reviewed with
~APINDO the criteria RAPINDO will follow in financing permanent working
,apital requirements by medium-term loans and satisfactory understandings were
.eached. BAPINDO estimates that the foreign currency component of the total
:ost of manufacturing projects in Indonesia over the next few years is likely
;o be of the order of 60%. Since BAPINDO will only be financing a part of
L project's cost, conceivably almost all its lending could be directed to-
rard financing imports. However, having in view the important need for loans
so be made in Rupiah to finance permanent working capital requirements and
Llso the availability of Rupiah resources (which are convertible) BAPINDO
-xpects that, over the next two years, its foreign currency commitments will
)e Rp. 4.7 billion equivalent and will represent only about 31% of total
:ommitments. The proportion is projected to rise in later years.
.07      BAPINDO's projections of short-term lending reflect the policy of
iaking such loans to its term loan clients only. In order to finance perma-
tent working capital on a medium-term basis, BAPINDO forecasts that it will
)e justified in converting about Rp. 3 billion of its outstanding short-teryr
-oans as at December 31, 1971 (Rp. 4.l billion) into long-term loans to
bxisting clients during 1972-73. It estimates its new short-term loans to
Lmount to 50% of its loans for permanent working capital in the years
,972-75-
tesource Requirements
>.08     BAPINDO will need abcut Rp. 40.6 billion equivalent to meet its
ystimated commitments in the 1972-75 period. This includes short-term lend-
.ng, which will be financed out of deposits and rediscount facilities.  For
;he first two years, its commitments for medium- and long-term loans will
Lmount to about Rp. 15.5 billion, of which Rp. 3 billion relates to existing
;hort-term loans which will be converted into long-term loans (paragraph 6.07).
'hus Rp. 12.5 billion of capital is needed to cover 1972 and 1973 commit-
ients. As noted in the table in paragraph 6.06, the foreign procurement
element of the Rp. 15.5 billion is estimated to be about Rp. 4.7 billion
,quivalent.
i.09     BAPIND0 had about Rp. 1 billion in uncommitted resources at the
eginning of 1972.  During 1972 and 1973, it expects to receive an addi-
oional Rp. 4.0 billion in the form of contributions to equity from the
hovernment, about Rp. 3.0 billion from the liquidation of its present
;hort-term portfolio (taking into account the expected reduction in deposits)
Lnd about Rp. 3.0 billion in internal cash generation. BAPINDO's forecasts



- 21 -
reflect its plans to draw from Bank Indonesia under JFS about Rp. 5 billion
in the two years. However, as mentioned in paragraph 6.01 above, credit
creation is restricted, and the amount Bank Indonesia is able to make avail-
able through the JFS during that period may not permit BAPINDO to draw as
much as Rp. 5 billion. BAPINDO will also need Rupiah resources to meet its
requirements for the maritime operations (see paragraph 6.04). Some of the
available resources are restricted in use: country-tied in the case of
DLBS; 5-year maximum in the case of JFS; for fixed assets only in the case
of JFS. In summary, however, BAPINDO's local currency resource base will
be adequate to cover its commitments over the next two years and also to
provide a good liquidity base for operations in subsequent years.
6.10      For the full period of the projections, 1972-75, BAPINDO's needs
for foreign exchange resources are estimated on a commitment basis at
Rp. 14.9 billion or about $36.6 million equivalent. For the first two
years, BAPINDO will need about $11.5 million. Although the amount BAPINDO
will use under the DLBS scheme is not known, it is unlikely to be more than
$2 million equivalent as five other banks also participate. BAPINDO's need
for foreign exchange to finance imports, on a commitment basis, will there-
fore be of the order of $10 million for a two-year period, all of which
douldbe met by the proposed IDA credit.
Future Financial Results and Position
6.11      Profitabili ty.  Based on the assumptions that (i) the existing
interest rate structure in Indonesia will remain largely unchanged in the
1972-75 period,I/ (ii) the interest payable on foreign exchange loans will
be 746, (iii) salaries and other personnel expenses will remain constant, 2/
(iv) administrative expenses will actually decline slightly in the last two
years of the forecast, and (v) the volume of raw cotton business will remain at
the level of about Rp. 10 billion, BAPIDC's profitability is estimated as
follows (for details see Annex XI):
Rp. in million
1972     1973     1974      1975
Total income                             3,216    3,026    3,636    4,587
Total expenses                           1,988    2,021    2,253    2,1426
Income before tax                        1,228    1,005    1,383    2,161
Net income after tax                     1,191      553       761    1,189
Earnings before interest and
tax/average total assets                  6%       5%        6%       7%
Net income after tax as percentage
of average equity                      13.2%     4j.7%     5.6%     8.2%
1/ As mentioned in paragraph 3.18, this is unlikely; but it is impossible
to predict what changes will be made.
2/ The savings obtained as a result of staff reduction mentioned in para-
graph 4p14, will be applied towards improving conpensation to the re-
maining staff so that, according to BAPINDO, total expense will remain
the same.



- 22 -
Total income for 1973 is less than that for 1972 because of the planned
reduction of the short-term loan portfolio and because of the lower income
assumed on loans for raw cotton. Net income after tax and the return on
equity are lower in 1973, 1974 and 1975 than in 1972 because in 1972
BAPINDO pays very little tax as a result of the accumulated loss charged
against that year's profit. BAPINDO will be only moderately profitable,
mainly because of high operating expenses and low leverage. These profit
figures are in fact over-stated; BAPINDO has included no new provisions
(for bad and doubtful debts) for the 1972-75 period, and such provisions
will in fact be necessary. As an offset, BAPINDO has assumed that it will
earn interest on temporarily surplus funds only at an average rate of 9%
per annwm. Its liquidity should in fact enable it to earn a higher average
rate.
6.12      Financial position.  The projected Balance Sheets as at December 31,
1972 through 1975 show that BAPINDO's financial position will remain sound
throughout the period of the forecasts (Annex XII). Total assets are expected
to grow at an average annual rate of about 15%. The long-term debt to equity
ratio will remain low, being 0.9:1 as at December 31, 1972 and 1973, in-
creasing to 1.2:1 and 1.5:1 at the end of 1974 and 1975 respectively. The
over-all debt/equity ratio is forecast to remain low, rising to 2.3 by the
end of the period. Credit covenants would provide for a maximum debt/equity
ratio of 3:1. Reserves and provisions as a percentage of total portfolio
will decline as the portfolio rises, but will still be 25.9% at the end of
1975.
6.13      BAPINDO has short-term, in addition to long-term, liabilities.
The greater part of its short-term liabilities relatesto its financing of
raw cotton.  The liabilities incurred are to Bank Indonesia, and the terms
on which Bank Indonesia makes finance available are tailored to the needs
of the operation. The use of the funds is regulated by Bank Indonesia.
The other important element in BAPINDOts short-term liabilities consists
of deposits. They form a relatively small proportion of total liabilities,
and BAPINDO plans to reduce them as it curtails its commercial banking
activities. BAPINDO's short-term operations are thus not expected to create
any pressures on BAPINDO's liquidity. Nevertheless, the use of a total debt
limitation (paragraph 6.12) and the presence of a provision in BAPINDO's
Policy Statement that BAPINDO will assure that the maturities of its assets
are appropriate to those of its liabilities, will give added protection.
In these circumstances no specific liquidity covenant appears to be needed.
6.14      The debt-service cover for term debt during the four years of
the forecast period will remain satisfactory. On the basis of the forecast,
interest and principal payments will be covered 1.6 times in 1972, 1.5 times
in 1973 and 1974, 1.8 in 1975, and will remain satisfactory throughout the
life of the Government's loan to BAPINDO from the proceeds of the proposed
credit.



- 23 -
6.15      For short-term loans, collections will far exceed new disburse-
ments in 1972 and 1973 as the existing short-term portfolio is reduced (see
paragraph 6.07). In 1974 and 1975, new disbursements will be more or less
covered by deposits and Bank Indonesia refinancing. Projected cash flow
statements are given in Annex XIII.
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
6.16      Attached as Annex XIV is a schedule of estimated disbursements of
the proposed credit.
VII. OONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The demand for investment credit in Indonesia is large and growing.
For  the private sector, the shortage of loanable funds appears to be the
main impediment to more rapid growth of private domestic investment. Trans-
fers made to the banking system from Government savings need to be augmented
by foreign aid and private inflows if domestic enterprise is to grow at a
significant rate. A creditworthy, well-managed BAPINDO, as the largest
Indonesian financial institution specializing in term-lending, would be a
suitable instrument for making available term finance, from both domestic
and foreign sources, to the industrial sector.
7.02      When the Association first examined BAPINDO in December 1969,
BAPINDO was in poor condition in all its aspects. It was not creditworthy.
On the basis of recommendations made by the Association, the Government
agreed in June 1970 on a plan for strengthening and reorganizing BAPINDO.
The reorganization called for a re-orientation of BAPINDO's policies and
operations, its recapitalization, retraining and reduction of staff, improve-
ment of its organization and procedures, changes in its charter, and, above
all, the strengthening of its management.
7.03      Satisfactory progress along the agreed lines has been made.  Most
importantly, BAPINDO's management has been strengthened by the Government's
appointment in January 1971 of a new President and two new managing directors
and by the secondment of four Advisors to management from the Bank's staff.
BAPINDO's financial structure is now sound. A start has been made on re-
orienting BAPINDO's operations, on improving its procedures, on training its
staff and on bringing order into its accounts and accounting controls.
BAPINDO's accounts for 1971 are its first certified by independent qualified
accountants. There should in time be further improvements in all aspects.
7.0h      Although 9APINDO's overall resource position appears satisfactory
for the two-year period 1972-73, some of its resources are restricted in
use and, moreover, it needs to build up its liquidity and lay a basis for



- 2  -
operations in the period thereafter. A credit of US$10 million would not
only serve those purposes but would also enable BAPINDO to meet financing
requirements for imports during the period. A credit to BAPINDO of that
amount is recommended.
7.05      The terms of the proposed credit include an initial "free limit"
of US$100,000, with an aggregate limit of US$2.5 million.  The Association
would thus reserve to itself prior approval of projects accounting for
about 75% of the proposed credit by amount, and about 50% by number of pro-
jects. Total indebtedness (including deposits) would be limited to three
times net worth. The Government would relend the proceeds of the credit to
BAPINDO at 74%, the Bank's current lending rate, or at such higher rate as
would leave BAPINDO a "spread" of not more than 4%. BAPINDO's repayments
to the Government would conform to BAPINDO's collections from its own borrowers
in respect of each loan. Other terms and conditions would be similar to those
in recent Bank loans to development finance companies including the standard
commitment fee.
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex I
Page 1
BANK PFEBANOUNAN INDONESIA
Draft Policy Statement
The Board of Managing Directors of BAPINDO, with the approval
of the Supervisory Board adopts the following policies and guidelines
to be observed by BAPINDOI in its operational activities.
1. Basic Policy
BAPINDO is established as a development finance institution to
provide, within the framework of the Government's general policy, financial
and related assistance to enterprises in Indonesia which, by their acti-
vities, are expected to make a positive contribution to the economic
development of Indonesia. In order to achieve this objective, BAPINDO
will conform with the following guidelines:
a) BAPINDO itself will build up a sound financial
structure to enable it to carry on its activities
and will acquire the necessary funds, mainly long-
and medium-term, with which to provide the
development assistance required. It will assure
that the maturities of its assets are appropriate
to those of its liabilities.
b)  BAPINDO will build up a sound organizational
structure and the high level of expertise which
will be required to carry out its duties
efficiently.
c)  BAPINDO will give particular attention to the
necessity of fostering a 3trong and healthy
entrepreneurship and capital market in Indonesia.
d) BAPINDO's assistance will take as wide a form as
necessary for tha iAlfillment of its duties, con-
sistent with BAPl:NDO's role as a development
finance institution.
e) In order to enhance its effectiveness as a develop-
ment finance institution, BAPINDO will seek to
establish firm and growing relationships with other
financial and allied institutions, both domestic
and foreign.
2. Field and Scope of Activities
a) BAPINDO will assist in the promotion, establishment,
rehabilitation, expansion and modernization of
enterprises, especielly in the fields of industry,
tourism and transportation.



Annex I
Page 2
-2-
b) The main emphasis in BAPINDO's operations
will be on medium- and long-term loans.
The proceeds of such loans may be used for
financing of permanent working capital.
3. Basis for Investment Decisions
a)  BAPIND0 will make its decisions to assist only
on the basis of sound investment criteria and
will set the terms of its loans according to
the needs of the projects financed. Therefore
BAPINDO will give assistance only to enter-
prises which are soundly managed and organized
and which are judged to be viable after careful
economic, financial, marketing and engineering
appraisal.
b) Subject to 3 a)above BAPINDO will select pro-
jects on as broad a geographical basis as
possible.
c)  BAPINDO will maintain continuous contact with
enterprises to which assistance has been given
and will endeavour to provide any advice or
guidance it feels necessary and take whatever
action which may be required under particular
circumstances.
4. Financial Guidelines
BAPINDO's financial commitments will normally not exceed the
following guidelines:
a)  BAPINDO's total outstanding debts, including
deposits and guarantees, will not exceed 3
times BAPINDO's net worth.
b)  BAPINDO's participation in equities will not
exceed, in total, BAPINDO's net worth.
c) BAPINDO's equity participation in any single
enterprise will not exceed 10% of BAPINDO's
net worth.
d)  BAPINIO's financial commitments (in whatever
form) to any single enterprise will not ex-
ceed 20% of BAPINDO's net worth.



Annex I
Page 3
-3-
5.  Relationship with Enterprise
a) BAPINDO shall not have a controlling
interest in an enterprise which would
result in giving it primary/single
responsibility for management of the
enterprise. Therefore, it will not
normally participate in more than 25% of
the share capital of any single enterprise.
b) To safeguard BAPINDO's interests and/or
the interests of the economy, in case of
jeopardy and notwithstanding 5 a) above,
BAPINDO will take effective measures for
providing adequate supervision and guidance
for the enterprise. It may seek representa-
tion on the managing body of the enterprise
concerned.
c) It is recognized that as a result of its
underwriting of share issues of enterprises
BAPINDO may hold issued share capital of an
enterprise in a ratio greater than that as
mentioned in a)above. In such cases, BAPIND0
will dispose of the excess portion of the
share capital as soon as possible following
the guidelines of 6 below.
6. Portfolio Management
a) BAPINDO will conduct its operations in such
a manner as to assist in the growth of a
sound capital market in Indonesia.
b) BAPINDO will endeavour to diversify the hold-
ing of securities in its portfolio, and to
revolve the contents of its portfolio whenever
possible on aatisfactory ^,erms.
c)  In revoLving its portfoilo, BAFINDO will pay
due regard not only to its own inte2ests, but
also to market conditions, and to the interests
of other holders of the securities and of the
enterprise concerned.
7. Risks and Profitability
a) Although BAPINDO's decisions to give financial
assistaace will be based upon its judgment of
the overall prospective profitability of the
enterprise, BAPINDO will obtain and secure in
accordance with sound business practice, ade-
quate security for the financial assistance
it provides.



Annex I
Page 4
-4-
b) BAPINDO will not carry the foreign exchange
risk attendant upon its borrowing and lend-
ing activities. The risk will be passed on
to its clients or covered by other suitable
means.
c) In order to finance its activities BAPINDO
will endeavour to acquire sufficient funds of
a stable nature, on as reasonable terms as
possible, to be able to give financial assis-
tance to its clients on terms which will allow
a healthy growth in the economy.
d) In carrying out its activities, BAPINDO will
adopt level of charges which will allow it a
satisfactory return, after meeting all expenses,
including the necessary provisions. This should
also allow BAPINDO to build and maintain re-
serves consistent with sound financial practice
and adequate legal reserves for strengthening
its equity.
8. Organization and Staff
BAPINDO will rapidly build an effective organization and develop an
adequate well-trained staff in the fields of financial, marketing, economic,
engineering, accounting and legal services in order to discharge effectively
its duties and to enable it to assist its clients in the formulation and
implementation of their projects.
9. Revision of Policies
This Policy Statement will be amended when necessary to secure
BAPINDO's successful operations, and to give flexibility in its activities.
10. Transitional Policies
The reduction in BAPINDO's commercial banking will be carried out
gradually with as little disruption as possible to either BAPINDO or its
clients.
DFCD
May 8, 1972



BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
ORGANIZATION CHART
Supervisorv
|Board
Board of Managing
[D        Directors
II
Audit and                                                             Secretariat
I iispection                       
(Managing Director 1)                                                                   (Manag ng Director 11)                      (Managing Director 111)                             (Managing Director IV)
General Services                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   ~~~~~Credit arid  Finance and                      Sector
General Services      l                                                        7              Follow-up                                  Accounting                                          Operation
iC l                                                   Project
Research                                                                 -               Collection          j                       Promotion
1                ~~~~~Commercial
Planning                                                                                                                                Ba
! P H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ngneerng                                                                           I  Ba nking
Personnel                             18 Branch Office|                                Legal and                                      Branch
Personnel  1   Branch Offices  Collateral    S,,peVr,s6o3






Annex _I
BANK PEMANGUNAN INDONESIA
Loan Operations, L968-197.
(In Rp, million)
1968                      June 30, December 31,
____       ___        9   22 i     L
J. Medium-Term Loans
A. Joint Financing Scheme
21
Approvals                        -     3,915    7,534      IS029      N.A.
Outstanding (at end of period)         1,242    8.?296     8,533    11,160
B. Government Caepital Pariciation
Fund and Budget Funds
Approvals                     5.,SL&3   1.p362 _
Outstanding                   2,653    5,435    5,354
C. Other Loans
Approvals                                           83
Outstandingg
Total Medium-Tenm loans       2,651    6.677   L        L$ l          J
outstanding
1I. Short-Tern  Working Capital Loans
Outstanding                   3Jz55   _i 8    692          4 497      4
~   P.L.  80 Raw Cotton Loans
Outstanding                     h                .,615   9572    113208    .
Total Loan Portfolio
Outstanding               1a6L    1658C   25   ,        226O 1291726
1/ Not available.
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex IV
BANK PlIAGTD(AN IEDO3rA
Lending Operations Under Joint F'inaning Schemg
1969       1970       1971 (January-June)
I.   APPROVALS                 3,615       7A,227            1,329
II.  0O01ITMEITS               3,o64       7,233             1,874
III. DISBTIRSIMTS              1,660       7,282              1,890
IV.  R21PiLMTS DU13                          238             1,022
V.   OOLLEIONS                   -           145               401-/
VI.  OUTSTANDING AT MD PERIOD  1,2142      8,296             8,555
l/ Including Rp. 252 million on aCcolnt of 4 loans transferred to other
state banks.
2/ After deducting 28 loans written off for Rp. 1,13 million0
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex V
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Analysis of Medium-Term Loans Committed under Joint Financing Scheme up to June 30. 1971
(Amounts in Rp. Million)
Number         Amount          %
(Pp. million)
A.  Size of Loan
Below Rp. 20 million                  58             644          5.3
Ep. 20 to 40 million                  34              916         7.5
Rp. 40 to 75 million                  33           1,782         14.5
Rp. 75 to 120 million                 36            3,334        27.0
Rp. 120 to 150 million                13           1,707         13.9
Above Rp. 150 million                 16            3,788        31.8
Total                          190           12,171        100.0
B. Geogr-aphical Spread
North Sumatra                         29           1,675         14.0~
South Sumatra                         17           1,066          9.0
West Java                             77            6,064        48.8
Central Java                          20              901         7.2
East Java                              8              697         6.2
Kaliwantam                            17           1,174          9.8
Julawesi                              14              380         3.1
Nusatanggara                           8              214         1.9
Total                          190           12,171        100.0
C. Duration of Loans
Up to 2years                          23              410         3.6
2 to 3 years                          53           1,803         15.5
3 to 4 years                         81            6,359         51.5
4 to 5 years                          28           2,634         22.0
Over 5 years                           5              965         7.4
Total                          190           12,171        100.0
D. Nature of Project
New projects                      54           5,539         45.5
Rehabilitation or Expansion          136           6,632
Total                          190           12,171        100.0
E. Industrial Category
Pulp, paper, printing                  8              220         1.8
Textile                               26           2,803         23.2
Metal products                         8              909         6.9
Chemical                               6              779         6.1
Pharmaceutical                         6              210         1.7
Light industries                      50           1,975         16.3
Transportation                        45           1,219         10.0
Hotel industry                        19           1,325         11.1
Rabber processing                     22           2,731         22.9
Total                          190           12,171        100.0
DFCP
May 8, 1972



Annex VI
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Sectoral Distribution of Short-Term Portfolio
Outstanding Amounts in Rp. Million
December 31,   December 31,   June 30J
1969            1970           1971
Manufacturing
Textile                               1,633           2,647          2$075
Food              1/                  1,359             969            L56
Export Commodities                      212             278            250
Other Industries                      1,323           1,716          1,019
Buildings, Construction                   121             552            339
Other (including hotels, transport)       640             750            358
5 288          6,912          4L4597
1/ logging, rubber, edible oil
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex VII
BANK PEMBGUNAN INDONESIA
Balance Sheets, Deceauber 31. 1969-1970. March  1. April 1 and December 31, 1971
(Ep. million)
Dec . 31,    2/            2/          2/           3/
Dec. 3,      Dec. 317   March 31,  APril 1,    Dec. 31,_
_  1969     1970        1971         1971         1971
Assets
Current:
Cash on hand and due from banks                     590         1,574       1,121        1,121          497
Due from Central Bank                             2,706         1,365        1,220       1,220        2,571
Short-term working capital loans                  5,288         6,912        6,294       4,960        4,084
Short-term loans for raw cotton                   4,615         5,072        2,737       2,687       13,349
Interest receivables                                743         2,109        2,489         916        2,818
Other current assets                                 593          587          329         329          223
;1473         17,619      14,190       11,233       23,2512
Term loans:
Joint Financing Scheme                            1,242         8,296        9%215       7,916       10,790
Government projects                               5,435         5,354        4,709         -            370
Others                                           __-                83          22          22          -
6,77         13,733      13,946        7,938      11,160
Fixed assets:
Bank premises and equipment                         399           541          524         524          462
Total assets                                21,611        31,893       28          1            36,616h
Liabilities and Equity
Current:
Demand deposits                                   2,276         2,186        2,44C       2,441        1,171
Tine deposits                                     1,809         2,419        2,418       2,535        1,067
Central Bank refinancing                          1,650         1,844        1,138       1,137      (
Short-term obligationsfor raw cotton              4,506         4,797        2,455       2,455      (12,621
Short-term loans from Central Bank                  -             905          975         975      (
Other current liabilities                           594           930          440         741          691
10,635                    10,007                   15,55O
Term debts:
Luovernment loans                                 5,375         8,253        7,432          -           610
Central Barik loans                               3,7514        6,893        7,227       3,227        8,1485
State conmmercialJ bank loans                       102           102          102         102          102
Bonds                                                 7             5            4       _ 4              3
9,238        15,253      14,765        3,333       9,200
Provisions:
Provision for bad debts                           1,053         1,663        1,753          67        3,016
Equity:
Paid-in capital                                      60            60           60          60           60
Capital by conversicn                                             -            -         4,000      (6
Capital surplus                                                   -            -         2,422      (  ,521
Retained earnings                                   _              -           -            -           -
Undivided profits:  Previous years                  163           427        1,796       1,796          816
For the year                               1,369          579       (1,990)        8
487         1,856        2,f135      &,288       7,397
Total liabilities                         21,611         31,893       28,660      19,695      35,161
1/ audited but not certified by auditors
2/ unaudited
,3/ audited and certified
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex VIII
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Income Statements for the Years Ended December 31, 1969, 1970 and 1971
(Rp. million)
1969/      1970?v     19712/_
Income
Interest on deposits                     58          81           4/
Interest on long-term loans             378      2,100       1,626
Interest on short-term loans          1,684      1,520       1,559
Interest on short-term loans for
raw cotton                            300         491        497
Others                                  411      1,009         672
Total                       231        5,26        4354
Bbpenses
Interest on deposits                    608         814        550
Interest on Central Bank refinancing   227          389        126
Interest on Central Bank term loans      -         112         315
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                              544         642        743
Administrative and general expenses    427          611        282
Depreciation                             64          70         80
Provision for bad debts                 697      1,253       2,577
Write-off of bad debts                   -          -          209
Profit (loss) before tax                     264       1,369        (528)
l_
1 audited but not certified by auditors
/ unaudited
3/ audited and certified by auditors
included in "Others"
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex IX
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Current Interest Rates - Received and Paid
(Annual Rates)
Interest Received  Interest Paid  BAPINDO's
Sources of Funds                    by BAPINDO        by BAPINDO       Margin
Deposits from public
a.  Demand deposits                                       Between 6% & 12%
b. Time deposits (between
3 and 12 months)                                      12%0 - 214%
c. Average total deposits                                 Average 9%0
Joint Financing Scheme
a.  Bank Indonesia funds                   12%                    %            8%
b.  Budget funds                           12%                   0%           12%
Short-term working capital loans
a. Refinancing by Bank Indonesia
(i) priority industries and
textiles                         24%,                13.5%          10.5%
(ii) other industries and
transport                        30W                  15%           15'
b.  Bank Indonesia Special Loan            30%                  12%            18%
Raw Cotton loans
a.  Cost of Cotton                         12%                   6%             6%
b.  Freight                                27%                  13.5%         13.5%
c. Local expenses (BAPINDO funds)          27%                   9.0% I        16-.o%/
I/  On the assumption that BAPINDO makes these loans using the funds it obtains
as deposits; the average interest paid by BAPINDO on both time and current deposits
has been 9.0%.
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex X
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Forecast of Operations, 1972 - 1975
(Rp. in million)
s endirxg                                                   1972       1973       1974       1975
ovals
mestic currency
For equipment, etc.                                       3,143      3,061       3,963      4,204
For permanent working capital                             1,429       1,530      2,202      2,627
4.572      4,591      6,165       6,831
reign currency                                            2,571       3,061      4,843      6,307
Total                                                  7,143       7,652     11,008     13,138
titments
mestic currency
70% of the yearts approvals                               3,200      3,214       4,315      4,782
30% of the previous year's approvals                        -         1,372      1,377      1,850
3.200      4,586      5,692       6,632
reign currency
70% of the yearts approvals                               1,800       2,143      3,390      4,415
30% of the previous year's approvals                        -           771        918      1,453
1,800 2,L.914         4308       5,868
Total                                                  5           75oo      10,000     12,500
ursements
mestic currency
60% of the year's commitnent                              1,920       2,751      3,415      3,979
3D% of the previous year's commitment                       -           960      1,376      1,707
10% of commitments of two years ago                         -           -          320        459
1,920      3,711      5,111       6,145
reign currency
50% of the year's commitment                                900       1,457      2,154      2,934
35% of previous year's commitment                           -           630      1,020      1,508
15% of commitments of two years ago                         -           -          270        437
900      2,087      3,444       4,879
Total disbursements of long-term loans                2,820       5,798      8,555     11,024
3bursement of short-term working capital
Loan                                                      _2a         -2a                     5
D
8, 1972



Annex XI
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Projected Income Statements, 1972 - 1975
(Rp. million)
Year ending                                           1972       1973      1974       1975
Income
Interest on deposits                                 250        433       502        484
Interest on short-term working capital loans         892        496       474        611
Interest on short-term loans for raw cotton          585        221       221        221
Interest on medium-term loans                      1,320     1,707      2,270      3,102
Other income                                         169        169       169        169
Total                                       3,216     3,026      3,636     4,587
Expenses
Interest on deposits                                 226        169       192        214
Interest on Central Bank Refinancing                  55         38        60         77
Interest on Central Bank term loans                  344        338       357        427
Interest on foreign loans                             33        141       334        393
Salaries and other personnel expenses                400        800       800        800
Administrative expenses                              450        450       420        420
Depreciation                                          80         85        90         95
Total                                       1,988     2,021      2,253     2,426
Income before tax                                    1,228      1,005     1,383      2,161
Less loss carried forward                          l,145        -
83     1,005     1,383      2,161
Tax calculated at 45%                                 37        452       622        972
Income after taxes                                   1,191        553        761     1,189
Gross earnings before interest, tax and
prdvisions as % of average total assets             6.4%       5.1%      6.1%       7.2%
Profit before tax and provisions as % of
average total assets                                3.7%       3.0%      3.6%       4.8%
Profit before tax and provisions as % of
average net worth                                  13.6%       8.5%     10.2%      14.9%
Profit after tax and provisions as % of
average net worth                                  13.2%       4.7%      5.6%       8.2%
Profit after tax and provisions as % of year-
end share capital                                  13.9%       5.2%       7.2%     10.6%
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex XII
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INfDONESIA
Projected Balance Sheets, Year-End 1972-1975
(Rp. million)
Year ending                                                      1972      1973      1974       1975
ASSETS
Current:
Cash and due from banks                                     5,419     7,799     7,346      6,642
Short-term  working capital loans                           1,819     1,154     1,654      2,189
Short-term loans for raw cotton                            10,130    10,130    10,130    10,130
Others (including accrued interest)                           9       1.550     1.         1.550
Total current assets                                   19,563    20,633    20,       20,511
Term Loans:
Local currency                                             12,820    14,611    16,887    21,070
Foreign currency                                              900     2.987     6,236    10 393
Total temn loans                                       13,720    17,598    23,123    31,4
Less provisions                                           3,016     3,016     3,016      3,016
10,704    l.4,582    20,107    28,447
Fixed Assets:                                                   444       384       319        249
Total assets                                           30,711    35,599    41,106    49,207
LI&BILITIES
Current:
Deposits                                                    1,351     1,601     1,851      2,101
Central Bank refinancing (for short-term working
capital loans and raw cotton loans)                       8,961     9,151     9,276      9,410
Others                                                        485       485       485        485
Total current liabilities                              10,797    11,237  i11-,961 
Term debts:
Central Bank Joint Financing Funds                          8,425     8,233     9,355    11,726
IDA Credit                                                    -         779     2,679      3,595
Others                                                        900     2,208     3,557      6,798
Total term debts                                        9,325    11,220    15,591    22,119
Paid-in capital                                                60        60         60        60
Capital surplus                                             8,521    10,521    10,521    10,521
Undivided profits                                           2 008     2 561     3,322      4 511
Total equity                                                               13,903
Total liabilities                                      30,711    35,599    41,106    49,207
Current ratio                                                   1.8      :L.8        1.7       1.7
Total debt/equity                                               2.0       1.8        2.0       2.3
Long-term debt/equity                                           0.9       0.9        1.2       1.5
Undivided profit and provisions as % of
year-end portfolio                                           36.6%     31.7%      27.4%     25.9%
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex XIII
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Projected Source and Application of Funds, 1972-1975
(Rp. million)
Years ending                                     1972      1973     1974     1975
Source
Long-term
Local currency:
Equity paid-in capital                    2,000    2,000       -        -
Loans from Central Bank-Joint
Financing Scheme                        2,484    2,552    3,4       3,940
4.484    4.552    3,400   3,94
Foreign currency:
IDA Credit                                  -         779    1,945    1,038
Others                                      900    1,308    1,499    3,841
goo    2,087    3,444    4,879
Short-term
Demand deposits                             180       250      250      250
Central Bank Refinancing                    190      190       125      134
370      440      375       384
Others
Collection of short-term
working capital loans                   3,020    1,420       -        -
Collection of raw cotton loans            3,219      -         -        -
Collection of long-/medium-term
loans                                   3,180    3,430    3,030    2,684
Collection of interest out-
standing, 12/31/71                        846      645       -        -
10,265    5,495    3,030    2,684
Income before taxes                           1,228    1,005    1,838    2,161
Depreciation                                     80        85       90       95
Total                               17,327   13,664   11,722   14,143
Application
Disbursements on
Short-term working capital loans              755       755      500      535
Long-/medium-term loans - domestic          4,840    5,221    5,111    6,145
Long-/medium-term loans - foreign             900    2,087    3,444    4,879
Time deposits                               1,067      -         -        -
Repayments on
Long-/medium-term borrowings -
Central Bank                              2,544    2,744    2,278    1,569
Central Bank Refinancing - short-term
loans                                     3,850      -         -        -
Others                                        715      -         -        -
Long-term foreign exchange loans              -         -        195      722
Increase in fixed assets                         62        25       25       25
Income tax                                    243      452       622      972
Total                               14,976   11,284   12,175   142,47
Cash and bank balances, beginning of year    3,068    5,419    7,799    7,346
Add (less) cash surplus (deficit) for
the year                                  2,351    2,380      (453)    (704)
Cash on hand at the end of the year           5,419    7,799    7,346    6,642
DFCD
May 8, 1972



Annex XIV
Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of the
Proposed IDA Credit
1973
April - June                                      312,500
July - September                                  625,500
October - December                                938,000
January - March                                   938,000
April - June                                    1,250,000
July - September                                1,250,000
October - December                              1,250,000
1975
Janaary - March                                   937,500
April - June                                      625,500
July - September                                  625,500
October - December                                312,500
1976
January - March                                   312,500
April - June                                      312,500
July - September                                  210,000
October - December                                100,000
DFCD
May 8, 1972



3  ,.  *                                 2   >  
a                     Al' ,            a       o 
s N             ~~,  S           -m[ A               t
S~~~~~ a a-Q ,    
   g;?r                                                 +  I O ~~~~~~~a
901~ ~~a 1f          AC               y .  7
C',.
t->_~~~~~~~~~~7
3 f / ( 0 s ~~~~~~
7Es      2               A     0 w                      
>   t X    l   W   t         t     i'
7 C                        *      nd6 
IJ_g  )       'a' 3
%~~~~~~~~-   ' *                         ,
p                          ae z',   )2              0 i:0
;tt6~~~~~ ;0 0:    <                             D >0
6 ,l:    0   >   /   Z    )   ;   :                   ^g t   5
S1                           
r  P!  X                    ,c0 ----:;                        D -
s3 f X <-
>                W                    o                   W~~~~



