CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 310 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 310 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 7, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  June    7,  1972,   between    REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association):
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications
thereof set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the specific meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "BAPINDO" means Bank Pembangunan Indonesia.
(b)   "BAPINDO Act" means the Undang-Undang No. 21 PRP of 1960,
as amended by Undang-Undang No. 17 PRP of 1962 and Presidential Decree No. 2
of 1966 and as further amended from time to time.
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the Agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and BAPINDO, as amended from time to time.
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BAPINDO pursuant to Section 3.02 (a)
of this Agreement.
(e)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
BAPINDO out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BAPINDO under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project,


﻿4
and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan as so defined which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
(f)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by BAPINDO out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to
BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project.
(g)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which BAPINDO
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment.
(h)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.
(i)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment
policy adopted by the Board of Managing Directors and approved by the
Supervisory Board of BAPINDO on May 19, 1972 as amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Association.
(j)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which the majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by BAPINDO or by any one or more subsidiaries of BAPINDO or by
BAPINDO and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000),
for use by BAPINDO.
Section 2.02. The Borrower irrevocably designates BAPINDO as its
representative for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted under
the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) Pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, BAPINDO,
on behalf of the Borrower, may withdraw from the Credit Account in respect


﻿5
of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Investment Project
in respect of which the withdrawal is requested:
(i)         such amounts as shall have been expended (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
expenditures to be made) in a currency other than the
currency of the Borrower for goods procured, or services
supplied from, outside the territories of the Borrower;
(ii)       the equivalent of forty per cent (40%) of such amounts
as shall have been expended for civil construction, which
percentage represents the estimated foreign exchange
component of such services; and
(iii)      the equivalent of sixty per cent ,60%) of such amounts
as shall have been expended for industrial machinery and
equipment and transport equipment procured in the
territories of the Borrower, which percentage represents
the estimated foreign exchange component of such goods;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of an Investment
Project unless (i) the sub-loan or investment for such Investment Project shall have
been approved by the Association, or (ii) the sub-loan for such Investment Project
shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan in an amount to be financed
under the Development Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount
or amounts financed or proposed to be financed for the same project out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($.100,000) and which, when added
to all other free-limit sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of this Credit, shall
not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of two million five hundred thousand
dollars ($2,500,000), the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time
to time as determined by the Association.
(c)   Except as the Association and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree and
subject to the limitation contained in Section 5.01 (a) of the General Conditions,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or an
investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and


﻿6
information required by Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement or, under a
free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be determined by the Association.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the prinipal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I   and   September 1   commencing   September 1, 1982   and   ending
March 1, 2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project for which the Credit is granted
is to assist BAPINDO in financing the development of productive facilities and
resources in the territories of the Borrower. The Project consists in the financing
by BAPINDO of specific development projects through loans to and investments
in enterprises in the territories of the Borrower in accordance with the BAPINDO
Act and the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
BAPINDO pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement containing terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall excrcise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, or amend, abrogate or waive any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions or any of its agencies or instrumentalities or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision to take, any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by BAPINDO of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take
or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be requiired on its part in
order to enable BAPINDO to perform such obligations.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to (i) the
performance of the respective obligations of the parties under the Development
Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii)
the administration, operations and financial condition of BAPINDO and its
subsidiaries, including any proposal to amend the BAPINDO Act; and (iii) any
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿8
Section 5.02. The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes that shall be
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to BAPINDO having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have


﻿9
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   BAPINDO shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BAPINDO or by others whereby
any of the property of BAPINDO shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(c)   the BAPINDO Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as, in the judgment of the Association, to affect materially
the carrying out of the Project or the operations or financial condition of BAPINDO
or the efficiency of BAPINDO's management or personnel;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BAPINDO or for the
suspension of all or part of BAPINDO's operations;
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by BAPINDO, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely and materially affect the conduct of BAPINDO's business or BAPINDO's
financial situation or the efficiency of BAPINDO's management and personnel or
the carrying out of the Project; and
(f)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of BAPINDO
under the Project Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any of the events specified in Section 7.02 (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
this Agreement shall occur.
(b)   Any of the events specified in Section 7.02 (e) or (f) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and to BAPINDO.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿10
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BAPINDO have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   the Borrower and BAPINDO have entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BAPINDO and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of BAPINDO in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BAPINDO
and constitutes valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and BAPINDO in
accordance with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 8.03. The date August 15, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous
Section 9.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia


﻿11
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Ali Wardhana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) is renumbered into
Section 6.02 (h).
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount
of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of BAPINDO
to submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion
of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of
the Credit shall be cancelled."


