CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 310 IND
Project Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
DATED JUNE 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 310 IND
Project Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
DATED JUNE 7, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANK
PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (hereinafter called BAPINDO), a State Development
Bank established under the Laws of the Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called
the Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower, for relending to BAPINDO, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BAPINDO
agrees to undertake certain obligations towards the Association as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS BAPINDO, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. BAPINDO shall carry out the Project, described in Section
3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency; in
conformity with sound economic, financial and investment standards and practices;
with qualified and experienced management; and in accordance with the BAPINDO
Act and its Statement of Policy.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, BAPINDO shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for approval or for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Association for approval, BAPINDO    shall furnish to the
Association an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with
a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project (including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan, or of repayment by
BAPINDO of the amount of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BAPINDO under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be used for the investment, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by BAPINDO for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the
terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment Project shall
provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and
BAPINDO shall otherwise agree, shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the
date of approval by the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization
by the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of
such Investment Project.
(e)   Except as the Association and BAPINDO      shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests permitted under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section
shall be submitted to the Association on or before December 31, 1974.
Section 2.03. (a) BAPINDO shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning (i) the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; (ii) the Project; (iii) the Investment Enterprises; (iv) the
Investment Projects; and (v) the sub-loans and investments.


﻿5
(b)   BAPINDO shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BAPINDO and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 2.04. BAPINDO shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (b) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not later than four months
after the end of each such year, certified copies of its audited financial statements
for such year, and an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of BAPINDO and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 2.05. (a) The Association and BAPINDO shall cooperate fully to
ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, tle
Association and BAPINDO shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance by BAPINDO of its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of BAPINDO and any other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   BAPINDO shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of BAPINDO and its subsidiaries.
(c)   BAPINDO and the Association shall promptly inform each other of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BAPINDO
of its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) BAPINDO shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project financed under a sub-loan or with an investment in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Association and of BAPINDO, to comply with
its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to
achieve the purposes of the Project.


﻿6
(b)   Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, BAPINDO undertakes that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on terms whereby BAPINDO shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association and of BAPINDO, including, in the case
of any such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case
of any such investment the right of BAPINDO to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan or investment shall
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Association if the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice and
that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan or investment to the place
of use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Association or BAPINDO shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan or
investment upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations
under its contract with BAPINDO.
Section 2.07. BAPINDO shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the various currencies used in its borrowing and
lending operations.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after
the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of BAPINDO and all its


﻿7
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times the
consolidated capital and surplus of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   "Debt" means any debt incurred by BAPINDO or any subsidiary,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by BAPINDO or by a subsidiary.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or
agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement; (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and (iii) on
deposits as and when they are received.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupiahs debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by BAPINDO for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d)   "Consolidated debt of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries, excluding any debt
owed by BAPINDO to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to BAPINDO or to
any other subsidiary.
(e)   "Consolidated capital and surplus of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of the total unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves
of BAPINDO and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of BAPINDO in any subsidiary, or of any such
subsidiary in BAPINDO or in any other subsidiary.
Section 2.09. BAPINDO shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BAPINDO which, in the judgment
of the Association, would materially affect BAPINDO's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 2.10. BAPINDO shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of assigning, or amending, abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.


﻿8
Section 2.11. Except as the Association and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take
all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on
operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.12. BAPINDO shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to observe
and perform the obligations of BAPINDO under this Agreement to the extent to
which the same may be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding
upon each of such subsidiaries.
Section 2.13. BAPINDO shall not amend its Statement of Policy except in
agreement with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to
Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminale.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of BAPINDO and of the
Association hereunder shall terminate on the date when the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms or on December 31, 1987,
whichever shall be the later.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power, or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement, and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿9
by this Agreement, shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, radiogram or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For BAPINDO:
Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
P.O. Box 140
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Bapindo
Djakarta
Section 4.03. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement or under
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement on behalf of or by BAPINDO,
may be taken or executed by its President, or by such person or persons as he
shall designate in writing.
(b)   BAPINDO shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority of each person who will act under paragraph (a) of this Section, together
with the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names by their representatives thereunto duly
authorized and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative


