Document of                      7         <  OPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3564-Jo
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
November 17, 1981
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Jordanian Dinar (JD) 0.300
JD 1.000 = US$3.33
MEASURES
1 m 2      =  10.764 sq. ft.
1 km       =  0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare  =  2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..............................                1
Socio-Economic Background    .               .
Sector Background .      ................................         I
Objectives and Strategies            .        .                   2
Educational Issues.....                                           3
Educational Finance ....................            .             7
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education .            .            8
II.   THE PROJECT ..................... ...     .... ........            9
Introduction   ............. *........ * .................        ........,9
Objectives and Scope.                                             9
Tafilah Polytechnic .......        .. . .......  ....            10
Technical Teacher Training Department of the
Marka Polytechnic .       ................ ......          12
Community Colleges (CCs). .                                      13
General Vocational Secondary Schools (GVSSs)                     14
Trade Training Center (TTC)            . . .16
Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training
Institute (NPITI)            . . .17
Technical Assistance (TA)            . . .18
III.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENTS ...................   -    20-
Cost of the Project ................................             20
Project Financing . ................. ...............            22
Recurrent Expenditure ..............................             23
Implementation .....................................             23
Accounts and Audit.                     .24
Disbursements    ..24
IV.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES   .           .25
Benefits and Risks .25
Critical Activities and Key Implementation Dates                 26
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanco
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1. CHARTS, TABLES AND SCHEDULES
Charts    1:  Structure of the Educational System, 1979
2: Education Pyramid, 1977/78
Tables    1:  Comparative Education Indicators
2: Unit Capital Costs and Areas Per Student--Project
Institutions
3: Contingency Allowances
Schedules 1:  Implementation Schedules
2: Technical Assistance
3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2. RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to Education
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.   Selected Working Papers of the Project
MAP: Location of Project Institutions



GLOSSARY
CC:          Community college
CSS:          Comprehensive secondary sichool
GVSS:          General vocational secondary school
ICB:          International competitive bidding
MOE:          Ministry of Education
MOH:          Ministry of Health
NPC:          National Planning Council
NPITI:          Nursing/paramedical integrated training institute
PIU:          Project Implementation Unit
TA:          Technical assistance
TTC:          Trade training center
TTI:          Teacher training institute
VTC:          Vocational Training Corporation






HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Basic Data
Population (1979)
Total population                                       2.2 million
Rate of growth (1961-79)                               3.8%
Urban population                                        56%
Per capita GNP (1980)                            US$1,390
Education (1978/79) /1                                 Enrollment as    Girls as
% of Relevant        % of
Level and Age Group                      Grade    Age Group /2   Enrollment
Elementary (6-11)                          1-6           97             47
Preparatory (12-14)                        7-9           76             45
Secondary (15-17)                        10-12           44             42
Higher education (18-23)                  13-16 +        14             43
Literacy rate (over 12 years of age)                     70
Expenditure on Education /3
As a percentage of total central government expenditure (1979) - 7.2%
As a percentage of GNP (1979) - 4.3%
/1 See Annex 1, Table 1 for comparative education indicators.
/2 Gross enrollments, including overaged students.
7h Ministry of Education only.






I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01     The macro-economic targets of Jordan's 1976-80 Plan provided for an
average annual growth of GDP of 12% (agriculture, 7%, and mining and
manufacturing, 26%). The Plan allocations revealed a marked shift in
investment priorities towards industry and other commodity-producing sectors,
particularly export-oriented activities. To achieve the growth target, about
20% of investment funds were allocated to agriculture, irrigation and water
management, and nearly 45% to manufacturing, electricity and transportation.
Since 1975, Jordan has succeeded in achieving much of this target, with a high
rate of overall growth of 9% in real terms and an 18% growth in mining and
manufacturing. The major industries employing modern production techniques,
and which are given high priority, include oil refining and phosphate, potash,
fertilizer and cement manufacturing.
1.02     In the absence of a favorable endowment of natural resources in
Jordan, a healthy, well-trained labor force is considered to be the coun-
try's most important asset. Labor force participation was estimated in 1975
to be 20% (4.1% female). The sectoral employment structure has significantly
changed since 1970. The agricultural sector accounted for 33% of the total
employment in 1970 but decreased to 22% in 1979. DuLring the same period, the
industrial sector increased its share from 3.8% to 13%. The number of
Jordanians emigrating, mostly to the Persian Gulf countries, increased from
about 12,000-per year during 1972-75 to about 20,000 in 1977 although the
Government has estimated a decrease to 10,000 for 1980 and to only 8,000 per
year for 1981-85. The total number of Jordanian workers abroad is estimated
to be 300,000 compared with 65,000 foreign workers in Jordan. Because of
strong demands for Jordanian workers at home and abroad, only 2% of the labor
force is now unemployed (14% in 1970), and this tight employment situation is
expected to continue. Despite the development constraints arising from labor
emigration, the Government is pursuing an open emigration policy which it
considers to be economically beneficial as: (a) increasing workers'
remittances are an important source of foreign exchange revenues (from US$23
million in 1974 to US$520 million in 1979); and (b) experiences gained abroad
contribute to economic development at home.  At the same time, priority is
being given to rapid expansion of vocational/technical education and training
and to encouraging increased participation, especially by females, in the
labor force to meet the resulting gap in the availability of skilled workers.
Sector Background
1.03     The Government has made, through its successive development plans, a
serious effort to develop and modernize society and a strong commitment to
human resource development. Progress in the overall development of the
education system has been remarkable. There is a conitinuous effort to
restructure and reorient education and training to meet manpower needs through
increasing vocational/technical education. Between 1974/75,and



- 2 -
1979/80, enrollments increased by 21% at the primary level, 58% at the
preparatory level and 111% at the secondary level. Enrollments in voca-
tional education increased significantly (around 82% at the secondary
level) during the same period. The 1978/79 gross enrollments at the pri-
mary, preparatory and secondary levels represent 97%, 76% and 44% of the
relevant age groups, respectively. There are no significant disparities in
the distribution of education opportunities between the regions. Female
enrollments as a percentage of the total enrollments vary from 47% at the
primary level to 45% and 42% at the preparatory and secondary levels, among
the highest in the Middle East.
1.04     The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for formal educa-
tion and training which includes primary, preparatory, general and tech-
nical secondary, and post-secondary polytechnics and community colleges
(CCs). The universities are autonomous and governed by their own boards
which are responsible for establishing general policy guidelines and
determining each year the number of students to be admitted to the
different faculties. A number of other Ministries, in particular the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), an
autonomous government agency affiliated with the Ministry of Labor, are
active in training related to their special fields. The VTC is responsible
for the in-plant apprentice program conducted with the cooperation of
employers and for a skill upgrading program.
Objectives and Strategies
1.05     As the Government has developed its planning infrastructure and
refined periodically its development goals articulated in the Five-Year
Development Plan, the education sector has responded by developing and
refining its objectives. The major educational development objectives of
the upcoming Plan (1981-85) are as follows:
(a)  Provision for all children of nine years of basic schooling,
incorporating both the primary (grades 1-6) and preparatory
(grades 7-9) levels. To achieve this objective, the Government
is expected to have to rely heavily on rented facilities and
unqualified teachers due to a shortage of resources to meet total
requirements;
(b) Implementation of the Government policy to improve relevancy of
basic schooling through the provision of practical pre-vocational
studies for all students to: (i) enable them to make more
informed choices concerning secondary and post-secondary education
and training; (ii) acquaint them with some of the skills required
in future employment; and (iii) help them to develop sound atti-
tudes towards work-life situations. Teachers required for pre-
vocational education will be trained under the third education
project (Loan 1781-JO);
(c) Continuous expansion of secondary and post-secondary vocational/
technical education to alleviate the shortage of skilled workers



- 3 -
and technicians through: (i) conversion of general secondary
schools and two existing teacher training institutes (TTIs) into
comprehensive secondary schools (CSSs) and CCs, respectively; and
(ii) establishment of 23 general vocational secondary schools
(GVSSs) and three more polytechnics including one in the South to
complement the two polytechnics established under the first and
second education projects (Credits 285-JO and 534-JO) in the
Central and Northern regions. The Government's target is to
enroll about 30% of secondary students in vocational streams by
1985. This target is ambitious since the present enrollment ratio
in vocational/technical courses at the secondary level is only
around 12%;
(d)  Expansion of the vocational subject teacher training program
through the establishment of a Department of Technical Teacher
Training at Marka Polytechnic;
(e)  Expansion of Yarmouk University from its current enrollment of
about 6,000 to 20,000 by 1985 with special emphasis on science,
agriculture, engineering and medical education, in order to reduce
the large number of Jordanian youths going abroad to study
(currently an estimated 50,000);
(f)  Expansion of the trade training centers (TTCs) for upgrading the
skill levels of the labor force in public and private enter-
prises. These in-plant apprenticeship and upgrading programs are
organized and supervised by the VTC which was established under
the first education project; and
(g)  Addressing more effectively the education and training needs of
the estimated 30% of the population over 12 years of age clas-
sified as illiterate adults. Enrollment in literacy classes has
steadily increased: from 3,200 in 1969/70 to 11,000 in 1979/80.
In most years, women account for between two-thirds and three-
quarters of the total enrollment. In the proposed functional
literacy classes, literacy will be combined with skill activities
which can help to provide gainful employment.
Educational Issues
1.06     Although the Government has achieved, with significant success,
its goal of increasing educational opportunities and quality and correcting
earlier neglect of vocational/technical education, further steps must be
taken to address the principal issues related to: (a) vocational/technical
and health manpower needs; (b) teacher supply and qualifications;
(c) literacy and continuing education; and (d) quality and maintenance of
school facilities.



-4-
1.07     Vocational/Technical and Health Manpower Needs.  An estimate of
manpower needs and institutional supply for broad occupational groups has been
made by a Bank mission and is summarized below. The figures should be viewed
as orders of magnitude only, as the present indeterminate quality of data on
the domestic labor force, employment by occupation and sector, and trends for
labor outflow makes projections of manpower requirements difficult. The
quality of manpower data and projections is expected to be improved in the
future following the establishment of the proposed Manpower Planning
Department in the National Planning Council (NPC).
Projected
Annual                      1986 Output
Demand                       Of Which               Expected
(Including              All      Three                  1986
Attrition &   1978   Institu- Bank Group Proposed   Shortfall
Migration)  Output   tions    Projects  Project  (or Surplus+)
--------… -------------------( 000s)----------------------------
Professionals:
Science/engineering-
based university
graduates                     2.5        0.3      0.8         --         --         1.7
Arts-based university          1.6       0.7       2.5         --         --        +0.9
graduates
Technicians:
Two-year post-
secondary industrial!
commercial and other
technical graduates           5.1       0.9       1.0       0.7         0.3         4.1
Medical technicians:           0.9         --/a    0.3         --        0.1         0.6
Nurses/midwives               0.4                 0.1                    --/b       0.3
Health technicians            0.5                 0.2                   0.1         0.3
Skilled and semi-skilled
workers:
Secondary industrial, -
commercial and other
vocational areas             15.4        2.3      6.9        2.5        0.5         8.5
/a See para. 1.09 for 1979 output.
/b See para. 2.28 for proposed project output.



- 5 -
1.08     The figures indicate that further significant increases will be
necessary in the output of technical manpower, particularly at the post-
secondary technician level, and at the skilled and semi-skilled worker
level. Since 1972, the Bank has provided assistance in industrial
technician training through the establishment of the Marka Polytechnic
under the first project, a polytechnic at Irbid under the second project to
be completed by the end of 1981 and a CC under the third project which will
train in a variety of disciplines. The proposed fourth education project
includes a third polytechnic, as well as the conversion into CCs of two
existing TTIs which would train a variety of additional technicians.
Despite this progress, by 1986 there will be a large shortfall of tech-
nicians, estimated at around 4,100.
1.09     Within the technician category, a particular concern of the
Government has been for provision of qualified nurses, midwives, and para-
medicals required during the current Development Plan for: (a) 68 compre-
hensive health centers (currently 56); (b) 150 maternity and child health
centers (currently 60); and (c) two regional hospitals to be built. The
MOH operates small, separate training facilities for nurses and paramedical
technicians, but graduated only 50 nurses and 32 technicians in 1979, far
below the needs. With more than half of the country's population under 15
years old, there is an unsatisfied and increasing demand for basic health
services especially for mothers and children in the rural areas.
1.10     There will continue to be a major shortage of trained skilled and
semi-skilled workers. To meet this need, the Government plans to increase
the number of secondary level vocational graduates, both industrial and
commercial, to about 6,900 by 1986, through the establishment of 23
additional GVSSs, including four under the proposed project, and a TTC also
included in the project. By 1986, the estimated shortfall of skilled and
semi-skilled workers (industrial, commercial, and other) of about 8,500
will be met in part at the lower-skill level through the expected expansion
of the apprenticeship scheme in the existing TTCs, but may also require
additional expansion of the diversified secondary school system. While a
shortfall is also indicated in the output of science/engineering based
university graduates in 1986, the situation would be corrected quickly if
the development of Yarmouk University proceeds as planned.
1.11     Teacher Supply and Qualifications.  Because of the rapid expansion
of enrollments in primary and preparatory schools, demand for both teachers
and facilities has been strong. To meet the demand for teachers, the MOE
has increased the number of TTIs from 5 in 1974/75 to 11 and has increased
annual output from about 1,100 to 3,300. In consequence, teacher/student
ratios have reached the satisfactory level of 1:32 and 1:21 in the primary
and preparatory cycles, respectively (1:38 and 1:33 in 1974/75), and the
demand for and supply of teachers are now roughly in balance. However, the
shortage of teachers for certain subjects, in particular for maths, science
and English (about 200), still prevails. In addition, there is a need for
an annual output of about 120 male pre-vocational craft teachers for



grades 5-9 who will be trained under the third education project (Loan
1781-JO). About 5,200 or 32% of the teachers in grades 1-9 are unqualified
by government standards--i.e., they have not completed two years of post-
secondary training. The TTIs, being converted into CCs (which will
continue to offer their regular teacher training programs), are providing
upgrading programs to these unqualified teachers. In addition, the
Government plans, within the same institutions, training of pre-
vocational craft teachers for grades 1-4 and of other subject teachers
mainly for grades 7-9.
1.12     The supply of general subject secondary school teachers is
generally adequate, but nearly 4,000 or 92% of the total are unqualified by
government standards (which require a University degree including education
as a minor subject or a degree plus an additional post-graduate year in
professional education). The USAID is providing technical assistance (TA)
for an in-service training program for the unqualified secondary school
teachers. The average annual requirement for general subject teachers,
over the next five years, is estimated by the Government at about 450,
including 150 replacements. This may be an overestimate because the
enrollment growth on which it is based may be constrained by a lack of
school facilities. Major sources of recruitment are the education facul-
ties of Jordan and Yarmouk Universities and university graduates returning
from overseas.
1.13     The rapid growth in vocational/technical education at the
secondary level has caused an increased demand for vocational/technical
teachers. The Government's target to enroll about 30% of secondary
students in vocational/technical education by 1985, which is ambitious
(para. 1.05c), would require an additional 820 vocational teachers for
workshops and 1,300 vocational/technical teachers. Presently, 160 trainees
are enrolled in a three-year technical teacher training program (first two
years, grades 13-14 for technician training and third year, grade 15, for a
pedagogical training program). Approximately 20 of these teacher trainees
are third-year students scheduled to graduate in June 1981. The Government
plans to train about 300 technical teachers per year beginning in 1981/82
and to improve the training program at the Marka Polytechnic under the
proposed project (para. 2.07). Vocational/technical teachers recruited
without pedagogical training are now required to undergo in-service
training at the Marka Polytechnic during their first year of employment.
The Government has drafted a by-law granting qualified teacher status and
attractive incremental financial incentives for those teachers completing
the technical teacher training program at the Marka Polytechnic, as agreed
under the third education project. The passage of the by-law is expected
by the end of 1981.
1.14     Literacy and Continuing Education.  Despite the Government's
continuous efforts to increase participation in literacy programs, progress
remains slow and about 340,000 illiterates are yet to be reached. A full
review of the current program should be undertaken in order to identify
future courses of action to improve the effectiveness of the campaign.
Post-illiteracy follow-up activities should become an integral part of the
MOE's overall literacy program. Adult reading should be promoted through
community and school libraries, and village reading centers. The publica-
tion of a monthly special newspaper, using an uncomplicated vocabulary,



-7-
should be encouraged. The upcoming Five-Year Plan does not include pro-
grams specifically designed for the eradication of illiteracy, the most
pressing problem in adult education. However, the MOE is making an effort
to provide opportunities for continuing education to persons who left
school permanently before completing the elementary program. The Govern-
ment should prepare, in collaboration with the MOE and other concerned
ministries, a national plan of action for the development of continuing
education programs for adults.
1.15     Quality and Maintenance of School Facilities.  The problem of
providing the school facilities necessary to accommodate the increasing
number of students in the primary, preparatory and secondary cycles is
acute and is worsening. At present, 55% of all classrooms are rented as
compared to 45% in 19 77/78. These are found especially in overcrowded
urban areas (Amman, 77%).  A national survey of school buildings, conducted
under the second education project, reveals that the condition of a large
number of schools in the country is very poor. The Government is currently
undertaking a school location study which would identify the schools that
are most urgently in need of replacement. The draft Plan proposes con-
struction of 269 school buildings, of which 149 are to be in the cities and
120 in villages. Sixty-five percent of these facilities would be for
expansion, the remainder for the replacement of unsuitable rented facili-
ties. Since the high cost of these new buildings (about US$252 million)
represents a heavy burden, the Government plans tc, seek assistance from
multilateral and bilateral sources, as well as from local funding sources.
In addition, poor maintenance of buildings frequently hampers school opera-
tion. In rural areas, this is an especially acute problem. To improve
these conditions, eight fully-equipped mobile building maintenance units
are being procured under the third education project.
Educational Finance
1.16     Between 1975 and 1979, the recurrent cost of public education
under the MOE increased at the rate of 11.6% per annum in real terms. This
compares with a 7.5% yearly increase in enrollment; thus, there was a
modest improvement in recurrent expenditures over the period. The share of
educational expenditure stabilized at around 11% of total public recurrent
expenditure during 1975-1979, whereas the share of capital expenditure on
education in the total capital expenditure of the Government decreased from
2.9% in 1975 to 1.5% in 1979 due to the MOE's heavy reliance on renting
school buildings rather than constructing new faci.Lities. Total public
education expenditure, as a percentage of total government expenditures,
decreased from 8.0% to 7.2% between 1975 and 1979, while education expendi-
tures, as a percentage of GNP, also decreased from 4.6% in 1975 to 4.3% in
1979.
1.17     Based on projected enrollment increases, recurrent expenditures on
education in 1985 are estimated at JD 47.6 million (an increase of 6.2% per
annum) or 8.8% of total public recurrent expenditure. The capital expendi-
ture necessary for the increased enrollments, assuming half the schools on
double shift, would amount to an average of JD 8.2 million per annum, and
would reach 6.2% of total projected capital expenditures in 1985, compared
with 1.5% in 1979. Such an increase in capital expenditures over the



-8-
period 1979 to 1985 (24% per annum on average), while feasible, will
require a major government commitment to the education sector since
previous percentages from 1975 to 1979 have declined, and the previous high
over the last decade was in 1974 at 5.8% of total government expenditures
allocated to education. By 1985, total recurrent and capital expenditures
allocated to education would amount to JD 55.8 million (in 1979 prices),
which represents about 4.7% of the projected GNP (JD 1,180 million) and
10.2% of the government budget (JD 550 million). The Government can be
expected to commit and sustain this level of expenditure, in view of the
high priority attached to education, including provision of purpose-built
school buildings (para. 1.15).
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.18     The first IDA-assisted education project (Credit 285-JO approved
in 1972 for US$5.4 million and completed in 1979) was designed to improve
the quality of education and to address deficiencies in the supply of
skilled manpower. Particular emphasis was given to vocational training for
women to improve their employment potential. The project was innovative
and assisted in providng two CSSs, a polytechnic and TTC, a co-educational
TTI, training of agricultural teachers and TA for institutional support,
curricula development and teacher training. A system to trace the place-
ment of graduates of the project institutions was also developed and is
operational.
1.19      The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2494) for the first
education project in Jordan stated that "the project has been catalytic in
that it stimulated educational planning, the concept of diversification of
secondary education, and the better integration of technical/vocational
programs with the needs of the labor market. It has helped to develop
project implementation capabilities and procedures." The recommendations
in the project completion report have been adopted, in particular, the
introduction of improved equipment procurement procedures, better coordina-
tion of TA, more effective scheduling of required inputs and timing of
implementation, and, arrangements for training in management and administra-
tion of the Project Unit and project institutional staff.
1.20     Continuing this strategy, the second IDA project (Credit 534-JO
approved in 1975 for US$6.0 million) is assisting in providing a poly-
technic, three CSSs, extensions (workshops and laboratories) to 16 prep-
aratory and secondary schools, a TTC, a hotel training school and a rural
development center, and includes appropriate TA for each component. Imple-
mentation of this project is proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected
to be completed as scheduled.
1.21     The third education project (a Bank loan approved in 1979 for
US$19.0 million) includes five CSSs, one pre-vocational TTI, one secondary
agricultural school, one CC, one TTC, and eight mobile building maintenance
units. The project also provides support to strengthen the planning and
management capability of the MOE by providing a research and evaluation
mechanism and a computerized management information system to be used as



- 9 -
tools for planning and modern management. TA related to the project insti-
tutions and for project management support is being funded by the UNDP and
executed by the Bank. Implementation of the project is proceeding satis-
factorily.
1.22     The proposed project (a Bank loan of US$25.0 million) would con-
tinue the first three Bank Group's education projects' major emphases upon
increasing the supply of well-trained skilled worlkers and technicians, and
technical teachers, as the shortage of skilled manpower hampers the imple-
mentation of the social and economic development plan. The project would
include components for the MOH and VTC, not included in the previous three
projects, to train health manpower and to expand the apprenticeship train-
ing scheme, respectively. The 1981-85 Plan calls for the construction of 3
new polytechnics of which one would be provided by the project, conversion
of 2 TTIs into CCs, both of which are included in the project, construction
of 23 GVSSs (proposed enrollment, 20,000) of which 4 are included in the
project (enrollment, about 5,000 or 25% of the total), and one each
technical teacher training department and health technician training
institute both of which would be provided by the project. The project also
strengthens curriculum development in vocational/technical training and
improves the cost effectiveness of education by providing for multiple use
of the buildings. The next education project would likely assist the
Government's efforts to improve the condition of educational facilities and
continuously increase the supply of skilled manpower.
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government following a
Bank project identification mission in September 1979 and a subsequent Bank
preparation assistance mission in September 1980. The project was
appraised by Messrs. M. H. You (economist, mission leader), J. Crosnier
(health and rural development specialist), A. Zhiri (general educator), L.
Briggs (technical educator) and Ms. R. Montague (architect) in January/
February 1981.    -
Objectives and Scope
2.02     The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing
priority programs which are fully consistent with its educational develop-
ment plan (1981-85) and strategy. The project objectives are as follows:
(a)  to meet the urgent need for technicians required for development
of the South by establishing a third polytechnic institute;
(b)  to ensure an adequate supply of vocational subject teachers
required for general vocational and industrial secondary schools
and for vocational streams of CSSs and TTCs by expanding the
technical teacher training program of the Marka Polytechnic;



- - 10 -
(c)< to provide increased general and occupational education to meet
local needs in trade and commerce by converting two existing TTIs
into post-secondary CCs;
(d) to alleviate the increasing shortage of skilled workers by expand-
ing GVSSs and apprentice trade training programs for preparatory
school leavers and workers of any age, including the self-
employed, who need skill upgrading; and
(e) to alleviate the shortage of qualified paramedical, nursing and
midwifery personnel required for the basic health-care programs by
expanding health technician and nursing education.
2.03     The project would include the provision of:
(a) construction/extension, equipment and furniture for:
Estimated
Enrollments           Annual
Institution                        Grades    New       Existing        Output
Mini stry of Education:
1 Polytechnic                   10-11     200           -             100
13-14     300           -             150
1 Technical teacher
training department           13-15     740         160             300
2 Community colleges            13-14     945         335             600
(technician training)
4 General vocational            10-12   3,810           -           1,270
secondary schools             10-11   1,120           -             560
Vocational Training Corporation:
1 Trade training center         10-11     600           -             500
Ministry of Health:
1 Nursing/paramedical
integrated training
institute                     13-14     700           -             285
(b)  technical assistance: (i) related to the above project components
(54 man-months of specialists' services and 617 man-months of
fellowships); and (ii) for reviews of curricula and development of
comprehensive secondary schools (four man-months of specialists'
services and 30 man-months of fellowships) and the Marka
Polytechnic technician training program (six man-months of
specialists' services).
Tafilah Polytechnic
2.04     This proposed component would help finance construction, equip-
ment, furniture and TA for the development of technician and skilled worker
training programs at Tafilah, near the southern tip of the Dead Sea. The
primary objectives of the proposed project component are to: (a) alleviate
the shortage of qualified technicians and skilled workers required for the



- 11 -
industrial development of the southern region (glass, fertilizer, cement,
potash and other mining activities); and (b) complement the training of
technicians and skilled workers by the other two polytechnics at Marka
(completed in 1979 under the first education project, Credit 285-JO), near
Amman in the central region, and at Irbid (nearing completion under the
second education project, Credit 534-JO) of the northern region.
2.05     The proposed polytechnic would offer two-year post-secondary
technician training (grades 13-14) in electrical, chemical, and mechanical
specializations and mining and well-drilling. A two-year trade training
program (grades 10-11) in electrical power, welding and sheet metal, diesel
mechanics, general mechanics, and a combined program in central heating and
plumbing would also be offered in the same institution. The technician
curricula for the electrical, chemical and mechanical specializations would
be the same as for those specializations already in existence at the Marka
Polytechnic. These curricula, with 42 periods per week, of which about 40%
would be devoted to practical training, are satisfactory to the Bank.
Curricula for the remaining specializations, mining and well-drilling, have
been developed by the MOE's curriculum division and will be presented to
the Board of Education for approval during 1981. All of the five skill
specializations proposed for trade training currently exist in other
institutions. The trade courses have 42 periods per week, generally
divided into 20% theoretical and 80% practical content, and the curricula
are satisfactory to the Bank. The technician and trade training programs
would enroll 60 and 40 students in each field of specialization for a
combined enrollment of 300 and 200 students respectively and would produce
approximately 150 technicians and 100 skilled workers each year.
Employment prospects for the graduates of the polytechnic are excellent.
2.06     Laboratories and workshops would be shared by both the technician
and the trade training programs, leading to efficiesncy of equipment and
space utilization. This offers the additional advantage of a means for
coordinating the level and content of both programs to avoid duplication.
It also would enable the institution to administer two instructional
programs with one administration and student services system for increased
management efficiency. To operate the polytechnic, 25 theory instructors
with university degrees mainly in engineering combined with industrial
experience, and 30 laboratory and workshop instructors with diploma
qualifications would be required. No difficulty is, expected in recruiting
the required instructors, since expansion of the engineering degree program
is underway at Yarmouk University (para. 1.05e) and the technician teacher
training program would be significantly expanded at the Marka Polytechnic
under the proposed project (para. 2.07). The proposed TA would provide 141
man-months of fellowships abroad for five theory te!achers (9 months each),
three laboratory instructors (12 months each), and five workshop instruc-
tors (12 months each) to develop knowledge and skills in the practical
applications of their technical specializations and in teaching methodology
appropriate to the specialization. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that, in order to analyze job placement and
performance of the graduates of the polytechnic, the technical teacher
training department (para. 2.07), the CCs (para. 2.11) and the GVSSs (para.
2.16), it will extend the existing tracer system to the graduates of these
institutions and send the results of the tracer studies to the Bank for
five years following the first output from the institutions.



- 12 -
Technical Teacher Training Department of the Marka Polytechnic
2.07     This proposed component would help finance the extension, equip-
ment, furniture and TA for the expansion and quality improvement of a
technical teacher training program (grades 13-15) at the Marka Polytechnic.
This is the only institute in the country to train vocational subject
teachers for the GVSSs, TTCs, and CSSs and laboratory and workshop
instructors for the polytechnics. The proposed technical teacher training
curriculum would consist of both technician and teacher training courses
combined into a three-year program. Graduates of the program would be
fully certified both as technicians and as vocational subject teachers.
2.08     The Marka Polytechnic is an excellent location for vocational
subject teacher training. It is an established institution with high
quality technician programs and will provide a solid foundation on which to
base technical teacher training. It already has a total of 800 students
enrolled in the technician programs thus providing a large source of
students for the technical teacher training course. The Amman area has six
vocational schools (about 2,800 students enrolled in 1980/81) which could
be used for supervised practice teaching by those in the teacher training
program. There is the added advantage of providing the technical
specialization training in the Polytechnic's existing facilities for
greater efficiency of space and equipment utilization.
2.09     The projected demand, within the next five years, for technical
teachers in the 22 schools offering vocational/technical programs,
including 6 to be established under the proposed project, is approximately
1,500 including 300 for replacement or about 300 per year beginning in
1981/82 as against the current annual output of 20. To ensure an adequate
supply of technical teachers, a total of 900 students would be enrolled in
the three-year curriculum with 300 as an annual intake. Since the program
would be integrated with technician training, only about one-third of the
students would be utilizing the teacher training facility to be provided
under the project-at any given time. The students in the technical teacher
training program are financially supported by the Government and have an
obligation to serve the Government for six years as assigned upon
completion of the training.
2.10     The curriculum for the proposed teacher training program is being
currently developed by a group of local experts for presentation to the
Board of Education. Approval is expected by the end of 1981. The draft
curriculum content is distributed as follows: (a) general education--17%;
(b) common and technically related--49%; (c) technical specializations--
17%; (d) teaching methodology and pedagogy--17%. The proposed content and
distribution are satisfactory to the Bank. Additional instructors needed
for the proposed technical teacher training program would be 16. About
one-half of these would teach general education and teacher-related courses
such as psychology, economics, humanities, sociology, educational
psychology, etc. These instructional staff would be university graduates
with B.A. or M.A. degrees and would be available from institutions within
the country. The remainder would be technical personnel (mainly engineers)
or other professionally-trained persons with additional training in and



- 13 -
responsibility for the teaching of methodology, use of instructional aids,
instructional planning, management of instructional facilities, etc. The
latter would be selected from the existing Polytechnic staff for the
necessary training abroad and replacement for them would be found locally.
TA would be provided for 75 man-months of fellowships abroad for four
methods and media specialists for 12 months each and three theory
instructors for 9 months each to upgrade their respective technical and
teacher skills and develop teacher training skills.
Community Colleges (CCs)
2.11     This proposed component would provide for additional specialized
classrooms and laboratories, furniture, equipment and TA to convert the
TTIs of Salt (population to be served, 152,000) and of Howwara (population
to be served, 612,000) into CCs. Under the project, technician training
programs would be developed, responsive in particular to the needs of the
two communities, to help alleviate the shortage of technicians (para.
1.08). These programs would partially satisfy the constantly increasing
demand from secondary school leavers for post-secondary education and would
give them vocational training, initially in secretarial and office manage-
ment, accounting, nutrition, laboratory technicianship, architectural draw-
ing, civil engineering technicianship and surveying. In addition, continu-
ing education for adults would be developed based on the needs of the adult
communities in the Salt and Howwara areas.
2.12     The formal technician programs would be of two-year duration
(grades 13-14) while non-formal programs would be of varying duration. In
addition to addressing community needs, which is basic to the CC concept,
the two colleges would have as a further objective the achievement of cost
economies through the provision of common courses and the sharing of
accommodations and trainers between the trainee technicians and the student
teachers. Furthermore, the interaction among the various types of trainees
would enrich the training experiences of all.
2.13     In addition to the existing enrollment of student teachers, the
college at Salt would enroll about 580 technical students, of whom about
two-thirds are expected to be women. The college at Howwara would enroll
about 700 technic-al students of whom about one-third are expected to be
women. In addition, an initial enrollment of about 200 adults in
continuing education in each college is anticipated during any given course
period. About 275 and 325 diploma holders would be produced each year by
Salt and Howwara colleges, respectively. Employmkent prospects for the
graduating technicians are excellent in view of the strong demand.
Preliminary curricula for the technician training programs have been
prepared by local experts and would be reviewed by the experts to be
provided under the proposed TA (para. 2.15).
2.14     The present teaching and administrative staff of the Salt and
Howwara TTIs will continue to teach teacher training courses in the new
colleges, including refresher courses and seminars on community services.
Seventy full-time technical teachers are expected to be recruited. In
addition, to serve the adult non-formal program of afternoon and evening
courses, the full-time equivalent of another 15 teachers would be needed



- 14 -
who would be largely drawn from local commercial and industrial firms and
from the teaching staff of secondary schools. In view of the MOE's commit-
ment to the success of the new CCs, no difficulty is expected in recruiting
the needed teachers.
2.15     Because the CC concept is new in Jordan, TA would be provided.
Experts in technical education, CC administration and continuing education
would assist the CC directorate, newly-established in the MOE, for 27
man-months. Fellowships (120 man-months) would be provided for eight
administrators and ten selected technical teachers in four of the subjects
(civil engineering, architectural drawing, surveying and nutrition)
preparing them to upgrade others in their fields. In view of the community
orientation of the two colleges and the emphasis being placed on developing
appropriate continuing education for adults, the Government provided
assurances during negotiations that no later than six months before the
opening of the colleges: (a) an advisory committee (one for each college),
including prominent Salt or Howwara citizens among its members, and a
Department of Continuing Education in each CC under a full-time head, would
be established; (b) detailed continuing education programs would be
prepared for each CC and reviewed by the Bank; and (c) information on a
system proposed by the Government to evaluate the effectiveness of the CCs
would be forwarded to the Bank for review and comments.
General Vocational Secondary Schools (GVSSs)
2.16     This proposed component would assist the Government to train
skilled workers of whom there is an acute shortage (para. 1.10), through
provision of construction, furniture, equipment and TA to develop four
GVSSs--two for girls and two for boys. The proposed GVSSs would combine,
into single institutions, programs currently provided in separate secondary
schools of industry, agriculture, commerce, and nursing and in the two-year
TTCs. These would be multi-purpose vocational schools offering three-year
vocational training (grades 10-12), two-year trade training (grades 10-11),
and non-formal adult education. The principal difference between two-year
trade training and three-year secondary vocational training programs is
that the latter requires a total of approximately three times more program
hours in general education (1,656 hours vs. 504 hours). The amount of
program hours devoted to practical studies is approximately the same in
both programs (2,268 hours for the secondary programs vs. 2,304 for trade
training). Such a combination into single institutions would allow for
improved and more efficient administration, instructional services and
-intensive use of equipment and space.
2.17     The two proposed GVSSs for girls would be located in Nuzha, a
suburb of Amman, and in Rusayfah--each with growing populations and expand-
ing commercial/industrial development. The proposed program for the
secondary component of the girls' schools includes nursing, commerce,
postal, floriculture, telecommunications and child-care. The two-year
trade training component would have dressmaking, beauty culture and
handicrafts programs. Location of the two proposed boys' schools would be
in Rusayfah and in Aj1oun--neither of which is currently served by
vocational schools. These also are located in areas of growing population



- 15 -
and commercial/ industrial expansion. Locating schools in these areas will
facilitate the development and maintenance of close contacts with business
and industry-- so necessary for assuring relevance of instructional
programs and placement of graduates.
2.18     Programs planned for the secondary component of the boys' school
at Rusayfah are commercial, postal and industrial; the latter includes
instrumentation, tool-making, diesel mechanics, welding, forging,
industrial electricity, telecommunications, and a combined program of
plumbing and central heating. Each of these industrial programs would also
be offered in the school's trade training program. The school at Ajloun
would offer commercial, postal, agricultural and industrial programs with
the latter including welding, industrial electricity, carpentry, plumbing
and central heating, building trades and farm machinery repair. These
industrial programs would also be offered in the school's trade training
program.
2.19     At full capacity, the proposed girls' schools would enroll about
1,530 students in the three-year vocational training program and 400
students in the two-year trade training program and would graduate annually
about 510 and 200, respectively. The boys' schools would enroll about
2,280 students in the three-year program and 720 students in the two-year
program and graduate annually about 760 and 360, respectively. Thus, all
the proposed GVSSs combined would graduate annually about 1,830 students
(710 girls and 1,120 boys). This expected output from the proposed GVSSs,
combined with that of other existing vocational programs, would still leave
the country with an annual shortage of about 8,500 skilled and semi-skilled
workers (para. 1.07).
2.20     To ensure a proper balance of program content, the GVSS secondary
vocational curricula average about 32% general education, 24% technically-
related and 44% practical studies. Curricula for all GVSS proposed course
specializations have been completed and approved by the Board of Education
except child-care and floriculture for the girls' schools. These two
proposed curricula will be submitted to the Board soon and approval is
anticipated by the end of 1981. Curricula for the more practically
oriented two-year trade training programs average about 32% general
education and 68% practical studies. This is a reasonable distribution of
content for this type of program.
2.21     Approximately 195 teachers (70 for general and 125 for practical
subjects) would be required when the proposed GVSSs become fully opera-
tional. These would comprise some experienced teachers reassigned from
existing schools, a few appropriately trained university graduates, i.e.,
administrators and science and humanities teachers, with the remaining
number to be newly trained teachers from the technical teacher training
program proposed for the Marka Polytechnic (para. 2.07) and from the CC's
teacher training program. TA would be provided for 228 man-months of
fellowships to assist 26 teaching staff in updating and upgrading their
technical and teaching skills for improved teaching performance.



- 16 -
Trade Training Center (TTC)
2.22     This proposed component would help finance construction, furni-
ture, and equipment for the development of a TTC at Ein El-Basha, a western
suburb of Amman. The proposed center would be the seventh of a network of
VTC-supported centers established to upgrade the skill levels of the labor
force in public and private enterprises through in-plant training for
employed persons and to provide apprenticeship training for youth. The
proposed center would have as its target groups: (a) preparatory school
leavers who do not have the option of continuing to the secondary level,
mainly because of inadequate academic preparation; and (b) workers of any
age, including the self-employed, who need skill upgrading. The center
would serve an industrial area where factories and shops have already been
established by 90 enterprises with at least 60 more in the planning
stages.  It is anticipated that this center would serve about 600 trainees
per year, of whom approximately 500 would be adults in short courses and
seminars for skill upgrading. The remaining 100 trainees would be youths
in the apprenticeship program. One of the other six centers in the network
is being developed with Bank assistance (urban development project, Loan
1893-JO); the remaining five, only one of which is fully operational, are
being developed with bilateral assistance.
2.23     The proposed TTC would also provide supervisory and instructor
training for industrial personnel and would assist larger firms in both the
public and private sectors to establish their own in-plant training facili-
ties. Some firms need such facilities to train their employees for operat-
ing and maintaining industry-specific equipment which cannot be provided in
the TTC; e.g., electrical substation equipment, telephone exchanges, radio
transmitters, large metal-working equipment, etc.
2.24     The TTCs are administered and operated by the Vocational Training
Corporation, with a Board of Directors chaired by the Minister of Labor.
The VTC, through its TTCs, works directly with industry so it does not
compete with nor duplicate the efforts of secondary vocational institutions
under the MOE. The.VTC, as part of its charter, actually maintains strong
ties with the MOE and cooperates with this Ministry in the identification
of skill levels, setting performance standards, and developing curricula,
instructional materials, textbooks, etc.  In addition, the VTC, through its
TTCs, will experiment with a variety of teaching methods to ensure job
relevant training and enhance the centers' effectiveness.
2.25     The proposed TTC's training programs for employee development
would be individually designed to meet the specific needs of the industry
being served. Selected representatives of the industry would be assigned
to assist the center in its program development to ensure a proper focus on
the identified training needs. Such programs would vary in length and
content depending on training objectives. No specific standards of admis-
sion are planned for in-plant training except that the trainee would be an
employee of the particular organization being served.



- 17 -
2.26     The apprenticeship program for the proposed TTC would include
program specializations in plant maintenance (mechanical and electrical),
metal fabrication, woodworking, automotive mechanics, instrumentation and
construction. The curriculum, with 42% general education and 58% practical
studies, would be the same as that already in existence for the other
operating center and would consist of two years training and one year of
supervised full-time employment. The two-year training segment consists
of four days of on-the-job training and two days of off-the-job theoretical
and general education training. The trainee must have completed at least
preparatory level (grades 7-9), be between 16-22 years of age, be
physically and mentally fit for industrial training, and have received job
counselling based on an aptitude test. Upon completing the program,
apprentices receive a "skilled labor level" certificate and most are
expected to remain in the job where they were employed during the final
year of their program.
2.27     Operation of the proposed TTC would require a total of 9 general
subject teachers and 46 technical instructors. In view of the ready
availability of well-qualified general subject teachers in the Amman area,
no difficulty is expected in recruitment. Needs for technical teachers
would be met through the proposed technical teacher training program at the
Marka Polytechnic (para. 2.07). Because the VTC already has one fully
operational TTC and others in various stages of development with TA being
provided by bilateral sources, there is no need for provision of TA for
this proposed component. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that, to analyze job placement and performance of the graduates
of the TTC, the VTC will establish and operate a tracer system, with the
results of the studies to be sent to the Bank for five years following the
first output from the TTC.
Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute (NPITI)
2.28     To alleviate the shortage of health technicians, nurses and mid-
wives, particularly in the northern and eastern regions of the country, and
to improve the quality of training, the project would construct, furnish
and equip a new NPITI at Irbid. Total enrollments at the NPITI would be
700 (about 50% women) and the anticipated annual output of 285 (155 health
technicians, 100 nurses and 30 midwives) would meet most of the estimated
demand for health technicians, nurses and midwives in those regions, and
57% and 65% respectively, of the country's needs.
2.29     In the health technician training program, eight specializations
would be offered, with students almost equally distributed (averaging 20
per stream) in pathology, pharmacology, radiology:, physiotherapy,
laboratory, anaesthesiology, dentistry, and sanitation, to meet relevant
needs. The program of studies, extending over two years post-secondary
(grades 13-14), with three years for nursing and physiotherapy, would
include hospital and field work and emphasize practical activities (40-60%)
in the above-mentioned subjects. Curricula for the eight specializations
have been recently updated and are satisfactory to the Bank; related
equipment lists are being prepared by the MOH in collaboration with WHO and
the University of Jordan. Employment for health technicians is guaranteed
by obligatory service in the MOH for four years following graduation from a



- 18 -
two-year course or for six years after a three-year course (registered
nurses and physiotherapists). Therefore, the MOH is expected to employ
most of the graduates, particularly in the comprehensive health centers
and the hospitals, but may release some graduates for the Royal Medical
Services or the private sector.
2.30     Approximately 30 full-time and 60 part-time instructors and
teachers would be required for full operation of the institute. They would
be recruited either from graduates of the institute after training abroad
or from medical and science faculties of the two universities in Jordan
following upgrading courses. The recruitment of both students and full-
time qualified staff should present no difficulty due to the attractive
location of the institute at Irbid, the second largest city of the country,
appropriate stipends for students and improved salaries and career pros-
pects for graduates. Health staff must have permission from the MOH in
order to leave the country and, to induce them to stay in Jordan, a special
monthly allowance is given after four years of service which is doubled
after eight years. In the early development stage, the institute will
supplement the limited full-time staff by using qualified local medical
doctors and other experienced local health specialists as part-time staff.
To ease student boarding problems and to assist in the recruitment of
senior staff, boarding facilities for 360 girls and staff housing accom-
modations for 15 teachers would be provided.
2.31     To assist the institute in the detailed development and applica-
tion of the specializations, upgrading staff quality and improving manage-
ment, the proposed TA component would provide: (a) 8 consultants for 27
man-months (18 man-months for new specializations for health technicians
and nurses, 6 man-months for in-service training in management and health
planning and 3 man-months for equipment maintenance); and (b) 53 man-months
of fellowships for 13 managers and senior instructors in various
specializations to study abroad. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that the MOH would establish a tracer system to analyze
job placement and performance of the graduates of the institute, with the
results of the tracer studies to be sent annually to the Bank for five
years following the first output from the NPITI.
Technical Assistance (TA)
2.32     To ensure the success of the project and the attainment of its
qualitative objectives, project-related TA components are included under
the proposed project (paras. 2.06, 2.10, 2.15, 2.21 and 2.31) (54 man-
months of specialists' services and 617 man-months of fellowships). In
addition, the proposed project includes the following TA components:
(a)  Comprehensive secondary schools (CSSs).  This component would
provide four man-months of specialists' services to assist
principals, teachers and MOE officials with the continuing reviews
of curricula and development of comprehensive schools assisted
under the previous three Bank Group-financed education projects.
The component would also provide 30 man-months of fellowships for
two principals (nine months each) and six senior teachers and MOE
officials (two months each) to study the operation of similar
schools abroad and assess and apply the lessons learned; and



- 19 -
(b) Marka Polytechnic. Under this component, six months of special-
ists  services  three experts for two mornths each) would be
provided to assist the Polytechnic, which was established under
the first education project, with the corLtinuing improvement of
its industrial technician training prograLm. The experts would
assist the Polytechnic staff in the areas; of curriculum develop-
ment, program planning, and management arLd instructional method-
ology for the specializations of electrical, mechanical and
construction technology.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that detailed
arrangements for the implementation and financing of the TA programs would
be forwarded for Bank review by December 31, 1982.



- 20 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01     Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is
estimated at JD 15.3 million or US$50.9 million equivalent. The estimated
total cost and foreign exchange components by main project item are
summarized below:
% of
JD Million              US$ Million         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction, equip-
ment and furniture:
1 polytechnic          0.9      0.9      1.8    2.9      3.0      5.9      16.1
4 general vocational
secondary schools   2.4        2.4     4.8    8.2       7.9    16.1       43.9
1 nursing/paramedical
integrated training
institute (MOH)       0.7      0.7     1.4    2.4       2.4      4.8      13.1
1 trade training
center (VTC)          0.5      0.7      1.2    1.8      2.4      4.2      11.4
Extension, equipment
and furniture:
2 community colleges 0.3        0.6     0.9    1.0       1.9      2.9       7.9
1 technical teacher
training department 0.1       0.1      0.2    0.3       0.3      0.6       1.6
Technical assistance:
Specialists             0.1      0.1      0.2    0.1      0.5      0.6       1.6
Fellowships             0.1      0.4      0.5    0.3      1.3      1.6       4.4
Baseline Cost            5.1      5.9    11.0   17.0    19.7    36.7    100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                0.5      0.6      1.1    1.7      1.9      3.6       9.8
Price increase          1.5      1.7      3.2    4.9      5.7    10.6       28.9
Subtotal                 2.0      2.3      4.3    6.6      7.6    14.2       38.7
Total project cost       7.1      8.2    15.3   23.6    27.3    50.9



- 21 -
3.02     A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows: -
% of
JD Million             US$ Million         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction:
Academic and
communal
facilities            3.1      2.5      5.6   10.3      8.2    18.5      50.4
Boarding               0.3      0.3      0.6    1.2      1.0      2.2      6.0
Staff housing          0.1      0.0      0.1    0.2      0.1      0.3      0.8
Site development       0.3      0.3      0.6    1.1      0.9      2.0      5.4
Subtotal             3.8      3.1     6.9   12.8    10.2    23.0        62.6
Professional
services               0.7      0.0      0.7    2.3      0.0      2.3      6.3
Furniture               0.2      0.3      0.5    0.7      1.2      1.9      5.2
Equipment               0.2      2.0      2.2    0.8      6.5      7.3     19.9
Subtotal             0.4      2.3     2.7    1.5       7.7     9.2      25.1
Technical
assistance             0.2      0.5      0.7    0.4      1.8      2.2      6.0
Baseline cost        5.1      5.9    11.0   17.0    19.7    36.7    100.0
Contingencies           2.0      2.3      4.3    6.6      7.6    14.2      38.7
Total project cost  7.1       8.2    15.3   23.6    27.3    50.9
3.03     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated civil works costs for the
proposed project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts
for similar institutions and from construction industry cost data.
Furniture and equipment costs are based on current CIF unit prices and are
adjusted upward to include local transportation and installation. Project
cost estimates do not include any identifiable import duties and taxes as
goods imported for use by government ministries are not subject to these
taxes. Costs for professional services are basecl on current rates being
charged by local architectural firms. In line with recent experience, the
estimate of TA costs is based upon: (a) average costs per man-month of
about US$8,600 for experts (consisting of fees and per diem allowances) and
about US$2,240 for fellowships, of which 80% wouLd be foreign costs; and
(b) average travel costs to and from home office or study base abroad of
about US$1,200 per individual.  Baseline cost estimates have been adjusted
to reflect prices at the time of negotiations.
3.04     Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of the estimated
cost of civil works, furniture and equipment, and professional services,



- 22 -
and 5% of the estimated cost of TA.  The project cost also includes price
escalation contingencies calculated for the period beginning at negotiations and
in accordance with an appropriate schedule of implementation (Annex 1, Schedules
1 and 2). Annual rates of price increases for various categories of expenditure
are indicated in Annex 1, Table 3. Prices are expected to increase during the
project implementation period by a total of about 26.4% for civil works, 28.3%
for furniture, 28.6% for equipment, 18.3% for professional services and 27.0%
for TA. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about 26.3% of
baseline cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies are estimated to
be about 38.7% of the baseline cost.
3.05     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$27.3 million equivalent or about 53.7% of the total project cost.
Calculation of the foreign exchange component is based on the assumptions that:
(a) about one-half of the civil works contracts will be awarded to local
construction firms; (b) all professional services contracts will be awarded to
local firms; (c) all equipment will be directly imported; and (d) about half of
the furniture contracts will be awarded to foreign suppliers. The resulting
foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is as follows: (a)
civil works, 44%; (b) furniture, 62%; (c) equipment, 90%; (d) professional
services, 0%; and (e) TA, 80%.
Project Financing
3.06     The proposed loan of US$25.0 million would finance the equivalent of
100% of the total estimated foreign exchange cost of civil works and furniture
and equipment. To accelerate implementation, 100% of the expenditures for
professional architectural services would be financed, reducing slightly the
foreign exchange financing for civil works, from 44% to 34%. The foreign
exchange cost of the TA program (US$2.3 million) would be financed by the UNDP.
The remaining local project costs (US$23.6 million) would be financed by the
Government. The proposed financial plan is summarized below:
Government              UNDP                  IBRD           Total
US$       %7of       US$        % of       US$        % of       US$
Million Financing Million Financing Million Financing Million
Construction      15.1        66         0.0         0        7.9        34        23.0
Furniture          0.7        38         0.0         0        1.2        62         1.9
Equipment          0.8        10         0.0         0        6.5        90         7.3
Professional
services          0.0         0        0.0         0         2.3       100         2.3
Technical
assistance        0.4        20         1.8       80         0.0         0         2.2
Baseline cost  17.0        46          1.8        5        17.9        49        36.7
Contingencies:
Physical          1.7        47         0.1         3        1.8        50         3.6
Price increase   4.9         46         0.4        4         5.3        50        10.6
Subtotal        6.6       46         0.5         4         7.1        50        14.2
Total project
cost          23.6        46        2.3         5        25.0        49        50.9



- 23 -
Recurrent Expenditure
3.07     When fully operational in 1988/89, the project institutions are
estimated to require about JD 1.2 million annually in incremental recurrent
costs; adding about 0.2% to the projected public recurrent expenditure on
education for that year.
Implementation
3.08.    The construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools is
scheduled to be completed by January 1987 (Annex 1, Schedule l) while the
TA component would be completed by June 1987 (Annex 1, Schedule 2). To
allow sufficient time for submission of the final withdrawal applications,
the Closing Date would be December 31, 1987.
3.09     Administration.  The Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
established in the MOE for the implementation of the first three education
projects and responsible to the Minister, would also be responsible for the
implementation of the MOE components of this project. The PIU has been
recently strengthened by the appointment of a second assistant director and
five additional technical personnel.  The PIU forms an operating department
within the Ministry and it is expected that it will eventually be merged
with the MOE's Buildings Department to be in charge of all school
construction. Except for the Bank-financed projects, school construction
is at present handled by the Ministry of Public Works. The TTC and the
NPITI would be implemented by the VTC and MOH, respectively. Both the VTC
and MOH have already designated key staff (a project coordinator, an
architect/engineer, an accountant and a procurement specialist) to manage
their components. Because of their unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, the
MOE's PIU is prepared to assist the VTC and MOH with implementation as
necessary.
3.10     Architectural Services.  The designs and tender documents for all
project items are being prepared by consultant architects/engineers accept-
able to the Bank who have been appointed under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.11     Furniture and Equipment Lists.  Final furniture and equipment
lists and specifications for the project institutions have been prepared.
3.12     Sites.  Suitable sites for all project institutions have been
acquired. Existing institutions have sufficient land to allow for their
expansion. All sites have adequate sources of water and municipal
electricity.
3.13     Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to about US$32.0
million including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB). It is anticipated that, due to the
continuing heavy demands on the local construction industry, only about
one-half of the civil works contracts will be awarded to local construc-
tion companies with the other half to foreign construction companies



- 24 -
active in the Middle East. Equipment and furniture items (amounting to
about US$13.0 million including contingencies) would be grouped to the
extent possible in large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts
for furniture and equipment in excess of US$100,000 would be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for ICB. Small items or groups of
items, estimated to cost less than the above figure, or items of a special-
ized nature for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured under
normal government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank and would
include, to the extent possible, quotations from at least three manufac-
turers or suppliers; the total value of furniture and equipment so procured
would not exceed US$1.3 million equivalent which would represent about 10%
of the estimated furniture and equipment costs including contingencies.
For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local manu-
facturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of prefer-
ence equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing
imports or 15% of the CIF price, whiichever is lower. Draft tender and
contract documents for furniture/equipment and civil works would, on
completion, be forwarded for Bank review and approval; Bank approval of
tender evaluation documents would be required prior to the award of all
contracts for furniture and equipment under ICB and for all civil works
contracts. Bank reimbursement for all other contracts would be contingent
upon Bank approval of tender evaluation documents subsequent to contract
awards.
Accounts and Audit
3.14     The PIU maintains separate project accounts for Bank-financed
projects and will do so for the proposed project. Accounts for the
previous education projects have been kept in an orderly, systematic
fashion and recommendations for awards, copies of contracts and withdrawal
applications have been submitted to the Bank in a timely and complete
manner.  It is expected that these methods will continue under the proposed
project. The PIU's accounting staff currently consists of five adequately
trained members of whom two have recently been appointed. The VTC and MOH
will also establish, separate accounts for their items to be financed under
the project.
3.15     Project accounts would be audited annually by the Government's
Audit Bureau and the audited accounts submitted to the Bank within eight
months of the end of each fiscal year. The Government provided assurances
to this effect during negotiations.
Disbursements
3.16     Disbursements (Annex 1, Schedule 3) would be on the basis of:
(a) civil works: 34% of total expenditures;
(b) furniture and equipment: 100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported items and of local expenditures ex-factory for
locally manufactured items: 85% of local expenditures for items
procured locally off-the shelf; and
(c) professional services: 100% of total expenditures.



- 25 -
3.17     Disbursements from the loan have been estimated to take place
about six months after the incurring of the expenditures and the Estimated
Schedule of Disbursements (Annex 1, Schedule 3) has been calculated on this
basis. Implementation schedules have been drawn up on the basis of the
periods required for the implementation of the three previous education
projects. In a comparison with the country-wide disbursement profile for
IDA projects in Jordan (11 projects), the end of the implementation period
for the proposed project falls at the point where about 95% of the average
credit has been disbursed.
IV. BENEFITS, RISKS AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES
Benefits and Risks
4.01     Continuing the work of previous education projects in Jordan, the
proposed project would make a significant contribution towards expanding
and improving the quality of technician and skilled worker training. Under
the proposed project, regional balance in technician training would be
achieved with the establishment of a polytechnic in the South. This poly-
technic would complement the two polytechnics developed in the Northern
and Central regions under the previous two IDA credits. The country's
capacity to train health technicians and nursing manpower would also be
significantly expanded, and the proposed NPITI (about 50% women) at Irbid
would be able to meet fully the estimated needs for nursing and health
technicians in the Northern region. The provision of the nursing and
health technicians, who would be aided by rural health workers being
trained under bilateral assistance, would also improve the quality of
health care, particularly for the less affluent. The theme of continuing
education initiated under the third education project (Loan 1781-JO) would
be further expanded through the two proposed CCs (48% women), which would
train teachers and technicians. Training of teachers and technicians in
the same institution is expected to be cost-effective, and administrative
services and interaction among the various types of trainees would be
improved. Finally, the proposed GVSSs (about 40%' women) and TTC would
produce well-trained skilled workers and would give the self-employed
opportunities to upgrade their skills.
4.02     Although the MOH and the VTC have never worked with the Bank, no
major risk is anticipated. The MOH and VTC have already designated key
implementation staff. Under the newly-appointed project director, the MOE
has strengthened its PIU with additional appointrnents and is prepared to
assist the VTC and MOH with implementation as necessary (para. 3.09).



- 26 -
Critical Activities and Key Implementation Dates
4.03     Expected completion dates are listed in the following table for
the critical activities in project implementation. Such dates are achiev-
able with the proposed project management arrangements and experience, and
will serve as a basis for project implementation monitoring.
MOE         VTC            MOH
Civil Works:
Completion of site acquisition
and topographical surveys                12/31/81    10/01/81        12/31/81
Completion of design development
drawings and site plans                  07/01/82    01/01/82       07/01/82
Completion of final construction
documents                                01/01/84    07/01/82       01/01/84
Commencement of construction              07/01/84    01/01/83       07/01/84
Completion of construction                01/01/87    07/01/84       01/01/87
Furniture and Equipment:
Completion of preliminary lists           04/01/81    04/01/81       04/01/81
Completion of final lists and
bid documents                            10/01/82    07/01/82        10/01/82
Completion of installation of
major furniture and equipment            10/01/86    04/01/84        10/01/86
Technical Assistance:
Commencement of programs--
Fellowships                              01/01/83        --          01/01/84
Experts                                  06/01/83        --         04/01/86
Completion of programs--
Fellowships                              04/01/86                   06/01/87
Experts                                  07/01/84       .--         10/01/86



- 27 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) in order to analyze job placement and performance of the graduates
of the polytechnic, the technical teacher training department, the
GVSSs and the CCs, the MOE will extend the existing tracer system
to graduates of these institutions and send the results of the
studies to the Bank for five years following the first output from
the institutions (para. 2.06);
(b)  no later than six months before the opening of the CCs:  (i) an
advisory committee (one for each college), including prominent
local citizens among its members, and a Department of Continuing
Education in each CC under a full-time head, would be established;
(ii) detailed continuing education programs would be prepared for
each CC and reviewed with the Bank; and (iii) information on a
system proposed by the Government to evaluate the effectiveness of
the CCs would be forwarded to the Bank for review and comments
(para. 2.15);
(c) in order to analyze job placement and performance of the graduates
of the TTC and NPITI, the VTC and MOH will each establish and
operate a tracer system and send the results of the studies to the
Bank for five years following the first output from the
institutions (paras. 2.27 and 2.31);
(d) detailed arrangements for the implementation and financing of the
TA programs would be forwarded for Bank review by December 31,
1982 (para. 2.32); and
(e) project accounts would be audited annually by the Government's
Audit Bureau and the audited accounts submitted to the Bank within
eight months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.15).
5.02     Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million equivalent to the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan for a term of 17 years including a grace period of 4
years.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM, 1979
___________________          ~~UNIVERSITIES
SEC COMMERCIAL                                             FACULTIES OF
ARTS, EDUCATION, SCIENCE ECONOMICS A
COMMERCE, SHARIA, LAW, AGRICULTURE
SEC. AGRICULTURAL
_0  _11  12                1   2 { 3_ 4             ENGINEERING,NURSING
SEC. POSTAL.
}             {       3      9       {      3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEDICINE
SEC. INDUSTRIAL
TRADE TRAINING
iJ                  ~~~~~~~INSTITU)TES
>-E1                  R~~~~~TACHER TRAINING
M LTRADES
TRADE TRAINING            POLYTECHNIC
COMPLEX
;            O        N~~~~~~~OCIALSERvicE                                                            I
COMPRE ENSIE SC   L   MIDWIFERY
GENERAL                   NURSING
COMPULSORY CYCLE-Ei ,{
KINDERGARTEN         ELEMENTARY           PREPARATORY            LITERARY             PARAMEDICAL
SCIENtIFIC           SHARIA. 
SECONDARY EDUCATION CERTIFICATE                 I{1-
SEC. NURSING              STATISTICS
*  UNIVERSITY BACHELOR DEGREE
SEC. WOMEN EDUC           COMMUNITY COLLEGE
[   EXISTING CLASSES
HOTEL TRAINING           I4OTEL TAAINING
I I IN THE PROCESS OF CREATION                           SCHOO t                 ' H A
L-AJ
RURAL DEVELOPMENT_J _                   J
o  BANK PROJECT III INSTITUTIONS                     C-NTE-A
AGE 4    6   6    7   8    9   10  11  12  13  14             15  16  17                1S  10  20  21  22   23  24
woad Buonk - 20339



JORDAN IV
EDUCATION PROJECT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1977/78
C  L 
Grade and Level                                                                                                                          o                  , =c
University *                                                                                                                           _    O            E-
18                                     . ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 36                                                 °           C,   j>
17                                                            2 38 E'  C226
u    E <   E'Bo
16                                                         416  653                                                                L('t it    U.,,
3    14.    8     37
15                                                          550  717
14253422
13                         Female                      2,847         5,097                       Male
Secondary
12                                                 681,3
11                                            8,99                                12,26 2                                          10   44    39    39
10                                            9,49                                  133836                                                                           "s
Preparatory
9                                   15       ,7771                                             21,,994
8                             19,5                                                                  25494                          22   76    68    43
'7                     )A,Q71g                                                               =    1069
Primary
6                  27'739gSi 32,5[36
5  31 052                                                                             36,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~398
. .~~~~   ..~~~                  65   97    95    47
3          33,162                                                                                                     7 0   E. 7526
2          33,446E2gEE3,4
1       3 6,281                                                     i                                                        E | | m W    =39.790
40,000       30,000        20,000        10,000          0,10000                  20,000         30,000       40,000
*Enrollment excluding 42,800 students overseas.
World Bank-23184
r1'1



- 30-
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                          Ann  1
NOVEMBER 9, 1981                                                Page 1
i .                   (ENTRAL: t                                                         
*  ,    :            SOUr. 1                 I        1       ,          I      :          I~QVT. 
*  1GNP/I            tEXP. ON:                          1                   PRI. IRECURRENT:                     'SEC8. 
*   CAPITA:           :EOU, AS: EDUCATION    (LITER-   PREI. :CDMPLE- ISTU- :UNIT COSTIPROGRESS-:' SEC. :OTUI- :H1048HE
*   1  AT             1 % TTL. : RECURRENT    lACY       :ENR0LL:TION       :DENTS:PRIM. ED. 'UON RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENRUL.L:
*    MARKET: % GKP  ICENTRAL:EXP ALLOCATED:   RATE :RATIO IRATE FDRIPER  lAB % GNP/tFROM PRI.tRATIO 9PER  1RA8IE1 I
F*DPIP . PRIZES: DEVOTED:t GOVT. I       TO:       t1% OF  I NET  :PRI,SCH. :TEACH: CAPITA  :TO SEC.  1NET  :TEACH-- GROSS:
Y8:MILLS.(  (US$). TO EDO.: EXP,   IPRI. SEC. KI.:ADULTS): (%)  ICYCLE(t)IER                           ( (7)    1 I)  (Er"
*(J.)  1(2) 1(3)   1(4)  1               (5)       I  (6)  I(7(1:  (8)    1 (9):   (10)   1(11)   1(12)  ((03) 11.14)
ADIVANCED
AUSTRIA8        74   7.5H 7,520H    5.38,    9.9K    24Y  51Y  15Y   99           98       93C       26      10,7C       99C      511,    191    16.010Y
CANAIDA         71)  23.5  8,670      2.1      4.3K    25   39   23    99        100      100        21      17.6      100        92      1la   22,00
GERMANY F.REF.78  61.3 10,300         4.86     N.4L  .. ... ... 99               . .      10                           100        94      22B    2,0
JAP'AN          71 11.4.9H 7.700H   4. 31W   ...    401(7 37UJY IIUY  99,         990      992l      20      ...        998       958Y    208   24.69Y
NETKERLANDS   78  13.9  9,200    8,3          13.UL-   20   35   24    99         96       93        19,     17.8        99       8 2     1.3   12.00
NEW ZEAL ANL,  73   3.24 5,530K    5.2W   I3.8K    39   24   29    99             99       99        26      19,4       99        67      19    24.00
NORWAY          76   4.0H 9,560       7.2      9.30    54   24   10       99      99       99        16      15.8       99E       62      1L    11.00
SWEDEN          79   8.3 10.140       8.8FW  10.L1   37   11   10    99           99      100        16P     22.7      100        79      139   30.OO00
U.K.            783  56.0  4,5961    5.6       2.6K    26   39   22    99         99       100       24      12.3      100        65-   17    20.6(.e
U.S.A.       7?8 21.0 93 5',770       7.1      2.9K    ...  57** 18    99         98       99        220         .      99        97      190 c   42.00
EUROPE
BREECL          76   9,4H 4,350H   2.6W    10.6K    37   26   21    862           99       821       31       6.27     700        80      27    11.00O
IREl-AND        74   3,2H 3.8108i   5.1W    . ..       437  41Y  149   98        10889     998       35      ...       95A        65XY   19P    11,417
PORTUGAL        77   9,8KH 1,940K    3.6W    10.78    41   21   11        710     82       60*       19       7,92     75z        30      12      S. 0)
RONANIN         71  21.98 1.650K    4.0        1.9K    36   19   13    98        1010      ,. ,      21      ...       9))        49      22    10.00(
SFPAIN          74  37.14 3,960H   2.4A        8.0K    497  227  15Y   908    11117    ,...          35A     . ..       ...       7917y   30     17.601H
ALGiERIA        79 18.1   1.4500K    7.0W      ..      34R  26R  21R   318   94XK          4087      37K    11.9       128?       331<7   37K    1.0000
BiENIN          79   3.4   250        6.5      31      43   21       5   11    42          30        46      1.4.0     30         01      48
BOTSWANA        79   0.83   720       6.7      22.18   46   29      15   31      90        74        32      22.0      33         2        B      15
8WRUNDII        79   4.0   I80        2.8L     20.66  44L  33L  22L   25    201            34        30      11.0      17          2,aX  1/        0.
CAKE(IOODN      76   0,1K  4901K    3.7W    11.61<  33   43   20          ...   60         45        52      II.8      702         9tA   24       0,.90t Il 
C.A.R.          74   1.9H  270H    3.OCW   .. .    168  198... .. 79X0                      25       697     21-5A    18           819   2'/07    021
1HA80           71   4.3K  110KH    3.0w       13.SF  78 22...    10             29187     30        658Y    ...         8         '801   30)     0.01)13
CIRORIDE        85   0.4   260K<    6.5        25.4L  48   28   14    208         998      60        45      16,0      58         21      30      1.4
INGOI(b)        74   1.5Ki 580K       6.0W     . ..    40   32   21    5G?   1338          63        63      13.38     48         338     22      3.40
EGYPT           72  38.7   400        5.5      11.3H   3G   305  26   448         73       80        307      .        82         49     I(2'   15.00
ETHIDFPIA       79  31.0   130        2.2      11.56.....G.. i                    38        ...      59                                   41     ..
GAB0N           74   0.6K  3,370H   1.008l   ...    250   90  110    ...   1007            25C'      46C'     4.7!      188       30Y     2 lIL;    .9
SANDIIA         76   0,6K  1830H    3,3W        6.08  46   26       6     10      27       90        33      44.7      92         13      "1,    ..
GKANA           74  11.0K   380K      . ..     10.58  437  227  2078   ...    6017         622       30Y     . ..       148       3187,X    1617Y  1.097
GUINEA          76   5.0K   260H    4.3NG    ...    30   31   30          ...    301        64       41      31.0!      86        130     26      4.00
IVORY COAST   76   7.8KH  9508        6.8W     . ..    33   46   13        98A    50       836       43      19.7      47'        17XY   26       1.64Y
KENYA           79  15.3   380        5.9W     17.9K<  71   15   14    40         92        74       40      11.8       41        1.9     20I      1.0
LESOTHO         79   1.3    340    4.1         21.30  41   29   20    52          68       32        49       8.1       65        10      23      0.70
LIBERIA         77   1.7H   460H   3.1W   11.9L   23   13   26    30              511X      ...      54      27.97      76        24X    16        ..
MADAGASCAR    77   8,3H   250H   4.0W   15.3C   GO   28   19    50                90        33     .44        ...       30        14      23       1.70
MALAWI          79   5.9    201       2.2HW   8.7K   40   23   23    25?    19              17H      62K      G.OG    5008         68     2:1.      .
MfALI           75   6.3H   130H   4.2MW  24.7K   45E  37E  188   108             220E      ...      488      ...       5OE        68     21       ..
MAURITANIA    71   1,5H   270K   4.17W  10.4K    ...  ...  ...    108             1717      ...-    228       ...        ...       310    248       .
MAURITIUS       76   0.9K   920H   4.76   17.5K<  50   26    6    80B    94                 99       24      19.519      90       45      32       1.10
MOROCCO         8D  19.5    740       6.3W   17.5K   36   44   20         28      720       35       39      19.7       40        250     21      4.10
NIGER           77   5.0K   240K   2.80   23.35    52   43          5      8      17        00       39      38.7       35         2      24       ..
NIGERIA         74  80.6H   600K   4,ICY   9,60    237  167  427    ...           4917      ...      3417      ...       ...      IOIY   2087    0.40Y
RWANDA          80   5.0    400       3.2    20.7      62   17   11       23      66        62?      40?     14.0        69        2      13      0.40
SENEGAL         77   5.4K   360H   5.0    18.98    48   34   20           10      32        ...      49      21.68      20       .10      21      1.5
SIERRZA LEONE  73   3.3K   230K   3.4W   16.0H   31   36   30             159     341       45       32      13.7C      68        138     21      0.038Y
SOMALIA         78   3.7K   180K   2.0W    8.1K    05   50   21    50             44        ...      32       20.4      40           5   11         1.00
SUDAN           76  17,4K   340K?  4.5W    5.2K   48   36   16    20  -.34                  74       33      46.72     33         14      24      1.24
SWAZILAND       78   0.5K   580    6.10W  21.46    37   33   23    61             92X       49       37       7.7      66         32X    20       2.00X
TANZANIA        78  17.1      230    6.8KW  11.38    43   19   10    66F    96              87       08      11.19       9         4      200     0.30
TOG0            77   2.4K    320K    5.5W   13.76   30   28   21          18      74        40       58      13.36      12         -      44      2.00
TUNISIA         79   6,4  1.120       9.8     16.9    41   36   20    62         t00        80       39      12.8       30        30      30      6.00
UGANDA          75  12.4H   280KH?  3.4CY   ...    3407 4007 2207  258            53X7      ... - 3407        ...       148        6887  218      0.567
UPPER VOLTA   77   546H   16DM   3.4W   16.4K<  31   16   32               SC     13        23       11      52.5?      19,        2      25      1.0
ZAIRE           76  26,8KH   240K?  6.0W       ...    49   26   25    15          868       44       421     20.08     41         138     27      1.008
ZAMBIIA         80  5.7       540    0.6      l1.IL   48   23   22    44          95        80       48      12.9       19        16      22      1.10
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BANANAS         79   0.2  2.780       6.5K   23.18    36   36   11    93          99        97       24       ...        97       70      19       ..
BARBADOS        76   0.2  2,0808   8.16   21.7K<  43   31   16    99             1061      99        21      19.9F       99       94X    17        ..
COSTA RICA    80   2.2  1,810         8.4    38.1    40   27   33    90           93        77       33       0.5        77       40      27    14.00
CUBA            78   9,7  1,000       8.0     ...       .......           96      98B       98       22       ...        98       65      15    15.00
DOMINICANN REP 72   5,1K   900H   3.0    11.097   42   24   22    51              80        17       04       4.583      63       14      24      7.00
EL SALVADOR   77   4,3K   640K   4.0    19.3L   64    a   27    62                88x       32       39       ...        41       23      21      7.00
GUATEMALA       73   6.6K   930K    1.9    12.68    55   23   14   147            64       26        35       ...        69        8      25      4.09Y
HAITI           76   4.8K   240K    1.0         .,.    61   21   11    238,    20F          13       56U      8.6        62        4      . ..    0.7
HOND-URAS       78   3.4    480    4.29    17,88    639  15F  19P   60E    78              30        35      12.57F    68         11      17      4.00
JAMAICA         s0   2.2  1,240K   6.1        18.46   37   43   20    90          98        98       40       2.3        95       81      22      0.00
MEXICO          80   67.4 1,810    5.0    18.70   46   39   15    9'2             98        53       44       9.1        86       56      17    00.30
NICARAGUA       78   2.0      660     3.06   16.9F   610i  130  130   90L         61        24       44       7.30,      935       4L    37       7.000,
PANAMA          78   1.8  1,260       5.4    12.78    420  136  13    78A         97        820      328     11.6        808      49      340   20.00
TRINIDAD 1 T. 77   I.1H 3,101H   4.0          11.7K   48   32   20        95      98        91       30      10.17       49       62      24      ..
SOUTK AMERICA
ARGENTINA       78  26.7  1,910    4.4         8.3K   418  31F  188   93          89        52       17       ...        87       31       a    23.00
BOLIVIA         76   5.3K   510K  -5.0W   30.5K<   ...  ...  ...    42L    805              29C      24       ...        ...       4      181      ..
BRA7IL          75 119,5K 1,510K    Z.80W   6.2K   420, 200  3206   648    889              ...      278Y      ...       ...      269     1087    6.008
CHILE           70  10.7K 1,470H   3.8R7  13.04   -237  107  507    ...   11917             ...      309      8.87A      ...      4887    ...   16.507
COLOMBIA        74  25.6KH   900K   3.3C7    ...    44CY 22CY 117   78C   10517            20        337     11.08       90       3687    148     6,677
ECUADOR         80   8.4  1.369P   6.09        ...    46   31'  16    81         1GS        48       36      12.6        86       47      16      28.70
GUYANA          74   0.8K   160K   5.8K   13.4H   47   315   14    838            921       39       33      19.80,      19       62X    24        0.00
PARAGUAY        79   3.0    920K    1.4       12.6K   43   17   20    84          82        32       28       3.1R       70       22      12      7.00
PERU            75  16.83H   680KH   4.217  ll,GL   407  227  157   72,   11117             38       3917    11.08       70       4887    2317   14.417
URUGUAY         71   2.941 1,790K    2.5       9.4K   46   34   20    94          931       ...      24      12.38       63       ..      10
VENEZUELA       7    40   ,5K         46       89       0    8    0    77A    81            ...      33       ...       ...       3       ...   12,63C7



-31-
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS :CONTO)
NOVEMBER 9, 1981
*  .          :~~CENTRAL:,                       ,       ,
*  ,GNP/ 1           :EXP. ON: 1 OF PUBLIC: I                                PRI. IRECURRENTI                      : SEC
: CAPITA'              IEDU. AS? EDUCATION    :LITER-   P RI. ICOMPLE- :STU- ICJIT COST?PROGRESS-:  SEC. :STU- IHIGHER:
I   AT  :             :% TTL. I RECURRENT    lACY         :ENROLLITION       :DENTSIPRIM,  ED.: ION RATE IENROLLIDENTSIENROLL?
.MARKETI 7. GNF   :CENTRAL:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO IRATE FIRIPER   :AS X GNP/IFROM PRI.:RATIO :PER   IRATIO 
POP. :PRICESI DEVOTED? GOVT. I           TO?      IlK OF  : MET  ?PRI.SCH.ITEACHI  CAPITA  ITO SEC.  INET  :TEACIl- GROSS:
YRIMILLS.I  CUSS)? TO EDU.? EKF.  !PRI, SEC. HI.IAD1ULTS): (Y.C  ?CYCLECX)IER    I                         ?)     1(Z)  :ER ICX
CI.)  I   2) I   3)    1(4)  1           (5)      I(6)  I C)  I(B)    I C) 1(10)   I  Cl)    I(12) 1(13) IC14)
ASIA, AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77  14.6H  160H          1.8     ..       47   19   15       12     29X        69       37       13.8      62          BK     1?       1.00
BANGLADESH      79  92.9M   90         1.l1LP  14.91'  51   17   20        226    71X        ...,    53         6.2P     ...        14X    23       1.43
CHINA           79 971.0   256        3.3       6.6     34   36   30       66   .93          64       2?        8.0      83         51X    19       2.80
INDiIA          75 643,9H3  18013    2.6?       1.9K  .     ..   ..I298    65XY              ...      4AA      ..        ..         29KY   20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA       78 136.01H  340       2.4W   ..         26G  32(3  15G    62      92         48       32       ..         019               1?      2.00
IRAN            73  35.8BH     12.2H3 3.3W  12.2H3   508   188  128    50    77              74A      32       ...       BOA        24      32      4.32CY
IRADI           75  12.213 1,B50OH   6.7C13  -,           .      . .. ..,. 261    93K?      ...      22       ...       ..         35XY   26C      8,47Y
JORDAN          79   2.2  1,180H   6.8         1O,BF    19   44   18       70     97K        85i      32        7,2      94         65      21     14.00
KOREA           783  36.6  1'310      2,8W    16.5K   35   29   36         93     102X       94       49        8,6C    91          60      45.   18.00
LEBANON         72   3.0OH   ...    3.5W       ..       39   40   10    6(3    86            65       19      23.28      63         26U3   25      23.00
MALAYSIA        60  14.2  1,460(3   6,7WF  12.0         39   32   13       608    96K        94       213       6.6D    84          65      25      4.20
NEPAL           50  14,3      140      1.IWF   9.9      29F  20F  4IF   I9FP  59F            2SF      31F      ...       64F        l4P     24F     0.BF
OMAN            72     .BH 2,790H3  1.7N3W   5.1K    96   -    -           20     24X        99       27F      25.0?     ...        0,4X    9
PAKISIAN        79  78.0   270        2.0       2.5K   39   26   27        24     56K        50E      483       6.5      ...        20K     17       6.0OOE
F'AFUA N,11.    75   2.9H  620H3    5.4LW  17,0K   38    16   24           32     57!        73P      31       28.0?     90         12K?   24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    79  46.8    600        2.BW   10".7K   64   36***           75      84        65       31        7.0      89         55      36    21.00
SINGAP'ORE      74   2,3H3 3'260H   2.7YW  14,9K   39?  39Y  17Y   72A   109K?               72A      31?       7,4A     99A        44KY   24       7.68?
SOLOMON CSL.  80   0.23   460         5.4      96,OH-  41.  34   20        ...    60         70       36       ...       35         1(3       .. ..
SYRIIA          7(3   7.9   960H3    4.4        6.1H3  39   25   26    5(3          89K      80       35        7.7E     683        45K     21     12.60
THAILANDI       77   44.5  530        4.OVW    19.9K  55   30   15    B4F   83               30       35       10.01     70         28      25      3.00
TUJRKEY         73  43,113 1,250H   5,6CYW  18.6K....... .. 85Y                              ...      34?       7.2A     ...        24Y    27D?    5.83?
YEMEN           73   5,613  410H3    0.9W       10.8K  4SF  21P  23P   10         15X        18       36       19.3      75          2K     19      0.O5BY
YEMEN P.I'.R.  80   1,9    500K    6.0          10,5   63   14       B    40?   70           53       24       22.4      81         31      16       1.80
SUMMARY FOR DiEVEL-OPIND3 COUJNTRIES:
NUMBER OF LC)IJN)KFS?                102      832      89   9?0   90      94     101        81       101      71        85        100      991    87t
RANGE'                              (0,5-  C1.9-   (20  (8-  Cl-   Cs--  (13-             C1I-      (16-   13.1        ((3-       C.4-   (8-    (.01--
9.9 C30.5)   96 173)  50)   99)   133K)   99                   69 152.5 1         99)        95  C45)  41.0)
QUAKTILFS1UPPER 15,6                       17.5      49   35   22       86     98         91       42      9          91        48       25     11.11
M[DIANI                4,2     13,0      42   26   18       60     82         65       34      13         613        24      221     3.4
LOWER I                3.0       9,9    34   21   13        25     56         33       29      20         41         11      i8      1.0
SYMEDBOl 1... DIATUM UNAVAILABL-E              A=1971 OR BEFORE            N=CURRENT P'RICES                         SOURCES:
-  MASHITUJDE NIL OR HEUGLIGIOLE 8=1972                          P=GDP
7  GUE:STIONABLE                    C=1973                       Q=INCLUDING  FOREIGN  AID                 CDLUMNS?1 AND 2 WORLD, BANK ATLAS
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 11=1974                           R=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                         OR IBRD MISSIONS
**  COMBINED WITH PRIMARY            E1.1975                      S=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 TOD 14 IBRRO MISSIONS
*9*4  COMBINEDt WITH HIG3HER           F=1976                      T=MDE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNE7SES
0=1977                      U=EXCLUDING CENTRAL BOVT.                                    STA1 ISTICAL
13=1978                     V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXFENDITURE                              YEARBOOK
K=4979                      W=PUBLIC EKPENDITURE ONLY
L=19BO                      X=INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
M=1981             -        Y=UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUJCATIOIN DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OP EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THiE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DiATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD) BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUJTION, DATA PRZESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABL-E HAVE BEEN COLLECTED, LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SDIJRCES,. IHE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDIARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND, WITHIN LIMITS, TOD CHECK THIE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,-SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMP'ROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF 'THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING GUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE. BORNE IN
MIND?
CI)5'EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES AL-L EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
C2)'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS ID EDUCATION AT THE PIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION Al tHE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYP'E (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, ABRICULTURAL) 
C3)'LITERACY RATES'(CCL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANY COUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS ANDt IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
C4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION' (COLS 4 AND 5) REFERS TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDJUCATION By
PUBLIC AND GUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
CS)'ENROLLMENT RATIDS'(CCLS 7. 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDIREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME.
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE B? REVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPIND
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREGUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERABED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION.IS INDICATED, BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



JORDAN
.Fourth Education Project
Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student/l
Project Institutions
Gross Area      Buildings and
Project Item                     Per StudentL        Site Works    Furniture   Equipment   Total
----- --------------------
Polytechnic:
Academic and communal                9.9             4,900           430         2,030     7,360
Boarding                            10.1             4,810           350           -       5,160
Director's house                   130.0            63,270            -            -      63,270
4 general vocational secondary
schools (academic & communal):
Boys', Amman                         6.2             2,590           230           710     3,530
Boys', Ajloun                        7.7             3,500           290          750      4,540
Girls', Rusiefah                     7.4             3,090           270           540     3,900
Girls', Nuzha                        7.3             3,210           270           460     3,940
Nursing/paramedical integrated
training institute:
Academic and communal                6.4             2,670           230        1,280      4,180
Boarding                             9.6             3,860           280          -        4,140
Teachers' rooms                     13.5             5,330            -           -        5,330
Trade training center:
Academic and communal               10.7             4,460           390         2,590     7,440
Staff housing:
Teachers' rooms                   13.5             5,510           420          -        5,930
Director's house                 130.0            49,950            -           -       49,950       
/1  Excluding professional fees and contingencies.
/2  Excluding covered galleries and greenhouses; the cost of these areas is included in the unit
capital cost figures.



JORDAN
Fourth Education Project
Contingency Allowances
Professional           Technical Assistance
Civil Works       Furniture         Equipment         Services         Specialists       Fellowships       Total Project Cost
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Total
Contingencies (as % of project cost):
Physical                                 10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0       5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0
Price increaseL                          27.2    25.3      27,4    28.8      27.4    28.8      18.3    18.3      30.2    26.3      30.2    26.3
Project cost (without contingencies):
Y.illions JD                              3.8      3.1      0.2      0.3      0.2      2.0      0.7     0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.4      5.1      5.9    11.0
Millions US$                             12.8    10.2       0.7      1.2      0.8     6.5       2.3     0.0       0.1      0.5      0,3     1.3      17.0    19.7    36.7
% foreign exchange                               44.3               62.0             90.0               0.0              80.0              80.0              53.6
Contingencies (amounts):
Physical
Millions JD                             0.4    0.3        0.0      0.1      0.0     0.2       0.1     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.5     0.6      1.1
Millions US$                            1.3     1.0       0.1      0.1      0.0     0.7       0.3     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.1       1.7     1.9      3.6
Price increase
Millions JD                             1.2     0.9       0.1      0.1      0.1     0.6       0.1     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.1       1.5     1.7      3.2
Millions US$                            3.9     2.8       0.2      0.4      0.2     2.1       0.4     0.0       0.1     0.1       0.1     0.3       4.9      5.7    10.6
Subtotal
Millions JD                           1.6     1.2       0.1      0.2      0.1      0.8      0.2     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.1       2.0      2.3     4.3/2
Millions US$                          5.2     3.-8      0.3      0.5     0.2      2.8       0.7     0.0       0.1     0.1       0.1     0.4       6.6      7.6    14 2
% foreign exchange                               43.0               62.9              90.3              0.0               78.0              78.0              53.8
Total project cost (including
contingencies):
Millions JD                               5.4     4.3       0.3      0.5      0.3      2.8      0.9     0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.5      7.1      8.2    15.3
Millions US$                             18.0    14.0       1.0      l 7      1.0      9.3      3.      0.0       0.2      0.6      0.4      1.7     23.6    27.3    50.9
% foreign exchange                               43.9               62.3              90.1              0.0               79.5              79.5              53.7
/1  Price increases computed on basis of (I) separate annual increase rates for local and foreign exchange costs;
(2' mission  estimates of foreign exchange increase rates for equipment and furniture;
3project completion 6/1986 (4.5 years from loan signing);
(4) estimated progress of work per year;
(5) baseline cost plus the physical contingency; and
(6) following yearly percentages:
1982             1983              1984              1985               1986             1987
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  ForeiRn  Local  FEorign
Civil works and
professional fees       9.0      8.5      8.0      7.5    8.-0       7.5      8.0      7.5      8.0      7.5    8.0       7.5
Furkiture                9.0     10.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0    8.0       8.0          o o
Equipment                9.0     10.0      8.0      8.0     8.0       8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0    8.0       8.0            ax
Technical assistance    9.0       8.0      8.0      7.0      8.0      7.0      8.0      7.0      8.0      7.0    8.0       7.0
L2 Total contingencies as % of project cost without contingencies - 38.7%.



JORDAN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Ministry of Education: Polytechnic, General Vocational Secondary Schools
Ministry of Health: Nursing/Paramedical lntergrated Training Institute
1981              1982              1983               1984              1985               1986              1987
1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1 2  3  4 1 234 1  2  3 4  1  2  3 4  1 2  3 4
Design and Construction:                         _                                                                                                                             I
Site Selection, Acquisition, Survey                                                                                                                                          I
Preliminary and Design Development Drawings               I                                                                                                                 I
Bid Documentsi                                                            - - - - - -I
Advertise and Issue Docu ments                    .            I                                      _
Receive, Analyze Bids, Contract Awards
ConstructionI j-                                                                                                        -- -
Guarantee Period                                          I 
Equipment and Furniture:                                                                                                                                                       I
Preliminary ListsI
Final ListsI
Specifications and Cost EstimatesI
Bid Documents
Advertise, Analyze Bids, Awards                                                                                                                                              I
Manufacture, Deliver and Install                                                                     -   - _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _
Technical Assistance:                                                                                                   I
Specialists
Fellowships- - - -                                                                                                                                 - - - -I
Negotiaions..  a, sing Date -.l|
IBRD Review and Approval                              Board -|                                                                                                                             |
World Bank-23090



JORDAN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Ministry of Education Extensions: Commuinity Colleges, Technical Teacher Training Department at Marka Polytechnic
1981              1982              1983              1984               19S5              1986               1987
1   2   3   4    1   2  3    4    1   2   3   4   1   2  34              1   2   3    4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
Design and Construction:
Preliminary and Design Development Drawings
Bid Documents                                                                 -        - -
Advertise and Issue Documents
Receive, Analyze Bids, Contract Awards
Construction                                                                                                           - - - -
Guarantee Period
Equipment and Furniture:                                       a                                                                                                                               w
Preliminary ListsI
Final Lists
Specifications and Cost Estimates
Bid Documents
Advertise, Analyze Bids, Awards                               i               _   _   _   _   _
Manufacture, Deliver and Install
Technical Assistance:                                      i
Specialists
FellowshipsI                                                                                                  - -           - -
OQ ?I.s
Negotiations                                                                                                     C.ng  D                     I  5 j
*  IBRO Review and Approval                              Boawd
World Bank-23089



JORDAN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Vocational Training Corporation: Trade Training Center
1981              1982              1983               1984              198t               1986               1987
1   2   3  .4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
Design and Construction:                         _
Site Selection, Acquisition, Survey            _   _   _.,1
Preliminary and Design Development Drawings
Bid Documents                                                    I
Advertise and Issue Documents
Recieve, Analyze Bids, Contract Awards                                              _
Construction
Guarantee Period
Equipment and Furniture:
Preliminary Lists
Final Lists
Specifications and Cost Estimates
Bid Documents
Advertise, Analyze Bids, Awards
Manufacture, Deliver and Install
!4.o .titlne4    I                                                                                                                               81
*  IBRD Reviewand Approval                               Board   _b iCosingD. 
World Bank-23088



- 37-                                                               Annex 1
Schedule 2
Page 1
JORDAN
Fourth Education Project
Technical Assistance
Ocrerta                        __ __ __ __  __ __ __  _ __ __ __  __ __ __ _
Pr.j.et It-m nd Type of                    Na tloo         Itor       8eginoing             M-n/ll;tth       Iotal      Oogiooin,
Ieoh.ial Assistance             ?4o-ined   Somber  ch_    OAIt/llonth    1 Dae     N!L-the      Each      M n.Meeths        lone
hlftstrv of Ed-catios
Pelytehninl
tellonai:iPO:
Th.ory Te-cher. (ngine.rse:
81etrical                                                                                                            07101/87
lieehncicai                                                                        1           I             9        02/01/es
gielog                                                                             1           9             9       07/IS/Ol
Ch. ietry                                                                          1           P9                    0118
brill11g                                                                           1           99                     7/o0s/e
Lboratory Inatruetors/
ilecirtoel                                                   1 ~ ~~~                 ~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 17  12  04018
MechanIcal                                                                        1          12            12        04/01f85
Chasintoy                                                                         1          t12           12       04101/85
Vonhahop inetnootora:                                                                          12            60       04/01/85
Tntel Polytechnic h
Cenerl S- oodary
Vocanitonl School.:
Felloship.:
Soy.!
Fargin;g- nd Pattern
xahto                                                                               :g                              02/01/85
Pace N.i cinry                                                                     1aI 7/01/85
Diee SI lehani-                                                                   1                        9        071t01R5
Tool *nd Die M.king                                                                2                       18        07/011/5
I.. r.meOtation                                                                    1         12            12        04/01/85
Toleoeeoinc.nt  onsI 1                                                                       12            12        04/01/15
losiress Edoc_tion                                                                 2          ti           12        10/01/85
30k.e pi,8                                                                         1          li            6        10/01/15
reeoheoae bianM enag t                                                             1          9             9        07/01/85
Ve.table Prtod.ti-o                                                                I          I             9        07/01/nS
Orchard Prod..tion                                                                 I           I l          9         7/01/85
Slbtotel Boy.                                                                                               114
Girl.:
Conoieeloa Dnveloprent                                                             1          9             9        07101/85
Seoni and P     -ttern MKking                                                     2           !            1i        07/01/85
Uoioe.  Ed eatioo                                                                  2          !            18        02/01/85
s.r.ing                                                                            2                        18      07/01/85
-lorioolcLre                                                                      1          1             9        07/01/85
TCb Iceonnicapiont                                                                 1         1!            12        04/01/85
Child hnvelop-neoc
X..r.ery School                                                                  2           9            18        07/01/85
le..ty Culture                                                                    2           S            12        10/01/85
Slbthtal Cirl.                                                                     12
Iogl General Secondary                                                            AG                       228
Vocational Schoola
Ceonity Co1-s 
t per s
Ce-neoity College Ad.i.tstcat-Ot    I          9           9          10/01/83
Vectnional/Techoi-al Edc...tin      1           9          9          10/01/83
Continoing tdooanion -                          '          9          10/01/83
S.sbtotd1 Epeart                    3                     27
?elloohlps:
Salt:
Adeinistrators                                                                      2,2        4:,)           8,6     06/01/84
Techoniel Tooheca                                                                   4           ''           56       06/01/84
Ad8c  . ... re
Tdaini .it hrs                                                                      4           4, 1                 06/01/84
Technical Teachers~~~~~~~~~~~                                             1~~          .JA  3    06/01/04
Sobtotal FPll1hip.                                                                                           120
Total Cnooaity Collee. .           2                     27                        28                       110
aka Polytohni:
Er.p rt
Coiocbo  Snv lopeent               3           2          6         10/01/83
Sbetotal Enp.ts                    .1                      6
Fellowhps:
Techairel Teacher
?rainiog:
Theory Teanhera (entineer):
Electrical                                                                       I           f             9        07/01/85
M. hannic 11                                                                                  f      -      9       07/01/8S
Canpontry/Cabin.t
X.Miog/Fiaishing                                                                1            8             9       07/01/85
Laboratory lnstcucter/
Technicins:
Electrni- I                                                                                12            12       041/85
meihanital1                                                                                12            12       04/01/85
tl  .n                                                                        I           1212                   04101/85
lailding Coaetr"tieon                                                          1           12            12       04/01/85
Inatractional Media                                                            1          12            12        04tOl085
bbtOLI Fllov.ohips                                                                                       z 
Trial herbk. flyt-ahnic         3                                               .                         .17



- 38 -                                        Annex 1
Schedule 2
JORDAN                                        Page  2
Fourth Education Project
Technical Assistance
(continued)
Experts                                        Fellowships
Projeet Item and Type of                      Man/Months    Total       Beginning              Man/Months       Total       Beginning
Technical Assistance Required    Number           Each   Nan/Mtonths      Date     Number      Each         Man/Months        Date
Comprehensive Secondary Schools:
Experts:
Curriculum                            1           2           2        06/01/83
Personnel development                 I           2          I         06/01/83
Subtotal Experts                   2                       4
Fellowships:
Administrative (principals)                                                            2         9              18         01/0l/8a
Educational Leadership                                                                 6        2               12        01/01/83
Subtotal Fellowships                                                               8                        30
Total Comprehensive
Secondary Schools                2                      4                         8                        30
Total MOE                         _                      37                        72                       594
Ministry of Health
Nursing/Paramedical
Integrated Training Lnstitute:
Experts:
Equipment Maintenance               1            3         3           07/01/86
Health Planning                     I            6         6           04/01/86
Sanitation                          1            .3        3           06/01/o6
Nursing                             1            3         3           06/01/86
Nutrition                           1            3         3           06/01/86
Public Health, Hygiene              2            3         6           06/01/66
School Health                       1            3         3           06/01/86
Subtotal Experts                  8                    27
Fellowships:
Project Coordiiiator                                                                    1       3               3        01/01/8i
Educational Management                                                                  1       3.             3         01101186
Directors/Department Heads                                                             *2       2              4         04/01/86
Laboratory Chiefs                                                                       4       4              16        01/01/87
Sanitation                                                                              1       6              6         07/01185
Nursing                                                                                 1       6               6        07/01/85
Nutrition                                                                               1       6              6         07/01/33
Public Health, Hygiene                                                                  1       6              6         07/01/35
School Health                                                                           1       3              3         10/01/35
Subtotal Fellowahips                                                                  13                    53
Total NPITI, MOH                  8                      27                           13                    53
Grand Total                      16                     64          -                85                    647



- 39 -                             Annex 1
Schedule 3
JORDAN
Fourth Education Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Calendar       Fiscal                           Accumulated       Undisbursed
Year and      Year and      Disbursements    Disbursements           Balance
Semester      Semester      Amount    %        Amount    %       Amount    %
(US$m)            (US$m)             (US$m)
1982          1982                                                25.0   100.0
1             2            0.3    1.2         0.3    1.2       24.7    98.8
1983
2             1            0.3    1.2         0.6    2.4       24.4    97.6
1983
1             2            0.4    1.6         1.0    4.0        24.0    96.0
1984
2             1            1.3    5.2         2.3    9.2       22.7    90.8
1984
1             2            1.4    5.6         3.7   14.8       21.3    85.2
1985
2             1            2.7   10.8         6.4   25.6       18.6    74.4
1985
1             2            3.9   15.6        10.3   41.2       14.7    58.8
1986
2             1            4.0   16.0        14.3   57.2       10.7    42.8
1986
1             2            3.9   15.6        18.2   72.8         6.8    27.2
1987
2             1            3.8   15.2        22.0   88.0         3.0    12.0
1987
1             2            2.1    8.4        24.1   96.4         0.9     3.6
1988
2             1            0.9    3.6        25.0  100.0         0.0     0.0



- 40 -
Annex 2
Page 1
JORDAN
Fourth Education Project
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Reports and Studies Relating to Education
1.   Draft Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development, 1981-85,
National Planning Council.
2.   Five-Year Plan, 1978-82, Vocational Training Corporation.
3.   Proposed Plan of the Ministry of Education in the Eighties
(Eastern Bank), 1979, Ministry of Education.
4.   Report on the Activities for the Education of Adults and Abolition
of Illiteracy, 1970-80, Ministry of Education.
5.   Conference on the Educational Process in Developed Jordanian
Society, Recommendations, Amman, May 13-15, 1980.
6.   Statistical Yearbook, 1979, Department of Statistics.
7.   Statistical Education Yearbook, 1979-80, Ministry of Education.
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Draft Five-Year Education Development Plan, 1981-85, Ministry of
Education.
2.   Project Proposal for Integrated Training Institute for Health
Services in Irbid, November 10, 1980, Ministry of Health.
3.   Project Proposal for Trade Training Center, Amman, Vocational
Training Corporation.
4.   Project Proposal for the Conversion of Salt and Howwara TTIs, into
Community Colleges, November 1980, Ministry of Education.
5.   Project Proposal for Three Vocational Schools for Boys, November
1980, Ministry of Education.
6.   Project Proposal for Three Vocational Schools for Girls, November
1980, Ministry of Education.



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 2
7.   Project Proposal for Polytechnic at Tafilah, November 1980,
Ministry of Education.
8.   The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Education and Training for
Manpower Development, Unesco, July 1980.
9.   Education Sector Memorandum (including Manpower Projections), 1981.
10.   Study on Population and Manpower in the East Bank, Department of
Manpower, National Planning Council, September 1980.
C. Selected Working Papers of the Project
1.   Educational Worksheets, November 1981.
2.   Accommodation Schedules, November 1981.
3.   Education Finance, March 25, 1981.
4.   Staff Appraisal Reports, White Cover (March 1981) and Yellow Cover
(July 31, 1981).






IBRD 15728
Th.-smaphas ba npoepOra-d by               LE BA    °           J3b                                                                      3e8                                         MAY 1981
WtN  -ks -ff --ftendery of                   EBAN  O
th- por-t  whchkt i-n-atod/
The denO-rinao n-edand thIJ
-oedan    hwontP                      V                                            Y    R  I A  N             A o     A    D o 
do not imply, on t0e ptr t (tme                                                      Iri  I  S YRIAN           ^             /;SnARAB
Wtd  on tged it fe tntes ff          |                                                                                                                                       I      /
y-tmntoo .eay -sao-retREto                         I                                          P  U        L L  I  C'                                      .
fw            C   .'~~~~oke Ttbpr,oi                                                                                                             T  oArk hrtoh
MSE)ITEkRA,NEA NV
A"
$FA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Ce~~~~~~Aji                                /               <hYset                   7 4   
-32'                                                                         .,qS  -    n (nrq,                                                                                              32'-
32n        /       -               A     MO,*)IS~   A/ Roenfet                             '
/                                                                                 Fo ddro
//            f R A E                      ,LN\ "sAUD      
ItI 
/    2          k StJ1<hebid                                  _       
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ \ I SAD                                                                                                        ARABLIA  "_ 
\   r  f>t                              \                                         \                       ~~~~JORDAN
*\   //   NA   - sil                           \\                                        ~~~~\ FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
/ jt  :  <  j9zr                  X        \   xo \r                                                       Proposed Project Ponturnsr
i   !    l        |    #4                       /             X   9                                    X             iT~~~~0,    General Vocotrosal Secondary
Co--unity Colleges
N oytechni
-  i                t.      /                                 Kors~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,-g/P ... -di-of
/nteg-nted Tra-n-g /nstitoe
\  T           tAngen \    ____\TaAI/J-1 pDt                                                                                 Tr-de rcn ring Center
Technical Teether Tre -ing
-30°                                                                                                                                                              D. .   \/  >   et-et
\  ._.tono! Capital
A  R A  B  \   { /  /   \  .!_                      o0     Mc.or ctres
R E P U B L I C    \         { /       T                                                  /       Foo                                                         Mogd ph R     PeVolle
0OF   E G Y P T  <  j f   /                                                             /                                                                .      Highl-nd
\ tJ   %                      /                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Desert
______t__ Sarifc-d Ronds
…\/---Uneurfaced Ponds
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-----  Pn.t   /N E                                             Rillroadr
6'JLF/Fo000g/         _._,_A                                                                                                               PipT/  _  R8ers
4  /                                Fe~~~~~~~~TAld,    KIOtitYftps      30      00    nO       so      co,             *-.-    nterncatrosol Poinonrinos
,1fABAJ      S  A   U  D  I          A   R  A   B  I A                  M(LESO           20          40           oL
3d                                                                         3E



