Document of                 T        COP
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3161-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 23, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Financial Year = Calendar Year
Currency Unit                                 Jordan Dinars (JD)
JD 1                                          1,000 Fils
JD 0.30                                       US$1.00
JD 1.00                                       US$3.33
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MOE                 -         Ministry of Education
MOH                 -         Ministry of Health
NPITI              -          Nursing/Paramedical Integrated
Training Institute
PIU                -          Project Implementation Unit
UNDP               -          United Nations Development Programme
VTC                -          Vocational Training Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Amount:           US$25.0 million equivalent
Terms:            17 years, including four years of grace at an interest rate
of 11.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:   The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in
training skilled manpower urgently needed to meet the needs
of Jordan's economic development plan and specifically to:
(a) reduce the shortage of skilled workers; (b) ensure an
adequate supply of vocational subject teachers at the
secondary school level; (c) meet the need for technicians in
southern Jordan; (d) provide increased general and occupa-
tional education in trade and commerce in two growing urban
centers; and (e) reduce the shortage of qualified paramedi-
cal, nursing and midwifery personnel required by basic health
care programs. The proposed project, which supports the
Government's objectives, consists of: (a) construction of a
polytechnic at Tafilah in southern Jordan, four general
vocational secondary schools, one trade training center and
one nursing/paramedical integrated training institute; (b)
extension of the Marka Polytechnic through the establishment
of a new Technical Teacher Training Department and conversion
of the Teacher Training Institutes at Salt and Howwara into
community colleges; (c) provision of furniture and equipment
for the institutions listed in (a) and (b); and (d) technical
assistance related to the above, and for reviews of curricula
and program development for comprehensive secondary schools
and the Marka Polytechnic technician training program. The
project institutions would provide about 8,400 new training
places and upgrade about 500 existing training places. They
would add 750 technicians, 300 technical teachers, 2,430
craftsmen/skilled workers, and 285 graduates trained in
nursing and paramedical work annually. The proposed project
would thus expand the availability and improve the quality of
technicians, skilled workers, vocational subject teachers and
health personnel in Jordan. The project faces no special
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Costs:                                        Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ Million--------
Construction, equipment and furniture:
1 polytechnic                                       2.9          3.0        5.9
4 general vocational secondary schools              8.2          7.9       16.1
1 nursing/paramedical integrated training
institute (MOH)                                   2.4          2.4       4.8
1 trade training center (VTC)                       1.8          2.4        4.2
Extension, equipment and furniture:
2 community colleges                                1.0          1.9        2.9
1 technical teacher training department             0.3          0.3        0.6
Technical assistance:
Specialists                                         0.1          0.5        0.6
Fellowships                                         0.3          1.3        1.6
Baseline Cost                                      17.0         19.7       36.7
Contingencies:
Physical                                            1.7          1.9        3.6
Price increase                                      4.9          5.7       10.6
Subtotal                                            6.6          7.6       14.2
Total project cost                                 23.6         27.3       50.9
Financing Plan:                                       Local      Foreign      Total
…-----…USi Million--------
Bank Loan                                                       25.0       25.0
UNDP                                                -            2.3        2.3
Government Contribution                            23.6          -         23.6
Total                                          23.6          27.3      50.9
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY 1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
--------------US$ Million---------------------
Annual                             0.3    0.7    2.7    6.6    7.9    5.9   0.9
Cumulative                         0.3    1.0    3.7   10.3   18.2   24.1  25.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3564-JO, dated November 17, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$25 million equivalent to help
finance a Fourth Education Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. The
Government is seeking financing from the United Nations Development Programme
of US$2.3 million, which represents the foreign exchange cost of the technical
assistance component of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan"
(No. 3135-JO, dated December 24, 1980) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in January 1981. An economic mission visited the country in June
1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.       Jordan is a country of 2.2 million people (East Bank) with limited
natural resources and a traditionally service and trade-oriented economy. It
has enjoyed a high rate of growth and made good progress in diversifying
commodity production, increasing investment, and promoting exports. This
economic performance has taken place in the context of increasing exchange
with neighboring countries in the form of trade, expanding inflow of remit-
tances from Jordanians working abroad, foreign aid and capital. As a result,
the labor force is almost fully employed and foreign exchange reserves have
been steadily rising.
Recent Economic Developments
4.       Renewed-stability following the disruptions of 1967-71 created a
climate conducive to sustained economic growth during 1975-80, resulting in an
average annual growth of GDP of over 11 percent in real terms. This growth
was in sharp contrast with that during 1971-75, which was slightly negative.
In 1980, GNP per capita reached $1,390. The upsurge of the economy was due
to: (a) the rapid growth of the mining and manufacturing sectors; (b) the
sharp increase in construction, particularly in housing and large public
works; (c) favorable external factors including influx of Lebanese business
activity and booming conditions in the Gulf countries. In agriculture, rain-
fed production was sharply reduced by a severe four-year drought, but vege-
table and fruit production in the irrigated areas increased significantly.
Agricultural output recovered sharply in 1980. The private sector showed
growing strength especially in promoting export-oriented ventures.
1/ This part updates Part I of the President's Report (P-3033-JO of April 21,
1981) on the Fourth Power Project.



- 2 -
5.       The overall balance of payments remains strong despite a chronic
deficit in merchandise trade. Exports of goods and non-factor services
increased by 30 percent annually from 1975 to 1980 (about 20 percent in 1975
prices). Significant growth was achieved due to high demand and prices for
fruits and vegetables in neighboring countries, booming exports of manufac-
tured goods and a sharp increase in receipts from tourism and other non-factor
services. Jordanian goods have been able to compete successfully in Middle
East markets because of the advantages of Arab Common Market and bilateral
agreements, relatively good quality of the products, enterprising marketing
and the favorable geographical location. Although the growth in the volume of
imports was slower than that of exports, the resource gap increased in current
terms from $560 million in 1975 to about $1,700 million in 1980. These trade
deficits, however, were fully compensated by factor income and transfers from
abroad. As a result, the Government-guaranteed external borrowing remained
within reasonable limits and borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a
modest level (para. 15).
6.       Expenditure and domestic revenue of the Government both increased at
a rate of about 20 percent per annum through 1975-80. The widening of the
overall budget deficit, however, was tempered by a sharp increase in grants
from Arab countries following the Baghdad Summit Conference in 1978. The
relative size of the deficit decreased from 13 percent of GNP in 1975 to nine
percent in 1980. The expansion of domestic Government revenue during that
period was significantly below the overall rate of growth in national income.
As a result, the ratio of Government revenue to GNP declined from 24 percent
in 1975 to 21 percent in 1980. Current expenditures., excluding defense, were
covered by domestic revenues. Defense expenditures were largely financed by
foreign assistance. During 1976-80, about 37 percent of capital expenditures
were financed from the current budget surplus, 33 percent by foreign loans,
and the rest by other domestic resources.
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. While the savings performance has improved,
gross domestic savings have continued to be negative because of the high level
of defense expenditures. Although the share of foreign grants used for mili-
tary imports is not clearly delineated, assuming that at least 60 percent of
net foreign transfers were used for military imports and were therefore
excluded, gross domestic savings would be positive. To promote domestic
savings, greater discretion is being allowed to the Central Bank in adjusting
interest rates and banking commissions. Increases in deposit rates were
effected and have resulted in savings deposits increasing faster than money
supply. Between 1975 and 1980, domestic inflation, measured by the cost of
living index, increased by 11.5 percent annually.
8.       A diversified banking system capable of meeting the financial
requirements of fast economic growth was developed during the last decade.
The banking system now includes 15 commercial banks and eight specialized
credit and investment institutions. The Amman Stock Exchange, established in
1978, has become an active institution, and the Securities Corporation,
created with IFC assistance, is growing in strength. The liberal transfer
policy recently followed by the Central Bank has encouraged growth of the
financial system, and Amman has started emerging as an international financial
center.



-3-
Medium-Term Prospects
9.       The new Five-Year Plan (1981-85) aims at maintaining the rate of
growth of the economy close to that achieved during the previous plan. In
terms of the investment program, the plan is ambitious -- total investment
would amount to JD 3.3 billion ($11 billion), 54 percent of which is by the
Public Sector (27 percent by the Central Government). The announced strategy
is to pursue the objectives of the last decade of economic planning in Jordan,
namely to: (a) reduce dependence on external assistance; (b) diversify the
economy by increasing commodity produc- tion; (c) reduce the budget deficit;
and (d) improve the distribution of the benefits of growth.
10.      The Bank's medium-term economic projections indicate that the rapid
GDP growth achieved in recent years would have to slow down to about six
percent per annum after 1981 if the trade deficit and dependence on foreign
aid are to be significantly reduced. If the trend of expanding exports is
maintained and that of imports reduced drastically, the annual external trade
deficit could be met by workers' remittances coupled with prudent external
borrowing (para. 16).
11.      The medium-term prospects for increasing exports and diversifying
commodity production are promising. The completion of the major projects now
under implementation (phosphate mining, cement, potash, and fertilizer),
together with the enterprise displayed by the private sector, should result in
significant increases in foreign exchange earnings after 1982. In agricul-
ture, the expected increase in vegetable and fruit exports will be more than
offset by growing imports of food, and the agricultural trade deficit will
probably increase. In energy, the increasing burden of oil imports has caused
concern and made energy planning a priority.
12.      Savings from private sources, particularly from workers abroad,
should continue to increase, helped by the expanding banking network. A
reduction of the budget deficit could also be expected. A working group is at
present preparing recommendations on the fiscal system, but a radical struc-
tural reform might be difficult to implement. Although current expenditure,
excluding defense, is expected to grow at a slower pace than the economy, the
demands for increased social expenditure and the need for higher wages to
retain valuable public servants will not permit significant cuts in
expenditure except for investment financing and subsidies for energy and food
products.
Social Issues
13.      Due to the continuing migration of Jordanians to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the economy has reached almost full
employment and pressures have emerged on the demand side. Out of the 750,000
Jordanians estimated to be living abroad, 300,000 are estimated to be working,
compared to a total domestic employment of about 447,000. About 65,000
foreigners, mostly unskilled, are working in Jordan. The country has expanded
its education and training system rapidly but still needs a comprehensive man-
power and training plan to help ensure that: (a) the economy does not suffer
from shortages of crucial skills, while meeting prospective demand for skilled
workers abroad as far as possible; and (b) the potential labor force is



utilized more fully--especially the seasonally idle workers in rainfed areas
and women, whose participation, although growing fast, is still low.
14.      Social issues are now an acknowledged concern of the Government and
this new emphasis is to some extent reflected in the new National Plan
(1981-85). Although the social indicators provide a relatively favorable
reading in most sectors, the social services are unevenly distributed across
income groups and across provinces. Thus, although health infrastructure is
adequate and life expectancy is relatively high (56 years), medical doctors
are concentrated in urban centers. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups. The Government's concern about these issues has led to
the setting up of the new Ministry of Social Affairs in November 1979 to
define a coherent social development program.
External Assistance
15.      Due to large foreign inflows of remittances and transfers, the
current account of the balance of payments was on average in equilibrium
through 1975-80, and the government-guaranteed external debt has remained
within reasonable limits. Net workers' remittances increased from $166
million in 1975 to $638 million in 1980. Foreign grants exceeded $500 million
in 1977 and fell to $335 million in 1978. Following the Baghdad Arab Summit
Conference in November 1978, which pledged assistance of about $1.2 billion
per year until 1983, net foreign aid rose again to a record high of about one
billion dollars in 1979 and $1.3 billion in 1980. The external public debt
outstanding and disbursed reached $1.3 billion at the end of 1980. In 1977
and 1978, Jordan borrowed $224 and $100 million respectively on the Eurodollar
market, but in 1979, higher foreign aid allowed the borrowing to be further
reduced to $28 million. External debt service payments amounted to $134
million in 1980 or 5.4 percent of total exports of goods and services.
16.      Jordan's relative stability and pragmatic economic and social poli-
cies have helped to attract large foreign assistance. The continuation of
foreign economic assistance at the relatively high levels of recent years
obviously depends on international and regional developments. Except for aid
related to defense expenditures, the grant component of this foreign assis-
tance is, however, expected to decline over the next few years. Assuming that
the investment rate slows down to a level of 24 percent of GNP by 1985, the
projections indicate a need for external commitments of about $600 million
each year over the 1981-85 period (compared to an annual average of $420
million for 1976-80). One-third of this borrowing is expected to be on
concessional terms, somewhat below the ratio in recent years. While bilateral
and multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of external
resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial markets,
and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these assumptions, the
debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and services would
reach eight percent at the end 1981 and is projected not to exceed 10 percent
by 1985.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.      Jordan has received six Bank loans totalling $125 million and fifteen
IDA credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which twelve
have been fully disbursed. Project implementation is generally satisfactory.
As of June 30, 1981, disbursements amounted to 83 percent of appraisal esti-
mates. The IDA credits have mainly financed physical and social infrastruc-
ture projects, such as education, highways, water supply and sewerage, power,
irrigation and tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had attained a stage of economic
development where it could be considered creditworthy for Bank lending, and
had reached a GNP per capita level that exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was
thus discontinued after March 1978. IFC has made investments (loans and
equity participations) in five companies in Jordan. Total commitments now
held by IFC amount to $34 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits, and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.      Past Bank Group assistance to Jordan was largely for infrastructure
projects. Recent and proposed lending is also directed toward large
export-oriented projects with foreign exchange earning potential for which the
Bank Group has closely cooperated with the Government in project preparation
and in mobilizing large external financial assistance. In addition, the Bank
Group has been assisting the Government in implementing its social objectives
of improving the income and living standards of the rural and urban poor, as
enunciated in the past Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and which is being given an
even greater emphasis in the new Five-Year Plan (1981-85).
19.      In line with these overall objectives, the Bank Group has provided
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock production, and preparing a comprehensive program for a second
phase of development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley and
for water supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An engineering credit was made in
FY1975 to help prepare the project for potash production from the Dead Sea via
solar evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
September 1978. In addition, support for the Government's social objectives
was provided by a loan for the Third Education project approved in December
1979, the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) project approved in
March 1980, and the Urban Development project approved in July 1980.
20.      The Aqaba power generation and transmission project is being
processed for possible consideration by the Executive Directors later in this
fiscal year. Projects are also under preparation in the agriculture, water
supply, industrial and power sectors for consideration in subsequent fiscal
years.
21.      At the end of 1980, the Bank Group's share in Jordan's total external
public debt was estimated at 8.2 percent, and its share in debt service was
1.9 percent. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in debt
service are expected to be about 6.0 percent and 6.4 percent respectively.



- 6 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
22.      Jordan's well-trained labor force is considered the country's most
important resource, and it is by far the main earner of foreign exchange
(about $0.5 billion in 1979). Labor emigration increased sharply in the
1970's when the Gulf States embarked on massive investment programs which
required large numbers of skilled workers. Increased emigration coincided
with an expanded demand for labor at home resulting from the acceleration of
growth and from the large government investment program in the productive
sectors. As mentioned above, because of the strong demand for Jordanian
workers at home and abroad, the economy has reached almost full employment (14
percent unemployment in 1970). Given the tight employment situation, the
continuing manpower outflow has turned into a potential threat to domestic
development. About 300,000 Jordanians are currently working abroad; these are
mostly professionals and skilled workers attracted to the Gulf States by
salaries three or four times higher than in Jordan. The Government considers
emigration to be economically beneficial as increasing workers' remittances
are a source of foreign exchange earnings and experiences gained abroad by the
large numbers of returning workers contributes to economic development at
home. However, to meet the gap in the availability of skilled workers created
by emigration, the Government is giving the highest priority to the rapid
expansion of vocational/technical education and training, and encouraging
increased female participation in the work force.
23.      The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for formal education
and training which includes primary (grades 1-6), preparatory (grades 7-9),
general and technical secondary (grades 10-12), and post-secondary education
(polytechnics and community colleges). The universities are autonomous and
governed by their own boards which are responsible for establishing general
policy guidelines and determining the number of students to be admitted each
year to the various faculties. Other Ministries, in particular the Ministry
of Health (MOH) and the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), an autonomous
government agency affiliated with the Ministry of Labor, are active in
training related to their fields. The VTC is responsible for the in-plant
apprentice program conducted with the cooperation of employers and for a
skill-upgrading program.
Education Policy
24.      The government's education development strategy aims at ensuring the
availability of a well-educated work force with the skills required for a
rapidly-developing economy. While the Government continues to pursue
vigorously a policy of providing universal basic education, greater stress is
being placed on reorienting education and training to meet manpower needs.
25.      Progress in the overall development of the education system has been
remarkable, especially over the past decade, and major strides have been made
towards the goal of nine years of basic schooling (primary and preparatory
levels) for all children. Gross enrollments at the primary, preparatory and



- 7 -
secondary levels represent a high 97 percent, 76 percent and 44 percent of the
relevant age groups. There are no significant disparities by region or by
sex. Indeed, female enrollments, as a percentage of total enrollments (47
percent at the primary level, 45 percent and 42 percent at the preparatory and
secondary levels, respectively), are among the highest in the Middle East.
26.      The Government has been less successful in meeting its goal of
expanding vocational training. Despite an increase in enrollment of 82
percent in vocational/technical courses over the past five years, this
represents only 12 percent of total secondary enrollment, as against the
government's original target of 30 percent by 1980. The Government now aims
to attain the target level by no later than 1985. To this end, the Government
is: (a) introducing prevocational studies for all students in grades 5-9 to
acquaint them with some of the skills required for future employment; and (b)
further diversifying secondary education. The Government thus plans to con-
vert the secondary schools teaching primarily academic curricula (general
secondary schools) into comprehensive schools and to establish 23 new general
vocational secondary schools. To complement the development of the formal
training system, in-plant apprenticeship and skill-upgrading programs
organized by the VTC in trade training centers will be expanded, with the
objective of increasing the number of trainees from 490 in 1978 to 2,600 in
1982.
27.       The objective of meeting technical manpower needs is being continued
at the post-secondary education level through the development of a newly-
established university at Yarmouk, with special emphasis on science, agricul-
ture, engineering and medical education. With an enrollment target of 20,000
by 1985, a major objective would be to reduce the large number of Jordanian
youths going abroad to study. At the same time, the Government proposes to
convert all existing teacher training institutes into community colleges
(which will continue to include teacher training) and to establish a third
polytechnic in the south, to complement the two polytechnics established in
the central and northern regions under the Bank Group's First and Second
Education Projects.
28.      Additionally, more effective action is planned to address the
education and training needs of the estimated 30 percent of the population
over 12 years of age classified as illiterate, and to provide continuing
education for literate adults. The MOE is encouraging adults and out-of-
school youths to attend classes that cover in four years the content of the
primary curriculum adapted to adult learning needs. Although enrollment in
literacy classes has steadily increased from 3,200 in 1969/70 to 11,000 in
1979/80, about 340,000 illiterate adults have yet to be reached. The intro-
duction of adult education programs in the comprehensive secondary schools and
community colleges is expected to play a major role in the developTment of this
type of education.
Issues Related to the Education Sector
29.       Teachers and Facilities.  The rapid expansion of primary and prepara-
tory schooling has brought with it some qualitative problems. In meeting
demands for such schooling, the Government has had to resort to rented accom-



-8-
modations and underqualified teachers. About 55 percent of the classrooms in
public schools are rented, and almost all are in poor condition.   The Govern-
ment is currently undertaking a school-location study which would identify the
schools most urgently in need of replacement. The new Five-Year Plan proposes
the construction of about 270 school buildings, of which 120 are to be in
villages. Poor maintenance of buildings further hampers school opera- tions,
and is particularly acute in rural areas. Maintenance of rural schools will
be improved through the use of mobile building maintenance units, financed
under the Bank's Third Education Project.
30.      To meet the demand for primary and preparatory teachers, the
Government doubled the number of teacher training institutes over the past
five years. The output of trained teachers for grades one through nine now
roughly matches demand. However, extensive in-service training is required
and underway to upgrade the about 32 percent of teachers in grades one through
nine who are underqualified by government standards, i.e., who have not com-
pleted two years of post-secondary training. In addition, shortages are being
experienced in the supply of certain general subject teachers, particularly
mathematics, science and English, and there is a need for about 120 male
teachers annually for the practical subjects which have been introduced into
the curricula of grades five through nine. The teacher training institutes,
to be converted into community colleges under the proposed project (while
continuing to offer their regular teacher training programs), will address the
needs for general subject teachers. The practical subject teachers will be
trained under the Third Education Project.
31.      The supply of general subject secondary school teachers is generally
adequate but nearly 92 percent of the total are unqualified by government
standards, i.e., they do not have a University degree with education as a
minor subject or a degree plus an additional post-graduate year in profession-
al education. The USAID is providing technical assistance for an in-service
training program which would address this problem. The rapid growth in
vocational/technical education at the secondary level has resulted in an
increased demand for vocational/technical teachers, to be met through the
expanded teacher training program at the Marka Polytechnic.
32.      Manpower Needs.  While the expansion of vocational training to meet
manpower needs is the government's highest educational priority, estimates
indicate that further significant increases will be necessary in the output of
technical manpower, particularly at the post-secondary technician level, and
at the skilled and semi-skilled worker level. Despite the investments made
and planned, there will be a large shortfall of technicians, estimated at
around 4,100 by 1986. Within the technician category, a particular concern of
the Government has been for provision of qualified nurses, midwives, and
paramedics required to staff the much-expanded health delivery system. The
MOH operates small, separate training facilities for nurses and paramedical
technicians, but graduated only 50 nurses and 32 technicians in 1979, far less
than those required. In addition, there will continue to be a major shortage
of trained skilled and semi-skilled workers. To meet this need, the Govern-
ment plans to increase the number of secondary level vocational graduates to
about 6,900 by 1986, through the establishment of 23 additional general
vocational secondary schools (including four under the proposed project) and



-9-
to expand the apprenticeship scheme through the VTC's trade training centers
(one included in the proposed project). Even with the proposed programs, by
1986 the estimated shortfall of skilled and semi-skilled workers (industrial,
commercial, and other) is estimated at about 8,500 per year. While a short-
fall is also projected in the output of science/engineering-based university
graduates in 1986, the situation would be remedied quickly if the development
of Yarmouk University proceeds as planned.
Educational Finance
33.      Between 1975 and 1979, the recurrent cost of public education under
the MOE increased at the rate of 11.6 percent per annum in real terms, com-
pared to a 7.5 percent yearly increase in enrollment. The share of education-
al expenditure stabilized at around 11 percent of total public recurrent
expenditure during 1975-79, whereas the share of capital expenditure on
education in the total capital expenditure of the Government decreased from
2.9 percent in 1975 to 1.5 percent in 1979 due to the MOE's heavy reliance on
renting school buildings rather than constructing new facilities. Based on
projected enrollment increases, recurrent expenditures in education in
1980-1985 are estimated to increase by 6.2 percent per annum to a total of
about $157 million or 8.8 percent of total public recurrent expenditure in
1985. The required capital expenditure to achieve the increased enrollment
target (assuming that 50 percent of the schools would operate on a double
shift) would amount to an average of $27 million per annum, and would reach
about 6.2 percent of total projected capital expenditures in 1985, compared
with 1.5 percent in 1979. By 1985, total recurrent and capital expenditures
for education would amount to $184 million (in 1979 prices), which represents
about 4.7 percent of the projected GNP and 10.2 percent of the government
budget. The Government can be expected to sustain this expanded level of
expenditure, in view of the high priority attached to education.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
34.      Bank Group lending to education (two credits and one loan) has been
consistent with the Government's objectives in addressing the urgent need for
manpower development and the qualitative improvement of education. Through
its three projects, the Bank Group has supported the Government in its efforts
to improve the relevancy and cost effectiveness of the educational system.
The Bank Group has supported educational reform in secondary, post-secondary
and non-formal education. It has also aided in the formulation of new
curricula, and in the establishment of new institutions. The first project
(Credit 285 of 1972 for $5.4 million) introduced diversified secondary
education, post-secondary technician training, new forms of trade training
(including the Vocational Training Corporation), agricultural teacher
training, and expanded teacher training for grades one through nine.
Technical assistance was provided for institutional support, curricula
development and teacher training. The Project Performance Audit Report (No.
2494) noted the catalytic effect of the project in many areas, including
educational planning, and concluded that the project was justified and
worthwhile. The lessons learned from the project have been or are being
adopted, including improved procurement procedures, better coordination of
technical assistance, more effective scheduling of required inputs and timing
of implementation, and more extended training in management and administration.



- 10 -
35.      The second project (Credit 534 of 1975 for $6 million) continued the
emphasis on meeting manpower needs through the financing of a polytechnic,
three comprehensive secondary schools, extensions (workshops and laboratories)
to 16 preparatory and secondary schools, a trade training complex, a hotel
training school, and appropriate technical assistance. It also included the
financing of a rural development center, to support rural development projects
in the Jordan Valley. Implementation of this project is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and it is expected to be completed as scheduled.
36.      The third project (Loan 1781 of 1979 for $19 million) further
supported expansion of vocational training, and financed five comprehensive
secondary schools, one pre-vocational teacher training institute, one
secondary agricultural school, one community college, one trade training
center and eight mobile building maintenance units. The project also provided
support to strengthen the planning and management capability of the MOE by
providing a research and evaluation mechanism and a computerized management
information system to be used as tools for planning and modern management.
Technical assistance related to the project institutions and for project
management support has been funded by the UNDP and the Bank has acted as
Executing Agency. Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfac-
torily. However, disbursements are lagging because there was a delay in the
start-up of a management information system, which was programmed as the first
component to disburse under the project. The consultants, establishing this
system, are now out in the field and disbursements are now expected to
accelerate.
37.      The proposed project would continue the major emphasis placed by the
Bank Group's first three education projects and would include components to
train health manpower and to expand the apprenticeship training scheme.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
38.      The proposed project was prepared by the Government following a Bank
project identification mission in September 1979 and a subsequent Bank
preparation assistance mission in September 1980. The project was appraised
in January/February 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. September
21 to 25, 1981. The Jordanian delegation was led by Dr. Hanna Odeh, President
of the National Planning Council. A staff appraisal report entitled "Fourth
Education Project - Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan" (No. 3564-JO) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
loan and project are given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of
this Report and in Annex III. A map showing the project sites is attached.
Project Objectives
39.      The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in training
skilled manpower urgently needed for implementing the economic development
plan. The 1981-85 Plan calls for the construction of three new polytechnics
of which one would be provided by the project; conversion of two teacher



- II -
training institutes into community colleges, both of which are included in the
project, construction of 23 general vocational secondary schools (proposed
enrollment, 20,000) of which four are included in the project (enrollment,
about 5,000 or 25 percent of the total), and one each technical teacher
training department and health technician training institute, both of which
would be provided by the project. The Plan also includes a network of seven
trade training centers of which one is provided by the project. The project
also strengthens curriculum development in vocational/technical training and
improves the cost effectiveness of education by providing for multiple use of
the buildings. The project would help; (a) reduce the shortage of skilled
workers; (b) ensure an adequate supply of vocational subject teachers at the
secondary school level; (c) meet the need for technicians in southern Jordan;
(d) provide increased general and occupational education in trade and commerce
in two growing urban centers; and (e) reduce the shortage of qualified
paramedical, nursing and midwifery personnel required by basic health care
programs.
Project Description
40.      The proposed project consists of:  (a) construction of a polytechnic
at Tafilah in southern Jordan, four general vocational secondary schools, one
trade training center and one nursing/paramedical integrated training insti-
tute, (b) extension of the Marka Polytechnic through the establishment of a
new Technical Teacher Training Department and conversion of the Teacher
Training Institutes at Salt and Howwara into community colleges, (c) provision
of furniture and equipment for the institutions listed in (a) and (b), and (d)
technical assistance related to the above, and for reviews of curricula and
program development for comprehensive secondary schools and the Marka Poly-
technic technician training program. The project institutions would provide
about 8,400 new training places and upgrade about 500 existing training
places. They would add 750 technicians, 300 technical teachers, 2,430 crafts-
men/skilled workers, and 285 graduates trained in nursing and paramedical work
annually.
41.      Tafilah Polytechnic.  The main objective of the new polytechnic at
Tafilah, near the southern tip of the Dead Sea, would be to offer training for
technicians and skilled workers required for the industrial and mining
development of the southern region; it would complement the training of tech-
nicians and skilled workers in the other two Bank-financed polytechnics at
Marka near Amman in the central region, completed in 1979, and at Irbid,
nearing completion in the northern region.
42.      The polytechnic would offer two-year post-secondary technician
training (grades 13-14) in electrical, chemical, mechanical specializations
and in mining and welldrilling. A two-year trade training program (grades
10-11) in electricity, welding and sheet metal, diesel mechanics, general
mechanics, and a combined program in central heating and plumbing would also
be offered in the polytechnic. The technician curricula would be the same as
at the Marka Polytechnic, which are acceptable to the Bank. The technician
and trade training programs would enroll about 300 and 200 students, respec-
tively. The new polytechnic, with a capacity of 500 new student places, would
produce approximately 150 technicians and 100 skilled workers each year.
Employment prospects for these graduates are excellent.



- 12 -
43.      Laboratories and workshops would be shared by both the technician and
the trade training programs, which would lead to efficiency of equipment and
space utilization. The operation of the polytechnic is expected to require 25
theory instructors with university degrees (mainly in engineering) and 30
laboratory and workshop instructors with diploma qualifications. No diffi-
culty is expected in recruiting the required instructors, since the engineer-
ing degree program is being expanded at Yarmouk University and the technical
teacher training program would be expanded at the Marka Polytechnic under the
proposed project. The component also includes 141 man-months of fellowships
abroad for theory teachers, laboratory instructors, and workshop instructors
to develop skills in the practical applications of their technical specializa-
tions and in appropriate teaching methodology. The Government has agreed that
the Ministry of Education (MOE) will (a) extend the existing tracer system to
the graduates of the polytechnic, as well as to the technical teacher training
department of the Marka Polytechnic, the community colleges and the general
vocational secondary schools (see below) in order to analyze job placement and
performance and (b) send the results of the tracer studies to the Bank for
five years following the first output from the institutions (Section 4.03 (a)
and (d) of the Loan Agreement).
44.      Technical Teacher Training Department of the Marka Polytechnic.  The
proposed extension of the Marka Polytechnic would increase the output and
improve the quality of the technical teacher training program (grades 13-15)
at this institute which has a large, high-quality technician program, and
which is the only institute in the country equipped to train secondary voca-
tional subject teachers. The Polytechnic's existing facilities would be used
for the expanded teacher training which would increase efficiency of space and
equipment utilization. The proposed technical teacher training curriculum
would consist of technician and teacher training courses combined into a
three-year program. Graduates of the program would be fully certified both as
technicians and as vocational subject teachers. The Marka Polytechnic is
under the MOE.
45.      A total of 900 students would be enrolled in the three-year curricu-
lum with an annual intake of 300. The students in the technical teacher
training program are financially supported by the Government and have an
obligation to serve the Government for six years on completion of the train-
ing. The curriculum for the proposed teacher training program is being
developed by a group of local experts and should be approved by the Board of
Education by the end of 1981. The proposed curriculum content is satisfactory
to the Bank.
46.      An additional sixteen instructors are expected to be needed for the
proposed technical teacher training program. The instructional staff would be
university graduates and would be available from institutions within Jordan,
although some teachers would be sent abroad for training in their specializa-
tions. Financing would be provided for 75 man-months of fellowships abroad for
methods and media specialists and theory instructors to upgrade their skills
as technical teachers.



- 13 -
47.      Community Colleges.  This component would help finance additional
specialized classrooms and laboratories, furniture, equipment and related
technical assistance to convert the teacher training institutes of Salt
(population to be served: 152,000) and of Howwara (population to be served:
612,000) into community colleges of the MOE. Programs would be developed to
meet the needs of the two communities for vocational training in secretarial
and office-management skills, accounting, nutrition, laboratory technician-
ship, architectural drawing, civil engineering technicianship and surveying.
The college would provide a program for continuing education for adults. The
formal technician programs would be of two-year duration (grades 13-14) while
non-formal programs would be of varying duration. The colleges would achieve
cost economies through the provision of common courses and the sharing of
accommodations and trainers between the trainee technicians and the student
teachers.
48.      The college of Salt would enroll about 580 technical students, of
whom about two-thirds are expected to be women, in addition to the existing
enrollment of student teachers.   The college of Howwara would enroll about
700 technical students, of whom about one-third are expected to be women. In
addition, an initial enrollment of about 200 adults in continuing education in
each college is anticipated during any given course period. About 275 and 325
diploma holders would be produced each year by the Salt and Howwara colleges,
respectively. Preliminary curricula have been prepared by local experts and
would be reviewed by experts to be provided under the project. No difficulty
is expected in recruiting the estimated 70 full-time technical teachers and
the full-time equivalent of 15 teachers for the evening courses required to
operate the colleges. The present teaching and administrative staff of the
Salt and Howwara teacher training institutes will continue to provide teacher
training courses in the new college.
49.      Because the community college concept is new in Jordan, technical
assistance would be provided. Experts in technical education, community
college administration and continuing education would assist the newly-
established community college directorate of the MOE (27 man-months). About
120 man-months of fellowships would be provided for administrators and
technical teachers preparing them to upgrade others in their fields. In view
of the community orientation of the two colleges and the emphasis being placed
on developing appropriate continuing education for adults, the Government
would no later than six months before the opening of the colleges, (a)
establish in each college an advisory committee, including prominent local
citizens, and a Department of Continuing Education under a full-time head, (b)
prepare detailed continuing education programs for each community college to
be reviewed by the Bank, and (c) forward to the Bank for review and comments,
a proposal for a system designed to evaluate the effectiveness of the commu-
nity colleges (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
50.      General Vocational Secondary Schools.  The proposed schools, part of
the MOE, would combine programs currently provided in separate secondary
schools and in two-year trade training centers. These vocational schools
would offer three-year vocational training (grades 10-12), two-year trade
training (grades 10-1l), and non-formal adult education. The principal
difference between two-year and three-year programs is that the latter



- 14 -
requires approximately three times more program hours in general education.
The proposed approach would allow for improved and more efficient administra-
tion, instructional services and intensive use of equipment and space. Two of
these institutes would be for girls (Rusayfah and Amman) and two for boys
(Rusayfah and Ajloun).
51.      At full capacity, the proposed girls' schools would enroll about
1,930 students and would graduate annually about 710 students. The boys'
schools would enroll about 3,000 students and graduate annually about 1,120
students. The expected output from the schools combined with that of other
existing vocational programs, would still leave the country with an annual
shortage of about 8,500 skilled workers. The curricula for the schools, which
have been worked out in detail and are acceptable to the Bank, are expected to
be approved by the Board of Education by the end of 1981.
52.      Approximately 195 teachers (70 for general and 125 for practical
subjects) would be required when the proposed schools become fully operation-
al. These would comprise experienced teachers reassigned from existing
schools, university graduates (administrators and science and humanities
teachers), and newly-trained teachers from the technical teacher training
program of the Marka Polytechnic and from the community college teacher
training program. The project includes 228 man-months of fellowships to
assist teaching staff in updating and upgrading their technical and teaching
skills for improved teaching performance.
53.      Trade Training Center.  The proposed center at Ein El-Basha, a suburb
of Amman, would be the seventh of a network of centers being established by
the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) to upgrade the skill levels of the
labor force in public and private enterprises through in-plant training for
employed persons and to provide apprenticeship training for youths. The
proposed center would train: (a) preparatory school leavers who do not have
the option of continuing to the secondary level, mainly because of inadequate
academic preparation, and (b) workers of any age, including the self-employed,
who need skill upgrading. The center would serve an industrial area where
factories and shops have already been established by 90 enterprises with at
least 60 more in the planning stages. The center would serve about 600
trainees per year, of whom approximately 500 would be adults in short courses
and seminars for skill upgrading, while the remaining 100 would be youths in
the apprenticeship program.
54.      Training centers are administered and operated by the Vocational
Training Corporation, a governmental agency with a Board of Directors chaired
by the Minister of Labor. The VTC, through its training centers, works
directly with industry and does not duplicate the work done in secondary
vocational institutions under the MOE. The VTC maintains strong ties with the
MOE and cooperates with this Ministry in the identification of skill levels,
setting performance standards, and developing curricula, instructional
materials and textbooks.
55.      Operation of the proposed training center is expected to require a
total of nine general subject teachers and 46 technical instructors. No
difficulty is expected in recruitment in view of the ready availability of



- 15 -
well-qualified general subject teachers in the Amman area. Needs for techni-
cal teachers would be met through the proposed technical teacher training
program at the Marka Polytechnic. To analyze job placement and performance of
the graduates of the training center, the VTC would establish and operate a
tracer system, with the results of the studies to be sent to the Bank for five
years following the first output from the center (Section 4.03 (b) and (d) of
the Loan Agreement).
56.       Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute (NPITI).  To
alleviate the shortage of health technicians, nurses and midwives, particu-
larly in the northern and eastern regions of the country, and to improve the
quality of training, the project provides for the construction, furnishing and
equipping of a new NPITI at Irbid. Total enrollment at the NPITI would be 700
(about 50 percent women) and the anticipated annual output of 285 (155 health
technicians, 100 nurses and 30 midwives) would meet most of the estimated
demand for health technicians, nurses and midwives in those regions, and 57
percent and 65 percent respectively, of the country's needs. The Institute
would offer a two-year post-secondary health technician training program and a
three-year post-secondary nursing and physiotherapy programs. The curricula
have been prepared and are acceptable to the Bank.
57.      Approximately 30 full-time and 60 part-time instructors and teachers
are expected to be required for full operation of the institute. They would
be recruited either from graduates of the institute after training abroad or
from medical and science faculties of the two universities in Jordan following
upgrading courses. The recruitment of both students and full-time qualified
staff should present no difficulty due to the attractive location of the
institute at Irbid, the second largest city of the country, appropriate
stipends for students and improved salaries and career prospects for
graduates. Health staff must have permission from the Ministry of Health
(MOH) in order to leave the country and, to induce them to stay in Jordan, a
special monthly allowance is given after four years of service which is
doubled after eight years. To ease student boarding problems and to assist in
the recruitment of senior staff, boarding facilities for 360 girls and staff
housing accommodations for 15 teachers would be provided.
58.       To assist the institute in the detailed development and application
of the specializations, upgrading staff quality and improving management, the
proposed project would provide: (a) 27 man-months of consultants' services
for new specializations for health technicians and nurses, for in-service
training in management and health planning, and for equipment maintenance; and
(b) 53 man-months of fellowships for managers and senior instructors in
various specializations to study abroad. The MOH would establish a tracer
system to analyze job placement and performance of the graduates of the
institute, with the results of the tracer studies to be sent annually to the
Bank for five years following the first output from the NPITI (Section 4.03
(c) and (d) of the Loan Agreement).
59.       Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance to be provided under the
project totals 711 man-months. Of these, 671 -- 54 man-months of specialists'
services and 617 man-months of fellowships -- are directly related to the
above physical components of the project and are discussed in connection with



- 16 -
each component. In addition, the proposed project includes: (a) four man-
months of specialists' services to assist principals, teachers and MOE
officials with the continuing reviews of curricula and development of compre-
hensive schools assisted under the previous three Bank Group-financed educa-
tion projects and 30 man-months of fellowships for two principals and six
senior teachers and MOE officials to study the operation of schools abroad and
assess and apply the lessons learned; and (b) six man-months of specialists'
services to assist the Marka Polytechnic in the areas of curriculum develop-
ment, program planning, and management and instructional methodology for the
specializations of electrical, mechanical and construction technology.
Implementation
60.      The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established in the MOE to
execute the first three education projects and responsible to the Minister of
Education, would also be responsible for the implementation of the MOE
components of this project. The Unit has been recently strengthened by the
appointment of a second assistant director and five additional technical
personnel. The PIU is an operating department in the Ministry and it is
expected that it will eventually be merged with the MOE's Buildings Department
to be in charge of all school construction. Except for the Bank-financed
projects, school construction is at present handled by the Ministry of Public
Works. The trade training center and the NPITI would be implemented by the
VTC and MOH, respectively. Both the VTC and MOH have already designated key
staff (a project coordinator, an architect/engineer, an accountant and a
procurement specialist) to manage their components. Because of their
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, the PIU is prepared to assist the VTC and
MOH with implementation as necessary. The PIU maintains separate project
accounts for the Bank-financed projects and will do so for the proposed
project. Accounts for the previous education projects have been kept in an
orderly, systematic fashion and recommendations for awards, copies of
contracts and withdrawal applications sent to the Bank in a timely and
complete manner. It is expected that these methods will continue under the
proposed project. The VTC and MOH will also establish separate accounts for
items financed under the project. Project accounts would be audited annually
by the Audit Bureau of the Government, and the audits would be sent to the
Bank within eight months of the end of each fiscal year.
Project Costs and Financing
61.      The total project cost is estimated at about $50.9 million, of which
$27.3 million is foreign exchange. Cost estimates exclude import duties and
taxes.  The Government is exempt from payment of duties and taxes on goods it
imports for its own use. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10
percent for civil works, furniture, equipment and professional services and 5
percent for technical assistance. Prices are expected to increase during the
project implementation period by average annual rates of 8 percent for civil
works, 8.3 percent for furniture, 8.4 percent for equipment, 8.2 percent for
professional services, and 7.4 percent for technical assistance. Based on the
experience of the first three projects, these estimates assume that all
professional services contracts, and about 50 percent of civil works and
furniture contracts will be awarded to local firms and that all equipment will
be directly imported.



- 17 -
62.      The proposed Bank loan of $25 million would finance the equivalent of
the full foreign exchange cost of civil works, furniture and equipment. The
loan represents about 92 percent of foreign exchange costs and 49 percent of
total project costs. The balance of the foreign exchange costs ($2.3 million
for the technical assistance component) would be financed by a grant. The
Government has advised that it intends to obtain the financing from the United
Nations Development Programme and has agreed that it will provide the Bank
with detailed arrangements, including financing for the implementation of the
technical assistance component, by December 31, 1982 (Section 3.02 of the Loan
Agreement). The Government would finance the local costs of the project
amounting to $23.6 million or 46 percent of total project costs. In line with
recent experience, technical assistance costs have been estimated on the basis
of: (a) average man-month costs of about $8,600 for experts (consisting of
fees and per diem allowances) and about $2,240 for fellowships, and (b)
average travel costs to and from home office or study base abroad of about
$1,200 per person.
Recurrent Costs of Project
63.      When fully operational in 1988/89, the project institutions are
estimated to require about $4 million annually in incremental recurrent costs,
adding about 0.2 percent to the projected public recurrent expenditure on
education for that year.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.      Civil works contracts (amounting to about $32 million including
contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB). It is anticipated that, due to the continuing heavy demands on
the local construction industry, only about one-half of the civil works
contracts will be awarded to local construction companies with the other half
to foreign construction companies active in the Middle East. Equipment and
furniture items (amounting to about $13 million including contingencies) would
be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to permit bulk procurement
under ICB. Contracts for furniture and equipment in excess of $100,000 would
be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for ICB. Small items or
groups of items, estimated to cost less than the above figure, or items of a
specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured
under normal government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank and
would include, to the extent possible, quotations from at least three manu-
facturers or suppliers; the total value of furniture and equipment so procured
would not exceed $1.3 million equivalent which would represent about 10
percent of the estimated furniture and equipment costs including contingen-
cies. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of prefer-
ence equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing
imports or 15 percent of the CIF price, whichever is lower.
65.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against 34 percent of expendi-
tures for civil works, 100 percent for directly-imported furniture and
equipment and for the ex-factory price of locally-manufactured furniture and
equipment, 85 percent for furniture and equipment procured locally off-the-
shelf, and 100 percent for professional services.



- 18 -
Project Benefits
66.      The proposed project would make a significant contribution towards
expanding and improving the quality of technician and skilled worker
training. Under the proposed project, regional balance in technician training
would be achieved with the establishment of a polytechnic in the south which
would complement the two polytechnics located in the northern and central
regions. The country's capacity to train health technicians and nursing
manpower would also be significantly expanded, and the proposed NPITI (about
50 percent women) at Irbid would be able to meet fully the estimated needs for
nursing and health technicians in the northern region. The provision for the
nursing and health technicians, who would be aided by rural health workers
being trained under bilateral assistance, would also improve the quality of
health care, particularly for the less affluent. The program of continuing
education initiated under the Third Education Project would be further
expanded through the two proposed community colleges (48 percent women), which
would train teachers and technicians. Training of teachers and technicians in
the same institution is expected to be cost-effective, and administrative
services and interaction among the various types of trainees would be
improved. Finally, the proposed general vocational secondary schools (about
40 percent women) and the trade training center would produce well-trained
skilled workers and would give the self-employed opportunities to upgrade
their skills.
Risks
67.      The project presents no special risks.  Although the MOH and the VTC
have never worked with the Bank, both have already designated key implementa-
tion staff, who will be assisted by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
under the MOE. The MOE has strengthened its PIU with additional staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separ-
ately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By: E. Stern
Attachments
November 23, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGCS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /
TOTAL             97.7                                                    MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      14.7                                MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    ..          ,.   1180.0/d                865.5                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     197.0       285.5     552.1                 758.3                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 1695.0       2299.0   3126.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 42.7        49.6      55.6                 45.2                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       5.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        13.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       17.3        23.5      32.0                  36.3                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    133.0       165.0    205.0                 442.7                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.4        45.8      46.6                  44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         51.5        51.0      50.7                 52.4                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.1         3.1       2.7                   3.4                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0       3.4                  2.7                      2.4
URBAN                              5.2/c       4.5       4.7                   4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.5         47.5      44.9                 41.5                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.7        15.3       9.8                  12.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.5       3.4                  2.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-O00)         220.0        80.0      75.0                 96.3                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                   92.1        67.0      62.0                110.4                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          57.4        40.0      41.0                 73.4                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.8        11.0      11.0                  17.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.5        17.4      10.3                  14.9                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.2         54.6      61.0                 55.9                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)            86.0      97.0/d                 ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             21.3          ..      61.0/d               59.4                     65.7
URBAN                             48.6          ..      66.071               83.9                     79.7
RURAL                              2.1          ..      50.07                40.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     59.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ,.                   ..                     75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5804.7      3775.0   1956.4                4174.5                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1650.0      1477.5    821.0                1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            557.0      1351.5    1186.8                647.4                    471.2
URBAN                               ..      1097.6    688.1                 547.2                    558.0
RURAL                               ..      5543.6        ..               3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        36.5      45.7                 25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.3         6.1       6.7/d
URBAN                              5.5          ..
RURAL                              5.1          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..       6.5/d
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             17.0          ..      66.0/d
URBAN                             39.2          ..      90.0/d
RURAL                              1.4          ..      30.07.



ANNEX I
-20 -                                                         Page 2 of 6
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACG
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT         NORTU AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN ANERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENRULLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 77.0         72.0/d   102.1Ld                85.1                     101.7
MALE                  94.0        79.0/d   103.1/d                101.5                    103.0
FEMALE                59.0        63.0jJd   101.0/d                67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 25.0         33.0Ld    73.7*]4               38.0                      35.3
MALE                  36.0        41.0Ld    78.8L4.e               48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                13.0        24.0/d    68.OA,*                28.3                     35.6
VOCATIUNAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   3.0           3.0/d    12.0/d                 11.3                     30.1
PUPLL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0         39.0Ld    32.3/d                34.9                      29.6
SECUNDARY                          21.0         23.0Ld    21.Ojd                23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         32.0          ..       70.0                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTIUN
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
PUPULATION                          4.0          6.7      19.6                  18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         37.8        160.9     183.3                 121.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER TIHUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         20.0      56.8                  37.4                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND PUPULATION                  18.0         24.4      29.3                   35.9                     62.8
LINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           0.9       4.8                    3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TuTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       432.3        569.0     745.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    5.0          5.6       6.4                  10.3                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              43.9         34.0      21.2                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 26.3          9.0      18.5                  27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATIuN RATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                                 25.5        24.7      23.8                   26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 46.7         45.5       43.6                  47.0                     49.0
FEYALE                                2.7          2.8       3.1                    5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.9         2.0        2.1                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT UF PRIVATE INCOFM
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HIOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOUWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     230.0                 271.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..     100.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTLATED RELAIIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USO PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                ..           ..     206.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..     135.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      14.0                  22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..      17.0                  29.2
Not available
.Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   Ihe group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Ucless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betweea 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1952-61;  Ld East Bank only;  /e Includes preparatory education ages 12-14 years.
May, 1981



- 21 -                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
i0m;  A11Ll     CbMdt.-  4-- fow  --oooo  ..-coy J"dmo  Sb. oto  oo0ooco                            It .1*o.± .1001. .1. 1.  Codso  t10t t    -, WC b. 001w
015100011  -oW-abll b..oo, of t0.10 oo  of t-odordUd. 4.1l.1oUio   -d  .oot±o m.od by d±lffomC toow±L0o 10 collotOo  t10 4.1.. TM  0.U 000 0old
±b0.ooo. oo.f.1 U do.ootb. ocd.0. of  ooIood.. iLodoS. ±ohoo. -d CM10t001.01-.±0000       osllt411±m.  bt.mo  -=10..
110 Tof'.. poop. ot0 (1) OA. -     Uftl? scow of t1.  .bjoot CoMorY h   (2) .oo-So  310±9 01t1 -.0-0t kitob. 000.0 0000. tho U.0 C- , ..09
of tI. h]J.t - - -y (mop  1. for "10.1 Ocoplo OU bpo.c" oop Ob-c 'U4d1o 100.. 100b A0101..04 00i44. 1o.t±  i.  0.- bo-o.  01000.
*001-aaCor.1 011.10100).  I. t1. -froo00  stoop 40±  t........   00 Ppm901000 0010100  OcIth...L.   -        o f..ol ido.4otoo  -d A-  -0.17
wjitl lt  tf ±. --LOolo. 1. 0 Sr"o h.. d..c..boSh. LdOl-"o. 01.0. tb. osccOb of  -=L-00  0.00 the 1d041oC.  dopo49.     -  ±1. _.0.1.11111   of 40
L0   . -C -1.1.0.  0-t1- mow. b. o     . 0..000   -± t 001±1. .010,00  00 L00.Oo-C t. -ChM0. T1.0.00-        l 0.1? 0.01J.1 00 0 or.0 t00 .01.00
LA       (AA0A0.4 .9._d                                                                Po.0..01. V00 0000L0  1   - tou.1  -10. . 011 .. 0.901.l.. toolol
To±.L  T .0.ol.bo  .1.  "n.10o booO 0100 C.4 i010.d o         .                        oc..  04coo) dilto4. by Shloc  -0050    m01 of b."I00a b0d
a4344j- gni1.1.0 of  looISo.l otoo -.0  Umomti1.y Sc pot0motly                   o0011b10 L. 0.1110 -d 00rl0±  9-0.0.  Cod .9001.1.4 10.911.1 -04c
0000t0-0. -otbo  .04 11.0010  SC4."" 00±  1. fuolo. 1973 d.c..            1."11toxul. 000100. 30.91±01  50 0.±0b1iOdSo P..-Swa  01.1004
by 0. 3.ot ow p17.011.. UCA.bll.dmS  po.o1g pc.01-Lp1, Cow±-
GM P=   azu  M) - g   PMt 0.t10  oot1..c-  C± soooo  m00  bo.L-o. 0.1'.            d±0  C0oU otoo .0 00.14d. 10ooI mvl±..1. b.o.0.o. I-0104 10.101
c4ot.4 bY omo,  -0*           -11.4  U 00.14A lok AL1.0  (1977-79 b.01.); 1940.        -  m04 004.-0    - 00000.  p.0. tly1 U1.110  by . plbolol.  (boo by 0
1970, 04 1979 Coco.                                                                    00400  00010±00±, .010.  W.1f0 . t±0.) olIo  off..  0-pt.±c ooo--
"t±1.  -o pos-Ado . 1100.04oo 0 . o  -A1.0  f.0111S0... 0.0000±t0
laT               In1    Aom - "ooL ooo.WVtl- .0 CoMMC.i.     -W    (-I.                 ±1.00 porpo.., .00b- boo.1.  0.0104  oft  wtlooip.Io.00.1Co 100,100..
04.1.001±t.. 0.0.1km.  -.1 go0-4 h,4-.. -.1-  ad .040t0±1000  .L-                      o04 ,oroL hmi.0141I0.I -0 0.-01 1.01t.L. -1  -d10-1 004 m.1o1t
±0.1±7).00 11.0010 of -0.  .00±0100t pr 00911. 190. 1970. .04 1979                     1.00000.  1000±011.041.0±1.1.000  0001040  0-11 0.40  tot0..
d".c.40o±0oo   M.o Le 10  - To±01 -.0  gf "M0.00. t.0  41om000
Co.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bo AM,1.0.  "4. b o0 gnof100
A .0  ZofJly 1; 1940, 1970. -1 1979           mp
d0oc..d.b±0uo..1.11  ow  ow my1 00±t Co"o,"La±  of "Uc                               004 t1011 -10  owL.. A b..c.  0- 1040.1 ow 0- ow  --±  . I-Io0d404
"-S oo±o0.; 1940. 1970. "0 1979 4.CA.                                                ±1. boombo14 1f1 010ttt±00a  .ptoow.
0000±. 0001100                                                                 00100   .0of00! 000. e         0. - ±0±0  .041  41 rlve1 - A0.-M06.w
90001000± ±0 101O209     1=000 I9901±1- 9030±.0.0   0.4        10011  fpo.. 000  1.011.boo".04o.1.. 0-09I" oOoo.01.
1.0.0  P0901.01. by .ho  ow 00-4 t1010 -00111±  00  f.,±111±7 tot.0.               400011.0. -0p9000±001. D-Uo.111.rmoot000..0~0.00  0±t,±010,
L-0 111. WooSowT 01 bOr    oaoth1.0.0. 01±1 0001' 0101.  00                       00.stbo±ll,I               ±o   111.)-,..sb.. ho 000.1-  Mu-
1.001. 41 ffowl. 1110 -.0000.7  w00IUI. 00 77.5 70-1. Th. 9.15-                    =000001  0110    -±0.±±0±              f01000.100g             0±00
-t1.0 1.  1.  111±   1.00..0  0.   L-1. 10..0 00-o  4-011S. 0                of 00±01. 000.  o0±0      b401±8   -.0-t±l0.7.
±00011±  000004I0  ±0 0-o 100104  9001 04.1  9.40 0         001" vot m..
0001 0."0t0  00 ±41  -ob.d  ow .1  m oh... oo. 04000000  of ow0.11y
ISi0hmo0ftluv  1     f-±    0000000.0  90.10001101 0   00± 0.                          U.Ju1ank1tz
.22niom  - 1.  otoximary ppaul" t011=,y .0101 - ±0o01else..41 fol. - Q                                 ~ 0.001  .01. 41 fowL.
t1. 101±1 001. ±00.101.       400±  o.0t   1 0.0±0t0 tooc-c.oU..5.._   os.          owlos.01000   111~1  3.0.01 00 000.±0  of 000.0110
_01.000001000   T11. 1. 0011.4  0017 010.1 fWt±0117 00±0  400110  1.                  wiftry 00.000090.111. opl "00001.---     01.4T    010100 .o b-U
t1. c091otome 1.0.1 .1 -it± ow owoddooCIMCW.          f 0.00 .1..0.1 f0.0.00         TOo. 10±  4juo.±04w d.1f01±010, 1000110 of p0-0.0  04.±0
of      0091.000m 010.1  .000017   7. 0±0±00.0  9o.90.10000 Lo wo                    Co-0,0... 01±1 001±1.1- -41±10        1.. 07 M." 100 p.0--0,
to""00  .01 tb.W." .4 ±1. p0.1t0±04 ±.o. Ct..01oo .f CM pow'ob.0                    01l0.          opl.     M "Lo 005 11000   t1001   n01010  0.0  "P..
I. U1. yo  2000. -1 U. 00-001 4o.110. of fooviLiy 0000 00 00±0'C"Imo-501    00..1.04fw.     ±40  100    .4o
70.100000.10.0.0±  La to"J"04  - Th- Too. mo 000010007 p.polat41                         SooUo"-01   0.0101.0 ±00041  M----O 0.0±m100±0   gm P""
.10                                                                                --Urw0.10.o..1  of 12 ±. 17 Y-.00l0 l  -f 0 -0pool owo, .inw  0 -.01
190  .9.1.0±1.. 000 o9.00  11100.5  (100 1.oo.1o.).                  oo1.. 0.1.05(.oooloh) of                    10.1100.1 1.0t100110
I".1970 41 1919 401..                                                  I-I."1o40101o..0400 *0 001.1 9-00-m 010.0 ±91w.100."
0000. y, 0±501.09  1.4- C'09',04- 01.. 1.0100.00  1ow                           -00.1. 0.0U dop-10.00±  of 000107  0010±1
0.7   901970 004~ joo4±.0o11ooko0±.   .=y  0050..-7±                                                                               dm000  ow1040
Am 10±.o0   ML0o1.. (Pon..± L)  clbL4r.  (0-14 Yo.o)*, oool."p. (15-                p000.07 0.4 00040   001   11.4b   m0   01 ..1.1  1n ±
Ymo.U *     U  (41  .-o  41 050) 00 P0-±00.0o of oh4-yin 0, ± pop00000   100.0..
101..; 19±0. 1970, 41 1979 4000.                                                     M41  1±11 ±003o         ).   - 11t0r01. 4110. (0110± U410 - 00)
OOooo.ol. 000±1 )1.0Jflf~±l    - o     WA -C-0 of 01001044-                  .00p.100±kV ~oft±00  .401± pp.Lt.101          LS 1570.1, 41   0
7000p09.0±0.0  I1     .        (17. o1779
P"~Ctos "1 410"M 1979 400..                                                   0111.07 1011010.
,&,00±l0.4010.04-4ow0  4000     Shoowi 01 044-ool                              ±00000.00   (M. Q1.h  oP.bo.±Oo   - AL1  wp. of .0.1..  .  -04
pop"Atloo, Wnimnmm 917-9 "ta.                                  ~~~~~~bg00400.o t0 90.00  p.110  p.o thoo-d .0 0...0.;owIo.. .0
1000 00004110. 00 A- 4000.000  0 0.0 d4Obtooo C 0-,o01. 1.111.-U"oto 110.04100100  00 .0o.110.4 lo                       w d . T.     d- m u- o f0000..   -M.4
±01071000 "L- 001170 flo.Y      -        di" 0..9.  1 . ± 194.. 1970. .0  1979.      ow   owoO  .10.IIobo 11t00...Us
141.1;12.mlO.-koo±o.o.  -01 (±...O4) - 0M-0   0-00.1 of Um$.c               17  R±ooo     w              w0. L..o±001-- TV o.olo    . bmb0.doo  ±
-f bIvJb-C-co     4 .0000911.0"L   ooO.. 1ho1y p1.md" p.00                      oWtol 9.bli0 04           t p.9.10t1.0± owlodO   atloow0   21 U,000.
041 fw. - lo.- (:.o.o   .1 .0cld            - P .0o.. t.1 of     4               ±0      -ow.10   L.0 00 70.0.04  0000.0100    .1 TV ooo, ow ±0 000001.
mo   o 0ALd.±-DW"lo  o   (1344 ,ow.b 41 o  11101.o..o1.l do11.o  U0             flin.010I0 Al4'04                       d1i      - SWo0t0 L10. .oi-
.11 A.004 -    0         o V0009.                                                    01MP1.0  1'ft f11   .0000  0010000  00000900. 4014d0U 0. p000041.00
00100.0. Coo .004 pns,117 1. -oW". 9-Co mo. It 10 o40004oo
700 MD                                                             t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~± L. 'Wl.7e Lt 1t 00900  01100 lowt  ±1w so . ook.
t0.0010  lo    .0.~ ±1.001p107                        P" (.o     wm.ow            ho41.100
000±0.4 01 .w) 01101 010 "lb11 41 00001 voli"Wo (0.3. 00010 41
t-0 010 dL440). A00-WU01.90041010004  000 .o-4Oy L0.00"4 -
W0Il.000  pm.4.0 P.ioo 001811  1941-41. 1970. 004 1979 de"..                 29biih1mJZ)                        0 117 00100  0.00o. 0014100i
Ooo ±o.100000011  ~       -C0-±04 100                    .0004 fo000 004 0..10704 1.  m141oI  b1oo wl. nodomo. ocC..
0000.0 09.10.1w                            wow00 P-0091                     0.0009 p90001.f  L11 040. 101 001±1.0  1. bOb.. "-e"   01
ow 407  A-"1.11  000911.0 0-010  40000100 p0.4d±1... 109000. ie.                   00g 0-pobI.; 1940. 1970 ho 1979 4".0.
-p0000. 4d ho4.. 00 o00.1 009bo                04.   1- 10o., W.",               X.n.Lsf      owl. lob"1.. f .0                     of.o    .100. 1010  000
-ow. ow  00±0004  7  410d by000016.01 0..  1.1 0000. 0001-                          fLm  U      10.P000000 of C.1 0±1 101  .0 10±5  19. 1970 0.4 1979 40.f.
11±7 -o 1.0101 00001400100 0001-.0c  topoomow, body 0.1040. ow                    14      n 0)-10. bo  0  004,                   o.t C=.0w
ood -  dl0±010t1. of popolo±10. ow  --lol   10 p ..00we.00.000, t0011±                        ml 00000  0000  p000t090 of 1.1.  lob   f.ow-9 1ow.
104 1-41.01  1941-40. 1970. -1 1977 4.-±.                                      1970 ow 1979 d.oo
owWpALMt         lj    y    0±01           fod .0  L. 4041.0  0 ob.0. 0.-           01±1.01  tot00 00 0-M"04 .000.001.               fowl. Iblo  lot.. 
9.010-. f..1som.  ool1    by,gm  p011. f   l.M01                                   Potoot"" 0    tot-L.01  .01. om fowl 9.9001000  .1f  000 M"00- 010.11±
ol .        0 grow of --I. P-Co"o 000 dy -d 29  1.0 wom 1o.-4M  00           1940.,1970. o0d 1979 400..To -           d- 1100001040   0'.0 0000±01p0010  -010
P-Lo. p1,o0.1.. of 01101 1.0 C0.  010.1  1. -0100  p-odsol. rlbo. .p0               -9obl.o±lo  03.00,"  o10..o    .0 01. Pog-ocia±.m  41 1.06 ±1= ±4. A
0.40 00 1.0.  1100 CAd.  o  70  cm- .1 Utos  pV-±000 ho 21 30-0o1f 100   t1.0.00   Eto ow 0.01w   00.0
0.0±  0 "01   f.0oo      ±  0. -wid. P-P-"0 by 000 00  1. VA"4                                 ul" m04.  R."± . of p0.0.0.000 41.1 11 004 is ow
00±14 P0. ±0.9; 101.0.197 04 177  .0.                                              1i.141ho"..
"       114(.0  1-4) 000.110 10±  30140      - A--  4.obh. P-            1.-W                   .   c.0           (01.  .                  l w_00)    4 .1o    by ..-
00   0.9 1-  00 1   1.01100 0±       P.-m000±lt In0mo 4000±0914  00-o              ap.0±0±.  lob.±   00.00±  9.0±  9p0 .                    p.omoo 40 000000,
±01.0 400 "ft100  10.0, ILE. 11100  1944. 1979 ow 1479 4000.                        .0 10.0. owl.
1.9                                                                                  Oh-1.4)   0ow0.0004  wo . 1.1.Opl.  U01  10t7 -9900000.0. 0   f900   .0
MPow..--      . 01 ooto.. 00.-±±100~o    .0       '                        1.00901700    00  00 ±10±= ' 00W t101.o 1..h 1. .0.10
10:0  ofI---toLLT-   to 11.01704900                                                                              4100010.0.0"10  o-food 0.90400-0. 10 ow
000..001- C10 t1000 90W.0000   1...1.1.0. 0F.00   1owsc M001100 L.0                   0   010±Ioo 0000  0.o0 I..  1..9-0             .1  --S. P.- 40.1±.
..01000oJ   of "01.0. 1.-0d0±   WU p0±10.00  10 0.U 00b0  00.0 bobIl myc.-   lcom  of the Com±±7. 0.10. lool 00 4.01,04 11.0 the o.00
OolblbI. 0000.0±1  0997  10±±1     -10  00- bf-00   In ±.1 0.r411               owt 0±1   - oocom± 01r p..1o1. Coot. ow L1 011 ) In 0 00  'Ol
4. ow 1.. .090 0-i.1 40000.0±..00  voo0 04 41 d   1. 00.0100  ±1                     901
f41170. ±00 oo-..
406.j.oo.110o..CA    -   (0poo. f 04 OOOlo - Ctmoot. .of b..-oo0
ow ow±0.oo.1  7 0 P00.100l 070±. 00 ±d br  o. .1  1  p0t0100 ho 0101                                             000.4110.10.9110
0.10ow   ml.       Mm40±  -.00. 00001.1  -Mow, ow .00000000 in00.



- 22-                                                      Annex I
P-age 4 of 6
JORDAN -ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Popul.ation: 2.2 Million (mid- 1980)
GNP Per Capita: US $1,390 (1980)
AmounLt                                   Annual Growth Rates (7%)        -
Indicator                  (million US  at
current prices)                                   Actual                                        Projected
1980 a/                             1976      1977      1978      1979    1D980       1981      1982      1983       1984      15
NATIONAL ACCOUNS                                                  (at constant 1975 prices)                          Cat conatant 1978 prices)
Gross domestic product         2,909                                25.4        2.5     13.0      10.7      10.3         6.4       7. 7      6.5       6.0      5.4
Agriculture                196                                  1.2      -3.0      14.9    .41.9       51.6      -22.0       3.0       4.0        5.0      6.0
Industry                   755                                 22.1       2.6      18.3      18.5      22.5       14.0      11.0       9.0       8.0      7.0
Services                 1,670                                 11.7      -5.3      13.2      14.8      --0.4       7.0       6.0       5.0       4.5      4.0
Consumption                    3,391                                13.1        6.3     12.3      15.5      -0.2         6.2       8.6       6.6      -3.8      5.4
Gross Investment               1,172                                47.6       17.8     -6.6       -1.7       8.1        6.8      -7.5      -3.2     -12.5    -7.2
Exports of GNPS               1,551                                 46.7      21.5      18.2      14.1        8.0        8.5      14.6       9.8      10.6      8.8
Imports of GNPS               3,241                                 39.1      16.0       2.6      12.9       0.0         7.2       4.9      4.3       -9.2      2 .S
Gross Natiotnal Product        3.595                                40.3        1.3       5.3       8.1     10.0         5.5       6.9       6.1       5.7      5.5
Not Factor Income                686                               120.2      -1.8    -15.0       -1.1        8.8        3.2       3.2       4.4       4.2      5.7
Groas National Savings 3-   1,540                                   40.4        8.1    -43.2    102.3        43.3        2 .2    -9.9      -6.3      -15.4      3.8
PRICES
GDP Deflator               --                       100.0    117.5    136.3    145.7    162.5    179.8            --        --        --        -
Exchange Rate              --3.13                               3.01      3.04      3.26      3.33      3.353      -        -          --
Share of GNP at M4arket Prices (E)                           Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                 (at constant prices)
1971       1975       1980       1985                  1971-75    1975-80    1980-85
Gross Domestic Product                95.0       81.9     80.9         83.9                   -0.4       '11.6          6.5
Agriculture                     12.2        7.6       5.5         5.0                    12.0         8.5         0.1
Industry                        13.2       19.4      21.0        26.9                    7.5         16.6         9.6
Services                        59.1       53.0      46.4        39.0                   -0.6          6.5         5.3
Consumption                         113.3      109.4       94.3        92.0                    1.1         9.0          4.2
Gross Investment                     16.2        25.8      32.6        23.9                   12.5        11.5         -5.7
Exports of GNFS                      15.1       35.7      43.2         49.5                   12.8        21.0        10.6
Imports of GNFS                      49.6       88.5      90.1         81.5                    9.4        13.3         1.0
Gross National Product              100.0      100.0    100.0         100.0                    3.0        12.2          6.1
Net Factor Income                      5Q       18.1      19.1         17.1                   35.3        14.6          5.0
BWoaa Nationai Savings                 5.3       31.8     42.8         15.5                   5'7         20.1         -6.8
As % of GNP                            98A
1971                             1975                               18-
PUBLIC FINANCE
Domestic Revenues               18,2                             24.3                               20.9
Current Expenditure~.           30.9                             J/.0                               30.3
Deficit C-)                    -12.7                            -12.7                              -9.4
Capital Expendituis             15.8                             23.3                              17.9
Foreign Financing-"             19.8                             33.5                               22.8
1971-75                 1975480                 1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (2)                        3.0                    12.2                      6.1
GNP Per Capita Growth Rate ()             -0.4                     9.2                      2.6
Energy Consumnption Growth Rate C)         8.0                    16.5                      6.1
ICOR                                       -                       3.2                      6.3
Marginal Savings Rate I/                  -0. R                     0.07                    0.13
Import Elasticity (goods)                                          1.3                       .6
a/ Provisional                                                                                                                      EMENA CP 2C
1/,'Grosa domestic savings and net factor income without foreign grants                                                             October 1981
2/ Including foreign assistance in the form of grants
3/The projected decline during the period 1982-84 is due to the projected leveling off of foreign grants
in current prices after 1981 and the drop after 1983.
4/ -- indicates negative values.



- 23
Annex I
Page 5 of 6
Popul.atito   2. 2 xillion  (nL9.1971
GNp Par Capita: US$t,180 (39798
JORN - ZTm     U  TADE
Amount
Indicator                   (million us$  c )
current prLcow)                           Attual                                       Pro  ietd
e?e */            1975     1976      1977     1978      1979 a/ 1980       1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Annual Growth Rte (7.) (at conetant 1978 price )
Merclhandle  exports                       274.6            -10.4      37.4     27.3       6.6     21.0      15.3      8.8    28.0       14.0     15.5      11.0
PrT.y                                 "16                 15.0      8.2      39.3    -22.5      30.3     15.7       9.4     38.3     16.0      17.S     11.7
Imidacturos                            .110.'          - -13.7     72.1      50.5      4.6      13.9     14.5       7.8      8.0       9.0      9.0      9.0
erehtadiae imperta                       l.91.3               8.9     63.2      16.7      10.3      2.4       7.6      8.3      4.3       3.8      1.4       2.2
F0od                                   360.2             -10.0     91.1    -16.0   . 42.0       -3.6      6.5       3.0     11.8      5.3       5.0       2.4
Petroluo                               246.t             118.4     42.6       8.0      3.8       1.3      1.3       6.4      7.7      6.5       6.0      5.4
Mwchinery and equipmx                  512.1              66.7     44.3      40.1      7.3       2.1      3.3       9.4     -8.6      -3.1   -12.9       -7.4
Others                                 842.6              17.4     72.8      20.2     -3.2       5.5     12.5    10.2        8.7      6.4       5.8      5.3
PIICZS                                                                                  Price  Ind.. CL78-20o5
Export price index                         --                91.5     88.7      91.3    100.0    118.1    129.5    141 3    164l8    l82.6   202.4    22.8
Import price index                         --                85.0     81.8      87.9    100.0    116.7    132.1    144.4    157.8    !70.0   183.4    197.2
Tar. of *oa Lejd"                          --               107.6    108.4    103.9    100.0    101.2       98.0    98.0    104.4    107.4   LtO 3    113.0
COnpositiou of merchandie Trade (7.)                        Average Annual Incresaa  (7.
(at current priscal                                (at  stant 1978 'ric**)
1971      1973       1979      1985                 1971-75       1975-79       1980-85
Export                                          --      -       --         --                     12.8         23.0          16.2
primry                                  59.4      80.0       60.0      52.0                    20.8          4.0         19.5
manufactures                            40.6      20.0       40.0      48.0                    10.0         35.8           8.6
Impats                                     -         --         --        -                       11.4         13.9           3.8
Food                                    30.0      22.1       24.5      17.8                    0.2          lo.a          5.9
Petrola,n                                5.3.    10.6        10.9      19.1                    10.0         15.0          6.5
Mechinary and aaip_nt                   21.1      31.6       27.0      16.2                    31.0          8.5         -5.7
Other                                   43.6      35.7       37.8      46.9                    19.6         18.5           7.2
Share of Trade with                   Shre of Trade with                   Shire of Trade wtth
-~j~,**4j (rr-.MML4.A .tl              DevaloPina Countries (75        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (7.
1971        1975         1978        1971         1975         1978        1971         1975         1978
QZUCSI W Of TRADE V
Expert.                                     1.3         9.7          4.9         44.6        21.5         28.6         41.9        24.4         40.4
Imports                                    56.1        53.7         52.9         18.2        14.9          8.8          6.0        10.3          9.9
1/ ExIudim8 r       _e- tC
V1  zeludiLS cmntrally-plamad countries                                                                                                   AiNA, CP 2C
April 1981



Population: 2.2. million (mid - 1980)                                        - 24                                                                            Annex I
GNP Per Capita:   US$1,390 (1980)                                                                                                                            Page 6 of 6
JORDAN - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions us$ at current price)
Indicator                                                                       Actual                                  _                   Projected
1971      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980a/  1981        1982       1983      1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                          113       585      1000      1203      1437      1819      2470      2387      2930       3449      4748
Of which; Merchandise f.o.b.                        32       153        207       249       296       402       ssi       553       825      1042      1632
Of which:  Workers remittances                      15       166       390       470        520       600       749       728       837       962      1273
Imports of goods and services                         275        956      1326      1714      2064      2877      347       4079      4677      5268       5799
Of which   Merchandise f.o.b.                      213       729      1020      1498      1497      1957       2414      2726      3110      3482      4186
Net transfers                                          102       438       378       504       347      1046      1336      1200      1200       1200       500
Current account balance                               -60         67        52        -7      -280        -7      131       -491      -547      -620      -551
Private direct investment                               -5        20       -10        11        56        20        31        60         72        86       124
MLT loans (net)                                         23        88        71       190       188       193       232       532        622       632       521
Official                                           --         67        66         83       107       143      239        467       629       564       260
Private    1/                                      --         21          5       107        81        50       -7         65        -7        68       260
Other capital                                           37       -30       -66       -10       280         1       -12      --        --        --         --
Changes in reserves                                      5      -145       -47      -186      -244      -213      -584        --
International reserves                                223       492        539       723       967      1180     1764        1744      1764
Of which:  Gold                                     28        33        80         80        81        82      102       --        --        ll6      7764
Reserves as months imports                               9.7       6.2       4.9       5.1       5.6       5.0       6.1        5.2       A.5        4.n     3f6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                                     26       112        90       214       237       270      308
Official grants                                      1        10      --        --           16        20       -_
Concessional loans                                  25        73        82         25       118       151      133
IDA                                               3        10         6         9         6        13         9
Other                                            22        63        76        16       112       138       124
Non-concessional loans                             --         29         8        119       103        99      175
Official export credits                         --          4      --           3          8         2       97
IBRD                                                          --             --        --           4       23
Other multilateral                              __--                         --        --            7       14
Private                                         --         25         8        116       95        86       41
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                                          137       340       410       623       841       104Y     1266
Official                                        137       306       271       469       609       765      993
Private                                         --         34        39       154       232       283      273
Undisbursed debt                                    44       161       274       563       828        881    1237
Debt service
Total service payments                               6        21        27        38         58        96
Interest            2/                            2         7         8        15        24                156
Payments as X exports -                              5.3       3.6       2.7        3.1       4.5       ° .3
Average interest rate on new loans (7.)               --           4.3       2.5       6.0       6.3       5.3      6.8
Average maturity of new loans (years)                  --         26.8      25.6      14.4      17.9      21.4    14.6
Average grace of new loans (years)                     --          6.2       6.6       3.6       5.6       4.7      3.8
As 7 of Debt Outstanding
at end of Most Recent
Year (1 8n)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                    58,9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                  122.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                    6.6
a/ Provisional
1/ Includirg short term  loans from Saudi Arabia                                                                                                               DWSA CP 2C
2/ Exports of goods and services                                                                                                                               April  1981



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
(as of September 30, 1981)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
-------US$ Million-------
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower         Purpose          Bank   IDA/a  Undisbursed
Twelve credits fully disbursed                               60.1
Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan
534     1975         "          Education II               6.0       0.4
639     1975                    Tourism                    6.0        2.8
780     1978                    Water Supply III          14.0       4.1
1617     1978      The Arab
Potash Co.    Potash Extraction 35.0                3.4
1688     1979      Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan     Power III           15.0              5.2
1781     1979         "          Education III       19.0             18.8
1826     1980                    CVDB                10.0             10.0
1893     1980                    Urban Development 21.0              20.3
1986/b   1981                    Power IV            25.0             25.0
TOTAL                                      125.0  86.1       65.0
of which has been repaid                           1.1
Total now held by Bank/IDA a/              100.0  85.0
Total undisbursed                           57.7   7.3       65.0
/a includes exchange adjustments.
/b not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
-------US$ Million------
Year            Obligor          Type of Business       Loan      Equity    Total
1974   Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.              Ceramic Tiles              1.6       0.2        1.8
1975/  Jordan Fertilizer
78/80   Ind. Co.               Phosphatic Fertilizer  70.0 /1    9.0          79.0 /1
1979   Jordan Lime and
Silicate              Building Materials        2.5        0.7        3.2
1979   Jordan Securities       Money & Capital
Corp.                  Market                              0.7        0.7
1980   Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Leasing                             0.3        0.3
Total Commitments                               74.1 /1   10.9        85.0 /1
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                      51.0 /1      -        51.0 /1
Total Commitments now held by IFC               23.1       10.9       34.0
Total Undisbursed                          25.0        0.3       25.3
/1 Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 534: Second Education Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of March 12,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to expand vocational and technical education,
to promote quality improvements in secondary education by replacing unecono-
mically small, rented school buildings and providing schools with adequate
workshops, and to support integrated rural development projects in the Jordan
Valley through a pilot scheme of non-formal basic education. The project
includes construction, furniture and equipment for a polytechnic, three
comprehensive secondary schools, a trade training complex, a hotel training
school, a rural development center and extensions (workshops and laboratories)
to 16 preparatory and secondary schools. Implementation of this project is
proceeding satisfactorily, and it is expected to be completed as scheduled.
Cr. No. 639: Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodations and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well as
the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the Basin.
The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure, archaeologi-
cal preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance. Civil works
contracts are proceeding satisfactorily despite initial delays in contract
award. Procurement of equipment is complete. Bedouin resettlement housing is
under construction and the families are scheduled to move by March 1982.
Disbursements are scheduled to be completed by the Closing Date.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 780:  Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$14.0 Million
Credit of May 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  October 17,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project is part of the on-going 1978-81 program of the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), to expand water supply and sewerage
services in Amman, including those areas where the urban poor reside. The
project consists of the construction of approximately 207 km of water and 225
km of sewerage mains, laterals and house connections, a 4,000 m3 reservoir,
15,000 meters and related equipment, and training. The improved sewerage
services resulting from the project would help to improve sanitation condi-
tions in the city and protect groundwater resources in the Amman area from
pollution. Overall physical implementation of the project is proceeding
satisfactorily, with four of the five project contracts completed and the last
one expected to be finished in mid-1982. AWSA's recently appointed financial
manager, together with USAID-financed technical assistance personnel, is
preparing a work program designed to strengthen AWSA's financial operation.
Loan 1617:    The Arab Potash Project; US$35 Million Loan of October 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1979; Closing Date;
December 31, 1984.
The project is the largest industrial project ($428 million total
cost) ever undertaken in Jordan and is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons of
potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. The project consists of a
solar evaporation and brine transfer system, a harvesting system, a refinery,
infrastructure facilities and an associated township. All the major contracts
for the project have been awarded. The revised capital cost estimates
indicate a seven percent increase due to higher than anticipated cost of the
mechanical works contract and the inclusion of screening and compacting
facilities. Overall project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and
on schedule.
Loan 1688:    Third-Power Project; US$15 Million Loan of May 4, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Third Power Project is an integral part of Jordan's 1979-82 Power
Development Program whose long range objective is to progressively inter-
connect the northern, central and southern regions of Jordan into an economic
and reliable national power system. Specifically, the project would supply
the power needs of the potash complex at Ghor Safi, the phosphate rock mining
works at El Hassa, the cement plant at Rashadiya and rural distribution loads
in Central Jordan. All contracts have been awarded, and physical implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding in accordance with the agreed Project
Implementation Schedule. No significant problems have been observed in the
project's execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1781:    Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 21,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: March 12, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is designed to assist the Government in training skilled
manpower required in implementing the economic development plan, improving the
quality of education and enhancing the Ministry of Education's management
capabilities. The project would expand technician and vocational training,
increase the supply of teachers, improve agricultural education, expand adult
education, upgrade school building maintenance and establish a computerized
management information system in the Ministry of Education. Preparation of
construction bid documents is almost complete with four schools out for bids
and the remaining bids to be invited during the next three months. A contract
has been signed for the hardware and software for the management information
system. Procurement of furniture and equipment is proceeding on schedule, as
is the technical assistance program. Although project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily, disbursements have lagged behind appraisal esti-
mates because of a delay in the start-up of a management information system
which was programmed as the first item to disburse under the project. The
consultants, establishing this system, are now in the field and disbursements
are now expected to accelerate.
Loan 1826:    Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) Project; US$10
Milllon Loan of September 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project would help establish CVDB as a development bank for
municipalities and villages, and provides a line of credit to finance eligible
subprojects over a two year period. It also includes a technical assistance
component to (i) train CVDB staff; (ii) undertake a study of the ways and
means of increasing productive projects in local communities; and (iii)
provide an advisor to assist CVDB's management. Recruitment of staff and
adviser has been completed. Commitments for sub-project financing expected to
begin shortly. -
Loan 1893:    Urban Development Project; US$21 Million Loan of September 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: May 22, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The project includes (a) provision of about 5,000 plots under three
sites and services schemes benefitting about 41,000 persons with low- to
middle-income; (b) upgrading of four low-income settlements in the City of
Amman; (c) small business assistance and manpower training; (d) consultancy
services for project management, design and supervision and studies; and (e)
provision for maintenance services and purchase of equipment. Staffing of the



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
project executing entity is complete. Bids are in for the first sites and
services scheme and the first upgrading settlement, and satisfactory progress
is being made in the procurement of works and goods for all project
components. Project execution is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1986:    Fourth Power Project; US$25 Million Loan of June 22, 1981; Date
of Effectiveness; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The project includes (a) construction of about 160 km of 132-kV
transmission lines; (b) construction of five existing substations, with a
total transformer capacity of 619 MVA; (c) extension of the urban distribution
network, including power supply to three low-cost housing developments; and
(d) electrification of about 20 villages around Amman and 30 villages in the
Central and Southern regions. Procurement has begun and is proceeding satis-
factorily.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare                   Sixteen months
the project:                                       (September 1979
January/February 1981)
(b)  The Agencies which have prepared                   Ministries of Education
the project;                                       and Health, Vocational
Training Corporation
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Bank:                                          September 1979
(d) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project;                              September 1979
(e)  Date of appraisal:                                 January/February 1981
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations;                September 25, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                     April 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(1) The MOE would; (a) extend the existing tracet system to the
graduates of the new polytechnic, the technical teacher training
department of the Marka Polytechnic, the community colleges and
the general vocational secondary schools; and (b) send the results
of the tracer studies to the Bank for five years following the
first output from the institutions (para. 43);
(2) No later than six months before the opening of the community
colleges, the Government would: (a) establish in each college an
advisory committee, including prominent local citizens, and a
Department of Continuing Education under a full-time head; (b)
prepare detailed continuing education programs for each community



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
college to be reviewed by the Bank; and (c) forward to the Bank,
for review and comments, a proposal for a system designed to
evaluate the effectiveness of the community colleges (para. 49);
(3) Th^ VTC would establish and operate a tracer system, with the
results of the studies to be sent to the Bank for five years
following the first output from the trade training center (para.
55);
(4) The MOH would establish a tracer system to analyze job placement
and performance of the graduates of the NPITI, with the results of
the tracer studies to be sent annually to the Bank for five years
following the first output from the Institute (para. 58);
(5) The Government would provide the Bank with detailed arrangements,
including financing, for the implementation of the technical
assistance component of the project by December 31, 1982 (para.
62).



IBRD 15728
Ths aw &s bF. fhSPth d YE BANL                                  f36                                                                                                                   MAY 1981
Fedenoetiaep/ sed th PetO/
boutshoFKYdlarr,izp ~~~ ~~~ Y    R       I A  N1                                           A  R  A    Q B 
tsffFand itS s7FXt s. Fr7F   I                                                                                   /                 |  D~~~~~~~I    A  Q)
5loffigsven4rsdanthotee.ea/5ooF                  if IF                                 R    E    P   U    B    L  I  C                                                         I
or SoeePtseee of sects baomrrshA.  -   U         !
}      rO E#berSa5  ode T,bero
MEI/ERRANIVEAIV
| \ 7a/Vezoh fihR-' ,Eth. 
SEA
,o, u.G'. ..... -__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
TB  . /                                                                                     i 2 \, RoA/ffad b   f  A    U    D    I       A    R  A    B    I A
I S R A E L                                                       ''\
\  t;"   ,%g                             \                                         X                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J O R D) A N9
\ FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
\      .}tr,  ,             iDb                       i -'   \   >                                  \ffi\           ~          ~~~~~~~ Proposed Proiecr Featores:
i.      !  -<       ,      , ft                     g              0     X~~                                       ~      ~    ~~~ \  * ~      errerol  Vocoroonol Serondrory
1;    .A  Co--ty Coilegas
0o~~~~                       inte~~~~grated Tra-o,,g -ntit.to
\OINN                       0    /   _ t  TliTde lTr-rirg Center
N                           ~~~~~~~~~Tecrr calT  . eache  Tr,-  ,g
soo   \  z  /         &                                    X                       ,J\                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deportment
i JI_f  Norionel Copt.l
A  R A  B  \   ! j  /                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.2 -                               0      Molor GOtes
R E P U B L I C       \                                                                    /       7 am                                                         o  CgrhiFa,
..-  N ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ J,-R.V1.
O      F  E  G Y     P/T                                                                                                                                            0h Mao  Gepod .   Pego
t y                    )ti                    ~~                         ~~~~~~~/  |                                     Desert
Aq.b.                                                                                                                           SJ -- Ursurfocd R.ods
/  v -_._                            tl    ,*/                                       2                                     |   | Rod-olds
jc;zSrZfl7ose9/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ _s , ,  P0 oo~z Rvrs
Of7A/3,r           KILorKrEIO   ,0  20      0 E0Sp 80                               -         toreorroiol .o. do-c
ACTAA        S  A    U  D   I        A    R  A    B  I A                MILRESO           i            0           60
36



