 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14726

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/20/2015

               Country: Congo, Republic of
             Project ID: P106851                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Cg Rep. Health               Project Costs (US$M):                        40                 37.6
                         Sector Services
                         Development
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        40                 37.6
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Population
          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                              05/29/2008
                                                            Closing Date:            05/29/2012         06/30/2014
          Sector(s):      Health (55%); Central government administration (38%); Sub-national government
                          administration (7%)
         Theme(s):        Health system performance (40%); Population and reproductive health (20%); Child health
                          (20%); Malaria (20%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (p. 7) states that “the development objective of the project is to support
    the strengthening of the health system in order to effectively combat the major communicable diseases and
    improve access to quality services for women, children and other vulnerable groups.”

    According to the Loan Agreement of July 18, 2008 (p. 5) the objective of the Project was “to strengthen the
    Recipient's health system in order to enable the Recipient to combat the major communicable diseases
    effectively and improve access to quality services for women, children and other vulnerable groups.”

    This Review will use the PDO in the Loan Agreement as basis for the validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    Component 1: Strengthening the leadership capacities in managing a functioning and decentralized health
    system (appraisal estimate US $ 10.2 million; US$ 4.0 million spent at restructuring ): This component was to
    finance technical assistance for the following sub-components: i) building capacity for leadership and effective
    management of a decentralized health system; ii) strengthening the fiduciary system through assessing the
    financial and procurement systems to identify gaps; and iii) strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) by
    developing a strategy for the health sector to improve the availability and usage of information on all different
    levels. During a March 2012 restructuring, sub-component 1 was partially kept in the new component 1,
    sub-component 2 was dropped, and sub-component 3 was moved to the new component 3.
   Component 2: Institution of an efficient and effective system for managing health sector human resources
   (appraisal estimate US $ 0.8 million; US$ 0.5 million spent at restructuring ): This component was to finance the
   establishment of a Human Resource for Health Directorate in the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) to
   perform human resource management functions. By the time of the March 2012 restructuring, most activities had
   been completed, and remaining activities were kept in the new component 2.

   Component 3: Rehabilitation and equipment of health facilities (appraisal estimate US $ 2.3 million; US$ 4.4
   million spent at restructuring ): This component was to finance technical assistance for the following
   sub-components: i) rehabilitation, maintenance and construction of infrastructure; and ii) standardization and
   maintenance of equipment. During the March 2012 restructuring, sub-components 1 and 2 were moved to the
   new component 2.

   Component 4: Improvement of access to a package of quality essential health services (PSE) (appraisal
   estimate US$ 23.9 million; US$ 7.1 million spent at restructuring ): This component was to finance technical
   assistance for the following sub-components: i) defining and providing a Package of Essential Services (PSE); ii)
   strengthening the procurement and efficient management of essential medicines and medical supplies; iii)
   empowering communities by establishing capacity within the MOHP to coordinate government-community
   partnerships and to strengthen community participation; and iv) promoting equitable access to quality health
   services for all by identifying bottlenecks for access to health care services. During the March 2012 restructuring,
   sub-component 1 was moved to the new component 1, sub-components 2 and 3 were dropped, and
   sub-component 4 was partially moved to component 2. As all activities were dropped or moved to other
   components, the original Component 4 was dropped.

   While the Project Costs and Financing Table of the ICR (p. 35) states that all components were completely
   financed by IDA, the main text of the ICR (pp. 3 and 4) states that each component was financed by IDA and
   counterpart funding. No specific information on counterpart funding by component, however, is provided.

   After the restructuring on March 2, 21012, the new components were defined as follows:

   New Component 1: Access to a package of high priority health services (planned US$ 3.025 million, actual
   costs reported as US $ 11.4 million): This component was to finance the reduction of the three largest health
   challenges in the Congo, malaria, maternal and child mortality and mother to child transmission of HIV/Aids. In
   addition, it also included a Performance Based Financing (PBF) pilot which aimed to improve health service
   delivery in three areas in the country by providing a package of essential
   health services for mothers and children by contracted health facilities. These facilities would receive
   performance bonuses based on the quantity and quality of verified health services performed.

   New Component 2: Support to provision of priority health services (planned US$ 5.045 million, actual costs
   reported as US$ 16.5 million): This component was to finance the renovation of and provision of equipment to
   health facilities , retraining of health workers, the implementation of a biomedical waste management plan in
   facilities in the three PBF areas and the finalization of the analysis of the data collected under the human
   resource management component.

   New Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation and Project Management (planned US$ 3.230 million, actual
   costs reported as US $ 8.1 million): This component was to finance technical assistance to strengthen the
   Government’s ability to track performance in the health sector and to implement the project. Also this component
   financed an assessment of the utilization of bed nets and a study on the health seeking behavior and health
   needs of the indigenous population.

   The ICR (p. 35) lists an actual cost of US$ 4.0 million for Component 4. However, it also reports that US$ 7.1
   million had been spent on Component 4 at restructuring, but there was no fourth component after restructuring. It
   is therefore unclear what the reported US$ 4.0 million figure represents.

   The final actual costs per component listed above are taken from the ICR's Annex 1, "Project Costs and
   Financing" (p. 35), which lists the components after restructuring as parallel to the original components.
   However, given that the components were completely restructured, with some activities shifted among
   components and others cancelled, and one component dropped altogether, the table in Annex 1 cannot possibly
   accurately reflect the actual final amounts by component. Therefore, these actual amounts by component do not
   add up to the actual project costs as stated in section 2d. The project team was unable to clarify these
   discrepancies.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project Cost: The project was estimated to cost US$ 40 million (PAD p. 64). Actual costs by component are
   difficult to assess, given the information provided in the ICR and by the project team, as described in Section 2c.
   The appraisal estimate included physical and price contingencies of US$ 2.8 million. The difference between
   total appraised and actual costs is due to US$/XDR exchange rate fluctuations.

   Financing: According to the operations portal, the project was financed by a US$ 40 million IDA grant of which
   US$ 37.6 million was disbursed.

   Borrower Contributions : The borrower’s planned contribution of US$ 300,000 each year did not materialize.

   Dates:

        On March 2, 2012 the project was restructured to make modifications to the project components as
         described in Section 2c. In addition, the Results Framework was simplified, and the number of indicators
         was reduced from 37 to 16.
        On December 17, 2013 the project was restructured to reallocate funds between components and extend
         the closing date from May 29, 2012 to June 6, 2014.
        On February 20, 2014 the project was restructured to reallocate funds between components.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High: Congo faced significant health-related challenges at the time of project preparation. In 2006, infant
   mortality ratio was 75 deaths per 1,000 live births, and the maternal mortality ratio was 78 deaths per 100,000
   live births. Also, 55% of outpatient consultations at hospitals were due to malaria. New infectious diseases such
   as Ebola and hemorrhagic fevers were also emerging. The objectives were in line with Congo’s National Health
   Strategy, which identified several key challenges including high levels of malnutrition, gaps in leadership and
   organization of the sector at all levels, lack of accountability, inappropriate management of human resources,
   poor quality of services, poor infrastructure and maintenance, weak M&E, and weak regional and district health
   systems without community participation. The objectives were also in line with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note
   in 2007 which, among other areas, aimed to improve access to basic social services, improve the social
   environment and integration of vulnerable groups, and combat HIV/AIDS. The objectives were also relevant to
   the Country Partnership Strategies for 2010-2012 and 2012-2016, which highlight strengthening the delivery of
   basic services.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The project's components were appropriate for addressing many of the health challenges the country
   was facing. These components included activities that aimed to improve the stewardship of the health sector and
   the availability and quality of essential health services, while also focusing on the decentralization of
   decision-making. However, there were weaknesses in the causal relationships between some planned
   interventions and the project's objectives, with the underlying assumptions about how these project activities
   would lead to intended outcomes not logical or properly laid out. Even though addressing major communicable
   diseases was an essential part of the PDO, only a very small number of planned activities for this area were in
   place (and those addressed only malaria). Furthermore, the original project design was very complex for an
   environment with such limited capacity.

   During the March 2012 restructuring, the design of the project was modified and the focus was moved to more
   high-impact activities such as the development of a Performance-Based Financing pilot, the renovation and
   equipping of health facilities, and the development of a M&E framework. Also, the establishment of a Project
   Implementation Unit was a critical adjustment to the project design to address challenges related to weak
   administration. The relevance of design improved with the changes to the components. On balance, relevance of
   design is rated Modest.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Strengthen the health system to combat the major communicable diseases effectively : Substantial

   Outputs
        700,000 insecticide-treated bed nets were distributed, surpassing the target of 440,000.
        Several surveys were conducted, including two household health surveys (surpassing the original target of
         one survey), two health facility surveys (surpassing the original target of one survey), and a survey on the
         health status of indigenous people (achieving the target).
        An endline survey was conducted to assess the use of bed nets. This indicator was added during the
         restructuring. Originally it was planned to conduct two surveys in six departments.
        Capacity was built within the MOHP in Financial Management and Procurement. However, no new national
         strategy for operational research was developed, and the planned three research studies were not
         conducted due to budgetary deficits.
        93% of payments were made to Performance-Based Financing Facilities, surpassing the target of 90%.
        Capacity was built for treatment and care of HIV/AIDS at the health district level.
        Integrated prevention and treatment activities for HIV/AIDS were included in the minimum package of
         services in the integrated health centers.
        The management of tuberculosis through Directly Observed Treatment, Short-Course (DOTS) was included
         in 80% of health centers that deliver the essential package of services.
        The treatment and care of HIV /TB co-infections, including multi-drug resistant tuberculosis, was introduced.


    Outcomes

        Over 11,000 people were tested for HIV in the districts of Niari, Pool and Plateaux, surpassing the target of
         10,700 people.
        Over 3,500 people in three different districts received HIV/AIDS treatment, surpassing the target of 2,216
         people.
        80.9% of children under five years of age were sleeping under insecticide-treated bed nets, surpassing the
         target of 60%.
        The indicator for HIV-infected pregnant women receiving antiretroviral treatment (ART) was not achieved.
         Only 9.7% of the original target value for women was reached.
        The ICR does not provide any outcome data related to tuberculosis or HIV/TB co-infection.


    Strengthen the health system to improve access to quality services for women , children and other vulnerable
    groups: Substantial

    Outputs

        32 health facilities were renovated and equipped, reaching the target.
        A package of essential health services was designed and implemented. Standards and guidelines for
         implementation of this package were adopted.
        Capacity was built at integrated health centers to implement the strategy for Integrated Management of
         Childhood Illnesses.
        A strategic framework was adopted to control cervical and breast cancer.
        Children under five years of age had 0.625 outpatient consultations per capita per year, surpassing the
         target of 0.2 visits per capita per year.

    Outcomes

        By project closure, 73% of children were fully immunized for Diphtheria, Hepatitis B and Hemovirus, s
         urpassing the target of 70%.
        78% of children received a dose of Vitamin A, surpassing the target of 70%.
        93.6% of births were attended by skilled staff, surpassing the target of 90%.
        Although the PAD (p. 10) defined the poor and pygmies as other vulnerable groups (as specified in the
         objectives), no outcomes are provided related to these groups.
        The Impact Evaluation for the departments where the Performance-Based Financing initiative was
         implemented showed the following outcomes:
              - Positive effects were found for the utilization of health services, including prenatal and post-natal
              consultations and family planning services after HIV testing and receiving of test results.
              - Performance-Based Financing had a positive effect on perceived quality of overall care, increased
              provision of drugs, improved hygiene of facilities, and improved reception attitudes by health workers.

5. Efficiency:

    Modest
   The PAD included an extensive Cost-Benefit analysis, based on the assumption that the project would save
   Congo US$ 650 million (assuming an exchange rate of CFA450= US$1) in health spending between 2008 and
   2013 for avoiding or delaying the treatment for diseases addressed in the package of essential health services.
   The calculation estimated a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$ 11,894.241 which indicated that the project would
   be a good investment with benefits outweighing the costs.

   The ICR did not conduct a Cost-Benefit Analysis, but it instead presented the results of the Impact Evaluation.
   Through Performance-Based Financing, US$ 1,8383,259 was paid in subsidies to health facilities and district and
   department health teams to cover a target population of 767,215 over a 16-month period. This translates into a
   subsidy of US$ 1.64 per capita per year directly paid to health facilities. Compared to the annual 1.7% of total
   GDP, or US$ 39 per capita, of overall government spending on health (National Health Accounts 2009-2010), the
   Performance Based Financing approach is very efficient.

   The ICR cites literature on efficient high-impact interventions such as the mass distribution of insecticide-treated
   bed nets (ICR p. 44). However, the financial analysis in the ICR does not cover all project activities, instead
   mainly focusing on the Performance-Based Financing initiative. Significant delays in project implementation due
   to weak capacity, high staff turnover, and lack of clarity in roles and responsibilities were indicative of
   inefficiencies in the use of the project's financial resources (see Section 9b).


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of objectives is rated High. Relevance of design is rated Modest, as the underlying assumptions
   about how some planned project activities would lead to intended outcomes were not logical and properly laid
   out. Achievement of both objectives is rated Substantial. Efficiency is rated Modest, as delays in project
   implementation were indicative of inefficiencies in the use of the project's financial resources. Taken together,
   these ratings are indicative of moderate shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and
   therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   This project is being followed by a Bank project that will scale up the Performance-Based Financing Pilot to a
   national level. The Government is committed to the objectives and plans to contribute US$ 100 million to the new
   project. However, the new Bank operation will require a high level of technical capacity and significant
   implementation support by the MOHP. This was already a challenge in the implementation of this project, when
   the government initiated several reforms but then suddenly dropped them. Therefore, the risk to development
   outcome is significant due to still-existing weak stewardship, challenging administrative decentralization, weak
   capacity for managing large projects, lack of understanding of the Performance-Based Financing approach, and
   bottlenecks impacting regular flows of funds.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project was based on the Bank’s experience in health sector activities in the Republic of Congo and
   comprehensive health sector reforms in other countries in the Africa region. It took three months longer than
   anticipated for the project to become effective due to delays in the fulfillment of the four conditions for
   effectiveness that were critical to jump start project implementation. The conditions included the
   establishment of a procurement unit within the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Welfare (MSASF), the
   establishment of a financial management system within the MSASF, the adoption of new organizational
   structures for the MSASF, and satisfactory adoption of the project implementation manual.

   The Bank identified relevant risk factors during preparation, but mitigation efforts were not sufficiently robust.
   Lack of government ownership, weak leadership, weak capacity for project management, administrative
   bottlenecks at the central level of the ministry, and insufficient human, material and financial resources led to
   significant delays during the first phase of the project. Implementation did not start until 19 months after
   board approval. There were also several significant shortcomings in the M&E design (see Section 10).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Despite significant delays during effectiveness and implementation in the early stage of the project, the first
   four Implementation Status Reports rated the project “satisfactory” for Development Objectives and Im
   plementation Progress. Issues were not raised for management’s attention until December 2009. During the
   Mid-Term Review in April 2011, several challenges were identified, including delays in implementation, slow
   disbursement, weak M&E capacity, and lack of essential data, inventory of public facilities, and package of
   essential services. According to the 2012 restructuring Project Paper (page 1), only 3 % of IDA grant was
   disbursed after 3 years of implementation. The restructuring was based on lessons from the implementation
   of the last three years and introduced high impact activities (versus small tasks/activities) to achieve the
   project’s development objectives. Even though the Bank team and the government decided to restructure the
   project to address those challenges, it took over nine months to do so, only three months before the original
   closing date. The restructuring led to a substantial performance improvement.

   Before the Mid-Term Review, no data were collected for 24 of the original 37 indicators due to lack of reliable
   data. M&E-related activities were not being implemented due to weak capacity. After the Mid-Term Review,
   the M&E performance rating improved due to the addition of a M&E component and the hiring of an M&E
   expert. On balance, supervision is rated Moderately Satisfactory.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government’s ownership of the project was limited, and its dialogue and coordination with development
   partners was insufficient. Project implementation faced several challenges due to the following reasons: i)
   the role of project coordination being held by the Minister of Health and Population, who did not have time to
   perform daily management tasks; ii) lack of leadership and clear roles among key government stakeholders at
   the central level; iii) a poorly functioning steering committee; iv) reforms being started but not completed; and
   v) lack of central-level support. Fiduciary and M&E arrangements were not adequate due to high turnover of
   staff and limited training of key personnel.

   The expected financial contribution to the project by the government of US$ 300,000 per year was not
   provided, and this led to the cancellation of several project activities. The ICR does not comment on why the
   government did not make the expected contribution.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The Central-Level Ministry was responsible for project coordination before the restructuring in March 2012.
    The Minister of Health and Population was the official coordinator of the project and was supposed to be
    responsible for managing daily project activities. However, given the Minister's lack of time for these tasks,
    this arrangement did not work out and led to delays in project implementation. The project also encountered
    delays due to weak capacity, high staff turnover, and lack of clarity in roles and responsibilities. Data for M&E
    were not collected due to the lack of reliable information, and M&E activities were not implemented due to
    weak capacity.

    After the restructuring in March 2012, the project was no longer managed at the ministerial level but instead
    by a specifically established project coordination unit in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of
    implementation. New staff that were experienced in Bank projects was hired, as well as M&E, fiduciary,
    procurement, and public health specialists. After the restructuring, financial management and procurement
    were consistently rated satisfactory or moderately satisfactory, according to the ICR (p. 33).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The design of M&E was weak. The causal chain between inputs, outputs, and outcomes was not clear. The
   Results Framework in the PAD (p. 45) was very complex and included eight PDO indicators and 37 intermediate
   outcome indicators, some of which were difficult to measure. The proposed data collection methods and analysis
   were unrealistic. The ICR does not comment on whether M&E was institutionally well embedded and had
   sufficient stakeholder ownership.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Before the Mid-Term Review in May 2011 (16 months after project effectiveness), no data was being collected for
   24 of the original 37 indicators due to lack of reliable information. M&E-related activities were not being
   implemented due to weak capacity. During the project restructuring in March 2012, the Results Framework was
   revised. Half of the PDO indicators were dropped, and only 16 intermediate outcome indicators were included. A
   new M&E component was added to improve the government’s ability to monitor its health sector performance.
   The hiring of a M&E expert contributed to the quality and timeliness of M&E data. The ICR does not comment to
   what extent the M&E was owned by different stakeholders and if the M&E function was performed effectively and
   efficiently. Also, the ICR does not comment to what extent the implemented M&E system can be sustained.

c. M&E Utilization:

   Through the strengthening of the M&E system, more data became available, including data from the Health
   Management Information System and routine Performance-Based Financing data. Also, several surveys and an
   Impact Evaluation for the Performance-Based Financing Pilot were conducted. The findings of these M&E
   activities measured project outcomes as opposed to outputs. The ICR does not comment to what extent M&E
   activities informed decision making and if M&E results were communicated to various stakeholders.

   For the period before the restructuring, the M&E quality rating is Negligible. However, during the restructuring a
   strong emphasis was put on M&E. The Results Framework was modified and a specific M&E component was
   added, resulting in an overall Modest rating.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was rated as environmental category B under OP 4.01 due to environmental risks. These risks were
   related to the appropriate management of biomedical waste (collection, sorting, and storage). The restructured
   project included technical assistance to address these risks. A waste management plan was developed;
   however, the ICR does not state whether the plan was implemented in a satisfactory manner and therefore
   whether there was compliance with the environmental safeguard policy of the Bank.

   The project also triggered safeguard policies OP/BP4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) and OP/PB 4.10 (Indigenous
   Peoples). An Environmental and Social Management Framework was developed and found to be adequate. The
   project also conducted a diagnostic assessment of the health status and health needs of indigenous people and
   developed a Resettlement Policy Framework. However, this framework was not implemented since the health
   facilities ended up being rehabilitated without being expanded. Therefore, no resettlement of people took place.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management :

   In the original project design, the Direction of Financial Resources was responsible for all fiduciary aspects of the
   project such as budget, accounting, audit, and disbursements of funds. Its staff did not have any experience in
   the financial management of IDA projects. However, international experts in financial management,
   procurement, and internal audit as well as a financial controller and accountant were hired.

   After the project was restructured, the Project Coordination Unit was made responsible for financial management.
   According to the ICR, the project did not encounter any financial management issues. Staff that were hired were
   experienced in Bank procedures and received additional training in fiduciary procedures and project software.
   Unaudited Interim Financial Reports were submitted on time and were satisfactory. The external auditors issued
   clean audit reports.

   Procurement:

   According to the ICR, procurement plans followed Bank guidelines, were prepared on time, and were
   successfully implemented. The ICR (p. 16) states that in Implementation Status Report Number 11, some
   procurement problems were highlighted, but it does not specify what kind of problems and how they were
   addressed.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Moderately                 Moderately
                            Satisfactory               Satisfactory
        Risk to Development Moderate                   Significant            The risk to development outcome is
                   Outcome:                                                   significant due to still-existing weak
                                                                              stewardship, challenging administrative
                                                                              decentralization, weak capacity for
                                                                              managing large projects, lack of
                                                                              understanding of the
                                                                              Performance-Based Financing
                                                                              approach, and bottlenecks impacting
                                                                              regular flows of funds.
            Bank Performance: Moderately               Moderately
                              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

     The ICR (p. 34) identifies several valuable lessons, including:

    In the case of weak government structures, it is important to conduct an assessment during project preparation
     to identify challenges in institutional capacity so they can be addressed accordingly and ensure that critical
     staffing and structures are in place before the project is presented for Board approval. Lack of readiness at
     entry, weak management capacity, lack of a project coordinator, and high staff turnover led in this case to poor
     project implementation before project restructuring. It is also important that project design is aligned with
     institutional capacity, and that capacity strengthening is integrated in project design.
    Strengthening the Health Management Information System through project activities can lead not only to
     higher quality data for M&E of the project but also to a positive long-term impact on the health system. In this
     case, after the restructuring of the results framework, more emphasis was put on M&E and strengthening the
     health information system by developing annual statistical reports, conducting surveys, and carrying out an
     impact evaluation of the Performance-Based Financing pilot.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


     The ICR includes a large amount of information and a good overview of project implementation. It also provides
     an insightful discussion of implementation issues and useful lessons learned. However, the ICR lacks
     conciseness and is sometimes repetitive. While the ICR is appropriately critical of the pre-restructuring phase, it
     is less so for the post-restructuring phase and does not go into detail on challenges that occurred, such as in
     procurement. The ICR provides useful data in the efficiency section; however, it mainly focuses on the
     Performance-Based Financing pilot which was only implemented in three districts. The ICR conducts a split
     evaluation even though the objectives/targets were not changed. Also, the ICR provides a confusing and
     incomplete presentation of the project's cost and financing data, and it does not indicate whether there was
     compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies. The ICR is therefore rated satisfactory, but only marginally so.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
