        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020076


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P116384                                                 TG- Education For All-FTI Program

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Togo                                                    Education



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-97340                                              01-May-2014                                                              45,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  16-Sep-2010                                           31-Oct-2014

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                       0.00                                                45,000,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                        0.00                                                44,898,450.30

  Actual                                                                    0.00                                                44,898,450.30




 Sector(s)
 Primary education(86%):Public administration- Education(11%):Pre-primary education(2%):Adult literacy/non-formal education(1%)

 Theme(s)
 Education for all(100%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Sheri Lee Bastien                    Judyth L. Twigg                    Joy Behrens                         IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives


        According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 5) and the Grant Agreement (page 7), the objectives of the project were to: (i)
        increase coverage of and retention in basic education, (ii) support improvements in the quality of teaching, and (iii) strengthen
        institutional and community capacity in implementation and management of the project.
        The project objectives remained the same throughout the project period; however, at an April 2014 restructuring some key outcome
        targets were revised. The ICR, and this ICRR, apply a split rating for that reason.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     No



c.   Components


      Component 1: Access and retention (Cost at Appraisal: US$22.6 million; Actual Expenditure: US$23.0 million). Component 1 was
      initially comprised of two sub-components that aimed to promote access and retention.
      Under subcomponent 1.1, the project would support the construction of new classrooms and related facilities in selected urban areas of
      Togo. Under sub-component 1.2, the project would carry out specific development projects consisting of the construction of new
      classrooms and related facilities in select rural areas and would provide grants to eligible school-based management committees.
      Component 1 would apply the new construction strategy developed by the Ministry of Primary, Secondary Education and Literacy
      (MPESA) during the preparation of the ESP4 (Education Sector Plan) and build about 815 new classrooms. The classroom design was
      to be disability-friendly, and these classrooms would be equipped with gender-friendly latrines and water access.

      Component 2: Inputs for Quality (Cost at Appraisal: US$14.7 million; Actual Expenditure: US$13.7 million). Component 2 was initially
      comprised of three sub-components.
      Sub-component 2.1: this component would provide textbooks in core subjects (e.g., Mathematics and Reading) for public and
      community primary schools. Sub-component 2.2: the project was to provide sub-grants to eligible COGEPs (school-based
      management committee or Comite de Gestion des Ecoles Primaires) to fund the following: teaching materials; support to teaching and
      learning; and quality enhancements including pedagogical materials, textbooks, stationery, school building maintenance, and school
      furniture maintenance. Sub-component 2.3: the project was to provide funding for the construction of Regional Teacher Training
      Institutes in each of the Kara, Golfe and Centrale regions of Togo.

      Component 3: Institutional Strengthening (Cost at Appraisal: US$7.7 million; Actual Expenditure: US$7.5 million). Component 3 was
      comprised of two sub-components.
      Sub-component 3.1: the project was to strengthen the school building management capacity and supervision of the MEPSA and of the
      communities. Sub-component 3.2: the project would support capacity building of the MEPSA. The project would provide such support
      by: (i) setting up a learning assessment system; (ii) improving consistency of teachers’ deployment across schools; and (iii) supporting
      the preparation of a credible implementation plan for (a) pre-school; (b) literacy development and (b) school health, nutrition and
      HIV/AIDS.

      Revised components at April 2014 restructuring: Under Component 1, a new sub-component (1.3) - Construction of water points by
      private contractors in selected areas, was added. A fourth sub-component (1.4) was also introduced - Reorganization of primary cycle
      into three sub-cycles, a measure to increase retention in basic education. Under Component 2, the following changes were made:
      development of new curricula and textbooks in Mathematics and Reading was narrowed to focus only on the first grade, with
      introduction on a pilot basis. Two new activities – review of the curricula for pre-school and literacy training and improving teaching
      practices through in-service training for teachers at the primary level – were added. Component 3 remained unchanged.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project cost: The actual project cost was USD $44.2 million. As explained in Annex 1 of the ICR (page 33), of the total grant amount of
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



    US$45 million, US$0.1 million was cancelled. In addition, US$0.7 million remained unspent under the school grants activity as of May 30,
    2015. As these resources remained unspent after the project’s closing date, the Bank has formally requested that the Government return
    these funds to the Global Partnership for Education. This accounts for the different figure presented in the system-generated data sheet
    (US$44.9 million) and the total disbursement figures reported in Annex 1 (US$ 44.2 million). The project team reported that the
    government of Togo has reimbursed 366 277 367 XOF out of 415 950 665 XOF for the unspent funds in the project. Supporting
    documentation from the government has been requested.
    Financing: The project was a sector investment grant and was financed by a US$45 million grant from the Education for All/Fast Track
    Initiative Trust Fund.
    Borrower Contribution: There was no planned or actual borrower contribution.
    Dates:
    April 17, 2014: a Level 2 restructuring was undertaken on the basis of an agreement reached with the Government during the mid-term
    review (MTR) and in response to a formal government request received by the Bank on August 26, 2013. This restructuring included the
    following: (i) an amendment to the project description and some additional activities of project components; (ii) a narrowing of the scope
    of some project-supported activities; (iii) a reallocation of funds from Categories 2 and 3 to Category 1; (iv) revisions to some of the PDO-
    and intermediate-level indicators and their associated end-of-project targets; and (v) an extension of the project closing date by six
    months from May 1, 2014 to October 31, 2014.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Relevance of the project’s objectives is rated High under both the original and revised targets. The objectives were aligned with the
   challenges identified at appraisal and priorities outlined in the Education Sector Plan (ESP) and the education strategy in the Poverty
   Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The objectives also reflected the Government’s focus on quality education and emphasis on community-
   based approaches to development activities. As stated in the ICR (page 17) and the PAD (page 1), the key challenges facing the education
   sector included low completion rates, inequitable access to education, poor quality of education services, and weak institutional capacity to
   manage the education sector.
   At project closure, the objectives continued to be highly relevant and consistent with current strategies, namely: the Interim Strategy Note
   (ISN) (FY2012-2013), which emphasizes accelerating and sustaining economic growth and strengthening policies that promote improved
   coverage, quality and delivery of basic services including education (page 9); the World Bank Africa Region Strategy (Africa's Future and the
   World Bank Support to It); the World Bank Strategy for Education (Learning for All - Investing in People's Knowledge and Skills to Promote
   Development); and the Government's Accelerated Growth and Employment Promotion Strategy (SCAPE) for the period 2013-2017.




   Rating                                                                               Revised Rating
   High                                                                                 High


b. Relevance of Design

   Relevance of the project’s design is rated Substantial under both the original and revised targets. The project design incorporated activities that
   aimed to address both supply and demand factors associated with increasing coverage and retention of primary education, including
   improvements in quality of teaching through increasing availability of teaching material and trained teachers, as well as strengthened
   institutional and community capacity. The activities in each component were clearly linked to its overarching development objectives and the
   main challenges facing the sector at appraisal. One shortcoming in the design logic, however, relates to how the objective to "support quality of
   teaching" was operationalized and translated into action within the project. As stated, the objective seems to rely on an underlying assumption
   that improved availability of teaching materials (including textbooks and trained teachers) could or would lead to improvements in quality of
   teaching, but the connection between these two is not made explicit. In spite of this weakness, overall the project appropriately identified
   outputs and intermediate outcomes that were feasible given the duration of the project and the objectives of the Operation. Outputs were
   logically and plausibly related to achievement of desired outcomes.
   The April 2014 restructuring introduced changes that ensured the prioritization of activities that were critical to the achievement of the PDO.
   The ICR does not present clear information regarding what provisions, if any, were made due to changes associated with restructuring, for
   instance related to the implementation, evaluation, and learning from the piloting of new textbooks in Mathematics and Reading. It is also not
   clear that there was an adequate plan developed and implemented to ensure maintenance of constructed water points, which took place under
   the April 2014 restructuring.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)




       Rating                                                                             Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                        Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Increase coverage and retention in basic education

    Rationale
    Outputs:

        • 996 classrooms were constructed (204 in urban areas and 792 in rural areas), exceeding the original target of 652 and the revised
        target of 915.
        • The ICR does not provide information on the construction of planned water points. which were an integral element of classroom
        construction. However, in response to the draft ICRR, the GP provided the additional information that 80 percent (16 out of the 20) of
        the water points planned under the project were constructed.


    Outcomes:

        • The primary completion rate (PCR) increased from 65% in 2009 to 83.6% in 2014, exceeding both the original target of 74% and the
        revised target of 81%. For girls, the PCR increased from 72.1% in 2013 to 80% in 2014, exceeding the target of 73.5%. 90,200 project
        beneficiaries were female, exceeding the target of 75,000.
        • The primary retention rate increased from 57.1% in 2011 to 66% in 2014, exceeding the target of 62%, with a 2014 rate of 66.1%
        among girls.
        • Over 92% of beneficiary survey respondents were satisfied or very satisfied with the school construction program in their
        communities, exceeding the original target of 70%.


    The outputs and outcomes associated with Objective 1 relate primarily to the project's focus on supporting community-based construction
    in both rural and urban areas. These outputs and outcomes are plausibly connected to increased coverage through improved access and
    retention, as evidenced by improvements in the PCR, though this is also likely due to other factors such as quality improvements in the
    teaching and learning environment.


    Rating
    Substantial




    Revised Objective
    The objective was not revised, but the outcome target for PCR was increased from 74% at appraisal to 81% at the April 2014 restructuring
    to take into account revised population data.

    Revised Rationale
    Substantial achievement under the revised outcome targets.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Support improvements in the quality of teaching

    Rationale
    Outputs:

        • Progress was made on the development of a new primary-level curriculum that employs a competency-based approach, though it is
        reported in the ICR that there were considerable delays in rolling out this activity.
        • 2.9 million textbooks and teachers’ guides in primary-level Reading and Mathematics were purchased and delivered to schools,
        exceeding the target of 1.6 million. New textbooks in Mathematics and Reading for grade 1 were finalized; the ICR reports that the
        piloting of these texts was ongoing at project closing.
        • The textbook: student ratio for Reading increased from 1:2 in 2009 to 1.2:1 in 2014, and for Mathematics increased from 1:2.1 in
        2009 to 1:1 in 2014, exceeding the original targets of 1:1.4 and 1:1.5, respectively.
        • Three Primary Teacher Training Institutes (Ecole Normale d’Instituteurs) were in advanced stages of construction and equipping at
        project closing, with students and staff selected, achieving the target. 3,000 teachers were provided in-service training.
        • The number of school grants delivered to schools in 2011/2012 totaled 3,500. Funding for school grants in 2012/2013 and 2013/2014
        was transferred to the Inspectorate level, but approximately US$700,000 (or 12% of the US$5.7 million allocated to this activity)
        remained unspent at the Inspectorate level. The Bank has requested that the government return the unspent resources to the Global
        Partnership for Education.
        • The government reorganized the primary education system into three sub-cycles and prohibited repetition within each of the sub-
        cycles. According to the ICR, this was an important measure to reduce repetition and to increase the internal efficiency of the education
        system.


    Outcomes:
    Although most output targets were exceeded, the ICR does not provide information on the extent to which these outputs resulted in actual
    improvements in the quality of teaching. This lack of information makes it difficult to undertake a more comprehensive evaluation to
    determine whether intended outcomes, such as improvements in the quality of teaching, were achieved. Quality, when it comes to teaching
    and learning materials, is multidimensional, and requires precise operationalization within a project in order to assess whether the project
    has achieved its intended outcomes. In the absence of information concerning who developed these materials, how they were developed
    and piloted, and what the findings were from the studies (if feasible given the timeline), this ICRR cannot assess the achievement of this
    objective. In addition, there are likely other important factors associated with improved quality of teaching that were not addressed in the
    project. Monitoring of the impact of efforts to improve quality of teaching would have benefitted from tracking teacher retention and
    absenteeism .
    As noted in the ICR, there were challenges associated with the school grants sub-component. However, there is insufficient
    information concerning the national reforms that led to the competency-based approach and the evidence base to support the decision to
    adopt three sub-cycles to reduce repetition and increase internal efficiency. According to the project team, within the project the adoption of
    the three sub-cycles resulted in reduced repetition to 24% in 2010 and to 11% in 2013/14, but the ICR does not include numbers for the
    first cohort or the staff that were recruited.
    In response to the draft ICRR, comments from the GP highlighted additional information related to the impact of the project on the quality of
    teaching. It was noted that the 3000 community teachers ("enseignants volontaires") who received in-service training during the last year of
    the project are currently in the process of being converted to regularized teachers. This upgrading of skills may also have a positive impact
    on the quality of teaching. The comments received also emphasized that since the trainings took place during the last year of the project, it
    was not possible to measure the impact of the training on teaching practices during the project period. An assessment of teacher
    competencies and classroom practices will, however, be carried out under the new project (PERI 2) that is currently under way.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



    Rating
    Modest




    Revised Objective
    Not applicable, as this objective was not revised.

    Revised Rationale
    Not applicable, as this objective was not revised.




    Revised Rating
    Not Rated/Not Applicable

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Strengthen institutional and community capacity in implementation and management of the project

    Rationale
    Outputs:

        • 266 COGEPs were trained in various modules to develop capacity for effective management and implementation of the school
        construction program and the management of textbooks. The project team clarified that the following modules were developed and
        delivered to the school management committees: (i) community organization and communication; (ii) financial management (FM); (iii)
        procurement; (iv) M&E; and (v) maintenance of construction. Approximately two-thirds of the 204 targeted communities completed four
        of the five training modules. Financing agreements related to project supported activities were signed between all COGEPs and the
        relevant Inspectorates.
        • A number of Ministry staff at the central and decentralized levels also benefited from training supported under the project (exact
        number not specified in ICR).
        • Dialogue was held between the Bank and the government concerning the equitable deployment of teachers.
        • A time-bound capacity building plan for MEPSA was rolled out, with skills transfer occurring between the Project Coordination Unit
        (PCU) and Ministry staff in key areas such as financial management, procurement, and civil works management. This plan was 90%
        implemented, surpassing the target of 75%. In addition to specific capacity-building activities, skills transfer was also promoted through
        the project by pairing counterparts with specialists working for the project. A Competency Transfer Plan was finalized to continue to
        guide skills transfer and capacity-building within the Ministry at the central and decentralized levels.
        • By project closing, a national student learning assessment system was established and was fully functional.
        • Plans for Pre-School, Literacy Development, and School Health, Nutrition and HIV/AIDS programs were finalized and validated by
        the government.


    Outcomes:

        • The Teacher Deployment Consistency Index, a measure of the internal efficiency of the education system, improved from 0.55 in
        2009 to 0.73 in 2014, exceeding the target of 0.60.
        • 99.6% of schools were constructed by school-based committees according to standardized school construction guidelines, exceeding
        the target of 80%.



    The outputs and outcomes for this objective are related primarily to the development and implementation of capacity building and training
    initiatives provided by the project. In addition, project outputs under this objective include increased equity in the deployment of teachers, a
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



 national system for student learning assessment, and the development of implementation plans for pre-school, literacy development and
 school health, nutrition and HIV/AIDS. These outputs, in particular the training modules that were developed and delivered to the school
 management committees, the time-bound capacity building plan, and the Competency Transfer Plan, are likely to have contributed to
 strengthened institutional and community capacity to manage the project. The national system for student learning assessment will build
 capacity to monitor and assess student learning, and has clear links to the objective to improve the quality of teaching.


 Rating
 Substantial




 Revised Objective
 Not applicable, as this objective was not revised.

 Revised Rationale
 Not applicable, as this objective was not revised.




 Revised Rating
 Not Rated/Not Applicable




5. Efficiency

The ICR provides the following data on the efficiency of project resources with respect to returns to education and the cost-effectiveness of
school construction and textbooks:

  Returns to Education: The ICR presents Estimated Mincer Wage Coefficients. According to the ICR, the project contributed to increased
  educational access and attainment of beneficiaries. An economic analysis of the returns to education using the Survey on Basic Indicators
  of Well-Being shows that there are positive returns to primary and lower secondary education. The ICR reports that these findings provide
  strong evidence of the economic and social importance of investing in primary education within the Togolese context. These findings also
  support the economic and financial analysis in Annex 9 of the PAD, which indicates that spending distribution by level of education is in line
  with needs in the Togolese context, but that investments in the development of pedagogical material has been insufficient, making the
  project outputs of particular relevance. It is important to bear in mind that these analyses are based on country-level surveys that make
  attribution to the project difficult to ascertain.
  Cost-effectiveness of School Construction and Textbooks:
  School construction. The estimated unit cost for construction of classrooms using the community-based approach was US$110 per square
  meter, compared to US$216 per square meter using a construction management agency (CMA). The CMAs encountered delays in addition
  to cost overruns. However, only about 20% of classroom construction financed by the project was done by the CMA. The majority, using
  the community-based approach at US$110 per square meter, compared favorably with that of Bank-sponsored projects in other countries:
  The Gambia (US$175-$188), Mauritania (US$ 197), and Niger (US$ 220).
Textbook procurement and delivery. The project delivered significantly more textbooks than planned. The actual unit costs of textbooks and
teachers’ guides were lower at US$1.60 and US$3.20, respectively, than the original unit cost estimations of US$3.70 and US$4.00,
respectively. As reported in the ICR, there were challenges with systematic tracking of textbooks; nevertheless, field reports and site
visits indicated that, for the most part, textbooks arrived in schools in a timely manner. There were some instances of project-purchased
textbooks being illegally sold, but the government addressed that situation quickly and effectively.
Cost-Benefit Analysis: The ICR presents a cost-benefit analysis with clearly specified assumptions in order to assess the project’s quantifiable
benefits in the area of access/equity (school construction) and quality. The stated assumptions (ICR, pp. 23-24) include: i) that the NPV and
IRR are at their lowest bound for the impact of the project; ii) a discount rate of 5%; iii) an official exchange rate of 500 FCFA per US$1; iv)
wages and employment levels estimated for various educational levels using data from the 2011 Survey on Basic Indicators of Well Being; v)
that wages change with age over the duration of the benefits with adjustments for inflation; vi) that the difference in wages remains the same
throughout the career of each beneficiary; vii) beneficiaries entering the labor market at age 15; and ix) schools providing services for 40
years. Benefits pertaining to institutional strengthening and capacity building are more difficult to quantify and consequently are not included
in the analysis. The analysis finds (base scenario) a Net Present Value (NPV) for the school construction activities of US$57.8 million with an
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



 IRR of 16% and cost-benefit ratio of 4.75, for the textbook procurement activities of US$ 65.7 million with an IRR of 20% and cost-benefit ratio
 of 6.75, and for the entire project of US$ 123.4 million with an IRR of 18% and cost-benefit ratio of 5.60.
 Implementation efficiency: As noted in the ICR, there were challenges associated with the delivery and execution of the school grants. Initially
 the school grants were to be transferred to the school level; however, the costs of maintaining an account for each school were too high, and
 it was therefore agreed to transfer the school grants to Inspectorates for the financing of activities authorized by the COGEPs. In addition,
 there were delays and relatively high costs for classrooms constructed by the CMA, as well as overall implementation delays for key
 activities.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                            0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

                                                                                                            100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                            18.00
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome


 Relevance of Objectives is rated High under the original and revised targets, as the PDOs were aligned with the challenges identified at
 appraisal and with the priorities outlined in the ESP and the education strategy in the PRSP. Relevance of Design is rated Substantial under
 the original and revised targets, as the project's planned activities were logically and plausibly connected to achievement of intended
 outcomes. Achievement of the objective to increase coverage and retention of basic education is rated Substantial under both the original and
 revised targets, as the primary completion and retention rates exceeded targets for the entire population, and girls’ completion and retention
 increased as well. Achievement of improvement in the quality of teaching is rated Modest, due to lack of information on outcomes and
 challenges related to the school grants. Achievement of strengthening institutional and community capacity is rated Substantial given the
 number of important outputs associated with this objective and evidence of associated outcomes. Efficiency is rated Modest due to
 implementation challenges, delays, and higher than projected costs for some key activities. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of
 moderate shortcomings in the project’s preparation and implementation under both the original and revised targets, and therefore an Outcome
 rating of Moderately Satisfactory.




a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

A large portion of resources available for the education sector in Togo are provided by the various donors operating within the country, including
AFD (French Development Agency or Agence Francaise de Developpement), Islamic Development Bank, World Food Programme, and GPE,
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



among others. As stated in the ICR, the government’s prioritization of the basic education sector is reflected in its allocation to recurrent
expenditures, which are higher than the sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) average, as well the fact that nearly half of the sector budget is devoted to
primary education. A number of activities supported under the project are being continued and/or scaled up under a follow-on project, PERI 2.
The emphasis in the project on capacity-building interventions at various levels within the Ministry and the community also contributes to its
sustainability. Approaches that worked well, such as community-based construction, will be continued in PERI 2, with additional training
provided in areas related to school construction and management of school-level activities. As noted in the ICR, the strong emphasis in the
project on strengthening community-based development increases the likelihood that gains achieved under the project will be sustained and/or
scaled up in the future.
There are, however, important aspects of the context to bear in mind that may impact the risk to development outcomes. For instance,
sustainability at the institutional level is essential, and lack of stability in this regard could pose a risk to the achieved outcomes of the
project. The government’s ability to provide strong and transparent governance as well as maintain a stable medium-term framework is
an additional key consideration. The vulnerability of the Togolese economy to a range of unpredictable external factors must also be considered
as a risk to development outcomes.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     Risks were appropriately identified at appraisal. Close collaboration between the Bank, the Togolese government, and other relevant actors
     ensured that activities undertaken by the project were consistent with the framework of the ESP. The project was also closely aligned with the
     government’s strategic agenda and targeted a number of challenges facing the education sector. The project’s design was informed by
     evidence from similar settings with respect to community-based construction. The design also included an emphasis on sustainability through
     efforts to provide training and skills transfer to strengthen community capacity. Mitigation measures to minimize potential risks identified
     during the project preparation phase, for instance concerning institutional capacity and financial management, are detailed in the operation
     documents, demonstrating that careful thought and planning went into the planning of the project.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Supervision of project activities involved close collaboration between the Bank and the government to provide timely and responsive corrective
     measures when necessary. The ICR notes that there was also an education team member in-country who supported the day-to-day
     management of the operation. The Bank conducted regular supervision missions, and joint annual sector reviews were also completed in order
     to document project achievements, identify bottlenecks and challenges, and take corrective action. One such challenge that arose during the
     project relates to the distribution of textbooks, which was identified and addressed through joint efforts between the Bank and the Togolese
     government. As noted by the ICR, in spite of several strong aspects of the Bank’s supervision, the financial management functions performed
     by both the Bank and the externally recruited auditor were of poor quality, with the Interim Financial Reports (IFR) not including an adequate
     assessment of use of funds at the school level related to school grants. Thus, the financial management system was unable to adequately
     monitor the effective provision and execution of all school grants. The Bank proactively sought to address these issues by undertaking focused
     supervision missions and by raising this issue with the government and Bank management. The ICR also notes that there were delays
     associated with restructuring to narrow the scope and relevance of activities to ensure achievement of the PDO. However, in the later phases
     of the project (extended once for six months), joint efforts by the Bank and the government resulted in completion of project activities by the
     closing date.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



   Moderately Satisfactory



9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  The Togolese government was proactive and demonstrated strong commitment to the sector throughout the duration of the project. The
  government worked closely with the Bank to design the project and provided ongoing support to various stakeholders in the sector involved
  in project activities. When challenges and issues were identified in the course of project implementation, such as delays in construction and
  higher than anticipated costs of construction, the government took steps to strengthen dialogue and to assist in mitigating challenges.
  When anomalies were observed with respect to the distribution of textbooks, the government held relevant individuals accountable. The
  ICR notes that the government also showed its strong commitment to fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities under the project. In response to
  field-level reports of challenges associated with the distribution of school grants to COGEPs, the government commissioned a thorough
  audit to rectify issues identified and to ensure that lessons learned were taken into account in the design of PERI 2.



  Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  Delays in launching project-supported activities, including the provision and delivery of textbooks and urban and rural construction, were
  noted by the ICR, particularly in the early stages of the project. As a result, disbursement was low. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
  worked closely with relevant actors to increase the pace of implementation, for instance by identifying bottlenecks and providing ongoing
  support. Although the Implementing Agency’s performance was generally adequate, staff turnover and shortcomings in its oversight of the
  delivery and execution of school grants at the local level posed challenges. In spite of this, most of the planned outputs and outcomes were
  achieved by the operation’s closing date with only one extension of six months required.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  Pre-restructuring M&E Design:
  The results framework for the project was based on the logical diagnostic tool developed by the World Bank Africa Region. The indicators were
  a sub-set drawn directly from the ESP Monitoring Framework. The framework was overall relevant, appropriately aligned with each of the
  objectives and measurable. However, as acknowledged in the PAD (page 5), the key performance indicators were more output indicators than
  outcome indicators due to the relatively short duration of the project (3 years), which is too short to achieve substantial improvements on the
  majority of relevant outcome indicators, in particular with respect to quality (ie. student learning). As noted previously, a shortcoming in
  the project design relates to a lack of clear operationalization, monitoring and evaluation of the intended outcome of improved quality of
  teaching. Also reported in the PAD (page 12), the criteria used to calculate and verify the level of achievement of a few intermediate-level
  indicators could have been clearer.
  Data sources that were drawn from the design of the project’s results framework and for monitoring progress included: the education
  management information system (EMIS); external evaluations; technical audits and surveys; annual and project progress reports; and education
  statistical yearbooks.
  Post-restructuring M&E Design:
  Under the 2014 restructuring, a number of modifications were introduced to the project’s results framework and M&E arrangements and
  documented in the ICR. Indicators measuring the primary retention rate, the primary completion rate among girls, and the percentage of schools
  constructed by school-based committees were added. An indicator measuring the implementation of the time-bound capacity building plan was
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



   reclassified as an intermediate-level performance measure. Target values were adjusted to take into account newly available population data
   and to account for additional time available while maintaining the ambitious nature of the project. As noted in the ICR, indicators on
   implementation plans were made more specific by committing the project to supporting the finalization of the plans rather than beginning their
   implementation. The revisions were aimed to enable the project to better capture progress on objectives. Annex 10 in the ICR provides a
   detailed overview of the indicators and end-of-project targets over the life of the operation. Monitoring of sub-component 1.3, Construction of
   Water Points by Private Contractors in Selected Areas, however, is not described.
   The PAD noted that the Gender Parity Index in primary education was not included in the results framework, since there would not be direct
   impact from the project on gender, though it was supposed to be monitored as one of the key ESP indicators. The PAD acknowledged that in
   addition, there were numerous potential indirect impacts from the project as a result of building new classrooms in locations where enrollment
   ratios and consequently gender parity indices were the lowest, and also that there was evidence to suggest that building schools with separated
   latrines (as this project did) would have a significant impact on girls’ attendance. In addition, the PAD noted that the school grants could have
   indirect effects on girls’ retention and repetition, because the gender ratio and repetition rate were included in the performance indicators used
   for the calculation of the school grants; however, this was not reported in the ICR. Studies to investigate the impact of the project on girls'
   attendance were not included in the project's M&E plan, nor were efforts to understand the impact of disability friendly classroom design.




b. M&E Implementation
   According to the ICR (page 13), MEPSA’s capacity to collect, analyze, and report on data was limited at project inception. Initial efforts to build
   capacity were insufficient to ensure proper monitoring and evaluation. M&E capacity improved over the life of the project, with the recruitment
   of an M&E specialist and through technical assistance provided by the Bank. As noted previously, a number of the PDO-level indicators were
   drawn from the ESP, and progress was systematically tracked, enabling the project to benefit from this pre-existing mechanism to collect and
   report on data for key outcome indicators.
   During the project, some additional field-level M&E was introduced to track progress, for instance to verify adherence to the construction
   timetable, maintenance of speed of implementation, and identification and addressing of bottlenecks. Additionally, technical reports for the
   civil works activities and capacity-building interventions were produced periodically throughout the project. Further, the project supported the
   establishment of a national student learning assessment system and an evaluation unit within the MEPSA. The findings from these
   assessments were incorporated into the government’s annual assessment of the education sector and have also informed the design of PERI
   2, which became effective on July 2, 2015.
   As the ICR notes, certain activities such as the delivery of textbooks were monitored through field-level missions, rather than through a more
   comprehensive systematic mechanism. While there was M&E at various levels, the entire process did not have a complete M&E system to
   track issues at the school level, a noted shortcoming. In particular with respect to school grants, although the grant amount to be awarded to
   each school was made public and the relevant funding was provided to the Inspectorates, there was no decentralized and formal tracking
   mechanism in place, leading to implementation challenges. It would have been preferable to monitor a larger sample of communities in order
   to have a more accurate understanding as to whether or not there were any systemic issues in the provision and processing of the school
   grants. Further, the ICR notes that the beneficiary survey was carried out too far into the project for the findings to be used to improve
   implementation.




c. M&E Utilization
   The M&E design and utilization were generally sound with a few noted shortcomings; however, the beneficiary survey was not conducted
   sufficiently early on such that corrective measures could be taken, and in addition the delivery and execution of the school grants activity
   could have been more closely monitored and evaluated. The timeframe of the project in general was too short to allow for proper utilization of
   data to improve the operation; however, the findings will be used to inform PERI 2.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as Environmental Category “B” and triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 Involuntary
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



   Resettlement due to the potential negative environmental and social impacts related to the construction of schools. As a result, an
   Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were prepared and disclosed in
   January 2010. As noted by the ICR, efforts were made by the project to ensure adherence with safeguards standards and requirements
   and to strengthen the capacity of relevant actors, as well as increase the availability of tools to assess and address environmental and
   social risks. No significant safeguards issues were identified throughout the course of project implementation. Technical audits and
   supervision missions by the Bank ensured adequate follow up in instances where minor challenges arose. With respect to the need for a
   resettlement action plan (RAP) for one of the identified teacher training sites, the government was requested to provide counterpart funding
   to ensure necessary safeguards measures were used in construction. The ICR reports that some of the challenges were related to
   ensuring necessary studies were undertaken in a timely manner and were comprehensive in their assessment of specific sites and ensuring
   timely response when any issues did arise. Safeguards compliance after restructuring, which involved the construction of latrines and
   water points, was not described in the ICR. The ICR does not state explicitly whether there was compliance with all safeguard policies.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial management (FM): As reported in the ICR, an initial assessment of FM capacity identified limitations that needed to be addressed in
   order to satisfy the World Bank’s minimum requirements under OP/BP10.02. The specific recommendations included: (i) preparation of a
   financial and administrative procedures manual; (ii) recruitment of one FM specialist and one accountant with qualifications and experience
   satisfactory to the World Bank; (iii) the development and implementation of accounting software; and (iv) the recruitment of an external auditor
   with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the World Bank. The FM risk at the time of project appraisal was rated High; however, if the
   proposed measures were adopted it would be considered Substantial. It was also identified that the project required a Public Expenditure
   Tracking Survey (PETS) which would focus on the delivery of textbooks and provision of school grants. Additional capacity-building measures
   were supported under Component 3 of the project.
   The fiduciary aspects of the project were handled by the PCU located within the MEPSA, with a procurement specialist hired as a condition of
   grant effectiveness and an FM specialist and project accountant recruited in adherence with a legal covenant in the Grant Agreement. The ICR
   reports that several actions were undertaken to ensure greater transparency and accountability in the use of project funds, including the hiring of
   key staff and an external auditor, and the use of an acceptable accounting software system. All audits were of unqualified opinion, although
    some were reported to be of poor quality and delayed in their submission. These audits, however, did not provide sufficient data and analysis
   pertaining to the effective delivery of school grants. In addition, staff turnover was reported to be a challenge. The ICR states that unaudited
   interim financial reports (IFRs) should have included a more detailed breakdown of actual expenditures by the various project-supported
   activities.
   One of the main challenges identified in the ICR relates to the school grant mechanism, which did not function properly and reach the intended
   beneficiaries. A field-level mission was undertaken in March 2014 in order to better understand the issue, followed by a government-
   commissioned audit in May 2014 that had been requested by the Bank. The report revealed that only 2.5% of schools were adhering to
   procedures required in the Manual; only three public accounting offices (out of 33) were keeping electronic records related to the grants to track
   expenditures; mid- and senior level management in many cases were not regularly monitoring the delivery and execution of school grants to
   assure that policies, principles and procedure were followed; and the project account was poorly monitored. As described in the ICR, a number
   of concrete actions were proposed and have been agreed to rectify the identified issues. The project team reported that school grants are now
   managed directly by the school-based management committees and that schools have their own bank accounts in order to manage funds.
   Procurement:
   Procurement under the project was reported by the ICR to be timely and effective, although the actual costs were higher than the appraised
   estimates. A more comprehensive account of the use of project funds over time would have been possible if the FM accounting software had
   been fully set up earlier.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
    ---
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



12. Ratings
                                                                                                                    Reason for
Ratings                                      ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                    Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                      Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Risk to Development Outcome                  Modest                              Modest                             ---
Bank Performance                             Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                         Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                                   Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR presents a number of lessons (pages 31-32), including:

     • A community-based approach to construction, while a complex undertaking, can provide a number of important benefits. In this case,
     community-based construction of classrooms proceeded with fewer delays and cost overruns compared to that implemented by a
     construction management agency.
     • Applying a phased approach to development activities can pay high dividends in terms of its development effectiveness and impact. In this
     case, phasing of both community-based construction and training activities permitted learning-by-doing.
     • The establishment of a robust FM system capable of tracking project expenditures at the beneficiary level is most efficiently
     implemented at the design phase of any operation.


In addition, IEG identifies three further lessons:

     • Revisions to a project’s components will allow for appropriate M&E only if they occur sufficiently early in a project's lifecycle. In this project,
     restructuring occurred at a late stage in the project and therefore did not allow for optimal M&E and also necessary changes to safeguards.
      In particular, this project could have included additional output and outcome indicators that would have contributed to increased
     understanding of quality of teaching and teaching materials, as well as how quality factors can be better operationalized in future projects and
     the impact of quality improvements on access and retention.
     • Pilot studies conducted within a project can only inform future project development and policy making if they are rigorously monitored and
     evaluated. In the case of this project, evaluation of the piloting of new textbooks in Mathematics and Reading, as well as curricula for pre-
     school and literacy training and improving teacher practices, should have been carefully evaluated and reported on. This represents a
     missed opportunity for learning.
     • Consistent with experiences from other similar projects, designing an operation closely aligned with the government's ESP and PRSP and
     with strong government ownership and an emphasis on capacity building at all levels is essential to effective implementation and
     sustainability. In the case of this project, the overall design and alignment with government priorities and preferred approaches contributed
     substantially to overall effectiveness and sustainability of the project, as highlighted by the fact that many of the project activities are being
     continued or scaled up under the follow-up project (PERI 2).




14. Assessment Recommended?

No
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       TG- Education For All-FTI Program (P116384)



15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and well written. It provides a candid assessment of project weaknesses and provides useful suggestions for improvement,
in particular with regards to M&E. However, an adequate discussion concerning attribution of observed outcomes to project-financed
interventions is lacking. The quality of the evidence and analysis of the results chain is satisfactory, with some gaps. There is no
documentation available to substantiate compliance with safeguards policies after restructuring.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
