                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003482



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF-97340)

                                   ON A

                               GRANT FROM

   THE EDUCATION FOR ALL-FAST TRACK INITIATIVE CATALYTIC FUND

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45 MILLION


                                  TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF TOGO

                                 FOR AN

    EDUCATION AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT (PERI)




                              October 30, 2015




Education Global Practice
Africa Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective October 19, 2015)

                    Currency Unit = FCFA
                   FCFA 1.00 = US$ 0.00173
                    US$ 1.00 = FCFA 578

                        FISCAL YEAR



            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AeA       Aide et Action (Non-Governmental Organization)
AFD       French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
AfDB      African Development Bank
AGETUR    Contract Management Agency (Agence d’Exécution des Travaux
          Urbains)
AWP       Annual Work Plan
CF        Catalytic Fund
CMA       Contract Management Agency
COGEP     School-based management committee (Comité de Gestion des Ecoles
          Primaires)
CSO       Civil Society Organization
CSR       Country Status Report
DAF       Directorate of Finance (Direction des Affaires Financières)
DANIDA    Danish Cooperation
DEPP      Directorate of Pre-primary and Primary Education
DPEE      Directorate of Education Planning and Evaluation (Direction de la
          Planification de l’Education et de l’Evaluation)
DRE       Regional Education Directorate (Direction Régionale de l’Education)
ECD       Early Childhood Development
EDIL      Community School (Ecole D’Initiative Locale)
EFA-FTI   Education For All - Fast Track Initiative
EMIS      Education Management of Information System
ENI       Primary Teacher Training Institute (Ecole Normale d’Instituteurs)
EPTT      AFD-financed Education project (Education Pour Tous au Togo)
ERGG      Economic Recovery and Governance Grant
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESP       Educator Sector Plan
FGB       Grassroots Management Training (Formation de gestion de base)

                               ii
FM         Financial Management
GA         Grant Agreement
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GMT        Grassroots Management Training
GTZ        German Cooperation
HDI        Human Development Index
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Immune Deficiency
           Syndrome
IDA        International Development Association
IFR        Interim Financial Report
IGF        General Finance Inspectorate (Inspection Générale des Finances)
IDB        Islamic Development Bank
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
ISN        Interim Strategy Note
ISR        Implementation Status Report
LEDG       Local Education Donor Group
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG        Millennium Development Goal
MEPSA      Ministry of Primary, Secondary Education and Literacy (Ministère des
           Enseignements Primaire, Secondaire et de l’Alphabétisation)
MTEF       Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NPV        Net Present Value
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PASEC      CONFEMEN Education System Analysis Program (Programme
           d’Analyse des Systèmes Educatifs de la CONFEMEN)
PCR        Primary Completion Rate
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PDC        Community-Development Project (Projet de Développement
           Communautaire)
PDO        Project Development Objective
PERI       Education and Institutional Strengthening Project (Projet Education et
           Renforcement Institutionnel)
PERI 2     Second Education and Institutional Strengthening Project (Projet
           Education et Renforcement Institutionnel - 2)
QER        Quality Enhancement Review
QUIBB      Survey on Basic Indicators of Well-Being (Questionnaire des
           Indicateurs de Base du Bien-être)
RF         Results Framework
RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
SDI        Service Delivery Indicators
SE         Supervising Entity
SSA        Sub Saharan Africa
STP        Permanent Technical Secretariat (Secrétariat Technique Permanent)
TA         Technical Assistance

                                 iii
TOR              Terms of Reference
UCG              Accounting and Procurement Unit (Unité Comptable et de Gestion)
UNICEF           United Nation Children’s Fund
UPE              Universal Primary Education
WFP              World Food Programme




                          Vice President: Makhtar Diop
         Senior Global Practice Director: Claudia Maria Costin
                      Country Manager: Joelle Dehasse Businger
                       Practice Manager: Peter N. Materu
                   Project Team Leader: Hyacinthe Gbaye
                      ICR Team Leader: Hyacinthe Gbaye



                                      iv
                                  REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                  Education and Institutional Strengthening Project (PERI)



                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 17
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 26
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 27
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 30
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 31
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 32
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 33
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 39
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 46
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 47
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 48
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 49
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 60
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 61
  Annex 10. Indicators under the Project ........................................................................ 62

MAP




                                                             v
                                    DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                          TG- Education For All-
Country:               Togo                     Project Name:             Fast Track Initiative
                                                                          Program
Project ID:            P116384                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-97340
ICR Date:              10/30/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    SIL                      Grantee:                  REPUBLIC OF TOGO
Original Total
                       USD 45.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 44.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 44.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministère de l’Enseignement Primaire, Secondaire et de
l’Alphabétisation (MEPSA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process            Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/11/2009   Effectiveness:           01/24/2011           01/28/2011
Appraisal:             02/17/2010   Restructuring(s):                             04/17/2014
Approval:              09/16/2010   Mid-term Review:         12/10/2012           03/11/2013
                                    Closing:                 05/01/2014           10/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                               vi
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                               Quality at Entry
Project at any time                Yes                                          None
                                               (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                                   No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before              Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:      Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                               1                      1
Pre-primary education                                             2                      2
Primary education                                                 86                   86
Public administration- Education                                  11                   11


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                 100                100

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:                Makhtar Diop                 Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
Country Director:              Ousmane Diagana              Madani M. Tall
Practice Manager/Manager:      Peter Nicolas Materu         Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:           Hyacinthe Gbaye              Matthieu Brossard
ICR Team Leader:               Hyacinthe Gbaye
                               Laura McDonald, Bernardo
ICR Primary Author:
                               da Cruz Vasconcellos


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase coverage of and retention in basic
education; (ii) support improvements in quality of teaching; and (iii) strengthen
institutional and community capacity in implementation and management of the Project.



                                              vii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

Not Applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1:      Increase in Primary Completion Rate
Value
quantitative or             65%                    74%              81%              83.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved             12/31/2009            05/01/2014       10/31/2014        10/31/2014
Comments          Target exceeded. End target was modified under the 2014 restructuring to take
(incl. %          into account revised population data. The end-of-project values are taken from
achievement)      2013/2014 data.
Indicator 2:      Primary Completion Rate, girls
Value
quantitative or            72.1%                  73.5%                              80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved             12/12/2013             10/31/2014                        10/31/2014
Comments          Target exceeded. Indicator added under the restructuring. Baseline taken from
(incl. %          data for SY2012-2013 school year. The end-of-project values are taken from
achievement)      2013/2014 data.
Indicator 3:      Direct Project Beneficiaries (% female)
Value
quantitative or               0                   75,000                        90,200 (48.4%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved             01/26/2011            10/31/2014                         10/31/2014
                  Target exceeded. The date for achievement noted in the PAD is 2013.This
Comments
                  indicator measures the number of beneficiaries from school construction only. A
(incl. %
                  large number of additional individuals benefitted from textbooks and/or school
achievement)
                  grants.
Indicator 4:      Primary retention rate
Value
quantitative or           57.1%                  62%                                 66%
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/2011            10/31/2014                          10/31/2014
Comments        Target exceeded. The date for achievement noted in the PAD is 2013. This
(incl. %        indicator was added under the restructuring. The end-of-project values are taken
achievement) from 2013/2014 data and rate amongst girls was 66.1%.
                Schools constructed by the school-based communities according to the
Indicator 5:
                standardized school construction guidelines under the project (percentage)
Value
                          27.5%                 80.0%                               99.6%
quantitative or

                                                viii
Qualitative)
Date achieved            02/14/2013               10/31/2014                            10/31/2014
Comments
                  Target exceeded. The date for achievement noted in the PAD is 2013. This
(incl. %
                  indicator was added under the restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 6:      Improvement of the Reading Textbooks: Student Ratio in Primary
Value
quantitative or               1:2                     1:1.4                                 1.2:1
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2009               05/01/2014                            10/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded. The end-of-project values are taken from 2013/2014 data.
achievement)
Indicator 7:      Improvement of the Mathematics Textbooks: Student Ratio in Primary
Value
quantitative or              1:2.1                    1:1.5                                  1:1
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2009               05/01/2014                            10/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded. The end-of-project values are taken from 2013/2014 data.
achievement)
                  Time-bound implementation plan to support capacity-building of the
                  communities and of the MEPSA and skills’ transfer from the PCU is approved
Indicator 8:
                  by MEPSA and at least 75 percent of activities each year are successfully
                  implemented.
Value
                        Not Approved               Approved
quantitative or                                                                             90%
                             0%                      75%
Qualitative)
Date achieved             12/31/2009            05/01/2014                           10/31/2014
                  Indicator was revised under restructuring and classified as an intermediate-level
Comments
                  indicator. The 75 percent target would be evaluated by the joint donor
(incl. %
                  supervision mission. The plan includes the indicator on number of communities
achievement)
                  that receive GMT.
*PDO-level Indicators are only specified in the main text and Annex 3 of the PAD (not in the Grant
Agreement)
** Annual targets are specified in Annex 3 of the PAD

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target    Formally         Actual Value
                                                 Values (from      Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target          Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values          Target Years
                  Number of additional classrooms built or rehabilitated at the primary level as a
Indicator 1:
                  result of project intervention
Value
quantitative or                0                        652              915                996
Qualitative)


                                                   ix
Date achieved          12/31/2009               05/01/2014      10/31/2014        10/31/2014
Comments
                Target exceeded. The original end-of-project was expressed as 80% of 815 (or
(incl. %
                652).
achievement)
                Percentage of resources managed by CMA and communities according to agreed
Indicator 2:
                procedures
Value
quantitative or              0                      80%           100%              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved          12/31/2009               05/01/2014      10/31/2014        10/31/2014
Comments
                Target achieved. Resources were first transferred to the CMA and communities
(incl. %
                in 2012.
achievement)
Indicator 3: School building program overall satisfaction of actors and beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or              0                      70%                              92%
Qualitative)
Date achieved          12/31/2009               05/01/2014                        10/31/2014
Comments
                Target exceeded. PAD specified that the Evaluation Instrument will be approved
(incl. %
                in 2011. Survey was postponed given delay in overall school building program.
achievement)
                Actual number of textbooks purchased and delivered to primary school (%
Indicator 4:
                compared to planned number)
Value
quantitative or              0                   1.6 million                 2.9 million or 181%
Qualitative)
Date achieved          12/31/2009               05/01/2014                        10/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target significantly exceeded.
achievement)
                New textbooks in math and reading for the first grade of primary schools is
Indicator 5:
                ready to be introduced on a pilot basis
                                            Draft version of
                                            new textbooks in                 Textbooks in math
Value           New curricula rewritten
                                            math and reading                 and reading have
quantitative or according to competency-
                                            are available for                been finalized; pilot
Qualitative)    based approach
                                            the first grade of               is ongoing
                                            primary school
Date achieved          04/17/2014               10/31/2014                        10/31/2014
Comments
                Target achieved. Initial indicator was “completion of new textbooks in math and
(incl. %
                reading” and was modified under the project restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 6: Percentage of schools benefitting from school grants
Value
quantitative or              0                      83%                          Undetermined
Qualitative)
Date achieved          04/17/2014               10/31/2014                        10/31/2014



                                                x
               Level of achievement cannot be determined given challenges with delivery of
Comments
               school grants under the PERI. Original indicator, “Actual number of schools
(incl. %
               with grant delivered compared to the planned number” (target of 75%) was
achievement)
               revised under restructuring.
Indicator 7:   Number of regional teacher training institutes built and equipped
Value
quantitative or              0                      3                                   3
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/2009            05/01/2014                           10/31/2014
Comments        Target achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of financing agreements signed between Inspectorates and communities
Indicator 8:
                compared to planned number
Value
quantitative or                                    80%            100%               130%
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/2009            05/01/2014       10/31/2014          10/31/2014
Comments        Target exceeded.
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percentage of communities that have been trained on at least 4 out of the 5
Indicator 9:
                modules
Value
quantitative or            65%                    100%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved           04/17/2014            10/31/2014                           10/31/2014
                Target achieved. As of restructuring, 124 of 204 communities had been trained
Comments
                in 4 modules. Original indicator was "number of communities have GMT
(incl. %
                training compared to planned number" (yearly target of 80%). By closing, 266
achievement)
                COGEP had been fully trained.
                Primary school teachers’ deployment consistency index (R2 of the number of
Indicator 10: teachers and of students, calculated on the basis of all public/EDIL primary
                schools)
Value
quantitative or            0.55                    0.60                               0.73
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/2009            05/01/2014                           10/31/2014
Comments        Target exceeded.
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11: System for student learning assessment
Value
quantitative or             No                   Yes, 3                              Yes, 3
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/2009            05/01/2014                           10/31/2014
Comments        Target achieved. This indicator is measured on a Likert scale (0 to 4).
(incl. %

                                             xi
achievement)
Indicator 12:     Completion of ECD implementation plan
Value
                                                Implementation      Plan finalized Plan finalized and
quantitative or              N/A
                                                    Started         and approved       approved
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2009                05/01/2014          10/31/2014     10/31/2014
Comments          Target achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13:     Completion of literacy implementation plan
Value
                                                Implementation      Plan finalized Plan finalized and
quantitative or              N/A
                                                    Started         and approved       approved
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2009                05/01/2014          10/31/2014     10/31/2014
Comments          Target achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Completion of a credible school health, nutrition, and HIV/AIDS
Indicator 14:
                  implementation plan
Value
                                                Implementation      Plan finalized Plan finalized and
quantitative or            N/A
                                                    Started         and approved       approved
Qualitative)
Date achieved          12/31/2009                  05/01/2014          10/31/2014     10/31/2014
Comments        Target achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)
*Intermediate-level indicators are only specified in Annex 3 of the PAD.
**Annual targets are specified in Annex 3 of the PAD.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP                Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1      03/27/2011          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   0.00
  2      11/13/2011      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory            8.20
  3      05/05/2012      Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  14.03
  4      11/01/2012          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  23.90
  5      06/24/2013      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory           23.90
  6      12/30/2013      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory           35.18
  7      06/24/2014      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory           43.45
  8      11/11/2014          Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory           45.00




                                                   xii
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The restructuring: (i) introduced
                                                     an amendment to the
                                                     description of project
                                                     components; (ii) introduced
 04/17/2014               MS    MS         43.45     revisions to some of the PDO-
                                                     and intermediate-level
                                                     indicators; and (iii) extended the
                                                     closing date by 6 months to
                                                     October 31, 2014.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                         xiii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country context

1.      Located in Western Africa in the Gulf of Guinea between Benin and Ghana and
south of Burkina Faso, Togo is among one of the smallest countries on the African
continent. At the time of project appraisal in 2009, Togo had a population of 6.1 million
with an annual population growth rate of approximately 2.6 percent. Up until that period,
Togo had experienced two decades of political instability and more serious crises which
had only ended two years prior. In addition, Togo’s growth performance had been among
the weakest in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), with per capita income declining by an average
of one percent annually since the early 1980s. The gross domestic product (GDP) per
capita was also very low and stood at US$515 and the rate of extreme poverty had increased
in recent years. The country ranked 159 (out of 182) on the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) Human Development Index (HDI) reflecting poor human development
outcomes with a high infant mortality rate, a low life expectancy and a low literacy rate. 1

Sector Context

2.      At the time of project preparation, the education sector had been negatively
impacted by socio-political crises and instability, economic mismanagement and limited
donor support. Togo had made limited progress towards achievement of the education-
related millennium development goals (MDGs) and faced considerable challenges –
including limited access to education, significant gender and geographic disparities in
access to services, poor quality of instruction, an inadequate teaching and learning
environment, and limited institutional capacity.

3.      Access to Education. Access to education services was characterized by significant
gender and geographic disparities. Access to schooling in rural areas was low given the
lack of schools within communities, often requiring children to travel long distances to
school. Further, a large portion of schools were only temporary shelters (abris provisoire
or apatams). Approximately one-third of primary schools and nearly 80 percent of
community schools (écoles d’initiative locale – EDILs) were held in these conditions.
These temporary shelters were highly vulnerable to inclement weather and lacked basic
infrastructure and learning materials. Further, the design/plans for classrooms varied
across development partners (DPs) which made it difficult to ensure cost-effectiveness
while it also hampered technical collaboration and learning. Enrollment among girls in
primary school was also low. In addition to the limited availability of schooling, there was
also fragile public demand. Though the Government had abolished fees for primary and
pre-primary schooling in 2008/2009, relieving some of the financial burden on poor


1
 Infant mortality rate was 62 out of 1,000 live births; average life expectancy was 55 years and illiteracy rate
was 43 percent.

                                                       1
households, the schools were not provided with adequate resources to compensate for this
financial loss.

4.      Poor Quality of Education Services. Education provided was generally of poor
quality and this was reflected in low learning outcomes. The primary completion rate
(PCR) in 2009/2010 was 65 percent, the same rate that it had been almost ten years prior.
Repetition and dropout rates were high. Only 61 percent of new grade 1 entrants completed
the primary cycle compared to an average of 71 percent in the region. The quality of
education was also highly inequitable. The PCR was much higher among boys than girls
(76 percent compared to 61 percent) and significantly higher in urban areas than in rural
ones (84 percent compared to 60 percent). Some of the main factors contributing to the
poor quality of education services provide were: (i) a shortage of teaching and learning
materials; (ii) inadequate teacher training; (iii) insufficient resources at the school level to
cover operating costs; and (iv) an inefficient deployment of teachers.

5.      Limited institutional capacity. Institutional capacity to manage, supervise and
monitor the effective delivery of education services was limited at the central and
decentralized levels of Government. Limited technical and financial resources had been
earmarked to build institutional capacity within the education system.

Project Context

6.      In 2009, the Government along with key stakeholders including civil society
organizations had prepared and approved a Letter of Sector Development Policy, an
Education Sector Plan (ESP) for the period from 2010-2020, and a Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for the first three years of the ESP (2010-2012). These
documents reflected the Government’s strategy for addressing challenges facing the
education sector and outlined plans and policy approaches for addressing them. Similar to
other Education for All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI)-funded programs in the region,
the ESP’s primary aim was to achieve universal primary education (UPE) in Togo by 2020.
Specifically, EFA-FTI aimed to: reduce disparities in access; improve efficiency and
quality of education services; develop effective partnerships with civil society; and
improve management and governance of the sector. The ESP had been endorsed and
approved by the Local Education Donor Group (LEDG) and benefitted from a high-level
of collaboration among the Government, key stakeholders and the DPs. Given the severe
financial constraints at the time, external funding was needed in order to effectively
implement the Plan’s envisioned activities and programs. It was in this context, and on the
basis of the well-defined and endorsed ESP, that the Education and Institutional
Strengthening Project (Projet Education et Renforcement Institutionnel – PERI) was
developed, appraised and approved by the EFA-FTI and the World Bank.

7.     The Bank had begun to re-engage with the Government of Togo in May of 2008
when the country’s arrears to the International Development Association (IDA) were
cleared. Following the Bank’s reengagement, and prior to project preparation, an Interim
Strategy Note (ISN) for FY2008-2010 was endorsed and a US$175 million Economic
Recovery and Governance Grant (ERGG) approved. The LEDG determined that the Bank

                                               2
would be supervising entity (SE) of the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund (CF)-supported PERI
given its growing presence on the ground and experience implementing this type of
operation in other settings. Funding from the EFA-FTI CF was expected to fund
approximately 25 percent of the US$182 million financing gap facing the sector. 2 This
support would be complemented by contributions from other DPs, including the French
Development Agency (Agence francaise de développement – AFD), United Nations
Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Islamic Development Bank (IDB), Danish Cooperation
(DANIDA) and a few non-governmental organizations (NGOs) including Aide et Action
(AeA) and Plan Togo. The international community aimed to support the country in its
recovery from crisis and to promote its long-term economic growth and development.
Many of the DPs were encouraged by the success of the Parliamentary elections held in
2007 and aimed to support the Government as it embarked on its new reform agenda.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.       According to the Grant Agreement (GA) dated October 29, 2010 and the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD), the objectives of the PERI were to: (i) increase coverage of
and retention in basic education; (ii) support improvements in the quality of teaching; and
(iii) strengthen institutional and community capacity in implementation and management
of the Project. The PDO-level indicators were: (i) increase in the PCR from 65 percent in
2009 to 74 percent by 2013; (ii) reach 75,000 direct beneficiaries by 2013; (iii) improve
Reading textbook: student ratio from 1:2 in 2009 to 1:1.14 by 2013; and (iv) improve
Mathematics textbook: student ratio from 1:2.1 in 2009 to 1:1.15 by 2013. In addition,
another indicator and target was to: (v) have a time-bound implementation plan to support
capacity-building of the communities and of the Ministry of Primary, Secondary Education
and Literacy (Ministère des enseignements primairem secondaire et de l’alphabétisation –
MEPSA) and skills’ transfer from Project Coordination Unit (PCU) approved by MEPSA
with at least 75 percent of activities for each year successfully implemented as evaluated
by joint supervision mission (the plan would include an indicator on the number of
communities that received Grassroots Management Training (GMT)).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

9.      The PDO was not revised during the life of the Project although revisions were
made to the original Results Framework (RF) under the 2014 restructuring. The revised RF
was better able to measure the Project’s achievements with respect to each of its intended
objectives. In addition, a number of end-of-project target values were increased to reflect
the progress that had been made up until that point while also ensuring that the operation
retained its ambitious nature. Some indicators were added to capture progress made on
newly introduced activities while a few others were redefined and strategically narrowed
to target those activities which were deemed to be essential to the achievement of the PDO.
A comprehensive list of indicators, modifications to them under the 2014 restructuring,
and level of achievement on each, can be found in Annex 10.


2
    As laid out in the MTEF.

                                            3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.    The PERI aimed to reach a large number of beneficiaries, including: children of
primary school-age; primary school students; parents; and communities. It also aimed to
benefit the MEPSA, regional and district level staff, school administrative staff,
prospective teachers and teachers seeking to strengthen their existing skill-set.

1.5 Original Components

11.     The Project consisted of three components: (i) Access and Retention; (ii) Inputs for
Quality; and (iii) Institutional Strengthening. 3 Each component is described in further
detail below.

12.      Component 1: Access and Retention (Cost at Appraisal: US$22.6 million;
Actual Expenditure: US$23.0 million). Component 1 was comprised of two sub-
components which together aimed to promote access and retention. Under sub-component
1.1, the Project would support the construction of new classrooms and related facilities in
selected urban areas of Togo. Under sub-component 1.2, the Project would carry out
specific development projects consisting of the construction of new classrooms and related
facilities in select rural areas and would provide grants to eligible school-based
management committees (Comités de gestion des écoles primaries – COGEPs).
Component 1 would apply the new construction strategy developed by the MEPSA during
the preparation of the ESP 4 and build about 815 new classrooms (163 in Year 1, 285 in
Year 2 and 367 in Year 3). The management of classroom construction would be delegated
by the MEPSA to either a contract management agency (CMA) in urban areas or to a
COGEP in rural areas. The classroom design was to be disability-friendly and these
classrooms would be equipped with gender-friendly latrines and water access.

13.     Component 2: Inputs for Quality (Cost at Appraisal: US$14.7 million; Actual
Expenditure: US$13.7 million). Component 2 was comprised of three sub-components.
Under sub-component 2.1, the Project aimed to provide textbooks in core subjects (e.g.,
Mathematics and Reading) for public and community primary schools (EDILs). Under
sub-component 2.2, the Project would provide sub-grants to eligible COGEPs to fund the
following: teaching materials; support to teaching and learning; and quality enhancements
including pedagogical materials, textbooks, stationary, school building maintenance and
school furniture maintenance. Sub-component 2.3 would fund the construction of Regional
Teacher Training Institutes (Ecole Normale d’Instituteurs – ENIs) in each of the Kara,
Golfe and Centrale regions of Togo.

14.    Component 3: Institutional Strengthening (Cost at Appraisal: US$7.7 million;
Actual Expenditure: US$7.5 million). Under sub-component 3.1, the Project aimed to


3
 These Components were describes as Parts A, B, and C in the Grant Agreement.
4
 The construction strategy is detailed in the document Stratégie Nationale du MEPSA en matière de
constructions scolaires du primaire, MEPSA, Togo, August 2009. A translated summary was included in
Annex 16 of the PAD.

                                                4
strengthen the school building management capacity and supervision of the MEPSA and
of the communities, while under sub-component 3.2, the Project aimed to support capacity-
building of the MEPSA. The Project would provide such support by: (i) setting up a
learning assessment system; (ii) improving consistency of teachers’ deployment across
schools; (iii) supporting the preparation of a credible implementation plan for (a) Pre-
school; (b) Literacy Development; and (b) School Health, Nutrition and HIV/AIDS.

1.6 Revised Components

15.     Under the April 17, 2014 restructuring, changes were introduced to Components 1
and 2. Under Component 1, given the complexity of constructing water points, the
responsibility for their construction was delegated to private contractors. To reflect this
change, a new sub-component (The Construction of Water Points by Private Contractors
in Selected Areas, sub-component 1.3) was added. A fourth sub-component was also
introduced to support the Reorganization of primary cycle into three sub-cycles (sub-
component 1.4), a measure to increase retention in basic education which was an objective
of the PERI. Under Component 2, some of the planned activities were narrowed while two
additional activities were added. The effort to develop new curricula textbooks in
Mathematics and Reading with a Government-owned copyright was narrowed to focus
only on the first grade with their introduction on a pilot basis. Two new activities – review
of the curricula for pre-school and literacy training and improving teaching practices
through in-service training for teachers at the primary level – were added. Component 3
remained unchanged.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.     The level 2 restructuring approved on April 17, 2014 was undertaken on the basis
of an agreement reached with the Government during the mid-term review (MTR) and in
response to a formal Government request received by the Bank on August 26, 2013. This
restructuring included the following: (i) an amendment to the project description and some
additional activities of project components; (ii) a narrowing of the scope of some project-
supported activities; (iii) a reallocation of funds from Categories 2 and 3 to Category 1;
(iv) revisions to some of the PDO- and intermediate-level indicators and their associated
end-of-project targets; and (v) an extension of the Project closing date by six months from
May 1, 2014 to October 31, 2014.




                                             5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation

17.     Preparation of the PERI began in 2009 with an identification mission held in April
of that year. The Bank team worked closely with the Government and various DPs to
identify those activities that EFA-FTI financing could most effectively support within the
framework of the ESP. The PERI’s design was grounded in the ESP which had been
developed collaboratively by the Government and the DPs and other relevant stakeholders
and was endorsed by the LEDG. Project preparation also benefited from a Bank-supported
Education Sector Technical Assistance (TA). The Project was prepared in a timely manner
and the Project task team possessed the necessary expertise in operations to appraise and
design the Project.

18.     EFA-FTI CF Secretariat approved the request for financing of PERI on May 7,
2010 in the amount of US$45 million. The Project was approved by the Bank’s Regional
Vice President on September 16, 2010 with the GA signed on October 29, 2010. The
original project closing date was May 1, 2014 with an initial planned duration of about 3
½ years.

Project Design

19.     The operation’s design benefitted from significant input from various stakeholders
which was further fostered during the development of the ESP and which was articulated
in a statement of intent (Cadre Partenarial). The primary aims of the PERI reflected the
Government’s own strategic objectives as articulated in the ESP, MTEF, Letter of Sector
Development Policy and the National School Construction Strategy. The Project supported
the aim of the recently approved Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of promoting
human capital. International experience and lessons learned from other EFA-FTI funded
Projects guided a number of aspects of the PERI, including its emphasis on capacity-
building as well as its use of a community-based approach. Available evidence from Togo,
including the AFD-funded EPTT (Projet Education pour Tous au Togo – EPTT), and other
settings had demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of a community-centered approach to
construction vis-à-vis more centrally managed ones. This feature of the operation was also
aligned with the Accelerated Strategy for Community-Based Development (Stratégie
Accelerée de Développement des Competences à la Base – SADEC) as it considered a
community-based approach to construction to be the most expedient.

20.     A community-based approach to development had been utilized in Togo prior to
this Project through various operations including the Community-Development Project
(Projet de developpement communautaire – PDC). Almost two-thirds of construction for
the primary sub-sector between 2006 and 2009 had used this approach but with no
involvement of the Ministries of Education. While capacity-building at all levels was
central to PERI’s design, many communities were already familiar with a community-

                                            6
based approach in the implementation and monitoring of civil works. A survey of local
firms was also undertaken during preparation which found that a large number of firms had
the capacity to carry out the construction activities planned under Project. The targeted
focus on capacity-building within the Ministry, at the central and decentralized levels
supported under PERI was appropriate, particularly, given that there had been very limited
support to this area during the decade prior. Strengthened capacity was considered
essential for effective project implementation, timely achievement of project outputs and
outcomes, the adoption and effective roll out of policy reforms, sustainability of
achievements and outcomes, and later the scale up of innovative approaches supported
under PERI.

21.     The implementation arrangements were sound with MEPSA as the project
implementing agency and the PCU responsible for managing the implementation of
project-supported activities. During the Project preparation, it was agreed that the PERI
and the ongoing AFD-funded EPTT would have the same coordination unit in order to
strengthen harmonization of efforts and to reduce administrative costs. During the
preparation of the operations manual, it was noted that certain aspects of the standards and
procedures of the two institutions were slightly different. Therefore, an agreement was
reached to postpone the merging of these coordination units. In order to inform the design
and selection of TA activities to support capacity within the Ministry, a needs assessment
was carried out which highlighted the importance of strengthening capacity in FM,
procurement and civil works management. The selection of a sector investment grant as
the financing instrument was appropriate given the near absence of externally-funded
projects for almost a decade and the MEPSA’s limited fiduciary capacity.

22.     Applying a community-based approach to construction and activities to improve
quality of education services marked a major shift for the sector. This design, which
strongly promoted community-level capacity-building, fostered local ownership and
heightened accountability, required support from central and decentralized levels of the
Government. Up until this point, MEPSA did not have experience in supporting a
community-based approach in its activities. While it was deemed to be the most expedient
approach, completing the community-based construction, other construction and other
activities, would still be an ambitious undertaking given the limitations in capacity as well
as the short implementation timeframe. The risks identified and accounted for in the design
were appropriate and measures to address capacity limitations related to FM, management,
and M&E were outlined in the key project documents. A number of well-developed
mitigation measures were incorporated into project design.

23.     Quality at Entry. PERI’s design was highly relevant to sector needs at the time
of preparation and was strongly aligned with the Government’s strategic agenda as laid out
in key strategic documents. Lessons learned from relevant contexts were taken into account
in the design as it also reflected the growing evidence-base demonstrating that community-
based approaches to construction were sustainable and cost-effective. It represented a
sound alternative to more traditional centralized methods and was aligned with
Government strategy. Further, mitigation measures were proposed to adequately address
identified risks to effective project implementation. A quality enhancement review (QER)

                                             7
held in December of 2009 determined that the operation was well-grounded in the overall
ESP, was guided by lessons learned, and effectively incorporated innovative approaches.
On the basis of the information provided above, Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

24.     PERI became effective on January 28, 2011 approximately four months after it had
been approved by the Regional Vice President. By project effectiveness, the PCU had been
established, the PCU Coordinator and Procurement Specialist had been hired, and the
project operations manual and annual work plan (AWP) for 2011 had been finalized and
approved fulfilling each of the conditions of effectiveness. The contract with AGETUR
(Agence d’éxecution de travaux urbains), the Construction Management Agency (CMA),
had been signed and the selection process for the communities’ training coordinator
(specialist in GMT) was being finalized towards fulfillment of two of the Project’s
disbursement conditions.

25.     The PCU, housed within the MEPSA, was responsible for the day-to-day
implementation of all project-supported activities, liaising with ESP coordination
structures (i.e., including the Permanent Technical Secretariat or Secrétaire technique
permanent - STP) and MEPSA Departments, and transferring skills to Ministry staff. The
PCU consisted of a coordinator, an accountant, a procurement specialist, an FM specialist,
the head of the school building program, a GMT specialist to coordinate the community
capacity building program, a civil engineer who was responsible for technical aspects of
the program, and an M&E specialist. The coordination unit had a few departments,
including an Accounting and Management Unit (Unité Comptable et de Gestion)
responsible for fiduciary aspects, a Technical Construction Unit (Cellule technique de
construction – CTC) responsible for the technical aspects of school construction under the
Project and strengthening community capacity in this area, as well as an M&E unit.
Coordinators were recruited nationally and assigned to each of the five targeted regions to
ensure timely and effective implementation of project-supported activities at the
decentralized levels.

Factors affecting early implementation

26.     The initial period of project implementation was slow with only 1.5 percent of the
grant disbursed six months after project effectiveness. This was attributable to a number of
factors, including: limited capacity within the MEPSA and a complex and hierarchical
decision-making process within the Government. It was several months before the list of
construction sites was approved and there were significant delays in the establishment of
the STP which was to be the main body for ESP M&E. The PCU’s working conditions
were inadequate with no separate office space and no Internet capacity impeding day-to-
day project management. By the fall of 2011, the list of construction sites had been
approved, the PCU was fully staffed, a contract had been signed between the Ministry and
AGETUR, coordinators for each of the sub-components as well as government
counterparts (homologues) had been nominated, and the first round of school grants had
been provided.

                                             8
27.     There were, however, delays in some key project-supported activities. Although
textbooks were procured in a timely manner, there was significant delay in their delivery
to Togo from France. Delays were also observed in construction activities. The STP,
which was expected to serve as steering committee for the Government’s ESP and
important to the implementation of the Plan, had yet to be established. Additionally, there
were delays in some FM activities. Though the conditions of the PCU had improved
somewhat, there was little awareness of the Project in the Government and among local
communities. This was of some concern as effective project implementation relied on
adequate information and knowledge among beneficiaries and knowledge and capacity
transfer supported under the Project would rely on a strong relationship between project
staff and the Ministry.

28.     Approximately one year after effectiveness, disbursement stood at 8.1 percent. The
Bank and Government identified and agreed on proactive steps to address these delays,
increase the pace of implementation, and to improve communications around the Project.
It had been agreed that construction would follow a phased approach whereby the training
of communities would precede construction within the communities selected for that phase.
However, given the delays up until that point, it was agreed that a “laboratory” phase for
construction would be undertaken. This would entail rolling out community-based training
and construction in two clusters of eight communities in the Maritime and Plateaux regions.
This phase would provide a microcosm in which the community-based approach could be
practiced (i.e., “learning by doing”) and related documents, tools, and templates could be
improved and fine-tuned. In this way, PERI’s visibility would also be heightened.

29.     Important progress was made in this “laboratory” phase in a short period with 30
out of 48 classrooms having been constructed by mid-2012. A large number of
communities were trained, a standardized classroom model was developed, and a list of
endorsed contractors was created. Further, various documents were improved upon,
including the financing agreement template to be signed between Inspectorates and the
communities. At the same time, preparation for Phase I of the construction program was
well underway. Progress was made on a number of key activities including the purchase
and delivery of 2.9 million textbooks (including teachers’ guides) to schools and the
preparation of a Government-issued directive (circulaire) prescribing standards for
textbook management. Capacity-building activities were also underway and
communications around the Project had improved as a result of TA provided by a
consultant in this area. Training of COGEPs was ongoing while the Competency Transfer
Plan was almost completed and a larger capacity-building program was under development.
In addition, the STP was established by a Ministerial decree as were other M&E entities.
An administrative text for re-organizing the primary cycle into three sub-cycles, and
prohibiting repetition within each cycle, had also been drafted and the Literacy
implementation plan was under development. Though initially the school grants were to
be transferred to the school-level, the costs of maintaining an account for each school was
too high and, therefore, it was agreed to transfer the school grants to Inspectorates for the
financing of activities authorized by the COGEPs. While a large number of textbooks had
been delivered, it was discovered that a small number of them were being sold in the market.

                                             9
The Government responded quickly and effectively to this observed irregularity and, in
turn, the monitoring system for textbooks was improved. As of October 2012, 53 percent
of the grant had been disbursed.

30.     At the same time, construction of classrooms and of the ENIs to be carried out by
AGETUR lagged behind. While preparatory milestones had been achieved, actual
construction had not yet commenced. Some of the firms which had been contracted by
AGETUR were not providing satisfactory services (i.e., technical studies), were costly, and
in some instances, misrepresented their technical expertise. To address delays and to
remedy identified bottlenecks in activities for which AGETUR was responsible, the
Ministry began holding bi-monthly meetings with the Agency while the CTC provided
support to AGETUR in terms of onsite supervision and in ensuring the quality of technical
studies. As the cost of urban construction had been underestimated, a tax exemption was
provided by the Government in order to ensure that these construction activities could be
completed in full under the Project. In addition, the development of curricula was delayed.
A high level of staff turnover was observed within the PCU with the departure of six
different staff during a one-year period. There was also a change in the Project’s Task Team
Leader (TTL).

31.     The March 2013 MTR concluded that more time was needed to complete project
activities that had experienced delays as described above and determined that the scope of
some activities should be reduced as they could not be completed within the remaining
timeframe, including the narrowing of curricula development to only grade 1. At around
this same time, the pace of project implementation increased as evidenced by: the
commencement of construction in urban areas and of ENIs; approval of a time-bound
implementation plan for capacity transfer and the administrative text re-organizing primary
into three sub-cycles; progress made in the development of the three implementation plans;
the carrying out of a national evaluation 5 and the establishment of a learning assessment
unit; and the provision of school grants to more than 3,720 COGEPs. Initially, it had been
envisaged that the training to be provided under the restructured design would focus on
strengthening teachers’ pedagogical skills. However, findings from the Service Delivery
Indicators (SDI) Study highlighted the need to further strengthen teachers’ content
knowledge in Math and French. The training was, therefore, subsequently tailored to
improve teachers’ pedagogical skills and content knowledge in these two areas.

32.     As of December 2013, the STP was fully staffed and operational. In addition to this,
a large number of COGEPs had been trained in the majority of community-based training
modules. Almost all of the financing agreements had been signed between the COGEPs
and the Inspectorates and the construction program was well underway though there were
some delays particularly with respect to construction in urban areas and of ENIs. Further,
as some issues related to the quality of this construction had been identified, the CTC and
the technical unit of the Regional Education Directorate (DRE) provided support to
supervision. In addition, progress had been made in the development of the primary school


5
 The National Evaluation (2013) uses mixed methods based on PASEC and Service Delivery Indicators
(SDI) that allows for comparison on the PASEC scale.

                                               10
curricula. Around this time, the STP had also revised the ESP which was a major
achievement and important for the upcoming GPE-funded Project (PERI 2). The Literacy
Policy had been developed and validated and the other policies, including ECD and
HIV/AIDS, school health and nutrition, were underway. Though school grants had been
disbursed for the second year, information from communities and suppliers pointed to some
difficulties in the delivery of these funds to communities as well as in their overall
management at the Inspectorate/Public Accounting (Tresorier) level. Some reports had
been received that vendors at the community-level were not paid by district-level tax
officers. This led the Project to further investigate these issues and, in turn, to request the
General Finance Inspectorate (Inspectorate Générale des Finances – IGF) to undertake a
larger audit of school grants provided under the Project.

33.     To ensure completion of all project activities during the project life, the PERI was
restructured in April of 2014. This restructuring introduced minor adjustments to the design
(with some changes in activities) and the RF in order to further capture progress towards
achievement of the PDO and to strategically focus on solidifying gains that had been
realized up until that point. Further, it extended the project closing date by six months to
October 31, 2014. Prior to the 2014 restructuring, the majority of project funding had been
disbursed.

34.     During the last six months of the Project, the pace of implementation was strong
allowing the project to complete the majority of its planned activities and to achieve, and
in many cases, surpass its end-of-project targets. The only exception to this was the
effective implementation of the school grants sub-component. Since issues had been
identified at the end of the second year of school grants, the third tranche was delayed.
While money had been transferred to the Inspectorate, in some cases, it did not reach the
intended beneficiaries. As a result of the observed limitations in the implementation of the
school grants activity revealed by the project and a Government-commissioned review, the
following actions were recommended and are ongoing: information related to school grants
was to be made public; an internal auditor would be hired to strengthen the Ministry’s
fiduciary capacity; a follow-up audit would be undertaken on school grants; and additional
training would be provided to Government staff to ensure proper monitoring of grant
receipts and expenditures at the inspectorate, regional and school levels. Many of these
recommendations and actions have been reflected in the design of the new PERI 2 which
became effective on July 2, 2015.




                                              11
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Original M&E Design

35.     The RF for the PERI was based on the logical diagnostic tool developed by the
World Bank Africa Region. 6 The PERI indicators were drawn directly from the ESP
Monitoring Framework. The use of a defined set of indicators was agreed among all DPs.
The PDO-level and intermediate-level indicators were generally aligned with each of the
objectives and sub-objectives of the Project and were appropriate for measuring progress
towards achievement of the project’s three main objectives – increasing access and
retention, improving quality of education, and strengthening institutional capacity in the
sector. However, the criteria used to calculate and verify the level of achievement of a few
intermediate-level indicators could have been clearer. Baseline and end-of-project target
values were provided in the RF. 7 8

36.     The Directorate of Education Planning and Evaluation (Direction de la
Planification de l’Education et de l’Evaluation – DPEE) played a lead role in the M&E of
the ESP and the PERI with support from M&E specialists from the PCU and the STP. By
design, coordination of M&E of the ESP was to be centralized under the STP which was
to have been established and staffed by project effectiveness. Progress under the project on
each of the PDO- and intermediate-level indicators would draw on the following sources:
the education management information system (EMIS); external evaluations; technical
audits and surveys; annual and project progress reports; and education statistical yearbooks.
These data would feed into the PERI’s RF and would be made available for the joint annual
sector reviews in which all key sector stakeholders would participate. The Project would
also finance capacity-building TA for DPEE as well as the establishment of a national
student learning assessment system.

Revised M&E Design

37.     Under the 2014 restructuring, a number of modifications were introduced to the
Project’s RF and M&E arrangements. Indicators measuring the primary retention rate, the
primary completion rate among girls and the percentage of schools constructed by school-
based committees according to standardized school construction guidelines were added to
the RF. An indicator measuring the implementation of the time-bound capacity building
plan was reclassified as an intermediate-level performance measure. In addition, two
intermediate-level indicators were revised: (i) number of communities having GMT
compared to planned number (percentage) was modified to communities having received
at least four out of five GMT modules under the planned project (percentage); and (ii)


6
  N.O. Mugwagwa, V. Gyllerup, Powerpoints. Results in Bank Projects. Africa Region Experience with
Results Framework.
7
  Since a number of intermediate-level indicators were formulated to measure project-specific activities, prior
to the launch of the Project the baseline value was assumed to be 0.
8
  Primary education gender parity index was not formally included in the Project’s RF, although it was
monitored by the Bank and Government as it was a core FTI indicator. A measure of gender parity was
introduced under the 2014 restructuring project (primary completion rate among girls).

                                                     12
completion of new textbooks in math and reading was revised to new textbooks in
mathematics and reading for the first grade are ready to be introduced on a pilot basis.

38.      Target values were adjusted to take into account newly available population data
and to account for additional time while maintaining the ambitious nature of the Project.
Indicators on implementation plans were made more specific by committing the Project to
supporting the finalization of the plans rather than beginning their implementation. The
revisions were appropriate as they introduced measures to better capture progress on
objectives. Changes to some of the indicators’ targets were relevant in light of the
additional time allotted to the Project with the extension of the closing date as well as the
cost savings which were realized as a result of exchange rate gains. In addition, in light of
the increased cost of constructing water points, under the restructured design this activity
was transferred to private contractors (adding a sub-component to reflect this change).
Annex 10 provides a detailed overview of all indicators and end-of-project targets over the
life of the operation.

Implementation and Utilization

39.      MEPSA’s capacity to collect, analyze and report on data was limited at project
inception. The M&E system was in the process of being fine-tuned. Capacity-building
measures included in the Project’s design were initially insufficient to ensure proper
monitoring and reporting of project-supported activities. M&E capacity improved over the
life of the Project. The recruitment of an M&E specialist within the PCU and TA provided
by the Bank contributed to this positive outcome. A number of the PDO-level indicators
had been drawn from the ESP. As progress under the ESP was systematically tracked by
DPs and Directorates of Education Planning and Evaluation, the PERI was able to benefit
from the mechanism which had been established to collect and report on data for key
outcome indicators. Though there were some delays in the establishment and staffing of
the STP, this entity was fully established and able to fulfil its mandated role beginning in
2013.

40.      As progress under the ESP was systematically tracked by DPs, the PERI was able
to benefit from the mechanism which had been established to collect and report on data for
key outcome indicators. Though there were some delays in the establishment and staffing
of the STP, the main M&E body for the ESP, this entity was fully established and able to
fulfil its mandated role beginning in 2013.

41.     During the Project, some additional field-level M&E was introduced to track
progress made under the Project. This was important in gauging adherence to the
construction timetable, maintaining speed of implementation, and identifying and
addressing bottlenecks in a timely manner. Additionally, technical reports for the civil
works activities and capacity-building interventions were produced periodically
throughout the Project and provided detailed and up-to-date information on progress made.
Further, as envisaged in the project design, the operation supported the successful
establishment of a national student learning assessment system and this was complemented
by the establishment of an evaluation unit within the MEPSA. The finding from these
assessments were incorporated into the Government’s annual assessment of the education
                                             13
sector and have also informed the design and choice of interventions to be supported under
PERI 2 which became effective on July 2, 2015.

42.      Some activities, including the delivery of textbooks were monitored through field-
level missions, rather than through a more comprehensive systematic mechanism. While
there was M&E at various levels, the entire process did not have a complete M&E system
to track issues at the school level. For instance, in the case of school grants, while the grant
amount to be awarded to each school was made public and the relevant funding was
provided to the Inspectorates, since there was no decentralized and formal tracking
mechanism, some difficulties were observed in the implementation of this activity. Further,
though field-level supervision was undertaken by the PCU, given the far-reach of the
Project with respect to the school grants activity, it would have been useful for a larger
sample of communities to be visited in order to have a more accurate understanding as to
whether or not there were any systemic issues in the provision and processing of these
grants. The decision to integrate a beneficiary survey assessment within the original design
was warranted and could have guided corrective action if it had been carried out much
earlier in the Project life. Since this survey was undertaken near the end of the Project, its
findings could not be used to improve the implementation of the PERI. It was, however,
used to guide the design and implementation of PERI 2. A Public Expenditure Tracking
Survey (PETS) was undertaken in 2013 and tracked the delivery of textbooks and school
grants among other deliverables as well as projected vs. actual budget expenditures in the
sector.

43.     While the M&E design and utilization were sound, certain studies were not
undertaken in a timely manner (i.e., the beneficiary survey) and the delivery and execution
of the school grants activity could have been more closely monitored and evaluated. In
light of the information above, M&E is rated Modest.

2.5 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards Compliance

44.     The environmental screening category for the Project was B (Partial Assessment)
and triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
due to the potential negative environmental and social impacts related to the construction
of schools assessed during project preparation. As a result, an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were
prepared and disclosed in January 2010. Concerted efforts were made under the Project
to ensure adherence with safeguards standards and requirements and to strengthen the
capacity of relevant actors, including COGEPs, and to increase the availability of important
tools in assessing and addressing environmental and social risks. No significant safeguard
issues were identified throughout the course of project implementation. Technical audits
and supervision missions by the Bank ensured adequate follow up in instances in which




                                              14
minor challenges arose. 9 In addition to the need for a resettlement action plan (RAP) for
one of the identified ENI sites, the Government was also requested to provide counterpart
funding to ensure that the ENIs could apply necessary safeguards measures in construction.

Fiduciary Compliance

45.    An initial assessment of FM capacity 10 undertaken during project implementation
noted some limitations and determined that the FM arrangements for the Project needed to
be improved in order to satisfy the World Bank’s minimum requirements under
OP/BP10.02. The specific recommendations to be adopted to fulfil Bank standard
requirements, included: (i) preparation of a financial and administrative procedures
manual; (ii) recruitment of one FM specialist and one accountant with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the World Bank; (iii) the development and implementation of an
accounting software; and (iv) the recruitment of an external auditor with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the World Bank. The FM risk at the time of project appraisal was
rated High, however, with the application of these measures it would be considered
Substantial. In addition to these audits, the Project also would support a PETS which
would focus, to a large, on delivery of textbooks and provision of school grants
(Component 2). Moreover, capacity-building measures including the transfer of
competencies, were supported under Component 3 of the Project.

46.     The fiduciary aspects of the Project were handled by the PCU located within the
MEPSA, with a procurement specialist hired as a condition of grant effectiveness and an
FM specialist and project accountant recruited in adherence with a legal covenant in the
Grant Agreement (GA). The following actions were undertaken during the course of the
Project to ensure greater transparency and accountability in the use of Project funds. The
hiring of these key staff was complemented by the recruitment of an external auditor and
the development and use of an acceptable accounting software system. The external auditor
was hired in a timely manner and provided annual reports on a yearly basis. All audits
were of unqualified opinion although some were of poor quality and delayed in their
submission. These audits, however, did not provide sufficient data and analysis pertaining
to the effective delivery of school grants which followed a complex delivery method. In
addition, the FM specialist recruited under the project left his position and was
subsequently replaced by a Ministry counterpart who also left and was not replaced in a
timely manner. Following these turnovers, the project accountant thereafter also fulfilled
the role which had been originally assigned to the FM specialist. Given the decentralized
approach to the provision of grants, the GMT specialist who was working within the PCU
under the PERI, describes in the GMT final report that he supported the DAF in the training
of key actors involved in the management of funding (either under construction or with




9
  Some of the challenges were related to ensuring necessary studies were undertaken in a timely manner and
were comprehensive in their assessment of specific sites and ensuring timely response when any issues did
arise.
10
   The FM assessment undertaken during project preparation including a review of the following key areas:
(i) budgeting; (ii) accounting; (iii) reporting; (iv) auditing; and (v) internal control systems.

                                                   15
regards to the school grants), to include – public accountants within the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), Inspectors, and the accountants within the Inspectorate and Regional Offices.

47.     Following the transfer of grant funding for the 2012-2013 school year, a number of
issues were identified which pointed to the possibility that the grant mechanism was not
functioning appropriately and reaching the intended beneficiaries. In order to have a better
understanding of whether this was a pervasive issue and to devise appropriate solutions, a
field-level mission was undertaken in March 2014 which was followed by a Government-
commissioned audit in May 2014 that had been requested by the World Bank. The report
which was based on a sample of 120 schools in 41 out of the 60 inspections, was submitted
to the Bank in September 2014 and revealed the following issues: only 3 (or 2.5 percent
of) schools included in the sample were adhering to procedures required in the Manual;
only three public accounting offices (out of 33) were keeping electronic records related to
the grants to track expenditures; mid- and senior-level management in many cases were
not regularly monitoring the delivery and execution of school grants to assure that the
policies, principles and procedure were followed; and the PERI account was poorly
monitored. As indicated earlier, a number of concrete actions were proposed and have been
agreed to rectify the identified issues and have been properly reflected in the design of
PERI 2.

48.     Although the unaudited interim financial reports (IFRs) were also submitted in a
timely manner and identified some issues, these reports should have included a more
detailed breakdown of actual expenditures by the various project-supported activities.
Despite this important limitation, detailed technical reports were drafted regularly by the
Bank team and these provided both a qualitative and quantitative assessment of civil works
activities supported under the PERI.

49.     Procurement under the Project was, for the most part, timely and effective although
the cost which were included in the contracts signed with AGETUR were higher than the
appraised estimates and needed to be adjusted in order to be effectively completed. The
FM/accounting software, if it had been fully set up earlier, might have provided a more
comprehensive accounting of the use of project funds over the project life.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

50.     A follow-on operation – PERI 2 – was approved by the GPE in June 2014 and by
the Bank’s Regional Vice President on February 6, 2015 and signed on March 5, 2015.
PERI 2 became effective on July 2, 2015 11 in the amount of US$27.8 million and is
expected to be implemented through September 30, 2018. The development objectives of
the PERI 2 are to: (i) improve the quality of teaching and learning in early grades of primary
schools; and (ii) strengthen access and equity in primary schools particularly in deprived
prefectures. The design of PERI 2 builds on the activities supported under PERI and is
informed by lessons learned during the implementation of the first project. In particular,
the follow-on operation continues to support the provision of textbooks, school grants,


11
     As the first PERI closed on October 31, 2014, there was an eight month gap in financing.

                                                      16
construction of schools and boreholes, and capacity-building across the education system.
The design also incorporates steps to address limitations identified during the
implementation of the first PERI, for example, in the distribution and monitoring of school
grants and required that suitable FM arrangements were in place when project
implementation began. Although many of the same activities are supported, PERI 2 targets
the poorest regions in Togo and supports activities specifically designed to increase girls’
participation in schooling and achievements. There is support to community strengthening
under PERI 2 12 as it is also being supported by other Projects outside the education sector,
including under the PDC Plus Project.

51.    Given the significant gains under the first PERI in terms of increasing access and
building the institutional capacity of the Government to manage activities in the sector,
PERI 2 places a stronger emphasis on further increasing the internal efficiency of the
education system as well as improving the quality of teaching and learning.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives

52.      The PDO was highly relevant as it responded to the challenges identified at
appraisal and priorities outlined in the ESP. The key challenges facing the education sector
included: inequitable access to education; poor quality of education services; and limited
institutional capacity to manage the education sector.

53.     The PDO remains highly relevant today. It is aligned with current strategies,
including: the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) (FY2012-2013); the World Bank Africa Region
Strategy (Africa's Future and the World Bank Support to It); the World Bank Strategy for
Education (Learning for All - Investing in People's Knowledge and Skills to Promote
Development); and the Government's Accelerated Growth and Employment Promotion
Strategy (SCAPE) for the period 2013-2017. The SCAPE supports the achievement of
UPE and underscores the need to further improve the quality of education services in Togo.
The objectives also reflect the Government’s emphasis on community-based approaches
to development activities in particular – community-based school construction and
capacity-building at the local level. Moreover, the objectives are well-aligned with those
of the PERI 2 which recently became effective.

54.     In light of the above information, relevance of objectives is rated High during both
the pre- and post-restructuring periods.



12
  PERI 2 provides a series of training activities at the community-level to COGEPs to ensure: (i) purchase
of uniforms for girls and distribution of sanitary kits; (ii) management of school grants; and (iii) involvement
in the monitoring of overall school activities. A pilot literacy program will be implemented for members of
the COGEPs.

                                                      17
Relevance of Design

55.     The Project’s design was sound. The Project-supported activities were
appropriately selected to address the main challenges faced by the sector at appraisal. Each
of the activities was logically linked to achievement of the PDO. The design of the
operation was guided by analytical work and lessons learnt from other projects. The
Project’s strong reliance on a community-based approach to construction was informed by
a growing body of international evidence which highlighted it as a cost-effective and
efficient method for school construction. Moreover, research pointed to its positive impact
on strengthening beneficiary communities’ capacity in management and implementation
of projects. It was also aligned with the approach endorsed in the National Construction
Strategy. Support to the reform of the primary school curricula and the provision of
textbooks and school grants were appropriate activities to improve the quality of education.
The Project’s support to training at the central, regional and community levels as well as
the transfer of capacity to the Government, was consistent with the Government’s strategic
shift towards decentralization of education services and could support sustainable growth
of the education sector.

56.     Changes introduced under the restructuring ensured that activities critical to
achievement of the PDO were prioritized. As a result of these modifications, adjustments
were made to some of the project indicators and associated end-of-project targets to ensure
that the outcomes and outputs of the operations could be adequately documented.

57.     The relevance of project design is rated Substantial during both the pre- and post-
restructuring periods.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

58.    While the PDO was not changed over the course of project implementation, a
number of performance indicators and their associated end-of-project targets were adjusted
under the 2014 restructuring. In compliance with the established Operational Policy and
Country Services (OPCS) guidelines and given the changes introduced to a number of end-
or-project targets as well as specific activities supported within key components of the
operation, this Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) undertakes a split
evaluation of the operation with the overall outcome rating determined by analyzing the
Project’s performance during the pre- and post-restructuring periods. An overall
assessment of the achievements and challenges observed under the Project is also provided
here and further detailed in the report’s annexes.

Objective 1: Increase Coverage and Retention in Basic Education

59.    One of the primary objectives of the Operation, to be achieved through activities
supported under Component 1, was to increase access and retention by supporting
community-based construction in rural and urban areas in Togo.




                                            18
60.     Under this Project, the sites to receive support from the Project were strategically
selected applying a pre-defined criteria which included: number of students in the school;
accessibility of the school; number of students per class; quality of school infrastructure;
and classroom size and capacity. Construction activities under the Project were delayed
due to: (i) a delay in the finalization and approval of the list of sites and in the classrooms
plan; and (ii) the time needed to negotiate a tax exemption for construction delegated to
AGETUR because costs of infrastructure had overrun the original grant amount. The
decision to undertake a “laboratory” phase was appropriate for increasing the pace of
implementation, promoting visibility of the Project and providing an opportunity for
learning by doing for all stakeholders involved.

61.     During the pre-restructuring period, a total of 234 classrooms out of the 611 13
planned for rural areas had been fully constructed while 39 classrooms out of the 204
planned for urban areas had been fully built. The construction of an additional 375
classrooms were in advanced stages of completion. It was estimated that during this time
100 percent of resources were managed by the CMA (in this case, AGETUR) and the
communities according to agreed procedures (as outlined in relevant project manuals).
According to the beneficiary survey, over 92 percent of survey respondents were satisfied
or very satisfied with the school construction program in their community. During the pre-
restructuring period, substantial progress was observed across all key PDO-level indicators.
The PCR increased from 65 in 2009 to 83.6 percent by 2014, and among girls increased
from 72.1 in 2013 to 80 percent by 2014. Improvements were also observed in the retention
rate which increased from 57.1 percent in 2011 to 66 percent by 2014, with a rate of 66.1
percent among girls.

62.     During the post-restructuring period, 558 additional classrooms were constructed
in rural areas, significantly exceeding the revised targets, and the remaining 165 planned
classrooms had been constructed in urban areas. Due to cost savings resulting, in part from
exchange rate gains, the Project was able to exceed the original and revised end-of-project
targets for construction of primary classrooms. The total number of classrooms constructed
by project closing was 996 of which 204 were constructed in urban areas and 792 in rural
ones. The values achieved for the PDO-level indicators designed to capture progress
towards achievement of this objective are the same which were observed during the pre-
restructuring period. 14

63.      The level of achievement of Objective 1 is rated Substantial.




13
   This figure includes the 48 classrooms (16 schools) constructed during the “Laboratoire” phase in two
rural communities in the Plateaux and Maritime Regions.
14
   Given the short amount of time between project restructuring and project closing, additional data on these
indicators were not available as insufficient time had lapsed to have new figures. The figures for a number
of these indicators were only calculated on an annual basis.

                                                    19
Objective 2: Support Improvements in the Quality of Teaching

64.     In order to support improvements in the quality of teaching, under Component 2,
the PERI supported the development of new textbooks based on the competency-based
curricula and provided school grants to communities (COGEPs) as well as the provision of
reading and mathematics textbooks (and teachers’ guides) to public and community
schools. The Project also funded the construction and equipment of three regional ENIs.

65.     During the pre-restructuring period, progress was made on the development of the
new primary curricula which employed a competency-based approach though there were
some considerable delays in rolling out this activity. A total of 2.9 million textbooks and
teachers’ guides in reading and mathematics were purchased and delivered to schools, far
exceeding the end-of-project target of 1.6 million. By this time the textbook: student ratio
for mathematics had reached 1:1 and for reading had reached 1.2:1. Each of the ENIs were
in advanced stages of construction. The number of school grants delivered to schools in
2011/2012 totaled 3,500. The funding for school grants in 2012/2013 and 2013/2014 was
transferred to the Inspectorate level but approximately US$700,000 (or 12 percent of the
US$5.7 million allocated to this activity) remained unspent at the Inspectorate level. The
Bank has formally requested the Government to return the unspent resources to the GPE.
As of the writing of this ICR, this action is still pending.

66.     During the post-restructuring period, 3,000 teachers were provided in-service
training and new textbooks in mathematics and reading for grade 1 had been finalized and
the pilot was ongoing. In addition, the Government reorganized the primary education
system into three sub-cycles and prohibited repetition within each of the sub-cycles which
was an important measure to reduce repetition and to increase the internal efficiency of the
education system. The construction and equipment of the three ENIs in the Kara, Plateaux
and Central regions had been fully completed, the first cohort of students to enroll was
selected in 2013 and the management staff for these Institutes was recruited in 2014. In
addition, during this period 11,154 reading panels were delivered for grades 1 and 2. The
values achieved for the PDO-level indicators are the same which were observed during the
pre-restructuring period. 15

67.    The level of achievement of Objective 2 is rated Modest due to the challenges
associated with the school grants sub-component although a large number of outputs and
outcomes to support quality improvements were achieved during the life of the Project.

Objective 3: Strengthen Institutional and Community Capacity and the Implementation
and Management of the Project

68.    The PERI, through Component 3, aimed to strengthen school building management
capacity as well the supervision capacity of both the Ministry and communities. It also
aimed to support institutional capacity-building within the MEPSA. Moreover, through
this Component, the PERI also sought to support the establishment of a learning assessment


15
     Ibid.

                                            20
system, improvement in the consistency of teachers’ deployment across schools and the
development of implementation plans for the following areas: Pre-School; Literacy
Development; and School Health, Nutrition, and HIV/AIDS.

69.     During the pre-restructuring period, a large number of COGEPs were trained in
various modules which had been designed under the Project. Each of these training
modules was designed to equip the community with the capacity necessary for effective
management and implementation of the school construction program and in the
management of textbooks. The training to targeted communities was provided using a
phased approach. 16 During this period, around two-thirds of the 204 targeted communities
had completed four of the five training modules. In addition, a number of Ministry staff at
the central and decentralized levels had also benefitted from training supported under the
PERI. The successful roll-out of these trainings to communities and the outcomes realized
as a result of this activity is a major achievement of the Project. In addition, during this
period, the Bank had strengthened its dialogue with the Government around ensuring the
equitable deployment of teachers in the country. This dialogue contributed to an increase
in the internal efficiency of the education system reflected in an improvement in the
Teacher Deployment Consistency Index (R-Squared) which increased from a baseline of
0.55 to 0.66 by 2011/2012. During this period, a national assessment was also completed
and all of the sub-sector plans had been drafted. The time-bound capacity building plan
was being rolled out with skills transfer occurring between the PCU and Ministry staff in
key areas such as FM, procurement and civil works management.

70.     During the post-restructuring period, progress was made in a number of areas.
Training of 266 COGEPs 17 in each of the five modules had been completed. Financing
agreements related to PERI-supported activities had been signed between all COGEPs and
the relevant Inspectorates. The Teacher Deployment Consistency Index improved even
further reaching 0.73. By project closing, a national learning assessment system had been
established and was fully functional and the plans on Pre-School, Literacy Development,
and School Health, Nutrition and HIV/AIDS had been finalized and validated by the
Government. The time bound capacity building implementation plan had been 90 percent
implemented. In terms of capacity-building, in addition to supporting a number of
specialized training activities, the Project continued to promote skills transfer by pairing
counterparts (homologues) with specialists working for the Project. In addition, a
Competency Transfer Plan was finalized which will continue to guide skills transfer and
capacity-building within the Ministry at the central and decentralized levels.

71.     The level of achievement of Objective 3 is rated Substantial.




16
   Completion of specific modules was required prior to launching certain construction-related activities
within the community. Training in FM and procurement was a pre-requisite for receiving grant funding
related to school construction.
17
   The number of COGEPs increased with the construction of additional classrooms in rural areas.

                                                   21
3.3 Efficiency

Returns to Education

72.     Estimated Mincer Wage Coefficients. The PERI contributed to increased
educational access and attainment of beneficiaries. An economic analysis of the returns to
education using the QUIBB 2011 shows that there are positive returns to education.
Controlling for various socio-demographic variables, the results of a Mincerian regression
equation indicate a positive correlation between years of education and average wage
earnings. An analysis of the QUIBB 2011 data using a sample of individual between 15
and 64 years old shows that there is a 10.9 percent increase in monthly income for an
additional year of schooling. There are also positive returns to primary and lower secondary
education of 6 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively. On average, annual earnings are
estimated to be FCFA 475,118.4 for those who finished primary school and FCFA
659,351.2 for those who completed upper secondary school – whereas earnings of those
without education are FCFA 381,745.6. This shows that completion of primary schooling
is associated with a 24.5 percent increase in annual earnings when compared to individuals
who have no education. These findings provide strong evidence of the economic and social
importance of investing in primary education within the Togolese context.

Cost-effectiveness of School Construction and Textbooks

73.     School construction. At the design stage, it was determined that community-based
approaches to school construction were 20 percent to 25 percent more cost-effective when
compared to centrally based approaches primarily as a result of strong competition among
small contractors. Community-based construction was cost-effective, proving to be both
less expensive and more expedient than construction undertaken by the CMA (AGETUR).
Of all classrooms constructed, 79.6 percent were carried out using the community-based
approach. The estimated unit cost for construction of a classroom using the community-
based approach was US$110 per square meter compared to the US$216 per square meter
using the CMA (AGETUR) approach making the construction under the AGETUR
approach more costly. A portion of the difference in costs was related to the more expensive
materials employed by AGETUR for the construction of school roofs (i.e., slabs rather than
basic roofing materials). The construction undertaken by AGETUR was, overall, less cost-
effective and its activities more delayed. However, this approach to construction accounted
for a much smaller number of classrooms constructed under the Project. The unit cost of
US$110 per square meter using the community-based approach under the PERI is much
lower than the costs realized in other Bank supported projects in comparator countries:
Gambia (EFA-FTI) (US$175-US$188); Mauritania (Education Sector Development
Programme) (US$197); and Niger (Basic Education Support Project) (US$220).

74.     Textbook procurement and delivery. A significantly larger number of textbooks
were purchased and delivered than originally planned under the Project. Although there
were challenges with systematic tracking of textbooks, field reports and site visits during
project implementation reveal that, for the most part, textbooks arrived in schools in a
timely manner. As noted earlier, however, in one instance it was observed that Project-

                                            22
funded textbooks were being illegally sold. The Government responded quickly and
effectively to address the situation and to hold relevant individuals responsible. The actual
project unit costs of textbooks and teachers’ guides were lower at US$1.60 and US$3.20,
respectively, compared to the original unit cost estimations of US$3.70 and US$4.00,
respectively. These unit costs, however, are not as low as those observed in other similar
projects implemented in African countries, including: (i) Burundi (with a unit cost of
US$1.15); (ii) Eritrea (with a unit cost of US$0.60); and (iii) Mauritania (with a unit cost
of US$0.73).

Cost-Benefit Analysis

75.     This cost-benefit analysis assess the Project’s quantifiable benefits in the area of
access/equity (school construction) and quality. Benefits pertaining to Institutional
strengthening and capacity building are more difficult to quantify and consequently, will
not be included in the present analysis. Computation of the Net Present Value (NPV) are
estimated for the access/equity activities and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) based on
this component is computed.

76.    Access/equity. The access/equity analysis will focus on the benefits of the
construction of new schools (new and rehabilitated classrooms). The cost and benefits
flows are quantified based on the individual’s lifetime earnings from higher levels of
educational attainment.

77.     Quality. The quality analysis will rely on the direct and indirect investments of the
project activities that were designed to improve learning. The measurement method of the
project direct impact is based on the extent of quality improvement as illustrated by the
provision of new textbooks and the school grants.

78.     Assumption for the cost-benefit analysis. The cost and benefits computation for the
Project has been informed by the project description and the outputs by component. The
assumptions are the following:

• Because the analysis takes into account the quantifiable benefits, it is assumed that the
  NPV and IRR are at their lowest bound for the impact of the project;
• A discount rate of 5 percent is used;
• The official exchange rate has been set at 500 FCFA per US$1;
• Wages have been estimated for various educational level using data from the QUIBB
  2011;
• Wages change with age over the duration of the benefits with adjustments for inflation;
• The difference in wages remains the same throughout the career each beneficiary
• Beneficiaries enter the labor market at age 15;
• Employment rates by level of education as estimated using the QUIBB 2011 data; and
• Schools provide services for 40 years.

79.    Cost-benefits results: Access/Equity (School construction). According to the
analysis, under the base scenario (using the assumptions of 5 percent discount rate) for

                                             23
       Component 1, benefit streams observed outweigh the incurred project costs. More
       specifically, the NPV is estimated to be US$73.16 million with an IRR of 16 percent. It
       can be, therefore, concluded that the school construction component of the project
       represented a good investment. Even when looking at other scenarios, this basic
       observation and conclusion still hold.

       80.     The cost-benefit analysis shows that the cost-benefit ratio is high and positive with
       respect to community-based construction and procurement and delivery of textbooks.
       Efficiency under the Project is rated Modest primarily due to three principle factors: (i)
       challenges associated with the delivery and execution of school grants; (ii) the higher than
       anticipated costs of construction undertaken by AGETUR including both classrooms and
       ENIs; and (iii) initial delays in implementation of some key activities.

       3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

       81.     Based on the pre- and post-restructuring ratings for relevance, efficacy and
       efficiency, the Overall Outcome Rating for the PERI is Moderately Satisfactory. Table 2
       below summarizes the detailed analysis presented in Sections 3.1-3.3 of the ICR.

                        Table 2: Overall Rating before and after Restructuring

   Period        Relevance                   Achievement of PDO – Efficacy                    Efficiency   Overall Rating
                (Objectives/
                  Design)
                               Objective 1     Objective 2    Objective 3       Summary
Pre-              High/                                                                                     Moderately
                               Substantial       Modest           Substantial   Substantial    Modest
Restructuring   Substantial                                                                                 Satisfactory
Post-             High/                                                                                     Moderately
                               Substantial       Modest           Substantial   Substantial    Modest
Restructuring   Substantial                                                                                 Satisfactory

       82.     The Project’s development objectives were highly relevant as they sought to
       address the critical challenges observed within the Togolese education sector at appraisal.
       These objectives were also highly consistent with the Government’s own strategic agenda.
       These aims remained highly relevant over the life of the Project and continue to be fully
       aligned with the Government’s emphasis today on improving the quality of education while
       also supporting a community-based approach to development. The Project’s design was
       sound insofar as it was guided by strong analytical work and lessons learned from other
       relevant operations. Project-supported activities were also logically linked to the
       overarching development objectives. The RF for the operation was generally adequate, but
       M&E and FM mechanisms should have been stronger to properly monitor the use of grants
       at the school-level. The Project had a positive impact on increasing access and retention to
       higher quality education, while also building institutional capacity within the Government
       and beneficiary communities. Notwithstanding the initial delays observed in project
       implementation, and the important challenges experienced with the provision of school
       grants, a large number of outputs and outcomes were achieved by the operation’s closing
       date. In a number of cases, the end-of-project targets were, in fact, exceeded. Despite some
                                                             24
delays and the higher-than-anticipated costs of school construction in urban areas carried
out by AGETUR, the community-based approach to construction proved to be both a cost-
effective and viable alternative to the more traditional centrally managed arrangements.
Despite the high relevance of objectives/design and the large number of achievements
observed, the Project’s overall efficiency remained modest given the challenges
experienced in the provision of school grants as well as the fact that the unit cost of
construction undertaken by AGETUR was relatively high when compared both to the
community-based approach as well as to other relevant comparator countries.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

83.     Project-supported activities played an important role in supporting social
development and in increasing women’s participation in community life. The
establishment of COGEPs strengthened equitable representation within the community,
including females, elderly persons, people with disabilities, as well as individuals with
varying levels of education and training. The training modules were grounded on
principles of inclusion (for both literate and illiterate persons) as they were guided by a
GMT expert and senior GMT trainers as well as the communities themselves.

84.     Evidence points to community members’ use of skills obtained under the PERI to
other activities of daily life which has resulted in, among other positive outcomes, more
competitive pricing and selective purchasing. Women’s participation in these activities
has taught them not only how to apply these principles but has empowered them to make
use of them in their day-to-day activities. For example, beneficiaries have indicated that
they apply principles of competitive selection of contractors to carry out tasks or to provide
household services.

85.     Finally, the targeting mechanism used for selection of sites for school construction
and the provision of school grants was guided by poverty-related criteria. In this way, the
support provided in these two areas were able to target those communities with the greatest
needs. This was one way in which the Project was able to promote equitable access to
quality education in Togo.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

86.     Capacity-building at the community and Ministerial level was an important aim of
the PERI and was evidenced in activities supported at the central and decentralized levels.
In addition to achieving the timely completion of community-based construction,
communities were also provided with the opportunity to develop skills in FM, procurement
and monitoring and to learn by doing. Although other Projects had used a community-
based approach prior to this operation, it was under the PERI that for the first time this
approach was applied on a wide-scale within the education sector to the construction of
schools. Each of the five training modules sought to convey key principles useful in each
of these areas and the roll out of this training (which used a training of trainers approach)

                                             25
strengthened the knowledge and capacity of relevant stakeholders. Further, the Project
supported the development of simplified manuals to be used at the community level to
promote greater buy-in. Evidence from field-level visits demonstrated the viability of
COGEPs as an important entity within the communities, supporting collective decision-
making and problem-solving. This entity is expected to be maintained in the future and
will be useful in the effective implementation of other community activities.

87.      Considerable efforts were undertaken to support capacity-building within the
Ministry itself which had received limited support in this area in the decade prior to the
PERI. At the central level, the Project aimed to ensure the transfer of skills from the PCU
staff to counterparts (homologues) within the MEPSA and other bodies (DAF, etc.) This
was done in an effort to strengthen skills in each of these areas and to ensure that the
Government could continue to draw on these experts and skills in supporting the sector.
Further, training was also provided to various individuals at the regional, inspectorate and
district levels to promote the effective implementation of activities supported under the
PERI.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not Applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

88.    A Beneficiary Survey was undertaken and is archived in WBdocs.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

89.      A large portion of resources available for the education sector in Togo are provided
by the various DPs operating within the country including AFD, Islamic Development
Bank, World Food Programme and GPE, among others. The Government’s prioritization
of the basic education sector is reflected in its allocation to recurrent expenditures of 27.6
percent, which is higher than the SSA average of 22.1 percent, as well as in the fact that
around 48 percent of the sector budget is devoted to primary education, almost reaching
the recommended GPE benchmark of 50 percent. A number of activities supported under
the PERI are being continued and/or scaled up under the PERI 2. Key among these
initiatives are: capacity-building at the central and community levels; teacher training;
construction of schools and boreholes in targeted prefectures; and school grants to further
improve the quality and relevance of primary education. In addition, the Project targets
those areas and communities where the socio-economic and education needs are the
greatest as it also focuses on promoting girls’ schooling which is considered to have a long-
term impact on human development outcomes and economic growth in years to come.

90.     The PERI has successfully supported capacity-building interventions within the
central and decentralized levels of the Ministry as well as within the communities. Building

                                             26
on the gains realized under this operation, PERI 2 plans to provide technical support in FM
and M&E. PERI 2 also places a strong emphasis on further equipping the various
stakeholders at the local level (i.e., school headmasters, technical staff at the central and
decentralized levels and staff working at the Inspectorate-level) with necessary skills to
successfully implement activities at the decentralized levels. The positive experience with
regards to community-based construction has also been taken into account in the design of
PERI 2 with continued training to be provided to COGEPs in key areas related to school
construction and management of school-level activities. Moreover, the strong emphasis of
the PERI on strengthening community-based development increases the likelihood that
gains achieved under the Project will be sustained and/or scaled up in the future. The
strategic targeting of PERI 2 towards the 18 most deprived prefectures bodes well for
further increasing equitable access to primary education in Togo. The Government has
expressed its commitment to providing the necessary financial resources to support the
functioning of the new classrooms and ENIs constructed under the Project. The
Government should also ensure that any limitations related to quality of civil works
activities are prioritized. On the basis of the information provided above, the Risk to
Development Outcome is rated Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

91.     The Bank worked closely with the Government and various DPs at appraisal to
identify those activities that the PERI could most successfully support within the
framework of the ESP. The PERI was strongly aligned with the Government’s strategic
agenda as articulated in key documents and targeted a number of the major challenges
facing the education sector in Togo. The Project’s design was underpinned by growing
evidence on the cost-effectiveness, feasibility and positive outcomes associated with
community-based construction. The design of the operation also incorporated appropriate
mitigation measures to address risks that had been identified during project preparation
related to institutional capacity and FM and these aspects were well articulated and
described in the project documents. The design’s emphasis on sustainability – reflected in
its activities to strengthen community capacity through training and promoting skills
transfer between technical experts and Ministry staff – was forward-thinking and increased
the likelihood that activities supported under the Project could be maintained or further
strengthened in the future. Moreover, the Project’s phased approach to community-based
construction was innovative and allowed for the process of “learning by doing” and further
fine-tuning of relevant procedures and tools. The Bank team also possessed the necessary
skillset to effectively undertake the project, including an expert on community-based
construction who guided the design of this activity. While the operation was indeed
ambitious given the allotted time frame, in light of the significant investment from EFA-
FTI and the high demand for classrooms and the need for key quality inputs, its objectives,
design and reach were appropriate. The Quality at Entry is, therefore, rated Satisfactory

                                             27
given the high relevance of objectives and the soundness of the link between the project-
supported activities and the overarching development objectives.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

92.     The Bank worked closely with the Government to supervise project-supported
activities. This was facilitated by the presence of an education team member in-country
who supported the day-to-day management of the operation. The Bank undertook regular
supervision missions which included detailed aide-memoires and technical reports. Joint
annual sector reviews were also held during the project implementation period and allowed
relevant stakeholders to take stock of achievements, identify some important bottlenecks,
and to take corrective action. Given the decentralized nature of the Project, arrangements
were set up to provide training in key areas and supervision of school construction
throughout the life of the Project. This was made possible by recruiting key specialists in
GMT and establishing specific decentralized units within the Ministry such as the
Construction Technical Unit. Through its close supervision in some areas, the Bank was
able to identify difficulties in the distribution of textbooks and was able to work closely
with the Government to resolve these. In an effort to further adapt the scope and relevance
of activities to ensure achievement of the PDO, the Project was effectively restructured
although with some delay. As the pace of implementation increased in the latter phases of
the Project, the Bank was able to support the Government in completion of all project
activities by the closing date which was an important achievement in light of the short time
frame in which the project was implemented – only being extended once for a period of six
months.

93.     Despite these strong aspects of the Bank’s supervision, the FM functions performed
by the Bank as well as by the externally recruited auditor were of poor quality with the
IFRs not including an adequate assessment of the use of funds at the school level related
to school grants. Although the FM system was able to track expenditures at the
Inspectorate level, the system was not adequately strengthened under the Project – as had
been envisaged – to monitor the effective provision and execution of all school grants. As
issues became apparent in the implementation of this activity, although again with some
delays, the Bank did seek to address these issues by undertaking focused supervision
missions and by raising this issue with the Government and Bank management. On the
basis of the above, the Quality of Bank Supervision is rated Moderately Satisfactory
given the Bank team’s ongoing support to the Government and its proactive efforts at
addressing and rectifying most of the issues which arose over the course of the Project’s
implementation.




                                            28
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

94.     Taking into account the ratings for Quality at Entry (Satisfactory), Quality of
Supervision (Moderately Satisfactory) and Overall Outcome Rating (Moderately
Satisfactory), the Bank’s Overall Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Grantee Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

95.     The Government was highly proactive and demonstrated its strong commitment to
the sector throughout the entire life of the Project. The Government worked closely with
the Bank to design the Project and provided support to ensure harmonization of activities
supported by various stakeholders in the sector. Despite having limited experience in
community-based approaches, it was willing to support such activities on a large scale
under the PERI. When issues were identified in the course of project implementation, such
as delays in AGETUR-supported construction, the Government took steps to strengthen
dialogue with AGETUR and to assist in remedying challenges faced. When the costs of
construction undertaken by AGETUR were higher than what had been forecasted, the
highest level of Government focused its attention on finding a solution and, in turn,
provided a tax exemption allowing AGETUR to complete the planned construction within
a reasonable funding envelope. In the one instance in which the Bank notified the
Government that it had observed anomalies in terms of the distribution of textbooks, the
Government responded expediently to hold relevant individuals accountable,
demonstrating their commitment to the sector and to protecting measures to strengthen
quality of education provided in the country. The Government also showed its strong
commitment to fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities under the PERI. In response to field-
level reports of challenges associated with the distribution of school grants to COGEPs,
the Government commissioned a thorough audit of the situation which resulted in a number
of recommendations to rectify these issues as possible under the PERI and to ensure that
the resulting lessons were integrated into the design of PERI 2.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

96.     During the early stages of the project, there were delays in launching some project-
supported activities including the provision and delivery of textbooks and urban and rural
construction. As a result of initial delays, disbursement remained low. The PCU worked
closely with various actors to increase the pace of implementation. In response to delays
in urban construction, steps were taken to work closely to identify bottlenecks and to
provide support to AGETUR on an on-going basis. Although the Implementing Agency’s
performance was generally adequate, the unit experienced some difficulties as a result of

                                             29
staff turnover and shortcomings in its oversight of the delivery and execution of school
grants at the local level. Despite the challenges faced, most of the envisaged outputs and
outcomes of the PERI were successfully achieved by the operation’s closing date with only
one extension required. The community-based approach to construction and training of
COGEPs supported by the PCU and various experts, including the GMT specialist, was
successful and efficient. These achievements are particularly noteworthy given the
logistical constraints faced by the PCU in the early phases of the Project and in light of the
PERI’s ambitious reach – relying on a decentralized and community-based approach in its
activities. In light of the above information, Implementing Agency performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Grantee Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

97.     Based on the ratings for Government Performance (Satisfactory), Implementing
Agency Performance (Moderately Satisfactory) and Overall Outcome Rating (Moderately
Satisfactory), the Overall Grantee Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

98.     The successful establishment of a robust and well-functioning M&E system
must always be prioritized. In order to systematically and comprehensively document the
achievements and shortcomings of an operation—as well as to detect issues which delay
project implementation and/or pose a challenge to the attainment of the intended
development impacts—a sound M&E system must be established and maintained
throughout the life of a project. Although there were some limitations to the Project’s
M&E, including a nascent M&E system at the early stages of the Project and a delay in
carrying out the beneficiary survey, the M&E system was capable of properly documenting
progress towards achievement of the PDO. Refinements introduced under the restructuring
further strengthened the capacity of the M&E system to capture project gains observed
with regards to access and retention.

99.    A community-based approach to construction, while a complex undertaking,
can provide a number of important benefits. The community-based approach to school
construction utilized under the Project proved to be a cost-effective and effective in
building the envisaged structures. This approach also built the institutional and managerial
capacity of targeted communities throughout Togo.

100. Applying a phased approach to development activities can pay high dividends
in terms of its development effectiveness and impact. This operation’s use of a phased-
approach to community-based construction provided an important feedback loop whereby
activities, procedures and tools could be refined along the course of project implementation
in order to improve the overall quality of structures and the process in which they were
built.


                                             30
101.    The establishment of a robust FM system capable of tracking project
expenditures at the beneficiary level should always be prioritized at the design phase
of any operation. If it is determined at appraisal that a country’s FM system does not
confirm to the Bank’s minimum standards, mitigation measures must be introduced and
adhered to before a project can be declared effective. Disbursements should only
commence once these minimum FM standards have been fully met. The FM system
established under the Project was insufficient to comprehensively and systematically assess
transfer and execution of funds at the decentralized level.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

102. The Government prepared a project completion report which has been filed in
WBdocs, the summary of which can be found in Annex 7 of this report.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                            31
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                        Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                                       Percentage of
             Components                 Estimate     Estimate (USD
                                                                                        Appraisal
                                      (USD millions)    millions)
Component 1: Access and Retention         22.6            23.0                               102
Component 2: Inputs for Quality           14.7            13.7*                              93
Component 3: Institutional
                                           7.7             7.5                                97
Strengthening
                  Total Project Costs     45.0            44.2                                98
Project Preparation Costs                  0.0             0.0
                                           0.0             0.0
           Total Financing Required       45.0            44.2*                               98
*Of the total grant amount of US$45 million, US$0.1 million was cancelled. In addition, US$0.7 million
remained unspent under the school grants activity as of May 30, 2015. As these resources remained unspent
after the Project’s closing date, the Bank has formally requested that the Government return these funds to
the GPE. This accounts for the different figure presented in the system-generated data sheet (US$44.9
million) and the total disbursement figures reported in Annex 1 (US$ 44.2 million).



(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                            millions)   millions)
 Trust Funds                                                  0.00        0.00
 Education for All - Fast Track
                                                               45.00           44.2*               98
Initiative
*see footnote for Table 1(a).




                                                    32
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


1.     The Project consisted of three components: (i) Access and Retention; (ii) Inputs for
Quality; and (iii) Institutional Strengthening. 18

2.      Component 1: Access and Retention (Cost at Appraisal: US$22.6 million;
Actual Expenditure: US$23.0 million). Under Sub-component 1.1, the Project aimed to
support the construction of new classrooms and related facilities in selected urban areas of
the Recipient’s Territory. Under Sub-Component 1.2, the Project would support specific
development projects consisting of construction of new classrooms and related facilities in
select rural areas, through the provision of Sub-grants to eligible school-based management
committees (Comités de gestion des écoles primaries – COGEPs) beneficiaries in Togo.
Specifically, the Component was to apply the new construction strategy developed by the
Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education and Literacy (Ministère de l’Enseignements
Primaire, Secondaire et de l’Alphabétisation – MEPSA) during the preparation of the
Education Sector Plan (ESP) 19 and build about 815 new classrooms (163 in Year 1, 285 in
Year 2 and 367 in Year 3) with 204 in urban areas and 611 in rural areas. The classrooms’
construction management was to be delegated by the Ministry to either a contract
management agency (CMA) (urban) or COGEPs (rural). The classrooms were to be
disability-friendly and complemented with gender-friendly latrines and water access.

3.      Component 2: Inputs for Quality (Cost at Appraisal: US$14.7 million; Actual
Expenditure: US$13.7 million). Under sub-component 2.1, the Project aimed to provide
textbooks in Mathematics and Reading for public and community primary schools (EDILs)
in Togo. Under sub-component 2.2, the Project would support specific development
projects consisting of supplying teaching materials and providing support to teaching and
learning and quality enhancement programs. Specifically, under this second sub-
component, the Project would support the supply of pedagogical materials, textbooks,
stationary, school building maintenance and school furniture maintenance, through the
provision of Sub-grants to eligible COGEPs in Togo. In addition, this Component would
fund the construction of a regional teacher training institute (or ENI) in each of the Kara,
Golfe and Centrale regions of Togo.

4.      Component 3: Institutional Strengthening (Cost at Appraisal: US$7.7 million;
Actual Expenditure: US$7.5 million). Under sub-component 3.1, the Project aimed to
strengthen the school building management capacity and supervision of the Ministry and
of the communities and under Sub-component 3.2, the Project aimed to support capacity
building of the MEPSA. It aimed to provide such support by: (i) setting up a learning
assessment system; (ii) improving consistency of teachers’ deployment across schools; and



18
  These Components were describes as Parts A, B, and C in the Grant Agreement.
19
  The construction strategy is detailed in the document Stratégie Nationale du MEPSA en matière de
constructions scolaires du primaire, MEPSA, Togo, August 2009. A translated summary was included in
Annex 16 of the PAD.

                                                33
            (iii) supporting the preparation of credible implementation plans for (a) pre-school; (b)
            literacy development; and (c) school health, nutrition and HIV/AIDS.

            5.     The following diagram lays out the results chain linking project-supported activities
            with the envisioned outputs and outcomes of the PERI.

                                            1.1. Improved availability of    Build classrooms in urban (with
                     1. Increased access                                     AGETUR executing agency) and
                     and retention in       satisfactory built schools in
                                            under equipped areas             rural (with communities) areas
                     primary education                                       according to agreed procedures
                     (Component 1)          (Ind.1.1.III)
                                                                             (Ind.1.1.I, 1.1.II)
                     (Ind.1.I)
                                                                              Provide public/EDIL primary
                                                                              schools with Mathematics and
                                                                              Reading textbooks (Ind.2.1.III)
                                           2.1. Improved availability of
                                           textbooks (Ind.2.1.I,
Increased                                                                     Develop new curricula and new
                                           Ind.2.1.II)
coverage and                                                                  textbooks with Gov. owned
retention of                                                                  copyright (Ind.2.1.IV)
primary
education,                                                                   Disclose in schools the individual
improvements                               2.2. Increased resources and      school grant amount and
in quality of        2. Improved           responsibilities for school       calculation method
teaching,            availability of       committees and improved
strengthened         teaching material     accountability (Ind.2.2.I)        Provide school grants to school
institutional and    and of trained                                          committees
community            teachers              2.3. The regional teacher
capacity (PDO)       (Component 2)         training centers are running      Build and equip regional teacher
                                           (Ind. 2.3.I)                      training institutes and Regionalize
                                                                             training and recruitment of
                                           3.2c. Improved consistency in     teachers (Ind. 2.3.I)
                                           teacher deployment (Ind.
                                           3.2.II)
                                                                             Build capacity of MEPSA (central
                                                                             and decentralized administration)
                                           3.1. Improved efficiency and      and communities for school
                                           management of school              building management
                                           building program (Ind.3.1.I,
                                           Ind.3.1.II)
                                                                              Build capacity of MEPSA
                                           3.2a. Improved capacity of the     according to the time-bound
                                           MEPSA for ESP                      capacity-building and skills
                                           implementation (Ind.3.I)           transfer implementation plan (Ind
                                                                              3.I)
                     3. Strengthened
                     institutions and       3.2b. Learning assessment
                                            system up and running (Ind        Support the set-up of a monitoring
                     communities                                              system able to routinely assess
                     (Component 3)          3.2.I)
                                                                              student learning
                     (Ind 3.I)
                                            3.2d. ECD and Literacy
                                            implementation plans              Support the preparation of ECD
                                            approved and implementation       and Literacy implementation
                                            started (Ind. 3.2.III,            plans

                                            3.2e. School health, nutrition
                                            and HIV/AIDS                     Support the preparation of school
                                            implementation plan approved     health, nutrition and HIV/AIDS
                                            and implementation started       implementation plan
                                            (Ind.3.2.V)


                                                             34
6.      The PDO remained unchanged during the Project life. Under the April 17, 2014
restructuring, however, changes were introduced to Components 1 and 2. Under
Component 1, given the complexity of constructing water points, the responsibility for their
construction was delegated to private contractors. To reflect this change, a new sub-
component (The Construction of Water Points by Private Contractors in Selected Areas,
sub-component 1.3) was added. A fourth sub-component was also introduced to support
the Reorganization of primary cycle into three sub-cycles (sub-component 1.4), a measure
to increase retention in basic education which was an objective of the PERI. Under
Component 2, some of the planned activities were narrowed while two additional activities
were added. The effort to develop new curricula textbooks in Mathematics and Reading
with a Government-owned copyright was narrowed to focus only on the first grade with
their introduction on a pilot basis. Two new activities – review of the curricula for pre-
school and literacy training and improving teaching practices through in-service training
for teachers at the primary level – were added. Component 3 remained unchanged.

Component 1

7.     One of the primary objectives of the Operation, to be achieved through activities
supported under Component 1, was to increase access and retention by supporting
community-based construction in rural and urban areas in Togo. The following provides
an overview of achievements under Component 1 of the PERI, by period.

8.      Under this Project, the sites to receive support from the Project were strategically
selected applying a pre-defined criteria which included the following, among others:
number of students in the school; accessibility of the school; number of students per class;
quality of school infrastructure; and classroom size and capacity. Construction activities
under the Project were delayed due to: (i) a delay in the finalization and approval of the list
of sites and in the classrooms plan; and (ii) the time needed to negotiate a tax exemption
for construction delegated to AGETUR because costs of infrastructure had overrun the
original grant amount. The decision to undertake a “laboratory” phase was appropriate for
increasing the pace of implementation, promoting visibility of the Project, and providing
an opportunity for “learning by doing” for all stakeholders involved.

9.      During the pre-restructuring period, a total of 234 classrooms out of the 611 20
planned for rural areas had been constructed while 39 classrooms out of the 204 planned
for urban areas had been constructed. In addition to this, the construction of an additional
375 classrooms were in the advanced stages of completion. It was estimated that during
this time 100 percent of resources were managed by the CMA (in this case, AGETUR) and
the communities according to agreed procedures (as outlined in relevant project manuals).
According to the beneficiary survey, over 92 percent of survey respondents were satisfied
or very satisfied with the school construction program in their community. During the pre-


20
  This figure includes the 48 classrooms (16 schools) constructed during the “Laboratoire” phase in two
rural communities in the Plateaux and Maritime Regions.

                                                  35
restructuring period, substantial progress was observed across all key PDO-level indicators.
The primary completion rate increased from 65 in 2009 to 83.6 percent by 2014, and among
girls increased from 72.1 in 2013 to 80 percent by 2014. Improvements were also observed
in the retention rate which increased from 57.1 percent in 2011 to 66 percent by 2014, with
a rate of 66.1 percent among girls.

10.     During the post-restructuring period, 558 additional classrooms were constructed
in rural areas, significantly exceeding the revised targets, and the remaining 165 planned
classrooms had been constructed in urban areas. Due to cost savings resulting, in part from
exchange rate gains, the Project was able to exceed the original and revised end-of-project
targets for construction of primary classrooms. The total number of classrooms completed
by project closing was 996 of which 204 were constructed in urban areas and 792 in rural
ones. The values achieved for the PDO-level indicators designed to capture progress
towards achievement of this objective are the same which were observed during the pre-
restructuring period. 21

Component 2

11.    Through Component 2, the PERI aimed to improve the quality of teaching in
primary education. The following was achieved under the PERI by period:

12.     During the pre-restructuring period, progress was made on the development of the
new primary curricula which employed a competency-based approach though there were
some considerable delays in rolling out this activity. A total of 2.9 million textbooks and
teachers’ guides in reading and mathematics were purchased and delivered to schools 22,
far exceeding the end-of-project target of 1.6 million. By this time the textbook: student
ratio for mathematics had reached 1:1 and for reading had reached 1.2:1. Each of the ENIs
were in advanced stages of construction. The number of school grants delivered to schools
in 2011/2012 totaled 3,500. Eligible expenses under these school grants included:
pedagogical materials, textbooks, stationary, organization of journées pedagogiques,
school building maintenance, school furniture maintenance, first aid medical kits and a
miscellaneous category (which required pre-approval and authorization by the Bank).
Each year between 3,500 and 3,735 schools (between 70 to 75 percent of all primary
schools) were selected to receive school grants. The funding for school grants in
2012/2013 and 2013/2014 was transferred to the Inspectorate level but approximately
US$700,000 (or 12 percent of the US$5.7 million allocated to this activity) remained
unspent at the Inspectorate level. The Bank has formally requested the Government to
return the unspent resources to the GPE. As of the writing of this ICR, this action is still
pending.



21
   Given the short amount of time between project restructuring and project closing, additional data on these
indicators were not available as insufficient time had lapsed to have new figures. The figures for a number
of these indicators were only calculated on an annual basis.
22
   A total number of 2,055,960 mathematics textbooks and 28,442 teachers’ guides (in math) were purchased
and delivered while 790,268 reading textbooks and 28,890 teachers’ guides (in reading) were purchased and
delivered.

                                                    36
13.     During the post-restructuring period, 3,000 teachers were provided in-service
training and new textbooks in mathematics and reading for grade 1 had been finalized and
the pilot was ongoing. In addition, the Government reorganized the primary education
system into three sub-cycles and prohibited repetition within each of the sub-cycles which
was a major measure to reduce repetition and to increase the internal efficiency of the
education system. The construction and equipment of the three ENIs in the Kara, Plateaux
and Central regions had been fully completed, the first cohort of students to enroll was
selected in 2013 and the management staff for these Institutes was recruited in 2014. In
addition to the provision of textbooks and teachers’ guides, 11,154 reading panels were
delivered for grades 1 and 2. The values achieved for the PDO-level indicators are the
same which were observed during the pre-restructuring period. 23

Component 3

14.    The PERI, through Component 3, aimed to strengthen school building management
capacity as well the supervision capacity of both the Ministry and communities. It also
aimed to support institutional capacity-building within the MEPSA. Moreover, through
this Component, the PERI also sought to support the establishment of a learning assessment
system, improvement in the consistency of teachers’ deployment across schools and the
development of implementation plans for the following areas: Pre-School; Literacy
Development; and School Health, Nutrition, and HIV/AIDS. The following provides an
overview of achievements under Component 3 of the PERI, by period:

15.     During the pre-restructuring period, a large number of COGEPs were trained in
various modules which had been designed under the Project. Each of these training
modules, included illustrations and together were designed to equip the community with
the capacity necessary for effective management and implementation of the school
construction program and in the management of textbooks. The training to targeted
communities was provided using a phased approach. 24 During this period, around two-
thirds of the 204 targeted communities had completed four of the five training modules. In
addition, a number of Ministry staff at the central and decentralized levels had also
benefitted from training supported under the PERI. The decentralized training system
relied on a cascade approach, with junior and senior trainers at the regional level and the
selection of a community facilitator to support COGEPs. Various trainings and workshops
were required in order to ensure the effective reach of training provided. The successful
roll-out of these trainings to communities and the outcomes realized as a result of this
activity is a major achievement of the Project. Simplified manuals were also provided to
communities to ensure adequate information to guide activities under the PERI. In addition,



23
   Given the short amount of time between project restructuring and project closing, additional data on these
indicators were not available as insufficient time had lapsed to have new figures. The figures for a number
of these indicators were only calculated on an annual basis.
24
   Completion of specific modules was required prior to launching certain construction-related activities
within the community. Training in FM and procurement was a pre-requisite for receiving grant funding
related to school construction.

                                                    37
the Bank had strengthened its dialogue with the Government on the importance of
addressing inequities in the deployment of teachers. During this period, a significant
improvement was observed in terms of the deployment of teachers reflected in an increase
in the Teacher Deployment Consistency Index (R-Squared) from a baseline of 0.55 to 0.66
by 2012 (the latest available figure). During this period, a national assessment was
completed and all of the sub-sector plans had been drafted. In addition, the time-bound
capacity-building plan was being rolled out with skills transfer occurring between the PCU
and Ministry staff in key areas such as FM, procurement and civil works management.

16.     During the post-restructuring period, progress was made in a number of areas.
Training of 266 COGEPs 25 in each of the five modules had been completed. Financing
agreements related to PERI-supported activities had been signed between all COGEPs and
the relevant Inspectorates. The Teacher Deployment Consistency Index improved further
reaching 0.73 by 2014. By project closing, a national learning assessment system had been
established and was fully functional and the plans on Pre-School, Literacy Development,
and School Health, Nutrition and HIV/AIDS had been finalized and validated by the
Government. The time bound capacity-building implementation plan had been 90 percent
implemented. In terms of capacity-building, in addition to promoting skills transfer by
pairing counterparts (homologues) with specialists working for the Project, a Competency
Transfer Plan was finalized which will continue to guide skills transfer and capacity-
building within the Ministry at the central and decentralized levels. Over the project life,
TA was also provided in the use and management of a new database set up within the
DPEE and to the core M&E team within the Government. Training was also provided to
16 education sector executives on sector policies and the management of education systems.




25
     The number of COGEPs increased with the construction of additional classrooms in rural areas.

                                                     38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      This Annex provides an analysis of the following: (i) returns to education; (ii)
positive externalities observed resulting from attainment of more education; (iii) internal
efficiency gains observed in the sector; (iv) efficiency of implementation; (v) cost-benefit
analysis of the Project’s quantifiable economic benefits in the area of access and quality;
and (vi) fiscal sustainability in the post-project period.

Background

2.      Located between Ghana and Benin and on the coast of the Gulf of Guinea, Togo
had an estimation population of approximately 7 million as of 2014. In 2009, compared to
other SSA countries, Togo’s per capita income was low (US$437) and it had very poor
human development outcomes, ranking 159 out of 182 countries on the HDI. Since 2010,
public expenditures in education as a share of GDP have remained relatively constant (4
percent of GDP in 2010 and 2011, 5 percent of GDP in 2012 and 4 percent of GDP in
2013). 26

3.     Labor market analysis of data from the 2011 Togo QUIBB 27 (Questionnaire des
Indicateurs des Bases de Bien Etre) reveals significant wage differentials by level of
education, providing strong justification for the need to invest in basic education. As Figure
1 below shows, monthly wage earnings increase with age and level of education.

                     Figure 1: Monthly Earnings by Education levels (in FCFA)
                           150,000.00
                Earnings




                           100,000.00


                            50,000.00


                                   -
                                        15171921232527293133353739414345474951535557596163

                                                              Age in years
                                                     No education
                                                     Completed primary
                                                     Upper secondary

                    Source: Author’s estimate using QUIBB 2011




26
     World Bank education Statistics
27
     This is the latest household survey undertaken in Togo (2011).

                                                         39
Returns to Education

4.      Estimated Mincer Wage Coefficients. The PERI I contributed to increased
educational access and attainment of beneficiaries. An economic analysis of the returns to
education using the QUIBB 2011 shows that there are positive returns to education.
Controlling for various socio-demographic variables, the results of a Mincerian regression
equation indicate a positive correlation between years of education and average wage
earnings. An analysis of the QUIBB 2011 data using a sample of individual between 15
and 64 years old shows that there is a 10.9 percent increase in monthly income for an
additional year of schooling. There are also positive returns to primary and lower secondary
education of 6 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively. Annual earnings are estimated to be
FCFA 475,118.4 for those who finished primary school and FCFA 659,351.2 for those who
completed upper secondary school – whereas earnings of those without education are
FCFA 381,745.6. This shows that completion of primary schooling is associated with a
24.5 percent increase in annual earnings when compared to individuals who have no
education. These findings provide strong evidence of the economic and social importance
of investing in primary education within the Togolese context.

Positive Externalities

5.      In addition to benefits to wage earnings, education has positive spillover effects in
terms of health practices and outcomes. Table 1 below shows the association between level
of educational attainment and observed behavioral changes. More specifically, the analysis
reveals that a woman with higher educational attainment is more likely to be assisted by
trained personnel during childbirth. Furthermore, those individuals who have completed
secondary school or higher are more aware of HIV/AIDS and its consequences. Analysis
of data from a sample of women in Togo ages 15 to 59 found that women with a higher
level of educational attainment were less likely to believe that female genital mutilation
should maintain a continuous practice than women with no education. These few examples
show that there are great benefits associated with an investment in education.




                                             40
                     Table 1: Benefits of education: Selected indicators 28

                                                Average      No Education      Primary       Secondary or
                                                                                                above
 Use of tetanus vaccine during pregnancy           65.2           54.7            62.8           72.1
 [women 15-49]
 women's age at first birth (woman sample          20.9           19.8            20.7            24.1
 25-49)
 Assistance at delivery (%) by trained             63.1           41.4            64.9             83
 personnel (15-49)
 % of women aged 15-19 with one live birth         39.6           30.4            18.7             6.9
 % of women (15-49) with post-delivery care        72.5           59.5            75.3            82.6
 (2 days after delivery)
 HIV knowledge*                                    20.4           10.8            16.3            34.2
 probability of child death after birth            27.3            32             29               21
 % of women instructed                              33.4         31.8            33.5              34.8
 % of women 15-59 who believe that excision         1.5           2.3             1.2               0.9
 must remain a continuous practice
*Based on those who know that regular use of a preservative and limitation of sexual activity to one
non-infected partner can reduce the transmission of HIV/AIDS.

Positive Trends – Key Sector Indicators and Internal Efficiency Gains

6.      Internal efficiency gains were also observed in the life of the Project and were
observed in increases in: (i) the primary completion rate from 63 percent in 2009 to 83.6
percent (2014) and from 72.1 percent to 80 percent amongst girls over the same period; (ii)
primary retention rate increased from 57.1 percent in 2011 to 66 percent in 2014 and (iii)
the textbook: student ratio from 1:2 (2009) to 1.2:1 for Reading textbooks and from 1:2.1
(2009) to 1:1 for Mathematics textbooks.

Efficiency of Implementation

7.      The efficiency of implementation can be characterized by two distinct periods – a
slow start with low disbursement and a period with an increased pace of implementation
across most project-supported activities. Available evidence points to efficiency in key
project activities including school construction and the provision and delivery of textbooks,
but some challenges in the provision of grants at the school level.

8.      School construction. At the design stage, it was determined that community-based
approaches to school construction were 20 percent to 25 percent more cost-effective when
compared to centrally based approaches primarily as a result of strong competition among
small contractors. Community-based construction was cost-effective, proving to be both
less expensive and more expedient than construction undertaken by the CMA (AGETUR).


28
  Source: Ministère de la Planification, du Développement et de l’Aménagement du Territoire (MPDAT),
Ministère de la Santé (MS) et ICF International, 2015. Enquête Démographique et de Santé au Togo 2013-
2014. Rockville, Maryland, USA : MPDAT, MS et ICF International


                                                   41
The total number of classrooms constructed under the Project was 996 of which 792 (79.6
percent) were constructed in rural areas using the community-based approach and the
remaining 204 (20.4 percent) were constructed in urban areas by AGETUR. The estimated
unit cost for construction of a classroom using the community-based approach was US$110
per square meter compared to the US$216 per square meter using the CMA (AGETUR)
approach. The construction undertaken by AGETUR was less cost-effective and
encountered delays, however, this approach to construction accounted for far fewer
classrooms constructed under the Project. The unit cost of US$110 per square meter using
the community-based approach under the PERI is much lower than the costs realized in
other Bank supported projects in comparator countries: Gambia (EFA-FTI) (US$175-
US$188); Mauritania (Education Sector Development Programme) (US$197); and Niger
(Basic Education Support Project) (US$220).

9.     Construction of Teacher Training Institutes. The estimated cost of construction of
all ENIs was US$1.8 million. According to the contracts signed with the CMA
(AGETUR), the total cost of constructing the three regional ENIs was around US$2.4
million. 29 Therefore, the actual cost was approximately one-third or 33 percent higher than
the appraised amount.

10.     Textbook procurement and delivery. A significantly larger number of textbooks
were purchased and delivered than originally planned under the Project. Although there
were challenges with systematic tracking of textbooks, field reports and site visits during
project implementation reveal that, for the most part, textbooks arrived in schools in a
timely manner. As noted earlier, however, in one instance it was observed that Project-
funded textbooks were being illegally sold. The Government responded quickly and
effectively to address the situation and to hold relevant individuals responsible. The actual
project unit costs of textbooks and teachers’ guides were lower at US$1.60 and US$3.20,
respectively, compared to the original unit cost estimations of US$3.70 and US$4.00,
respectively. These unit costs, however, are not as low as those observed in other similar
projects implemented in African countries, including: (i) Burundi (with a unit cost of
US$1.15); (ii) Eritrea (with a unit cost of US$0.60); and (iii) Mauritania (with a unit cost
of US$0.73).

Cost-Benefit Analysis

11.     This cost-benefit analysis assess the Project’s quantifiable benefits in the area of
access/equity (school construction) and quality. Benefits pertaining to Institutional
strengthening and capacity building are more difficult to quantify and consequently, will
not be included in the present analysis. Computation of the Net Present Value (NPV) are
estimated for the access/equity activities and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) based on
this component is computed.

12.    Access/equity. The access/equity analysis will focus on the benefits of the
construction of new schools (new and rehabilitated classrooms). The cost and benefits


29
     Making the average unit cost of construction of each ENI approximately US$0.8 million.

                                                     42
flows are quantified based on the individual’s lifetime earnings from higher levels of
educational attainment.

13.     Quality. The quality analysis will rely on the direct and indirect investments of the
project activities that were designed to improve learning. The measurement method of the
project direct impact is based on the extent of quality improvement as illustrated by the
provision of new textbooks and the school grants.

14.     Assumption for the cost-benefit analysis. The cost and benefits computation for the
Project has been informed by the project description and the outputs by component. The
assomptions are the following:

     •   Because the analysis takes into account the quantifiable benefits, it is assumed
         that the NPV and IRR are at their lowest bound for the impact of the project.
     •   A discount rate of 5 percent is used;
     •   The official exchange rate has been set at 500 FCFA per US$1;
     •   Wages have been estimated for various educational level using data from the
         QUIBB 2011
     •   Wages change with age over the duration of the benefits with adjustments for
         inflation;
     •   The difference in wages remains the same throughout the career each beneficiary
     •   Beneficiaries enter the labor market at age 15;
     •   Employment rates by level of education as estimated using the QUIBB 2011 data;
         and
     •   Schools provide services for 40 years

15.     Cost-benefits results: Access/Equity (School construction). According to the
analysis, under the base scenario (using the assumptions of 5 percent discount rate) for
Component 1, benefit streams observed outweigh the incurred project costs. More
specifically, the NPV is estimated to be US$73.16 million with an IRR of 16 percent. It
can be, therefore, concluded that the school construction component of the Project
represented a good investment. Even when looking at other scenarios, this basic
observation and conclusion still hold (refer to Table 2).




                                             43
                                   Table 2: Summary Results

     Case 1: Base scenario:     Component 1: Schools     Component 2a:             Total Project
        Discount rate=5%           construction            Textbooks
               IRR                    16%                    20%                     18%
     Discounted cost (present
                                   $15,405,240.10         $11,429,648.38           $26,834,888.48
          value of costs)
         Present value of
                                   $73,156,151.18         $77,131,742.89        $150,287,894.07
       incremental benefits
              NPV                  $57,750,911.08         $65,702,094.51        $123,453,005.59
         Benefit/cost ratio            4.75                   6.75                   5.60
         Case 2: Optimal
                                Component 1: Schools     Component 2a:
       scenario: Discount                                                          Total Project
                                   construction            Textbooks
             rate=4%
               IRR                       16%                     20%                    18%
     Discounted cost (present
                                   $15,805,823.41         $11,706,903.92         $27,512,727.33
          value of costs)
         Present value of
                                  $103,850,873.84        $107,949,793.33        $211,800,667.17
       incremental benefits
               NPV                 $88,045,050.43        $96,242,889.41         $184,287,939.84
         Benefit/cost ratio               6.57                  9.22                   7.70
     Case 3: Worst Scenario:    Component 1: Schools     Component 2a:
                                                                                 Total Project
        Discount rate=6%            construction           Textbooks
               IRR                        16%                   20%                     18%
     Discounted cost (present
                                     $14,646,150.85         $10,903,128.09         $25,549,278.93
          value of costs)
         Present value of
                                     $38,083,102.51         $41,826,125.27         $79,909,227.78
       incremental benefits
               NPV                   $23,436,951.66         $30,922,997.19         $54,359,948.85
         Benefit/cost ratio             2.60                     3.84                   3.13



Fiscal Sustainability

16.      A 2013 IMF country report emphasizes the Government’s efforts in terms of debt
management and improved fiscal sustainability. From the published date of this report, for
example, resources have been allocated to increase primary school enrollment rate and
increasing the literacy rate of female youth aged 15 to 24. According to the same report,
access to education increased between 2006 and 2011. Economic growth is subjected to
increase each year by 6% therefore allowing a debt reduction 30. A better fiscal balance may
result in more fund allocated to various sectors of the Togolese economy such as education.
Table 3 shows a selected budget framework of the Togolese government regarding the



30
     IMF country report 2013.

                                               44
projected spending in education and professional development. A high emphasis is put on
primary and secondary education and literacy as well as higher education and research.


      Table 3: Human capital/Sector allocation in the 2013-2017 Budget framework
                                                                                        avg
                                    2012                                                2013-
                                   budget      2013   2014      2015 2016      2017     2017
      Education and professional
      training                          21.9  23.59    22.7     22.52 22.58 22.57       22.79
         of which primary and
      secondary education and
      literacy                          13.35 16.16   15.53 15.14 15.26 15.31           15.45
         of which professional
      training                           1.4    2.4    2.43     2.35   2.37    2.38      2.39
       of which higher education
      and research                      4.44   5.04    4.74     5.03   4.95    4.88      4.92
          Source: Estimates/prediction MEF/MPDAT, August 2012 in IMF Togo Poverty Reduction
          Paper (July 2014)

17.    PERI 2 will focus on the following main objectives: (i) improving the quality of
pre-primary and primary education (ii) Strengthening access and equity in primary
education (iii) strengthening education services delivery.

18.     The cost-benefit analysis shows that the cost-benefit ratio is high and positive with
respect to community-based construction and procurement and delivery of textbooks.
Efficiency under the Project is rated Modest primarily due to three principle factors: (i)
challenges associated with the delivery and execution of school grants; (ii) the higher than
anticipated costs of construction undertaken by AGETUR including both classrooms and
ENIs; and (iii) initial delays in implementation of some key activities.




                                                45
   Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                       Title             Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Mathieu Brossard       TTL                                   Operations
Yacinthe Gbayé         Education Economist             AFTED Education
Kokou Amelewonou       Consultant                      AFTED Education (Preparation of RESEN)
                                                       AFTED Education, Community-based
Serge Theunynck          Consultant
                                                             construction
                                                       AFTED Education (preparation of the
Jean-Claude Hameidat     Consultant                          medium term expenditures
                                                             framework for the sector)
                                                        AFD/ Education (provide support for the
Alexandra Tran           Consultant                    AFTED design of the Community-based
                                                             construction paper)
Youmna Sfeir             Consultant                    AFTED Education
Rachidi Radji            Country Manager               AFTED Operations
William Experton         Lead Education Specialist     AFTED Education
Peter Materu             Practice Manager              AFTED Education
Cherif Diallo            Sr. Education Specialist      AFTED Education
Itchi Ayindo             Sr. Procurement Specialist    AFTPC Procurement
Olav Christensen         Senior PFM Specialist         HDNED Education
                         Lead Environmental
Africa Olojoba                                         AFTEN Environment
                         Specialist
                         Senior Social
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni                                     AFTCS Social Development
                         Development Specialist
Michael Drabble          Sr. Operations Officer        LCSHE Operations
Alain Hinkati            FM Specialist                 AFTFM Financial Management
Supervision/ICR
Yacinthe Gbayé           TTL                                    Education
Pamela Mullet            Education Specialist                   Education
Laura McDonald           ETC, Primary Author                    Operations
                         Consultant, Primary
Bernardo Vasconcellos                                           Operations
                         Author

   (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD (including travel and
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                         consultant costs)
Lending                                              0.48                   41,110.30
                               Total:                0.48                   41,110.30
Supervision/ICR                                    121.47                   190,939.50
                               Total:              121.47                   190,939.50


                                                  46
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable.




                                      47
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable.




                                   48
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following is a summary of the assessment of the Project taken from the Government’s
completion report. The full Government completion report has been archived in WBdocs.

INTRODUCTION

Togo has received a Global Partnership for Education funding (the former Education for All Fast
Track Initiative or Fast Track Initiative) in the amount of $ 45 million, or about 22.5 billion FCFA for
the implementation of the "Education and Institutional Strengthening Project" (PERI), executed under
the supervision of the World Bank.

The Education and Institutional Strengthening Project aims to mobilize resources to facilitate access
to school, improve teaching quality and strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Primary,
Secondary Education and Literacy, as well as coordination and management of the entire education
sector in Togo.

PERI has been designed to be implemented over a period of three years (2010-2013), with a view
to support the implementation of the Sector Plan for Education, through the provision of means to
increase the number of children having access to a full primary cycle.

After almost four (4) years of implementation (2010-2014), the government will learn the lessons and
capitalize on successful experiences of PERI to improve the implementation of future projects.

The PERI contributes to the achievement of PSE objectives aiming at quality universal education by
2020. To this end it supports the funding of certain activities included in the programs 1, "Basic
Education" and 5 "Strengthening capacity "of the PES.

More specifically, the PERI supports:

             -   the increase in the access and retention in basic education (primary);
             -   the improvement of the quality of teaching and learning at primary;
             -   strengthening institutional capacity and community capacity in management and
                 building school infrastructure.

The achievement of these objectives at the end of three years implementation of the PERI is
measured by the following performance indicators:

             -   increase in the completion rate in primary school from 65% in 2009 to 74% in 2012;
             -   reduction of the deficits in classrooms at primary school through the achievement of
                 at least 80% of the number of classes planned (163 the first year, 285 the second
                 and 367 the third) ;
             -   increase in the ratio reading book/student from 1/2.1 in 2009 to 1/1.3 in 2012;
             -   increased in the ratio math book/student from 1/2,1 in 2009 to 1/1.4 in 2012;




                                                   49
             -   a plan for strengthening the capacity of the MEPSA staff and skills transfer by the
                 UCP-PERI along with an implementation schedule is approved by the MEPSA and
                 at least 75% of the activities is executed and assessed during PSE joint reviews.

Program development indicators increased overall satisfactorily. The retention rate has improved
from 57.1% in 2010/11 to 58% in 2011/12 to 60.9% in 2012/13; the target for 2013/14 is 62%. This
positive trend was also noted in the overall primary completion rate and in the girls’, which reached
79% and 72.1% in 2012/13 for respective targets 81% and 73.5% for the end of the 2013/14 school
year. Textbooks per pupil ratios in math and reading exceeded the targets set for the end of the
project thanks to the good price negotiations for textbooks that helped acquire 2.9 million books
against a forecast of 1.6 million: these ratios were 1.8 in 2012/13 manual for 1 student in math and
1.04 manual for 1 student in reading.

The percentage of classrooms built by the COGEPs according to the standard plan of the school
construction project is satisfactory: it is 122% and therefore higher than 80% predicted at 31 October
2014. The progress made in the program is due to that all actors involved in the management process
have fully played the role assigned to them, including the availability and willingness of the Minister,
the Secretary General of MEPS and various departments concerned. The relevance and coherence
between the activities and objectives previously defined contributed significantly to the program's
success as a whole.

Main results obtained in each of the project components

After three (3) years of implementation of the project activities, the results are generally satisfactory.
The main results obtained in the various components are mentioned in the following paragraphs.

COMPONENT 1: ACCESS AND RETENTION

The target for the project was the construction of 815 classrooms with offices, storerooms and latrine
blocks. About 75% of classrooms are conducted in rural areas through project management
delegated to communities represented by the Public Schools Management Committees (COGEP)
and 25% for construction and furnishing of the classes are conducted in urban areas through the
project management delegated to an urban works management agency (AGETUR).

The following table summarizes the achievements made in this component:
                   Expected Results                   Results Achieved  % Achievement
 Urban             Signing of a delegated project Construction of 204 100%
 environments management agreement with classrooms
                   AGETUR for the construction of 68
                   school buildings equipped with 3
                   class related infrastructures
 Rural             Signing of a delegated project 798 classrooms with 122%
                   management agreement with storerooms, offices
                   COGEP for the construction of 611
                   classrooms equipped with offices,
                   storerooms

                                                   50
The 22% represents the supplement to the savings achieved on the component and especially at
the component "Community approach". This allowed to propose a restructuring (reallocation) of
resources raising the main goal of 815 classrooms to 999 classrooms (a gain of 182 additional
classrooms) and also the quality enhancement (component 2).

COMPONENT 2: QUALITY SUPPORT

The execution point of the component is as follows:

Sub component 2.1 - Student textbooks and teacher’s guides.

Acquisition and distribution to public primary schools (EPP) and local initiative schools (EDIL) of:
   • 2,055,960 textbooks of mathematics and 790,268 reading textbooks distributed
   • 28,442 teacher’s guides in mathematics and 28,890 teacher’s guides in reading distributed
   • 11,154 reading panels (5,753 for CP1 and 5,401 for CP2).

Currently, the manuals/pupil ratio for the account of the 2012/2013 school year is 1.78 in
mathematics and 1.04 in reading while the indicators referred to for 2012 were:

            -    rise in the ratio reading book/student from 1/2.1 (0.47) in 2009 to 1/1.3 (0.76) in
                 2012;
            -    rise in the ratio math book/student from 1/2.1 (0.47) in 2009 to 1/1.4 (0.71) in 2012;

These data reveal that textbooks per pupil ratios in math and reading exceeded the targets set for
the end of the project.

Sub Component 2.2 - Schools Grants

School grants were provided to a large number of schools under the Project. During the first year,
3,500 schools benefitted from school grants for the 2011-2012 school year. During the second and
third years of the project, some challenges related to the effective delivery of school grants to
COGEPs were encountered. In order to better understand these reported difficulties, the
Government undertook a thorough audit. This audit demonstrated a number of challenges in
distribution and execution of the resources allocated to this Project-supported activity. As a result of
this audit, a number of concrete recommendations have been devised to address these issues many
of these recommended actions are underway. As a result of the challenges encountered in this
activity, the design of the follow-on operation (PERI 2) includes a more comprehensive and robust
FM and M&E system to properly track these funds and to ensure that they reach the intended
beneficiaries in a timely manner.




                                                  51
Sub Component 2.3 - Construction of Teacher Training Schools

The management of the sub-component was part of the agreement signed with AGETUR. Three ENI
were built, respectively in Niamtougou in the Kara region, Sotouboua in the Central region and Adéta
in the Plateaux region. Construction works of these three ENI began on April 29, 2013 and receptions
were made on time. ENI Niamtougou was received in April 2014 while ENIs of Sotouboua and Adéta
were received in May 2014.

COMPONENT 3 - CAPACITY BUILDING AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING

Capacity building for both the management and supervision of the construction program of rural
schools for the implementation of the education sector plan (PSE) has been achieved satisfactorily.

Sub-component 3.1 - Community management support.

Actions were primarily directed towards the successful management of the school construction
program focusing on strengthening the capacities of COGEP.
Indeed, the PERI has developed five training modules for the effective management of local
development by communities through the implementation of constructions to ensure sustainable
access to school facilities:

    •   Module 1: the Organization and Community Dynamics and Communication (ODC/Com),
        which aims to strengthen the capacities of COGEP in the development of operational bodies
        and a system of communication that will promote local governance around the school
        project;

    •   Module 2: The Process of Community Procurement and Transparency (PMC/T) to allow the
        COGEPs to support school construction through the good management of simplified
        contract awarding procedures;

    •   Module 3: the Financial Management (GF) to help the COGEPs adopt appropriate and
        simplified rules and procedures for the management of funds made available to them;

    •   Module 4: the Participatory Monitoring/Evaluation (SEP) to allow COGEP in the process of
        appropriation of school construction sub-projects to develop indicators for execution of their
        projects;

    •   Module 5: The Upkeep and Maintenance of School Infrastructure (EM) to allow the COGEPs
        to take advantage of appropriate tools for the preparation and execution of upkeep and
        maintenance plans for school infrastructure.




                                                 52
Table: Overview of the achievements of rural construction program


      Activities                Results Expected                            Results Achieved
 Strengthening            •   A national training device for        •   5 Management Training at the
 capacity in the              Management Training at the                grass roots level modules (FGB)
 management and               grass roots level is set up               accompanied with guides
 supervision of               and operational                           illustrated and finalised
 schools building         •   A plan to build MEPS                  •   267 COGEP trained in the
                              capacity and transfer UCP                 Management Training at the
                              skills along with a precise               grass roots level (all COGEP are
                              timing is approved and                    trained on the 5 modules).
                              implemented                           •   Development of seven (07) skills
                                                                        transfer plans to counterparts
                                                                        (officials) of the project. Over
                                                                        90% of powers transferred to
                                                                        counterparts

 Establishment of a       •   An operational national               •   Signature of an order
 sustainable system           mechanism (structural and                 establishing an institutional
 for the evaluation           methodological framework)                 mechanism for Learning
 of educational               for learning assessment is set            assessment at MEPS
 achievement                  up                                    •   Execution (through the national
                          •   A survey on learning                      system) of the collection of the
                              assessment in primary school              two (02) phases of the
                              is conducted through the                  assessment conducted with a
                              national framework                        sample of 200 schools including
                                                                        more than 3,000 students of
                                                                        CP2; 3000 students of CM1; 400
                                                                        teachers; 200 school directors
                                                                        and 148 members of COGEP.
                                                                    •   Data collection and processing
                                                                    •   Training of the mechanism
                                                                        members in the use of the
                                                                        STATA software
                                                                    •   Preparation of the evaluation
                                                                        report
                                                                    •   Report validation by the end
                                                                        October 2014
                                                                    •   Conduct of survey on service
                                                                        delivery indicators is performed
                                                                        by the national device
                                                                    •   Conduct of survey on tracking of
                                                                        public expenditure on education
                                                                        by the national mechanism


                                               53
Establishment of a    •   A sustainable system for the      •   A survey on professional follow-
sustainable system        regular assessment of the             up conducted for technical and
for the regular           adequacy between trainings            vocational education and higher
assessment of the         in technical and vocational           education in Lomé educational
adequacy between          education (ETFP), higher              region.
trainings in              education on the one hand         •   Data collection and processing
technical and             and labor market on the other     •   Interim report prepared and
vocational                hand is set up at the STP             presented at the third national
education (ETFP),         level and is operational              review on education sector
higher education                                            •   Final report available
on the one hand
and labor market
on the other hand
Support for the       •   Implementation plans of           •   Development of competence and
development of            development programs for              training frameworks for pre-
credible                  early childhood and Literacy          school education
implementation            are prepared in accordance        •   Finalization of the training
plans for the             with the PSE strategies               module of parental education
development of                                              •   Strengthening the capacities of
preschool                                                       the executives on curricula of
education and                                                   Literacy and preschool and
literacy                                                        primary education
                                                            •   Improvement of the curricula of
                                                                Literacy and preschool and
                                                                primary education
                                                            •   Development of the National
                                                                Literacy Strategy
                                                            •   Workshop for the analysis of
                                                                literacy curricula

Support for the       •   An implementation plan for        •   Recruitment of a consultant
development of            health, nutrition and the fight   •   Implementation underway
implementation            against HIV / AIDS programs
plans for health,         in school in accordance with
nutrition and the         the key strategies of the PSE
fight against HIV /       and approved by the MEPS
AIDS programs in
school
Statistics and        •   Establishment of a new data       •   A new statistical data base for the
Information               base at the DPEE                      sector is available at the DPEE
Management                                                      (Stat_Educ).

Support for the       •   Support        to     sectoral    •   Recruitment of 3 consultants to
implementation of         coordination                          support the STP (specialist in
the STP               •   Setting up of regular                 learning evaluation, specialist in
                          evaluation devices                    education economy and

                                           54
                                  (Adequacy                                   specialist of adequacy between
                                  training/employment and                     training and employment)
                                  Learning evaluation of at the
                                  MEPS)

 Other supports to           •    Strengthening capacity for             •    Financing the training of 12
 the sector                       the sector executives                       sector executives on sectoral
 management                       achieved                                    policies and the management of
                                                                              education systems (PSGSE) for
                                                                              the 2012-2013 academic year
                                                                              and 04 executives for the 2013-
                                                                              2014 academic year.
                                                                         •    Financing the training of two (02)
                                                                              executives of MEPS in the
                                                                              establishment of monitoring and
                                                                              evaluation      systems       and
                                                                              information systems


 Financial management:

The status of disbursements and program performance indicators is satisfactory.

Role/Leadership of the Cabinet of the Minister in the implementation of the program

Three ministers have successively provided leadership for the project. They are Ms Legzim-Balouki,
Mr. Esso Solitoki and Mr Florent MAGANAWE who have succeeded at the head of the department.
In the performance of their duties, these ministers worked for the monitoring and orientation of the
UCP to ensure the use of best practices in the implementation of the project. Although the project
has seen the leadership of three different ministers the success of the project has not been disrupted.
Ministers were particularly available when it came to use their authority to accelerate the execution
of certain activities.

Lessons learned

In the context of development of school infrastructure, the community approach has produced
satisfactory results. It has achieved good quality infrastructure at low cost. The savings made on this
aspect and that have allowed the phase 3 31 show a comparative advantage over the traditional
approach to school construction. Finally, the community approach also happens to be a way of
preparing local actors to strong adhesion conducive to adult education. In fact, Management Training
at the grass roots level helps community members to realize the need to be literate.



31
  This phase 3 will cover 60 new sites and thus increase the number of classrooms to be built from 815 to
996. The implementation of this additional phase will provide an opportunity to test the community approach
in some suburban areas.

                                                    55
The support for the establishment of the Permanent Technical Secretariat (STP) helped consolidate
the sectoral vision of education among different actors. The operationalization of STP has greatly
contributed to the success of the PSE review process.

In the implementation of future construction projects, it is necessary to ensure the availability of sites
before the start of activities.

Also, the full report on the transfer of skills between international experts and national counterparts
is an achievement for the Department in terms of skills to focus on.

Furthermore, the information sharing through weekly meetings allowed a good collaboration among
the members of the UCP and a regular monitoring of the implementation at regional level.

Program impact in the implementation of national educational policy in Togo

The national educational policy is aiming at, among others, universal primary education of quality. At
the junior secondary school, it is as much as possible to increase school coverage consistent with
logistical means available. In other levels of education including technical education and higher
education, the focus is on providing training in line with the labor market.

The project has helped to lift some constraints to achieving this goal. The construction of 995
classrooms has improved access and retention. Further strengthening community capacity allowed
the COGEP to appropriate the implementation modalities of the new strategy of MEPS in school
construction.

From the point of view of quality, the distribution of textbooks to students, teaching guides for
teachers and grants for reading panels for preparatory classes (CP) have helped to improve the
learning environment. Construction of the three ENI has strengthened the teacher training system.
The institutional learning evaluation device established at the MEPS is a management tool that will
allow regular monitoring of the education system. Institutional strengthening has improved the
capacity of staff in the education sector in their different areas of intervention.

The strengthening of the PTS led to the completion of several studies and projects such as the
professional follow-up survey, learning assessments, youth vocational training pilot project; the
development of policy documents namely: sector diagnosis (main RESEN, additional chapters ETFP
and ESR) and school health policy.

ANALYSIS OF THE ACTION OF THE WORLD BANK, THE GOVERNMENT AND THE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Appreciation of the action of the World Bank and the other TFP during the execution of the
project

The actions of the World Bank and the other TFP were generally satisfactory during the execution of
the PERI project. The bank was attentive to the various constraints and difficulties which could
possibly have been affecting the Project. In this context, a permanent exchange is established with

                                                   56
the officials in charge of the program at the Bank's level to find appropriate solutions to the various
questions asked. This enabled the goals of the Project.

Since the preparation of the project until its implementation, the technical and financial partners of
the education sector in Togo had a strong involvement across the partnership framework. In
consultation with the leader of the PTF-SE (Technical and Financial Partners involved in the
Education Sector), the government held regular coordination meetings in the framework of
monitoring the implementation of the Education Sector Plan in which the PERI is inscribed.

As part of the implementation of the project, the bank suggested the adoption of the Community
approach that has contributed greatly to accelerate the construction process of school infrastructure
in rural areas. This device allowed relief of funds procedures provision at the grass-root community
level. Indeed this approach has helped decentralize the procurement system and the expenditure
chain.

The bank has also accepted that the savings, from the procurement process based on the lowest
bidder particularly on classrooms construction, are allocated for the construction of additional
classrooms.

The Procurement Plan (PPM) adopted and updated quarterly facilitated the implementation of
several activities that led to more visibility on other sub-sectors of the Togolese education system
including Technical Education and Vocational Training and Higher Education and Research.

At project start, the unavailability of harmonized standard plans significantly affected the project
implementation delays. This situation prompted a request for extension of the implementation period
of six (6) months accepted by the bank.

In addition to the daily activities under the supervision of the coordination unit, the project
experienced a dozen of the World Bank supervision missions (at least one mission every six months).
In 2013, administratively, was held the mid-term review (from 11 to 22 March) helped to make a
status report on the implementation of the project activities and to carry out an in-depth analysis of
the forecasts in the light of the elapsed time and the remaining time. These mid-term evaluations
have identified weaknesses and propose corrective measures. The bank has conducted specific
supervision missions of school construction program.

Appreciation of government action during the execution of the program

Government approval for adopting the community approach has been critical to the success of the
project. This approach has contributed to the mobilization and active participation of the grassroots
in the implementation of the various components of the project leading to the exceeding of the targets
regarding school construction. This mobilization was made possible thanks to the decision of
COGEP creation taken by the government at the request of the Bank.

The government did not hesitate to take action against all unscrupulous agents whose actions some
time or another were about to endanger the trust established with the donors. This rigor of the
government was continuing throughout the project.

                                                  57
A strong involvement of the highest authorities of the Ministry in monitoring the projects helped
improve the quality of the works and reduce turnaround times.

The fee exemption decision strengthened the resources available to the project. It has contributed
to increasing the number of classrooms built which went from 815 to 999.

The government has initiated joint audits of the financial departments of the Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education and the Ministry of Economy and Finance to ensure the proper management
of school grants and draw lessons for future projects.

Following the learning assessment and the first results from the investigation SDI (Service Delivery
indicator), it emerged that the professional qualification (initial) and teacher continuing training affect
the quality of learning. The government has therefore decided to reorient the training of volunteer
teachers towards the subjects taught.

The government effectively involved civil society in the partnership framework to ensure ownership
of the project by the national community.

Monitoring of the program at the level of the Ministries of Education involved

The Togolese Government is committed to strengthen and support its education system, favoring a
consolidated approach for its various sub-sectors. The work done by the various Ministries of
Education, in collaboration with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Cooperation,
Development and Spatial Planning and the other partners, allowed to develop the sector policy letter
adopted by the cabinet on June 29, 2009 and to formulate an Education Sector Plan (PSE) tenable
for 2010-2020.

The PSE control device includes at central level, the Sectoral Steering Committee (CSP), the
Permanent Technical Secretariat (STP), departmental coordinating and monitoring committees
(CMCS); at the decentralized level, regional coordinating and monitoring committees (CRCS), local
education committees (CLE), the management committees (CG) of schools. The regular holding of
the sectoral committee sessions have encouraged involvement of all educational stakeholders in
monitoring the PERI. In addition to the sectoral committee sessions, the holding of various joint
reviews of the education sector have been the project evaluation times.

This framework should be strengthened to facilitate regular participation of all stakeholders in
education. Indeed the momentum triggered by the PERI across the sector prompted the need to
involve other donors into the achievement of the PSE objectives.

Assessing the effectiveness and quality of relations between the government and the World
Bank during project implementation

For the implementation of the PSE, the Togolese Government has sought technical and financial
assistance from its partners. Technical and financial partners involved in the education sector (PTF-
SE) consist of multilateral donors and bilateral partners and the United Nations agencies. The Local
Group of EFA partners mainly comprises UNICEF (the leader), the World Bank (supervisory entity

                                                    58
funding GPE), Islamic Development Bank, AFD, UNESCO, WFP, GIZ, Plan Togo, Aide et Action,
Terre des Hommes, Bornefonden and Handicap International. Supervising entity of GPE funding,
the World Bank is involved in this partnership framework. It is in this context that the PERI was
prepared and executed. The good quality of relations between the World Bank and the Togolese
government generally and the authorities in charge of sector particularly contributed strongly to
create an enabling environment for the successful implementation of the project. Thus the authorities
of the education sector have spared no effort to support the Bank's various missions and ensure the
implementation of the various recommendations.

Evaluating the performance of different institutions, consulting firms and consultants who
participated in the execution (cost and profit)

In general terms, the various actors involved in the project have properly fulfilled their missions.

As for school construction, the objectives have been achieved overall in both urban and rural areas.
The community approach has been more cost effective; the difference in unit construction cost of a
classroom between this approach and the construction through the delegated project management
is about 5 million. Although the building plan implemented in urban areas present a more expensive
architecture (presence of a slab instead of a roof like in rural areas), this difference does not in itself
explain most of this difference. In urban areas where implementation has been the approach of
delegated project management, however, it should be noted the slow start of the work mentioned in
several memoirs by the project supervision missions and the PME program assessment missions.
Moreover urban construction activities were the subject of regular exhortations regarding monitoring
the work.

The skills transfer device has generally performed satisfactorily despite some imperfections related
in particular to the lack of resources dedicated to counterparts compensation. However these
shortcomings have not dented the commitment of several counterparts who have assumed the
specialist function after the departure of the incumbents.

The institutional learning assessment device also reached a satisfactory level. The National
Evaluation Unit is functional and made three surveys including two learning assessments (SDI /
PASEC). The Unit also benefited from several capacity building workshops for its members in the
field of survey and the processing and analysis of survey data.

The monitoring of the training and employment system has been set up, which enabled a follow-up
survey on graduates, strengthen the capacity of ministries officials in charge of sampling education,
development of data input masks and analysis of the labor market. This device has also conducted
training and insertion of 80 young people in four promising businesses namely laundry, market
gardening, butchery and fish processing.




                                                    59
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                    60
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aide-Memoires 2009 – 2014.

CF Program Document on a Proposed Grant from the EFA-FTI CF in the amount of
US$45 million to the Republic of Togo for an Education and Institutional Strengthening
Project (PERI). September 16, 2010.

EFA FTI CF Grant Agreement (PERI) between the Republic of Togo and IDA. October
29, 2010.

First Amendment to the Grant Agreement. June 24, 2014.

Final Mission report. Implementations status of GMT Training and Institutional capacity
building of COGEPS. MEPSA. March 2014.

Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) 1- 8. 2010-2014

Manuel simplifie de gestion des subventions aux ecoles prescolaires et primaires
publiques du Togo. MEPSA. Version Provisoire. June 2011.

Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant from the GPE in the amount of
US$27.8 million to the Republic of Togo for an Education and Institutional
Strengthening Project (PERI 2). February 2015.

Politique Nationale du Developpement de la Petite Enfance. Government of Togo and
UNICEF. November 2014.

Rapport de mise en œuvre. Gestion et coordination « fevrier 2011-October 2014 »du
Projet Education et Renforcement Institutionnel (PERI). October 31, 2014.

Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of an EFA-FTI Project CF Grant
to the Republic of Togo. April 10, 2014.

Technical Notes 2009 – 2014.




                                           61
Annex 10. Indicators under the Project




                                                  PDO-Level Indicators for Component 1 (Access and Retention)



                                                  Original (2010)                                      Restructuring (April 2014)                         Project closing (October 2014)

                 Indicator
                                                                                                                              Revised target
                                      Original                                    Achievement as
                                                                                                                Indicator      for October
                                      Baseline            Original targets            of 2014                                                  Achievement                  Comments
                                                                                                                 Change        2014 closing
                                    (2009/2010)                                    restructuring
                                                                                                                                   date


                                                      2010/    2011/     2012/
                                                      2011     2012      2013

           Primary Completion                                                                                                                                    Target exceeded. End target




                                                                                        77.8% (2013)
           Rate (%)                                                                                                                                              was modified under the 2014
                                                                                                                                                                 restructuring to take into




                                                                                                                                                   83.6
                                        65




                                                        68



                                                                    71


                                                                             74




                                                                                                                                    81
                                                                                                                                                                 account revised population
                                                                                                                                                                 data.

           Primary Completion                                                                                                                                    Target exceeded.
                                                                                        72.1 (2013)
           Rate (%), girls




                                                                                                                   Added
           [indicated added under




                                                                                                                                    73.5




                                                                                                                                                   80
           restructuring]




                                                                                                       62
Direct Project                                                                                         This indicator refers to
Beneficiaries (and %                                                                                   students enrolled in schools
Female)                                                                                                constructed/extended,




                                                                                      90,200 (48.4%)
                                                                                                       cumulative. The number is




                                                 2250 (45%)
                                                                                                       much larger if the individuals




                                                   (2013)
                                 25000


                                         75000
                                                                                                       benefitting from school grants




                         0




                             0
                                                                                                       and/or textbooks are included.

                                                                                                       The targeted percentage of
                                                                                                       females was not specified in the
                                                                                                       PAD.
Primary Retention rate                                                                                 Target exceeded.




                                                                                  70% among
                                                                                   66 (66.1%
[indicated added under




                                                                                    girls and
                                                                   Added
                                                 (2011)




                                                                                      boys)
restructuring]




                                                  57.1




                                                                           62.0
Schools constructed by                                                                                 This includes procurement
the school-based                                                                                       procedures at the COGEP
communities according                                                                                  level and the quality of
to the standardized                                                                                    construction. During the




                                                                   Added




                                                                                      99.6%
                                                   70%
school construction                                                                                    preparation of the last IFR, out




                                                                           80.0
guidelines under the                                                                                   of 792 classrooms under
project (percentage)                                                                                   construction, 792 were
                                                                                                       completed and signed off.
[indicated added under
restructuring]




                                                              63
                              Intermediate-Level Indicators for Component 1 (Access and Retention)

                                       Original (2010)                                                                                 Restructuring (April 2014)                                     Project closing (October 2014)

       Indicator
                                                                                                                                                                           Revised target
                           Original                                                              Achievement as
                                                                                                                                                Indicator                   for October
                           Baseline                   Original targets                               of 2014                                                                                Achievement                 Comments
                                                                                                                                                 Change                     2014 closing
                         (2009/2010)                                                              restructuring
                                                                                                                                                                                date



                                           2010/           2011/          2012/
                                           2011            2012           2013

Additional classrooms                                                                                                                                                                                        Target exceeded.




                                                                                                        273 (39 urban and 234 rural)
resulting from project                                                                                                                                                                                       Restructuring paper indicates




                                                                                                                                                    End-target increased
intervention, %                                                                                                                                                                                              that end-of-project target was




                                                                           80% of 367 (or 652)
compared to planned                                                                                                                                                                                          80% of 815 = 652; this is not

                                             80% of 163



                                                             80% of 285
numbers                                                                                                                                                                                                      mentioned however in the PAD




                                                                                                                                                                                 915




                                                                                                                                                                                                996
(Number of additional
classrooms built or
rehabilitated at the
primary level as a
result of project
intervention)
% of Resources                                                                                                                                                                                               Target achieved. Resources




                                                                                                                                                  End-target
managed by CMA and                                                                                                                                                                                           just transferred to CMA and




                                                                                                                                                   modified
                                                                                                        100%




                                                                                                                                                                                 100%
                                             80%



                                                             80%


                                                                           80%

communities according                                                                                                                                                                                        communities in 2012




                                                                                                                                                                                                100
to agreed procedures


School building                                                                                                                                                                                              Target exceeded.
                                                                                                 completed; it was
                                                                                                  postponed given
                                                                                                  delay in overall
                                                                                                  school building
                                                                                                   Survey not yet




program overall
                                          instrument
                                          Evaluation

                                           approved




satisfaction of actors                                                                               program
                                                             70%


                                                                           70%




                                                                                                                                                                                                92%
and beneficiaries




                                                                                                                                       64
                                        PDO-Level Indicators for Component 2 (Inputs for Quality)



                                       Original (2010)                                            Restructuring (April 2014)                           Project closing (October 2014)

       Indicator
                                                                                                                          Revised target
                           Original                                         Achievement as
                                                                                                           Indicator       for October
                           Baseline              Original targets               of 2014                                                    Achievement                   Comments
                                                                                                            Change         2014 closing
                         (2009/2010)                                         restructuring
                                                                                                                               date



                                           2010/      2011/      2012/
                                           2011       2012       2013


Ratio Mathematics                                                                                                                                             Target exceeded, although




                                                                                  1.8:1 (2013)




                                                                                                              No change
textbooks: students in                                                                                                                                        challenges observed in the
                             1:2.1




                                             1:2.1



                                                         1:1.7


                                                                    1:1.5
primary                                                                                                                                                       delivery of textbooks.




                                                                                                                                               1:1
Ratio Reading                                                                                                                                                 Target exceeded, although




                                                                                  1.05:1 (2013)




                                                                                                              No change
textbooks: students in                                                                                                                                        challenges observed in the
                                                         1:1.7


                                                                    1:1.4




                                                                                                                                               1.2:1
primary                                                                                                                                                       delivery of textbooks.
                             1:2




                                             1:2




                                                                                                  65
                                Intermediate-Level Indicators for Component 2 (Inputs for Quality)



                                      Original (2010)                                                                  Restructuring (April 2014)                                                                                                       Project closing (October 2014)

      Indicator
                                                                                                                                                                           Revised target
                          Original                                         Achievement as
                                                                                                                                Indicator                                   for October
                          Baseline              Original targets               of 2014                                                                                                                                  Achievement                                       Comments
                                                                                                                                 Change                                     2014 closing
                        (2009/2010)                                         restructuring
                                                                                                                                                                                date


                                          2010/        2011/    2012/
                                          2011         2012     2013
Actual number of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Target exceeded.




                                                                             textbooks vs.
                                          85% of 1.6




                                                                              2.9 million

                                                                              1.6 million
textbooks purchased




                                                                                planned
                                            million




                                                                                                                                                                                            181%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    181%
and delivered to
primary school, %
compared to planned
number
Completion of new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Target exceeded. It was not




                                                                                                                                 New textbooks in math and reading for




                                                                                                                                                                              Draft version of new textbooks in math
                                                                                                                                 ready to be introduced on a pilot basis




                                                                                                                                                                              and reading are available for the first
                                                                                New curricula rewritten according to




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Textbooks in math and reading have
textbooks in math and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           possible to complete the




                                                                                                                                  the first grade of primary schools is
reading                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         textbooks for primary grades




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              been finzlied; pilot is ongoing
                                                                                   competency-based approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                because the implementation of




                                                                                                                                                                                     grade of primary school
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                new curricula was expected to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                be progressive.
                                                        Draft


                                                                   Final
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Note in restructuring paper –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                based on lessons learnt from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                other countries the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                development of competency-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                based curricula and new
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                textbooks has been limited to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the first grade and will be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                implemented on a pilot basis in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the 2014/2015 school year
Actual number of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Level of achievement on this
schools with grant                                                                                                               Percentage of schools                                                                                                          indicator cannot be determined
                                                                                                                                   benefitting from




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Undetermined
delivered compared to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           given the challenges faced with
the planned number                                                                                                                   school grants                                                                                                              delivery of school grants under
                                            75%



                                                        75%


                                                                   75%




                                                                                                                                                                                            83%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the Project. Approximately
                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                US$700,000 which represents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12 percent of the total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                allocation for this activity,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                remained unspent.




                                                                                                                       66
Number of regional                                                                                                                      Target achieved.
teacher training
institutes built and
equipped




                              0




                                            0



                                                       0


                                                                 3




                                                                                                                             3
                                PDO–Level Indicators for Component 3 (Institutional Strengthening)



                                     Original (2010)                              Restructuring (April 2014)                     Project closing (October 2014)

      Indicator
                                                                                                            Revised
                         Original                                       Achievement as
                                                                                           Indicator       target for
                         Baseline            Original targets               of 2014                                      Achievement               Comments
                                                                                            Change        October 2014
                       (2009/2010)                                       restructuring
                                                                                                          closing date



                                       2010/      2011/         2012/
                                       2011       2012          2013


Time-bound                                                                                                                              Target achieved. Indicator
capacity-building                                                                          Indicator                                    became      intermediate-level
                                        Plan
plan                                                                                        became                                      under Restructuring
                                       approv      75%          75%         55%                                             90%
                                                                                         intermediate-
                                         ed
                                                                                              level




                                                                                   67
                          Intermediate-Level Indicators for Component 3 (Institutional Strengthening)


                                    Original (2010)                                         Restructuring (April 2014)                                            Project closing (October 2014)

     Indicator
                                                                                                                                        Revised
                        Original                                          Achievement
                                                                                                         Indicator                     target for
                        Baseline              Original targets              as of 2014                                                               Achievement                          Comments
                                                                                                          Change                      October 2014
                      (2009/2010)                                         restructuring
                                                                                                                                      closing date



                                      2010/        2011/         2012/2
                                      2011         2012           013

Number of financing                                                                                                                                                               Target achieved. Only end




                                                                                                               End-target was
agreements signed                                                                                                                                                                 target was increased under




                                                                                                                 increased
between                                                                                                                                                                           2014 restructuring
                                        80%



                                                      80%



                                                                   80%




                                                                                                                                           100




                                                                                                                                                         109
inspectorates and
communities
compared to planned
number




                                                                          have received 4 modules and
Number of                                                                                                                                                                         Target achieved.




                                                                          72 have received training in
                                                                           received all 5 modules, 124
                                                                           As of the restructuring, of




                                                                                                         been trained on at least 4




                                                                                                                                                         266 communities (100%)
                                                                             the 204 communities, 8
communities have




                                                                                                          communities that have

                                                                                                           out of the 5 modules
GMT training




                                                                                3 modules (65%)

                                                                                                               Percentage of
compared to planned
number




                                                                                                                                           100%
                                        80%



                                                      80%



                                                                   80%




                                                                                             68
                 Primary school                                                                                                                                                   Target exceeded. At the
                 teachers’ deployment                                                                                                                                             restructuring, the data for
                 consistency index                                                                                                                                                2011-2012 was presented
                 (R2 of the number of                                                                                                                                             (the most recent available




                                            0.55




                                                         0.57



                                                                 0.58



                                                                                       0.60




                                                                                                       0.66




                                                                                                                                                                        0.73
                 teachers and                                                                                                                                                     at that time).
                 students calculated
                 on the basis of all
                 public/EDIL schools)
                 System for student                                                                                                                                               Target achieved.




                                                                                                  survey has

                                                                                                  completed
                 learning assessment




                                                                                                   National




                                                                                                                                                                        Yes: 3
                 (0-4 scale) 32




                                                                                                     been
                                            0




                                                         1



                                                                 2



                                                                                       3
                 Completion of ECD                                                                                                                                                Target achieved.




                                                                                                  policy note




                                                                                                                                                                    Draft plan
                                                                                                  preschool




                                                                                                                                                                    validated
                                                                                                   prepared




                                                                                                                                                                    available
                 implementation plan




                                                                                                                                                                     by Govt
                                                         Draft




                                                                                                     Draft
                                                                 Final




                                                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                         Implementation started
                 Completion of                                                                                                                                                    Target achieved.




                                                                                                   finalization
                                                                                                    Draft plan




                                                                                                                                                                     completed
                                                                                                                                                                     version of
                 Literacy




                                                                                                      under
                                                         Draft



                                                                 Final




                                                                                                                                                                       Final

                                                                                                                                                                       plan
                 Implementation Plan



                 Completion of                                                                                                                                                    Target achieved.




                                                                                                   Preparatio




                                                                                                                                                                     completed
                                                                                                   underway




                                                                                                                                                                     version of
                                                                                                    n of plan
                 credible school
                                                         Draft



                                                                 Final




                                                                                                                                                                       Final

                                                                                                                                                                       plan
                 health, nutrition and
                 HIV/AIDS
                 implementation plan
                 Time bound capacity                                                                                                                                              Target exceeded. A list of




                                                                                                                                        (same target as mentioned
                 building plan : % of                                                                                                                                             critical milestones was set


                                                                                                       Add as intermediate level
                 activities completed                                                                                                                                             up in the skills transfer
                                                                                                                                                                                  plan. At the end of project,




                                                                                                                                              above: 75%)
                                                                                                                                                                                  the government




                                                                                                                                                                        90%
                                                                                                                                                                                  counterparts and experts
                                                                                                                                                                                  reached an agreement on
                                                                                                                                                                                  the percentage of skills
                                                                                                                                                                                  transfer which had
                                                                                                                                                                                  occurred. This percentage
                                                                                                                                                                                  is an average for all the
                                                                                                                                                                                  experts.




32
     Likert scale from 0 to 4 as described in the PAD, p. 31.
                                                                                                                                   69
MAP




      70
