OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTM
THE WORLD BANK'
Regional Office (Benin, Burkina Faso, C6ted'Ivoire, Guinea, Togo)
June 24, 2014
His Excellency Adji 0. Ayassor
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Lome
Republic of Togo
Subject: Republic of Togo: Education for All - Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund
Education and Institutional Strengthening Project (Grant TFO9 7340).
First Amendment to the Grant Agreement.
Excellency:
We refer to the Grant Agreement dated October 29, 2010 ("Agreement"), between
the Republic of Togo ("Recipient") and the International Development Association
("World Bank"), acting as administrator of the Education for All - Fast Track Initiative
Catalytic Fund.
We also refer to your letter dated August 26, 2013, requesting specific
amendments to the Agreement. Please note that capitalized terms used in this letter
("Amendment Letter") and not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the
Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that the World Bank accedes to your request and
proposes, through this Amendment Letter, to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.    Schedule I of the Agreement is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new
Schedule 1 as shown in Attachment I of this Amendment Letter.
2.    The table set forth under Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the table as shown in Attachment 2 to this
Amendment Letter.
3.    Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"2.   The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard
Conditions is October 31, 2014."
Swcgu  ArIl-e cles Rues B-ookei Washmgton C1 JaCUeLCs ALIa- '01 1) P 1985i ANdin.C6. d 'ie
W~~~ ~ (25 2  o  22 419o  - !'J IN I AF RAI) A hilan  !A AX  (225  22 40i  e  247;T


﻿His Excellency Adji 0. Ayassdr        - 2 -                    June 24, 2014
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and
dating this Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below. Henceforward, all other
provisions of the Agreement, except as amended through this Amendment Letter shall
remain in full force and effect. This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two
counterparts each of which shall be an original.
Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions
set forth in this Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of
countersignature upon receipt by the World Bank of the countersigned original of this
Amendment Letter.
Sincerely,
Ousmane Dia na
Country Direct for Tog
Africa R ion
CONFIRMED AND AGRE         S'0QUE To0
REPUBL           GO
By:           GO             IdS~
Name:, Adji Oteth A YASSOR
Title: 't.A
Date: [D4 JUIL 2014


﻿His Excellency Adji 0. Ayassor         - 3 -                     June 24, 2014
Attachment 1
"SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase coverage of and retention in basic
education, (ii) support improvements in the quality of teaching, and (iii) strengthen
institutional and community capacity in implementation and management of the Project.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:            Access and retention
1.    Construction of new classrooms and related facilities in selected urban areas of
the Recipient's territory.
2.    Construction of new classrooms in selected rural areas through the provision of
Sub-grants to eligible COGEP Beneficiaries in the Recipient's territory.
3.    Construction of water access points in selected rural areas of the Recipient's
territory.
4.    Restructuring of the primary school's cycle into three sub-cycles.
Part B:      Inputs for quality
1.    Development of new    competency-based curricula and new    textbooks in
mathematics and reading for first grade students.
2.    Carrying out of a review of the curricula in preschool and literacy training.
3.    Provision of core subjects textbooks (e.g. mathematics and reading) for use by
public and community primary schools in the Recipient's territory.
4.     Carrying out of a program of activities aimed to support teaching and learning
quality enhancement programs, including: (i) pedagogical material, textbooks and
stationery; (ii), school building maintenance; and (iii) school furniture
maintenance; through the provision of Sub-grants to eligible COGEP
Beneficiaries.
5.    Construction of three regional teacher training institutes in Kara, Maritime and
Central regions of the Recipient's territory.
6.    Carrying out of a program of activities to improve teaching practices through in-
service training for teachers in primary schools.


﻿His Excellency Adji 0. Ayassor        - 4 -                     June 24, 2014
Part C:      Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening of the Project's school building management capacity and
supervision.
2.    Building the capacity of MEPSA by: (i) setting up a system for learning
assessment, (ii) improving consistency of teachers' deployment across schools,
(iii) supporting the preparation of credible implementation plans for pre-school
and literacy development, and (iv) supporting the preparation of a credible
implementation plan regarding school health, nutrition and HIV/AIDS."


﻿His Excellency Adji 0. Ayassor       - 5 -                    June 24, 2014
Attachment 2
REVISED TABLE
Amount of the     Percentage of
"Category                 Grant allocated  expenditures to
(expressed in US$)  be financed
(1) Goods, works and consultants' services
for activities under Parts A.1 and B.5 of the  9,200,000     100%
Project that are included in the relevant
Agreed Annual Work Plan
2) Goods, works and consultants' services
required for Sub-projects for Parts A.2 and  21,200,000      100%
B.4 of the Project that are included in the
relevant Agreed Annual Work Plan
3) Goods, works, consultant services and
Operating Costs for activities under Parts
A.3, A4, B.1, B.2, B.3, B.6 and C of the  14,600,000         100%
Project that are included in the relevant
Agreed Annual Work Plan
TOTAL AMOUNT                             45,000,000"


