                                               Document of
                                             The WorldBank


                                      FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                                  Report No.: 35398-BR




                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                  FORA

  PROPOSEDMINAS GERAISPARTNERSHIPFOR DEVELOPMENT- DEVELOPMENT
                                       POLICY LOAN(DPL-MG)

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$170MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                 STATE OF MINAS GERAIS, BRAZIL

            WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL




                                          FEBRUARY 23,2006




Poverty Reduction andEconomic ManagementDepartment
Brazil Country ManagementUnit
Latin AmericaandCaribbeanRegion




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     BRAZIL - GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                            January 1- December 31

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective as of JuZy I,2005)

                      Currency Unit              Real
                        US$1.oo                 Rs2.33

                    ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

ADE       Adicional de Desempenho(Performance Bonus)
AGE       Advocacia Geral do Estado (State Attorney's Office)
ALEMG     AssemblCiaLegislativa de Minas Gerais (Legislative Assembly)
AUGE      Auditoria Geral do Estado (State GeneralAuditing Service)
BB        Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brasil)
BDMG      Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (Minas Gerais Development
          Bank)
BMF       Commodities and Futures market
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCGPG     CBmarade CoordenagGo Geral, Planejamento e GestZo (Chamber of Genaral
          Coordination, Planningand Management)
CCGPGF    CBmara de Coordenagiio Geral, Planejamento, Gestao e Finangas (Chamber of
          Genaral Coordination, Planning, Management and Finance)
CDEI      CBmara de Desenvolvimento EconBmico e Infra-estrutura (Chamber of
          Economic Development and Infrastructure)
CDSC      CBmarade Desenvolvimento Social e Cidadania (Chamber of Social
          Development and Citizechip)
CEMIG     Companhia EnergCticade Minas Gerais (Minas Gerais Power Company)
CFAA      Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CGP       Conselho Gestor de Parcerias Rblico Privadas (Management Council of
          Public-Private Partnerships)
CIAD      Centro Integrado de Atendimento do CidadZo e Despacho (Integrated Center
          for Services to Citizens and Resolution)
CIB       ComissGes Intergestoras Bipartite (Bilateral Inter-ManagerialCommissions)
CIDE      ContribuiqBo de Intervenqiio no Dom'nio EconBmico (Contribution for
          Intervention inEconomic Activities -Fuel Sales Charge)
CODEMIG   Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Minas Gerais (Minas Gerais
          Development Company)
COPASA    Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais (Sanitation Company of Minas
          Gerais)
CPMMG     Quartel do Comando Geral da PoliciaMilitar de Minas Gerais (Headquarters
          of the Military Police of Minas Gerais)
DER / MG  Departamento de Estradasde Rodagem de Minas Gerais (Department of
          Roads and Highways of Minas Gerais)
DPL       Development Policy Lending
DSA       Debt Sustainability Analysis
EMBI      EmergingMarkets Bond Index
FEAM      FundagZoEstadual do Meio Ambiente (State Environment Foundation)
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FMA       Financial Management Assessment
FPE       Fundo de ParticipaqZo dos Estados (State ParticipationFund)

FSAP      Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSSA      Financial Sector Stability Assessment
FUNBIO    Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade (Brazilian Fundfor Biodiversity)
EUNDEF    Fundo de ManutengZo e Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e de
          ValorizagBo do MagistCrio (Fundfor Maintenance and Development of
          Primary Education and of Teaching Value)
FUNED     FundagFioEzequiel Dias (Ezequiel Dias Foundation)
FUNFP     Fundo Financeiro de PrevidCncia (Financial Pension Fund)
FUNPENG   Fundo de Previdencia do Servidor miblico de Minas Gerais (Pension Fundfor
          Public Servants of Minas Gerais)
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GERAES    GestiXo Estratkgica dos Recursos e AG6es do Estado (Strategic Management of
          Resources and Actions of the State)
GNP       Gross National Product
HDI       Human Development Indices
HEMONINAS FundaGBoCentro de Hematologia e Hemoterapiade Minas Gerais (Foundation
          Center for Hematology and Hemotherapy of Minas Gerais)
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBGE      Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (Brazilian Institute of
          Geographic and Statistics)
BRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA       Investment Climate Assessment
ICMS      Imposto sobre CirculaGFiode Mercadorias e Servigos (Brazilian State Sales
          Tax)
ICs       Investment Climate Survey
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IEF       Instituto Estadual de Florestras (State Institute of Forest)
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IGAM      Instituto Mineiro de GestBo de Aguas (Minas Institute of Water Management)
IGP       fndice Geral de PreGos(General Price Index)
IMA       Instituto Mineiro de Agropecuiria (Minas Institute of Fishery)
IMF       International Monetary Fund
INDG      Instituto de Desenvolvimento Gerencial (Institute for Managerial
          Development)
INDI      Instituto de Desenvolvimento Industrial (Institute of Industrial Development)
IPCA      fndice de Preqos ao Consumidor Amplo (Index of BroadConsumer Prices)
IPEM      Instituto de Pesose Medidas do Estado de Minas Gerais (Institute of Weights
          and Measures of Minas Gerais)
PI        Imposto sobre Produtos Industrializados (Tax over Industrialized Products)
IPSEMG    Instituto de Previdhcia dos Servidores do Estado de Minas Gerais (Institute
          of Public Servants' Pension of Minas Gerais)
IPVA      Imposto sobre a Propriedade de Veiculos Automotores (Tax over Motor
          Vehicle Property)
ITCD      Imposto sobre TransmissBo Causa Mortis e DoaGBo de Quaisquer Bens ou
          Direitos (Real State Transfers Tax)
JPOF      Junta de ProgramagFio OrGamentBria e Financeira (Board for Budgetary and
          Financial Programming)
JSA       Joint Staff Assessment
JUCEMG    Junta Comercial do Estado de Minas Gerais (Minas Gerais' Board of
          Commerce)
L D O     Lei de Diretrizes OrSamentarias (Law of Budgetary Guidelines)
LDP       Letter of Development Policy

                                        11

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

LOA        L e i Orqamentaria Annual (Annual Budget Law)
LRF        L e i de Responsabilidade Fiscal (Law of FiscalResponsibility)
MF         MinistCrio da Fazenda(Ministry of Finance)
NCR        Net Current Revenue
NEPI1      SecondNational Environmental Project
OSCIP      Organizaqiio da Sociedade Civil de Interesse Pciblico (Civil Society
           Organization with Public Interest)
OGE        Ouvidoria-Geral do Estado (State Ombudsman Services)
PDR        Plano Diretor de RegionalizaqZo (Regional Plan)
PER        Public ExpenditureReview
PFM        Public FinancialManagement
PL         Projeto de Lei (Bill)
PMDI       Plano Mineiro de Desenvolvimento Integrado (Minas Integrated Development
           Plan)
PPA        Plano Plurianual (Multi-year Plan)
PPAG       Plano Purianualde AqBo Governamental (Multi-year Expenditure Plan)
PPP        Parceria miblico-Privada (Public-Private Partnership)
PROBIO     Projeto de Conservaqiio e UtilizaqBo Sustentfivel da Diversidade Biol6gica
           Brasileira (Project on Conversation and Sustainable Use of Brazilian
           Biological Diversity)
PRODABEL   Empresa de Informfiticae InformaqBo do Municipio de Belo Horizonte (Office
           of IT and Information of the Belo Horizonte Municipality)
PRODEMGE   Empresa de Tecnologiade InformaqZo do Govern0 de Minas Gerais (Office of
           Information and Technology of Minas Gerais)
PROMAT     Programa de Modernizaqiio da Administraqgo Tributfiria (Tax Administration
           Modernization Program)
RCL        Receita LiquidaCorrente (Net Current Revenue)
RMBH       RegiBo Metropolitanade BH(Metropolitan Region of Belo Horizonte)
ROF        Registrode Operaq6esFinanceiras (Financial Operations Register)
ROSC       Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
S A M U    Servigo de Atendimento MCdico de Urghcia(Emergency Medical Care
           Service)
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SEAIN      Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais (Sub-secretariat for International
           Matters)
SEBRAE     Serviqo Braslleiro de Apoio hs Micro e Pequenas Empresas(Brazilian Office
           of Small and MediumSized Firms)
SEDE       Secretaria de Estado de Desenvolvimento EconGmico (State Secretariat of
           Economic Development)
SEDS       Secretaria de Estado de Defesa Social (State Secretariat for Social Defense)
SEF        Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda (State Secretariat of Finance)
SEMAD      Secretaria de Estado de Meio Ambiente e Desenvolvimento SustentAvel
           (Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development)
SEPLAG     Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Gestiio (State Secretariat of Planning
           and Management)
SES        Secretaria de Estado de Sacide (State Secretariat of Health)
SIAD       Sistema Integrado de Administraqiio de Bens e Serviqos (Integrated System of
           Administration of Materials and Services)
SUFI       Sistema Integrado de Administraqgo Financeira(State Financial Management
           System)
SIAM       Sistema Integrado de InformaqBo Ambiental (Integrated System of
           EnvironmentalInformation)

                                        111
                                        ...

SIAP             Sistema de Informaq6es da Administraqgo P6blica (Public Administration
                 Information System)
SIARE            Sistema Integrado de Administraqgo da Receita (Integrated Systemof
                 Administration of Revenue) Estadual
SIDS             Sistema Integrado de Defesa Social (Integrated System of Social Defense)
SISAP            Sistema de Administraqgo de Pessoal(Integrated PersonnelData System)
SISBACEN         Sistema de Informaqfies do Banco Central (Central Bank Information System)
SRE              Subsecretariada ReceitaEstadual (State Revenue Sub-secretariat)
STE              Subsecretariado Tesouro Estadual (State Treasury Sub-secretariat)
STN              Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional (National Treasury Secretariat )
sus              Sistema Unico de Sadde (National Health System)
SWAP             Sector-Wide Approach
TA               Technical Assistance
TCE-MG           Tribunal de Contas do Estado de Minas Gerais (Minas Gerais StateCourt of
                 Accounts)
UAP              Unidadede Apoio e Gestgo de Projetos (Unit for the Support and
                 Management of Projects)
UEMG             Universidade Estadual de Minas Gerais (State University of Minas Gerais)
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
VAT              Value Added Tax
VIGISUS II SegundoProjetode Vigilfincia emSafideno SUS (SecondProject on Health
                 Vigilence of the SUS)


                              Vice President: Pamela Cox
                            Country Director:  John Briscoe
                             Sector Manager:   Mauricio Carrizosa
                      Co-Task Team Leaders: Yasuhiko Matsuda and Monica Singh


The Minas Gerais Partnership for Development Loan was prepared by an IBRD team consisting
of Mark RolandThomas, Mary Sheehan, Julio Revilla, Fernando Blanco, AymCric-Albin Meyer,
Martin Gambrill, Carlos Eduardo VClez, Jeffrey Rinne, JosC Guilherme Reis, and MariaVirginia
Hormazabal.




                                             iv


                                                        BRAZIL
                MINASGERAIS:PARTNERSHIPFORDEVELOPMENT                                                        PROJECT

                                        TABLE OFCONTENTS


LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY                                                                                                                                2
I. INTRODUCTION     .............................................................................................................................
                                       ..........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                      4
11.  COUNTRY AND STATECONTEXT                        .............................................................................................    5
            A. RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS
111. MAINDEVELOPMENT CHALLENGESAND THE
            A. FISCAL TURNAROUND AND REGAININGPRIVATE SECTORCONFIDENCEAS
            MAINDEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES
            B. GOVERNMENTRESPONSES......                                                                         ....................
IV.  BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT
            A. ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS
            B. THE PROPOSEDPARTNERSHIPFORDEVELOPMENT
            C. POLICY AREAS ............................
            D. BANK FINANCIALASSISTANCEAND DISBURSEMENTCONDITIONS............28
            E. LINKTO CAS ....                                                                                                                        29
            F. EXPECTEDBEN                       .................................................................................................    31
            G. CHOICEOF INSTRUMENT.........................................................................................                           32
            H. RELATIONSHIPTO OTHERBANK OPERATIONS......
            I.COORDINATIONWITHOTHERDONORS..................................................
            J. LESSONS LEARNED.........................................................
V.   OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                        ..............................................................................................    34
            A. POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS...........................................................................                                   34
            B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ....................................................................................                             36
            C. PROGRAMIMPLEMENTATIONAND SUPERVISION
            D. FIDUCIARY ASPECTS.....................................................
            E. DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING ............................................................................                                  39
            F. RISKSAND RISK MITIGATION                                                                                                                39


                                                        ANNEXES

ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                         ......................................................................................
                                                                  .................................................................................    41
ANNEX 2: OPERATIONPOLICY MATRIX........                                                                                                                54
ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE               ........................................................................................................      57
ANNEX 4: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE               .......................................................................................................      60
ANNEX 5: DETAILED DEBT SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS                                        ...............................................................  62
ANNEX 6: MINAS GERAISPPPLAW AND REGULATION                                                                                                             96
ANNEX 7: FISCAL ADJUSTMENT         .............................................................................................................
                                                                                   ..................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       103
ANNEX 8: PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT                          ........................................................................................    108
ANNEX 9: PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                            ....................................................................................    116
ANNEX 10: RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS.                                                                                                       121
ANNEX 11:MAPIBRDNO. 33377         ..............................................................................................................
                                                                                            .........................................................
                                                                                                                                                       124


                                      BRAZIL
         MINAS GERAIS PARTNERSHIPFORDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                    LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY

I                    State of Minas Gerais
IBorrower
 ImplementingAgency  Secretariat of Planningand Management
IAmount              US$170million

                     Fixed Spread U S Dollar Loan with repayment period of 17 years
                     including 3 years of grace with disbursement-linked repayment
                     schedule and level repayments or principal.

                     Commitment fee of 0.85% per annum during the first four years and
                     0.75% per annum thereafter on undisbursed loan amounts,
                     beginning60 days after the loan agreement is signed.

                     Front-endfee of 0.25% of the loan amount, capitalized and financed
                     under the loan.

                     US$lOO million first tranche, US$70 million secondtranche

                     The proposed operation would be a two-tranche development policy
                     loan, with the first tranche (US$lOO million) to be disbursed upon
                     effectiveness and the secondtranche (US$70million) on completion
                     of preset conditions described inthe loan agreement.

                     The operation would support three pillars - fiscal management,
                     public sector management, and private sector development - in two
                     stages, with the initial disbursement made conditional on progress to
                     date at the time of negotiations, and the seconddisbursement tied to
                     clearly defined future goals ineach area.

                     The benefits of the operation can be divided into three levels. At the
                     first level, the operation brings benefits in terms of reinforcing the
                    Fiscal Responsibility Law and Brazil's system of fiscal federal
                    checks and balances. As discussed elsewhere in this document, this
                     system has been fundamental to assuring Brazil's national
                    macroeconomic stability since the Real Plan, and by reinforcing the
                     successful adjustment of Brazil's second largest state, the operation
                    has considerable significance at the national level.

                    Second, within the state itself, the fiscal adjustment combined with
                    improved economic performance will lead to poverty reduction both
                    through higher incomes and through increased spending available
                    for direct poverty-reducing spending, such as education, health, and



                                                                                           2

basic local infrastructure. Work at the national level suggests that
the elasticity of poverty with respect to economic growth inBrazil is
about one, and Minas is unlikely to be a significant exception to this
statistical regularity at the level of the country. Furthermore, there
i s a 25% headcount ratio of poverty in the state. This implies that a
one percent increase in economic growth is likely to reduce poverty
in Minas by about a quarter of a percentagepoint per year, or one
percent every four years.

Third, the improvements in the quality of public management in
Minas will bringbetter service delivery to the poor. Efforts such as
results-based management and performance-based human resource
managementare key inthis regard.

The main risks to the operation are assessedto be the following:

Implementation risks: The risk that the government fails to
implement the planned reform measures and thus fail to meet the
second tranche conditions is deemed to be low. The government
has a proven track record of achievements since taking office in
January 2003.      The second-tranche conditions are designed to
correspond to the current government's own reform targets, to be
met within its current mandate that will end in December 2006.
Mitigationi s thus embeddedin loan design, and will be furthered by
close supervision and ongoing dialogue with the state authorities.

Political risks: There is the risk that unforeseen political events
cause a regime shift at the state level leading to backtracking on
core reforms supported by this loan. This risk is deemed to be low
to moderate, in the sense that experience shows that it i s impossible
to predict political events. However, the present government in
Minas enjoys considerable popular support, in no small part coming
from its perceived seriousness about tackling some of the state's
hardestproblems head on. The only way to mitigate this riskwill be
to continue to build the Bank's constructive and supportive
relationship with the state of Minas Gerais, of which the proposed
loan is the core element.

Fiscal risks: There is the riskthat further economic changes at the
national level - for example related to general price inflation, which
zxerts powerful influences on the state government's financial
obligations to the National Treasury, or renewed economic
instability - cause recent fiscal gains in Minas to be undone 01
reversed. This riski s deemed to be moderate.

PO88543




                                                                      3

                           IBRD PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA
        PROPOSEDMINAS GERAIS PARTNERSHIPFORDEVELOPMENT
                        DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN(MG-DPL)
            TO THE STATE GOVERNMENTOFMINAS GERAIS,BRAZIL


I. INTRODUCTION

This document describes a proposed two-tranche development policy loan (DPL)of US$170
million to the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. Minas Gerais (abbreviated to MG or "Minas") i s a
key state client for the World Bank Group in Brazil. The proposed loan would support recent, deep
reforms pursuingfiscal balance, public sector effectiveness, and private sector development in the
state. This would be the first DPLto a Brazilian state.

Minas Gerais is an important state within the Brazilian federation. It is the second most
populous state and the third largest state economy in Brazil. Because of high inequality and
dispersion in regional standards of living within the state, Minas faces a significant challenge of
poverty reduction, with about 5 million people living below a food-based poverty line of about
US$45 per month.

The significance of the current strong performance of MGtranscends the borders of the state
itself.  The Brazilian economy i s only now reaping the rewards of its national efforts in
macroeconomic management, starting with the 1994 Real Plan stabilization, continued with the
stabilization of state debts in 1997, the successful floating of the Real in 1999, the Law of Fiscal
Responsibility in 2000, and the successful transition between the Cardoso and Lula administrations
in2003 and continuation of strongeconomic managementsince then.

A cornerstone of this period of transition has been improved fiscal discipline by the states,
with a noteworthy exception being the threatened default by MG on its debt to the federal
government in 1999. Clearly, the adherence of Brazil's largest states to the principles of fiscal
rectitude that underpin the country's present economic growth, and which are enshrined inthe state
debt agreements signed each year with the NationalTreasury, is absolutely vital to the credibility of
the country in the eyes of investors, both foreign and domestic. The proposed loan would thus
contribute to progress ineconomic managementat the national as well as the state level.




                                                                                                   4


11.      COUNTRY AND STATE CONTEXT

A. RECENTECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

a) NationalEconomicDevelopments

Nationally, the sound economic policy of the last six years has begun to produce visible returns.
For the first time in two decades, the Brazilian economy is experiencing strong growth with
external balance, fiscal discipline, and low inflation. In 2004, growth was the highest in eight
years, with GDP growth of 4.9 percent (compared to GDP growth of 0.5 percent in 2003,
representing a per capita decline), although tight monetary and fiscal policies and the political crisis
decelerated growth to around 2.5 percent in 2005. Exchange indexed debt and the related Central
Bank of Brazil foreign exchange swaps have fallen from a peak of 41 percent of total debt in 2002
to 2.7 percent as of December 2005. Strong exports led the interest payments on external debt to
exports to fall from the high level of 35 percent in 1999 to less than 15 percent in 2005. Inflation
fell from 12.5 percent in 2002 to 5.7 percent in 2005. For the first time in three decades, the
Brazilian economy has been experiencing a macroeconomic environment that combines reasonable
growth prospects with low inflation and a relatively comfortable external situation.

Unlike previous instances of economic recovery in Brazil, exports have led the current trend, with
the 2004 trade surplus a record US$33.7 billion. Domestic demand has driven the expansion since
mid-2004 without slowing down the rise in investment and exports. Brazil has continued to run a
trade surplus in 2005, US$29 billion as of end August. Strong export performance i s making Brazil
a more open economy: the ratio of trade to GDP has doubled from 15 percent in 1999 to over 30
percent today, reducing vulnerability to external shocks. Sound fiscal and monetary policies and
the performance of the external sector yielded impressive results: for example, sovereign spreads
fell from 2,400 basis points in October 2002 to below 400 basis points in 2004 and have reached
historically low levels (well below 300 basis points) in the early 2006.

Persistence on fiscal discipline has been essential: the primary budget surplus exceeded 5 percent
of GDP in 2004 and reached 4.84 percent of GDP in 2005 (versus the IMF program target 4.25
percent). The primary surplus, higher growth, and lower interest rates reduced public debt in 2005
by 7 percentage points of GDP (from 58 percent to 51 percent). Debt composition has also
improved through the aggressive pursuit of a strong public debt management strategy by the
National Treasury, reducing vulnerability to exchange rate and interest shocks. The government's
strategy to improve the debt composition has resulted in the share of exchange-rate linked bonds
falling from 35 percent in January 2003 to less than 5 percent in July 2005, and the share of fixed-
coupon bonds growing from 2 percent in January 2003 to 20 percent in July 2005. To correct
(albeit partially) the long-term actuarial imbalance of the publicly-funded social security system,
the government enacted a constitutional reform to adjust benefit rules of the pension regime for
retired public servants.

This adjustment has been accomplished through strong revenue increases (the tax burden has
grown from 29 percent of GDP in 1998 to 35 percent in 2004) and by curtailing public investment
(investments by federal government fell from 1.1percent of GDP in 1998 to 0.4 percent in 2003).
This compression of public investment has exacerbated infrastructure bottlenecks, in particular in
roads, railroads, and ports. To sustain growth while re-orienting public finance towards investment
therefore represents the next chapter of Brazil's national economic reforms.




                                                                                                       5

Having reinforced its fiscal and monetary credibility, the government i s therefore now focusing on
improving the quality of public spending, particularly in social and infrastructure sectors. A new
law has been approved to promote public-private partnerships in infrastructure. Inaddition, Brazil
i s participating in the IMF-led pilot program on public investment to improve selection, execution
and monitoring of priority public investment projects.               The government i s also pursuing
microeconomic growth-seeking reforms such as new insolvency law, the reduction of the tax
burden on capital investment, improvements to the laws governing housing credit, and measures to
deepen credit intermediation, particularly to individuals and small firms. There remain large areas
in need of reform where progress will remain slow owing to political factors, most notably tax
reform, additional social security reform, and labor market regulation, which remain important
longer-run objectives.

As mentioned above, Brazil's macroeconomic prospects are currently as good as they have been at
any point since the 198Os, but structural vulnerabilities remain.             A recent IMF assessment
concludedthat:

          "Brazil's impressive economic achievements over the last two years, and the remarkable
          track record of performance under the Stand-By Arrangement, reflected the authorities'
          continued pursuit of strong macroeconomic policies and steady progress with structural
          reforms. Helpedby a generally supportive external environment, these policies have led to
          a significant transformation of the economy, which has resulted in a strong economic
          recovery, income and employment gains, a declining public debt burden, and rising
          international reserves."

The assessment added, however, that "public debt was still high and sensitive to global financial
conditions," and stressed"the need to persevere with structural reforms in order to boost long-term
growth prospects, critical to addressingpersistent poverty and inequality."'

Debt sustainability analyses, by both the Bank and the IMF, have shown Brazil's sovereign debt
dynamics to be robustly sustainable under a wide variety of assumptions and stress tests. An in-
depth World Bank study of Brazil's debt sustainability carried out at the height of the 2002 crisis
concluded that public debt was sustainable and would decline under most plausible assumptions
about the steady state of key economic variables.2 More recent IMF analyses of Brazilian debt
sustainability have repeatedly come to the same conclusions.

As mentioned above, one of the keys to the good performance of Brazil's consolidated fiscal
accounts3in recent years has been the ability of the federal government to impose fiscal discipline
on the state governments since the 1997 state debt bailout. This has been achieved via debt
agreements with each state (renewed annually) combined with the legal sanctions contained in the
Fiscal Responsibility Law. The effects are shown in Figure 1, which illustrates the contribution of
the states and municipalities to the consolidated primary surplus over time. This key role of sub-
national fiscal discipline means that the proposed operation has important ramifications for national
debt sustainability, by supporting and strengthening the adjustment efforts of a major state with a
large debt stock owed to the federal government.


I IMF,Press Release, IMFExecutive Board Concludes 2005 Article IV Consultation with Brazil, March 25,
2005.
2 Brazil: Stability for Growth and Poverty Reduction, report no. 25278-BR, January 31, 2003.
  The word consolidated here signifies summing the fiscal contributions of federal government, states and
municipalities, and state-owned enterprises.


                                                                                                       6

             Figure 1:Primary Balanceof Statesand Municipalities (% of GDP), 1998-2002




                0d


                0 8




b) State Economic Developments

Minas Gerais i s sometimes called a microcosm of Brazil. While its income level i s close to
Brazil's national average (ranked 10 out of 27), Minas contains a poor Northeastern region with the
same conditions of extreme poverty, subsistence agriculture, semi-arid climate and intermittent
drought experienced in the rest of the Northeastern SertZo. At the other extreme, the state contains
some of Brazil's most dynamic industrial areas (e.g., the Trigngulo Mineiro) and the metropolis of
Belo Horizonte.

The population of Minas in the 2000 census was 17.9 million (10.5 percent of the national total),
about half that of the State of Sgo Paulo (37.0 million). The state's total income in 2001 was
R$113.5 billion, 9.5 percent of national income, smaller only than SBo Paulo (33.4 percent) and Rio
de Janeiro (12.3 percent), and giving Minas Gerais an economy slightly larger than that of Peru.

Economic Growth and Investment Climate

Lags in data availability make it hard to give an up-to-date assessment of economic trends at the
state level, but history suggests that Minas has probably performed in line with the national
economy in recent years. Throughout the late 1980s and the 1990s the growth rate of the MG state
economy was very close to that of Brazil. For example, after the Real Plan, for the period 1995-
1999, Brazilian GDP grew at 2.6 percent per annum, while in Minas this growth rate was 2.9
percent (MG population growth has also been close to the national rate). The exception to this
representative performance was the period 1999-2002. During this period, Minas' real incomes
declined by 0.6 percent a year while national real per capita growth was low but still positive (0.5
percent per annum over four years).4


 These statistics are calculated combining the most recent IMF GDP deflators for Brazil to IBGE regional
GDP statistics for the period 1999-2002.


                                                                                                      7

The economic structure of Minas still reflects the state's historical roots in mining, with relative
strength in industrial chemicals, iron and steel, agroindustry, and more recently in electrical and
electronic goods. The state is geographically expansive and has a strong agricultural base. In the
standard breakdown of state income calculated by the Brazilian Geographical and Statistical
Institute (IBGE), Minas has slightly higher concentrations than the national average in industry and
agriculture, and lower concentrations in services. Despite higher growth in agricultural output than
in other sectors, however, falling prices drove down the agricultural share in the state economy
(from 15 percent in 1989 to 9 percent in 1999). Within manufacturing, the most significant sectors
are metallurgical (25 percent of manufacturing), foodstuffs (16 percent), chemicals (14 percent),
and transportation equipment (13 percent).

Although Minas is an important exporting state, its exports remain concentrated in primary goods.
Minas lost ground throughout the 1990s to other exporting states, notably Rio Grande do Sul and
ParanB, which made gains in the automotive sectors. Although Minas accounted for important
shares of Brazil's exports in extractive mineral (40 percent of the nationaltotal) and metallurgy (27
percent), its overall share of exports fell from 14.6 percent in 1990 to 10.4 percent in 2001e5It i s
also noteworthy that Minas is landlocked - its competitiveness i s therefore sensitive to logistics
costs, which have worsened as investment in road maintenance has fallen to historically low
levek6 World Bank sector analysis suggests roads inMinas are inpoor condition even by national
standards. This is confirmed by data from the Brazilian Investment Climate Survey (ICs) collected
by the World Bank in 2003 (Figure 2), which records an average number of days lost to transport
failures for enterprises in Minas (1.77) comparable to states in the more remote Center-West and
Northernregions of Brazil.

                Figure 2: Number of Days per Year Lost to Transport Failures
         for Brazil, Minas Gerais, and by Region (2003 Investment Climate Survey)




                       0 R      MG      SE      CW     N      NE       S




  "Minas Gerais do SCculo XXI," op. cit.
  Exploratoryresearch at the University of SBo Paulo has suggested the sensitivity of the Minas economy to
transport costs: Haddadet al, "Trade Liberalizationand RegionalInequality: Do Transportation Costs Impose
a SpatialPoverty Trap?"Working Paper,FIPE,University of SBo Paulo.


                                                                                                        8

Economic Management

A main driver of MG's poor performance in comparison with the rest of Brazil over the period
1999-2002 was the uncertain investment climate that had been brought about by several events
related to government policy includingthe threat of default on the external debt and the debt with
National Treasury, which the federal government aggressively resolved by securing the legal right
to withdraw the scheduled payments from earmarked tax flows to the state, effectively neutralizing
the state's threat, and the state government's failure to curb its own spending sufficiently to create
confidence inthe state economy's future stability.

Brazil as a whole entered a recession in 2002 as uncertainties surrounding Argentina's economy
and the outcome of the presidential election wrought havoc with investor confidence in sovereign
debt sustainability. At the same time as the Lula government sought to impose its own brand of
economic discipline and turn around a difficult situation, Minas Gerais was also attempting to
rebuild its own credibility through a difficult adjustment inthe public accounts.

Upon assuming power on January 1, 2003, the current state government launched a managerial
shake-up that aimed to get public spending under control and lay the foundations for improved
public-sector management. Among other actions, the program reduced by six the number of state
secretariats, cut non-salary personnel costs, improved government purchasing systems, defined the
integrated state development plan, stepped up its revenue efforts, and started the process of results-
basedmanagement of government programs and human resources.

The MG government was effective in realizing its stated priority in`2003 of regaining financial
control of the state apparatus. After the exchangerate shock of 2002 increasedthe consolidated net
debt to 297 percent of net current revenue, this ratio fell to 250 percent in 2003 and to 225 percent
in 2004. The exchange rate appreciation of 2005 fostered an acceleration of the reduction path of
indebtedness: information up to December 2005 indicates that this ratio fell to 203 percent, very
close to the Fiscal Responsibility Law ceiling for the consolidated net debt to net current revenue
of 200 percent.

Deepening of this adjustment will not be easy and relies on detailed legal reforms and fundamental
changes in the state model of public sector management. As at the federal level, a major challenge
i s to control growth of public expenditures. In 2003, "rigid" state expenditures (personnel, interest
payments, constitutional transfers, and debt amortizations) still represented 82 percent of total
expenditure (down from more than 85 percent until 2000). Even the remaining 18 percent are not
fully discretionary. Nonetheless, the first stage of a difficult transition has been accomplished, with
the state government able to announce in late 2004 that, for the first time since the Real Plan
stabilization, it would balance its budget while meeting all its financial obligations for the fiscal
year.

Poverty Reduction

Poverty in MG broadly reflects national levels. Using a national food-based poverty line for
household per-capita income of about R$146 (US$54) per month, Minas has a poverty headcount
ratio of about 25 percent, implying a poverty headcount of about 5 million. Using an extreme
poverty line (about half the poverty line), Minas has an extreme poverty headcount ratio of 8
percent (about 1.5 million). Poverty has been declining in Minas since the Real Plan, while in the
Southeast as a whole it has increased since 1998 (Figure 3), mainly owing to risingpoverty in Sgo




                                                                                                      9

Paulo. Between 1997 and 2003, extreme poverty in Minas Gerais fell from 9.8 percent to 8.1
percent, a decline of 17 percent. Poverty counts will almost certainly be lower for 2004.

             Figure 3: Poverty Trends in Minas Gerais, the Southeast, and Brazil (1992-2003)




                           92   93    94    95   96   97    98   99   00   01   02     03
                                                        Year

                                -Brazil          Southeast Region A MinasGerais


Just as for Brazil, these averages mask considerable regional variation within MG. Regional
poverty rates in Minas for 1999 varied between lows of 10percent in the TriSngulo Mineiro and 12
percent in the Central Mineiro, and highs of 46 percent in the Vale do Mucuri, 50 percent in the
Norte de Minas, and 56 percent in the Vale do Jequitinhonha, the latter equal to rates recorded in
Brazil's poorest state^.^

This variation is reflected at the municipal level. The Funda@o Jog0 Pinheiro, the state's public
statistics and research institute, has calculated municipal human development indices (HDI) based
on census data for 1991 and 2000. Setubinha (inthe Vale do Mucuri) has the lowest HDIinMinas
in 2000 (0.45), reflecting 23 percent illiteracy (ages 18-24) and infant mortality of 61 (one-year
definition, per 1000 live births).' At the other end of the spectrum Belo Horizonte has an HDI of
0.84 - equal to Sgo Paulo - with near complete literacy (ages 18-24) and infant mortality of 27
(smaller municipalities in MG have rates as low as 11). Outside the Amazon, Minas Gerais has the
highest dispersion of municipal welfare indicators in Brazil.'




  These regional poverty rates are from the FundaGiio Get6lio Vargas, which uses a slightly different
methodology from that cited elsewhere in the document.
  Though there has been "social convergence" between poorer and richer municipalities: in 1991 Setubinha
had 54 percent illiteracy among ages 18-24 and infant mortality above 100.
 FundaGiio Jo20 Pinheiro: the variance of the municipal HDIis higher in M G than in all states except three in
the Amazon region (Note: this i s not a measure of inequality between individuals, which would also reflect
differences between different people within each municipality).


                                                                                                          10

111.     MAIN DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND THE GOVERNMENT
         STRATEGY

A. FISCAL TURNAROUND AND REGAINING PRIVATE SECTOR CONFIDENCE AS
MAINDEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES

Development challenges of Minas Gerais are multifold.              However, the behavior of the state
economy in recent years pointed to the need to restore fiscal sustainability and regain private sector
confidence in the government as top priorities. Indeed, the state's own major economic study
identified lack of economic dynamism and competitiveness as a key problem, and attributed it to
the incapacity of the public sector to be a main promoter of economic and social development."

         The public sector (a ma`quina pu'blica) of Minas Gerais, is close to total inoperability,
         constrained by debts, with little expenditure flexibility and limited financial capacity.

Consequences of the ineffective state were clearly felt in the behavior of private economic agents.
Although the annualized growth rate of the Minas economy in 1990-99 (2.86%) was somewhat
higher than the national average (2.46%), by the end of the 1990s, there was a sign that investors
were losing interest in Minas as a destination of their investment activities.              By 2000, the
announced investments declined to less than half the level registered in 1996." While for Brazil
total announced private investments rose by 8.5 percent in 1999 and 9.7 percent in 2000, in Minas
announced investments fell by 29.1 percent and 19.3 percent, respectively, in these two years. In
2000, the amount of foreign direct investments in Minas represented 13 percent of the national
total, nearly half the level registered (25%) in the 1970s.

It was against the backdrop of these self-diagnoses that the government prepared its overall
development strategies as documented in the state's long-term development plan for 2003-2020,
PMDI(Plano Mineiro de Desenvolvimento Zntegrado) and the state's multi-year expenditure plan,
PPAG (Plano Plurianual de A@ Governamental) 2004-2007.'2 These plans' overall objective is
to improve the state's human development index - "to make Minas the best Brazilian state to live
in" - through a strategy built upon three pillars: (i)       reorganizing and modernizing state public
administration;    (ii)promoting sustainable social and economic development; and (iii)
reinvigorating Minas Gerais politically beyond its borders, in Brazil and overseas. Within the
broad range of policy initiatives the government i s developing, the most relevant for this proposed
operation are (a) achievement of fiscal balance; (b) reorganization and modernization of the state
public administration; and (c) sustainable economic development through promotion of private
sector investments.




loMinas Gerais do S6culo XXI: Una VisHodo Novo Desenvolvimento, Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas
Gerais (BDMG),Belo Horizonte, Ron Editora, 2002.
l1Minas Geraisdo S6culo XXI: 0 Ponto de Partida, Vol. 1,p. 46.
  The PMDI and the PPAG were born from a lengthy diagnostic exercise carried out by the Minas Gerais
Development Bank (BDMG) toward the end of the previous administration's tenure. That study - "Minas
Gerais in the 21" Century" - provides an in depth analysis o f the predicament the state found itself in 2002
and the path by which it had arrived there. It is worth recognizing that the Minas study has been a valuable
resource for the Bank team in preparing this report.


                                                                                                          11

B. GOVERNMENT RESPONSES

a) FiscalBalance13

Reestablishing fiscal balance and ensuring fiscal sustainability has clearly been a top priority of the
current Minas administration. Faced with extremely adverse fiscal conditions, the government
initiated a set o f bold adjustment measures upon assuming power in January 2003. These measures
have reversed the unsustainable trend that its fiscal accounts had taken in the previous four-year
period. An increasingtrend in expenditures has been curbed through tight control of personnel and
operating costs. On the revenue side, measures to improve the efficiency of tax collection have
also shown results. The combination of control over current expenditures with enhancedefficiency
of revenue collection has allowed the state government to achieve an impressive fiscal turnaround
with increased current savings, allowing a recovery in investment spending, which, if sustainedand
well-managed, i s expected to have apositive impact on economic growth.

The results have been immediate and impressive. Minas i s now generating substantial positive
fiscal balances. Between 2001 and 2003, the primary balance increased from 0.8 percent to 7.5
percent of the net current revenues (NCR), the current balance increased from -2.8 percent (which
worsened to -5.0 percent in 2002) to 2.8 percent of NCR, and the nominal balance increased from -
9.6 percent to 0.7 percent of NCR. This fiscal turnaround happenedin a period of severe economic
stagnation, which was embodied in a 7-percent fall in revenues. With reduced revenues, cutting
expenditures was the only way to improve fiscal balances in 2003. Total spendingdecreasedby 10
percent that year.

In 2004, this adjustment was deepened. The state government obtained a primary surplus of 15.5
percent of NCR, generated current account savings of 14 percent and generated a nominal balance
of 8.6 percent of NCR. Differently from the previous year, the achievement of the improved fiscal
stance owed more to strengthening of revenue collection, although the government kept under
check growth of current expenditures. The strong recovery of the economy also consolidated the
adjustment, allowing a 12-percent increase in fiscal revenues. Official figures for 2005 have not
been released yet, but the preliminary data indicate that the State has maintained strong fiscal
performance in 2005.

This initial emphasis on adjustment by expenditure reduction (in 2003) is a noteworthy feature that
places Minas' approach in contrast to the federal government's fiscal adjustment efforts since
1998. The federal efforts have also been successful in maintaining aggregate fiscal discipline but
have had to rely primarily on revenue increases given the extremely high level of expenditure
rigidity that precludes cuts in most expenditure items, at least in the short run. Experiences
elsewhere show that fiscal adjustments are more sustainable when they are based on reductions in
current expenditures. Indeed, in 2004 the MG government allowed the current expenditures to
increase somewhat, but still kept their level below the 2002 level, while registering an 11-percent
increase in revenues through a series of improvements to tax administration. Combined with the
launch of a comprehensive results-based public management reform, Minas' approach clearly
shows the state government's concern about the quality of fiscal adjustments.




l3See Annex 8 for additional details.


                                                                                                     12

                          Table 1: MinasGeraisGovernment FiscalBalances
                                                          -

                                                                             Millions of 2004 Reais (*)
                                               2000        2001       2002        2003     2004 (**)
Current RevenuesI                                18,009     19,774      19,558    19,254      21,796
CapitalRevenues-I1                                1,995      1,046       1,976       841          667
TotalRevenuesI11= I I1  +                        20,004     20,820      21,534    20,095      22,463

DeductionsI V                                     1,932         88          87        65            63
   InterestRevenuesIVa                               89          9           7        22            24
   Credit OperationsRevenuesIVb                      20         72          86         2             1
   Debt amortizationIVc                              42         46          45        37            35
   Asset Sales IVd                                1,205         24          26         2             2

PrimaryRevenueV =111 IV   -                      18,072     19,935      20,655    19,442      21,831

CurrentExpendituresVI                            17,832     20,199      20,318    18,840      19,473
CurrentExpendituresVI1                           2,723       2,390       2,267     1,557        1,960
TotalExpenditureVI11=VI VI1  +                   20,555     22,589      22,585    20,397      21,433

DeductionsIX                                     3,093       2,774       2,497     2,060       2,171
   InterestPaymentsIXa                            1,145      1,552       1,318     1,271        1,372
   Amortizations IXb                              1,317         64          52        45          432
   DebtconcessionIXc                               631          57          65        33          367
   Others IXd                                                                2

PrimaryExpenditureX =VI11-IX                     17,462     19,816      20,088    18,337      19,262

PrimaryBalanceX I =V- X                            610           12         56     1,105        2,569-

Current AccountBalanceXI1=I VI     -                177       (426)      (760)        41        2,323

NominalBalance                                    (649)    (1,442)       (874)        10        1,428
XI11=111-IVb-IVc-VIII+IXb

Total BalanceXIV =111-VI11                    (2,453.6)   (2,650.8)  (1,929.5)    (955.4)       398.3

Deductions                                       4,217       4,742       4,247     4,540        5,229
Net Current Revenue (NCR)                       13,792      15,032      15,311    14,714       16,566

Primary Balance/NCR                               4.4%        0.8%       3.7%       7.5%       15.5%
CurrentAccount Balance/NCR                        1.3%       -2.8%      -5.0%       2.8%       14.0%
Nominal Balance/NCR                              -4.7%       -9.6%      -5.7%       0.7%        8.6%
(*) IPCA
(**) Estimatedbasedon numbersuntil October


Medium-term impacts of these adjustment measures are expected to be quite positive and
sustainable. Projection exercises for 2005-20 14 undertaken for the loan preparation (reported in
full inAnnex 5) depict afavorable evolution inkey fiscal and financial indicators, and indicatethat
continuity in fiscal management will ensure debt sustainability. Sensitivity analysis nonetheless
shows that this predicted positive trend depends on continued improvements in the efficiency of tax


                                                                                                    13

revenue collection and perseverancein the tight control of current expenditures. Positive prospects
also depend on economic growth exceeding population growth, a reasonablehypothesis.

Risk analysis shows that the most important underlying source of vulnerability is the state's high
level of indebtedness. High debt service will continue to exert pressure on public finances. This
indicates the importance of continuing with tight control over expenditures and increasing revenue
collection, which are the main variables under the government control and which the government i s
managing quite effectively. The exchange rate constitutes another major risk factor for debt
sustainability because 10 percent of the state's debt stock i s indexed to exchange rate and 90% to
the General Price Index (IGP) which i s very sensitive to changes in exchange rate. On the other
hand, this also implies that an additional external credit operation such as the one proposed will not
generate additional exchange rate vulnerability. While a logical measure to mitigate the exchange
rate risk would be to improve the debt composition by reducing the share of the IGP-indexed debt,
the state's ability to implement such conversions is limited because most of these debts are fixed in
the bilateral debt refinancing agreement between the state and the National Treasury. The state
government does have a strategy to improve the debt profile on the margin by retiring high-cost
debts such as those arising from the judicial rulings against the state. The proposed operation
would support such measures.

Table 2 below shows the probabilities of compliance predicted by a Monte Carlo simulation of the
path of fiscal aggregatesover the period 2005-2014.

                              Table 2: Results of Financial RiskAnalysis


            Financial Indicator                 Recommended         Probability of     Average (all
                                                                     comdiance       vears considered)
Personnelexpenditures/ NCR                          < 60%               74%                56%
Net consolidateddebt / NCR                    decreasingceilings*       63%                194%
Debtservice / NCR                                  < 11.5%                1%               12.3%
Credit Operations/ NCR                              < 16%               100%                0%
Interest coverage                                   > 1.5               94%                 2.9
Investmentcoverage                                  > 30%               97%                447%
(*) from225% in2005 to 205% in2014




                                                                                                    14

I Box 1: Brazilian Fiscal Federalism and State Debt Agreements with the National Treasury                            I
  After stabilization under the Real Plan in 1994, Brazilian state governments had lost a key tool for balancing
~


  their accounts: delaying payments in a high-inflation environment. The result was that most states ran up debt
  at unsustainable rates for the next few years. By 1997, the situation had become untenable, and the federal
  government entered into a negotiation to take on states' debts in exchange for future controls on their abilities
  to incur new liabilities. Today's arrangements between the states and the National Treasury, embodied in
  annual debt agreements signed by state governors and reinforced by the 2000 FiscalResponsibility Law, i s the
  result of that renegotiation.

  Debt servicing on liabilities incurred up until the debt agreements were signed - "intra-limit'' debt servicing -
  i s capped at a percentage of the state government's net current revenues (NCR: defined as total revenues
  minus obligatory transfers to municipalities), usually 13 percent. Importantly, interest payments above this
  ceiling are capitalized as intra-limit state debt, implying that a state's debt ratio may be on a rising path while
  its interest payments are not. Moreover, the interest rate on intra-limit debt i s a fixed percentage spreadabove
  a general price index (the IGP-DI), whose behavior in recent years has been erratic, often somewhat arbitrarily
  penalizing states such as Minas Gerais with high existing debt burdens. This fixed percentageis 6 percent for
  states whose debts are below certain target levels (generally 200 percent of NCR); 7 percent on debts above
  this ceiling.

  The use of a general price index that has been relatively volatile in comparison with consumer prices has
  meant that in years when this price index rose rapidly, heavily indebted states saw their debt-to-NCR ratios
  rise uncontrollably. There i s nothing these states could realistically have done to avoid this. This implies that
  when carrying out debt sustainability analysis for states, the extent of debt build-up owing to this form of
  indexation should be taken into account in sensitivity analyses.


 b) ReorganizationandModernizationof the State PublicAdrninistrati~n`~

 A main thrust of Minas' fiscal adjustment efforts was to make the public sector leaner and regain
 its capacity to finance key development projects, while leveraging private investments to stimulate
 growth. An important corollary to this approach has been aggressive efforts to transform the state
 public administration into more efficient and results-oriented institution. Deficiencies in the state's
 public administration had been diagnosed in the BDMG study cited above, and included the
 fol10wing:'~


       0    Fragmented administrative structure as a result of years of uncoordinated institutional
            creations (e.g., the administrative structure of the agriculture sector, which might have been
            adequate inthe 1970s-80s, did not reflect the increased role of the private sector)
       0    Inflexible human resource management that caused inefficient deployment of public
            servants (e.g., in the education sector, teachers used to be hired into very specific jobs and
            locations, which made it virtually impossible to re-assign them from one school to another,
            let alone from one municipality to another; nearly 2,000 teachers were working outside the
            classrooms due to the reduced student enrollment)
       0    Ineffective salary policy that could not be used to motivate and retain specialized staff
            (e.g., the Government has had a policy of permitting into the public service graduates of the
            government-run School of Government, but a number of these graduates would leave the
            public service after a few years given the inhospitable working conditions in the public
            sector)


 l4 See Annex 9 for additional details.
 l5 Minus Geuris do Se`culoXXI: 0 Poder Pliblico. Vol. 9.


                                                                                                                 15

    0    Weak planning system (e.g., government planning could not ensure that priority objectives
         would guide government activities, and instead, availability of cash resources and political
         expediency dictated resource allocations)
    0    Delayed development of E-government initiatives (comparedto the federal government and
         some states)

To address these deficiencies, the MG government launched a coherent plan to strengthen its
planning and managementfunctions. The secretariats of planning and administration were merged
into a single Secretariat of Planning and Management (SEPLAG) to provide clear political and
technical leadership inthis endeavor.

To revive the government's centralplanning function, SEPLAG adopteda results-oriented strategic
planning approach in which the state's key priorities are operationalized through 31 "structural
projects," collectively called the GERAES program.16 Creation of these "structural projects"
brings duel benefits of clarifying the government's policy priorities and facilitating strategic
management of these priority projects with special arrangements. Accountability for management
of these "structural projects" has been clarified with designation of a manager for each project, and
definition of a set of performance indicators.

These projects together accounted for 26 percent of the total investment budget in 2004 and 39
percent in 2005. This selectivity allows the government to guarantee sufficient budgetary funding
to these projects, and thus facilitate their smooth implementation. Besides the selectivity, key to
funding predictability i s the special legal measure the State Legislative Assembly approved to
guarantee budgetary funding to the "structural projects." The measure limits the Assembly's own
ability to amend budget allocations to these projects. A result i s an improvement in predictability
of budget allocation within and between fiscal years, which allows project managers to plan their
execution with a medium-term perspective and thus minimize costs associated with a typical stop-
and-go cycle of budget execution in Brazil. Government data show that execution of the capital
investment projects belonging to the GERAES program was superior to the execution performance
of the other capital investment pr0je~ts.l~

Along with the impressive fiscal turnaround, the current MG government is perhaps best known for
its comprehensive public management reform, called Choque de GestHo (Management Shock).
Choque de GestHo comprises a series of results-oriented and/or efficiency-enhancing measures to


l6GestEo EstratLgica dos Recursos e A@es do Estado. The "structural projects" are: (1) Crime Reduction,
(2) Radial Transport Corridors, (3) Logistics in the Tridngulo Mineiro, (4) Paved Access Roads, (5) Basic
Sanitation, (6) Natural Gas Development, (7) Construction of the New Government Administrative Center,
(8) Renovation of the PraGa da Liberdade (the central historic square in Belo Horizonte), (`9) "Choque de
GestEo," or "management shock," (10) Modernization of the State Revenue Service (Receita), (11) Family
Health, (12) Health Decentralization, (13) Basic Education, (14) Secondary Education, (15) Digital Inclusion,
(16) Home Construction, (17) Environmental Management, (18) Employment Centers, (19) Minas Without
Hunger, (20) Estrada Real, (21) Foreign Trade Promotion, (22) Making Minas Enterprise Competitive, (23)
S5o Francisco River Revitalization, (24) Rural Electrification, (25) Jaiba Regional Development, (26)
"Agrominas" Support to Coffee Production, (27) Local Cluster Development, (28) Northwest Minas
Development (IDB Project), 129) PPP Unit, (30) RMBHExport Logistics, and
(31) Social Inclusion.      The "structural projects" which are relevant for the proposed operation are
underscored. However, the operation, as a DPL, does not support these "structural projects" directly as
expenditure programs.
l7The GERAES program includes a number of recurrent programs whose budget and financial execution
tends not to be affected as severely by contingenciamento,in-year freeze of budget releases.


                                                                                                          16

improve management of personnel, logistics, and performance of the government agencies and staff
with systematic uses of innovative institutional arrangements and e-government instruments. The
new results-based management framework has already been applied to a variety of sectors, for
instance, through signing of the results agreement by the managers of three structural projects and
seventeengovernment agencies as listedbelow.

StructuralProjects with Results Agreements Signed

     1. Pavimenta@o de Liga@es e Acesso Rodovia'rio aos Municipios (Paving of Road
         Connections to Municipalities)
    2. GestZoAmbiental M G Se'culoXXZ (Minas Environmental Management 21st Century)
    3. Minas sem Fome (Minas without Hunger)

Government Agencies with Results Agreements Signed

    1. LEF- Instituto Estadualde Florestas (environment)
    2. IGAM- Instituto Mineiro de Gestgo de Aguas (water resource management)
    3. FEAM - Fundasgo Estadual do Meio Ambiente (environment)
    4. HEMONINAS - Fundaggo Centro de Hematologia e Hemoterapia de Minas Gerais (health)
    5. IMA - Instituto Mineiro de Agropecuaria (agriculture and fishery)
    6. IPEM- Instituto de Pesose Medidas do Estado de Minas Gerais (science and technology)
    7. AGE - Advocacia Geral do Estado de Minas Gerais (legal/administration)
    8. SEPLAG- Secretariat of Planningand Management (administration)
    9. SEF -Secretariat of Finance (administration)
    10. SES - Secretariat of Health (health)
    11. FUNED-FundaggoEzequiel Dias (health)
    12. AUGE-Auditoria Geral da Unigo (auditing)
    13. FCS - FundaggoC16vis Salgado (culture)
    14. SEMAD- Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (environment)
    15. SEDS - Secretariat of Social Defense (public security)
    16. IPSEMG - Instituto de Previdhcia dos Servidores do Estado de Minas Gerais (social
         security administration)
    17. VISA - Superintendhcia de SegurangaSanitaria (health)

SEPLAG is spearheading parallel efforts to strengthen the merit base of the government human
resources and their performance orientations, while controlling the inertial growth of personnel
expenditures. Specific measures adopted include restructuring of the public sector career system
and rationalization of non-salary monetary benefits to public servants.       The government is
recruiting new staff in areas of need, based on the new system, and i s also mapping existing staff
into the new career structures.

Choque de GestZo also includes administrative simplifications intended to make government
operations more efficient and its services more easily accessible to citizens and private firms.
Administrative processes that have been reengineered include the state's real-estate portfolio
management, personnel management and administration of civil servant retirement benefits, state
budgeting and financial programming, medical supplies ordering, prison management, hospital
management, tax collection, and contract management. The government has estimated the savings
from these improvements over the period 2003-2004 to be R$2.1 billion, with further gains of the
order of R$1.1 billion expected for 2005. For comparison, the state government's net current



                                                                                                 17

revenue (NCR) in 2003 was R$13.4 billion, implying that efficiency gains from "Excellence in
Management" have been of the order of eight percent of NCR.

 Choque de GestLTo has included centrally coordinated efforts to increase economy and efficiency in
government purchases. To this end, SEPLAG adopted an aggressive use of "pregiio" (reverse
auction) to purchase standard supplies, developed a single registry of suppliers (including a registry
of suppliers barred from participating in public procurement), and adopted mandatory use of the
Integrated System of Administration of Materials and Services of the State (SIAD). With these
(and other) measures, the Government has reportedly obtained savings of 32 percent of the cost of
government purchases and procurement, totaling R$2 billion a year. The Government plans to
extend the use of e-pregiio to further improve the economy in government procurement, and
complete a number of SIAD modules that are still not fully operational.

Finally, the Minas government i s exploring innovative ways of delivering public services through
expanded use o f e-government tools and partnerships with non-governmental institutions in two
modalities. One i s the Public-PrivatePartnership (PPP) as discussedbelow, and the other is the use
of OSCIP (UrganizupZo du Sociedude Civil de Interesse Pziblico).'' Other reformist states such as
Cear6 and SFio Paulo are also experimenting with the OSCIP model of social service delivery with
promising initial results.

c) Sustainable Economic Developmentlg

At the beginning of the current administration, one of the government's principal preoccupations
with regard to competitiveness of the state economy was the behavior of private investments. The
Investment Climate Survey conducted by the Bank reveals the investment climate in the state of
Minas relative to other states and to Brazil as a whole. Mineiro business respondents to the survey
ranked as the five most serious constraints to operating a business the tax rates, the cost of capital,
macroeconomic uncertainty, regulatory uncertainty and corruption. The survey reveals that in
terms of these subjective rankings, Minas i s representative of Brazil as a whole (see Figure 4,
which includes the Southeast region, in which Minas Gerais, Siio Paulo, and Rio de Janeiro were
sampled): the differences between Minas responses and Brazil as a whole in the sample is
insignificant.




l8Translatedas "Civil Society Organizationwith Public Interest."
l9See Annex 10 for additionaldetails.


                                                                                                    18

                   Figure 4: Subjective Seriousness of Constraints to Business Operation
                                         (2003 ICs: l=better 4=worse)




                                    Tax Rates Cost of Capital Regulatory     Macro      Corruption
                                                              Uncettainty  instability

                                               HBrazil       0Southeast      MG


Promotion of private investments in export-oriented sectors is a high policy priority for Minas.
Nonetheless, most of the constraints identified by the business sector in Minas are outcomes of
policies at the federal level, over which the state government has little to no control. These refer to
much of the tax burden (In 2004, the states accounted for approximately 24% of total federal
revenue), cost of the capital (subject to the national monetary policy and financial sector
regulation), part of the regulatory uncertainty and macro instability. The federal government has
been addressing some of these constraints through its microeconomic reform agenda, which the
Bank supports with its Sustainable and Equitable Growth DPL series. What remains under the
state's control includes measures to re-establish its "macro" (ie., fiscal) stability, control
corruption and reduce regulatory uncertainty in policies and services that are directly administered
by the state itself.

It i s precisely in those latter areas where the Minas government has made important progress in the
last 3 years. Apart from the adoption of a growth-oriented fiscal policy, which has enabled
recuperation of the state government's fiscal capacity to finance needed public investments in
critical areas such as logistics, the main components of the government strategy in support of
private sector development in Minas Gerais are: 1) The "structural project" Competitive Business
of Minas (which includes a special line of credit and programs to lessen the impact of government
bureaucracy in the private sector: Facilita Minas and MinasFAcil), 2) Simples Minas (which i s a
simplified tax treatment for small and medium-sized firms), 3) transformation of the old agency for
industrial development as a new investment promotion agency, the Institute of Integrated
Development of Minas Gerais (INDI), and 4) The Public-Private Partnerships (in which Minas
Gerais has taken a lead role in Brazil and it i s expected to increase substantially private sector
investment in infrastructure) to leverage private financing and to supplement the state's still limited
fiscal capacity.

Within the umbrella framework of a "structural project" Empresa Mineira Competitiva
(Competitive Business of Minas), the government has been developing a series of measures to
streamline government-business transactions and facilitate opening of new businesses and support
growth of medium and small enterprises. The project includes a line of credit for small and micro
enterprises, which aims at financing modernization of processes and enhancing their
competitiveness and productivity for the production of goods and services.                            Reforms to
administrative procedures have been spearheaded by the program Facilita Minas which provides



                                                                                                             19

potential business entrants with both a one-stop shop physical facility called Minas Fdcil and a
web-based mechanism to allow potential investors to inquire about various required procedures in
areas such as tax and firm registration, environmental regulations, etc.

Minas was the first Brazilian state to pass its own PPP Law2' (the federal law governing PPPs -
important to support the state law - was approved by congress in December 2004). Having created
a specialized unit within the Secretariat of Economic Development to manage PPP projects, the
state has defined five pilot PPP projects, includingthe rehabilitation and widening of the BR-050
highway linking Belo Horizonte to S2o Paul0 and the provision of basic sanitation in poor
municipalities.21 Certain aspects of the Minas PPP law are worth emphasizing, since they aim to
reinforce the fiscal benefits of the initiative and reduce fiscal risks undertaken by the government:
first, the law limits PPPs to projects whose objectives are pre-existing in the Integrated
Development Plan of the state (PMDI); second, PPPs are required by the law to demonstrate value-
for-money gains over the alternative of direct public sector provision. The state government has
finalized detailing of the first project, and i s in a process to determine the specific institutional
design of the PPP guaranteemechanism.

Five of the 31 "structural projects" are designed to address infrastructure bottlenecks in transport
and logistics. These include a project to link road networks between municipalities within the
state,22 which was the first "structural project" to sign a results agreement, and another one to
reinvigorate tourism to Minas around the historic theme of the "Estrudu Real" ("The Royal
Highway").

Box 2: Estrada Real

The Estrada Real is the old cobblestone road that linked Rio de Janeiro with the precious metal and gemstone
mining areas of central and northern Minas Gerais. The highway passes through some of Minas' most
historically significant areas, some of which have declined seriously in economic terms since the days it was
built.  The project therefore has both cultural and social importance for the state, representing both a
renaissance of Mineiro historical pride and historical awareness and a focus of resources on poor
municipalities.   A prerequisite for increased tourism is improved infrastructure for both transport and
sanitation, and the project incorporates significant investments in both these sectors: 2004 saw the completion
of 194km of access road paving and improved sanitation brought to 78 municipalities. In addition, three
technical training centers have been set up to provide necessary skills.




*' The other
2o Law 14.868, December 16,     2003.
              three are the construction and operation of a campus for the state university, of a new state
government administrative center, and of prison units.
22Pavimenta@o de LigaSdes e Acessos Rodovihrios aos Municipios.




                                                                                                            20

IV.     BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT STRATEGY

A. ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

A recent quality assessment of the World Bank's programof analytical work in Brazil praised this
work for its strategic relevance and overall quality. The proposed operation is built on a number of
reports by the Bank and the state government.

Among prior Bank work, "Brazil: The New Growth Agenda"23underlined the reforms needed to
improve the investment climate in Brazil and the interplay between the macroeconomic and
microeconomic domains, a key feature of the proposed operation. This knowledge base has
recently been deepened by the completion of the Brazilian Investment Climate Assessment,
recently shared with government. The Report on federal multiyear planning (PPA) informed the
Bank's analysis of the public management reforms underway in M i n a ~ Country level fiduciary
                                                                            . ~ ~
work (e.g., CFAA) all provided insight into the state's performance on financial and fiduciary
aspects.

A significant amount of technical analysis has informed loan preparation at the state level,
augmenting and complementing the above-mentioned work at the national level.                Brazilian
consultants provided detailed assessments of (and support to) the state's efforts in the areas of
results-based management, financial management (Annex 6), debt sustainability, and procurement.
The Bank also assessedthe state's proposals inthe area of social security reform.

Finally, the need for a formal Bank State Economic Memorandum, as have been carried out in
several Northeastern states to inform the Bank's assistance strategies, was obviated by the in-depth
analysis that the then incoming state government had carried out in 2002.25

B. THEPROPOSEDPARTNERSHIP FORDEVELOPMENT

The proposed operation would be a two-tranche development policy loan, with the first tranche
(US$lOO million) payable upon effectiveness and the second tranche (US$7Om) due on completion
of preset conditions described in the loan agreement.

The operation would support three pillars - fiscal management, public sector management, and
private sector development - in two stages, with the initial disbursement made conditional on
progress to date at the time of negotiations, and the second disbursement tied to clearly defined
future goals in each area.

Disbursement of the first tranche would recognize the track record the state government has built
up since January 2003 in turning around the difficult fiscal situations, beginning to implement
cutting-edge public sector management reforms, and initiating a set of institutional reforms to
improve the state's investment climate. Disbursement of the second tranche would signal that the
state had sustained fiscal discipline and achieved important incremental progress in the public
management reforms and improvements in the state's investment climate. In the fiscal area, the
state would have consolidated budget balance over multiple years and state public debt would be on
a downward path, without further compromising public investment or raising tax burdens. In


23World Bank ReportNo.
24World BankReportsNo. 22870-BR.
25"Minas Geraisdo SCculoXXI," op. cit.


                                                                                                   21

public sector management, results-based management would be firmly established with a proven
track record o f delivery in key areas. The leadership of sustainable economic development in the
state would have been firmly placed with the private sector, through reduced red tape, improved
and less intrusive environmental licensing, and a practical basis for partnership between the public
and the private sector in infrastructure provision and operation.

C. POLICY AREAS

The proposed operation would support actions in nine areas within three broad pillars summarized
in the table below.      Within the government strategies adopted to address challenges of fiscal
adjustment, public sector modernization, and private sector development, the proposed operation
would support specific policy measures as described below. The measures that constitute tranche
conditions are italicized in the text that follows.




Al. Compliance with the Fiscal           Achievement of long-run fiscal sustainability.
Adjustment Program with Federal
Government and with the Fiscal
Responsibility Law
A2. Reduction of the public debt burden Reducing the cost of state debt and improvement in its
                                         composition to lessenvulnerability.
A3. Modernization of the State Revenue   Improvement in state tax revenuesperformance to consolidate
Sub-secretariat (SRE)                    fiscal adjustment.

                                         Reduction in the administrative costs for taxpayers.




C1. Enhancement of the investment        Reduction in administrative barriers and facilitate doing
climate in Minas Gerais                  businessin a manner comparable to middle- and high-income
                                         countries.
C2. Public-private partnerships          Broadparticipation of private-sector companies in the
                                         provision of infrastructure services, with improvement in
                                         quality and efficiency, cost reduction to the state and
                                         minimization of fiscal risks.




                                                                                                    22

A.     Ensuring FiscalBalance

1) Compliance with the federal fiscal framework

The strong fiscal adjustments in Brazil since 1998 have been underpinned by a set of robust legal
and administrative mechanisms to encourage sub-national governments to comply with the national
fiscal adjustment goals. Two of the most important mechanisms are the bilateral debt refinancing
agreement between the National Treasury (STN) and each state government, including Minas
Gerais, and the Law of Fiscal Responsibility (LRF). Since 2003, the Minas government has
managed to meet the set of performance targets specified by both these mechanisms, including the
steady increase in the primary surplus (from R$665 million in 2002 to R$1,263 million in 2004)
and the reduction in the ratio of personnel expenditures to net current revenues (RCL) to the level
stipulated in the agreement of the state with the STN Cfrom 71% in 2002 to 61% in 2004).26 These
achievements constitute conditions for the first-tranche release.

For the second tranche, the state government has committed itself to achieving the level of primary
surplus in 2005 as agreed to in its agreement with the STN (R$1,596 million), and to maintaining
the ratio of personnel expenditures to 60% or less of the RCL. These key fiscal variables are under
the government's direct control and thus are the best indicators of the maintenance of the sound
fiscal policy during the duration of the operation. Barring negative movements in other variables
that affect the debt dynamics of the state (e.g., exchange rate), these measures are expected to
contribute positively to improvements in key macro indicators including the debt burden, as
measuredinterms of the debt to net current revenue ratio.

2) Reduction of the public debt burden

As the debt sustainability analysis showed, one of the major risksto debt sustainability is the sheer
size of the current stock of debt and the high financial costs involved with some of the debts. The
state government has been aggressively pursuing a strategy of reducing financial costs of the debt
stock. One of the concrete measures taken so far i s to reduce signifcantlyfloating debts (pending
payments) owed toproviders of goods and services (by R$441 million in 2003 and R$611 in 2004).
Such floating debts would have arisen from irresponsible expenditure management, whereby
purchase commitments were made beyond the government's capacity to pay. The cancellation of
these pending payments (debts) to providers of goods and services to the state government has
reportedly brought about an additional benefit of lowering the cost of government procurement.
The assurance of timely payment removes private suppliers' incentives to try to cover the cost of
delayed payments with inflation of biddingprices.

Most of the state's debt is now owed to the federal government through the aforementioned debt
refinancing agreement, and thus i s not subject to financial management for the purpose of cost
reduction. However, the state government intends to pay off some of the remaining debts prior to



26The ratio of personnel expenditures over the net current revenue is one of the key indicators for monitoring
governments' fiscal performance according to the Fiscal Responsibility Law (LRF). LRF, through an
associated Federal Senate Resolution, sets as the upper limit for states 60 percent of the net current revenues
for personnel expenditures. Given the slight difference in the methodology used to calculate the personnel
expenditures in the state-STN agreement for fiscal adjustment, which predates LRF,the Bank has agreed with
the Minas government to use the STN method for the purpose of calculating the personnel expenditurehet
current revenue ratio, but the spirits of both arrangements are fully consistent with each other, and the resultant
estimates differ very little.


                                                                                                                23

the release of the second tranche. The government's debt management plan calls for it to retire at
least R$100 million worth of the most costly debtsfrom the stock of the consolidated debt and/or
the outstandingfloating debt. The Bank will continue to discuss with the state government its debt
management strategy to support implementation of this action.

3) Modernization of the State Revenue Sub-secretariat

The long term aim of the state in the area of tax collection is to generate sufficient stable revenue
from its own sources (Le., net of transfers from the federal government, which in 2003 represented
approximately 14 percent of total revenues) to smooth the state government's spending over the
economic cycle and thus make the state's fiscal policy counter-cyclical.

A significant step forward has been the establishment of "matrix management" of tax collection in
the state revenue service (SRE). This brings the state the ability to cross-check tax claims from
different information sources, increasing its ability to enforce tax collection and detect evasion. To
further sharpen a results focus, SRE has signed a results agreement (as part of the SEPLAG-led
Choquede Gest6o) to formalize its performance management scheme, and installed a computerized
information management systemfor tax payer registration and information and for collection of
tax on transfers due to death and grants of any goods or rights under the Tax Administration
Modernization Project (PROMAT). These measures have translated into a 6.2 percent real rise in
ICMS receipts in 2003 over 2002 (versus 3.9 percent nationally) and an estimated 12.2 percent real
rise in ICMS receipts in 2004 over 2003 (versus 8.9 percent nati~nally).~~These gains owe mostly
to improvements in efficiency (as opposed to economic growth or changes in the tax code).
Collection efficiency has also increased on the other taxes raised by the state government. These
efficiency gains have come from modernized systems, the above-mentioned matrix management,
and improved human-resource managementin the state revenue service. The long-term measure of
impact i s the rate of growth of the state's own tax revenues.

For the second tranche release, the government i s committed to installing ut least seven modules of
the State's Integrated Tax Administration System (Sistema Integrado de ArrecadapZo da Receita
Estadual, SIARE), with the inclusion of the following modules on tax collection: the taxpayers'
fiscal balance (tax debt and credit to the government), the special regime of control and
supervision, the authorized fiscal document control, the automatic issuance of tax receipts for small
firms and independent producers, andelectronic data management.

B.     Excellence inPublic Management

1) Optimization of human resource management

Having achieved important financial savings from rationalization of the wage bill, the government
i s keen to ensure that the financial gains achieved through control of the aggregate wage bill are not
easily reversed by imprudent future decisions.           To this end the Government has adopted a
centralized decision-making structure to ensure new hiring decisions are made with present and
future fiscal implications in mind. In parallel, SEPLAG has centralized management of payrolls,
including of the Indirect Administration entities (e.g., public enterprises), to gain full control over


2' ICMS (Impost0sobre Operapies relativas d Circula@o de Mercadoriase sobre Prestaqces de Sewiqos de
TransporteInterestadual e Intermunicipal e de ComunicaqiTo),the state sales tax, i s the main source of own
revenue for state governments in Brazil. In MG in 2003, the ICMS accounted for 85 percent of state tax
receipts, 70 percent of own current revenue, and 60 percent of total current revenue.


                                                                                                         24

salary payments and standardize criteria for concession of benefits to public servants. A key
element of this approach has been the objective of reducing the automatic growth ("crescimento
vegetativo") of the wage bill inherent inpay systems with bonusesbasedon seniority.

To aid the centralizing decisions for strategic establishment control, the government i s working to
improve its integrated personnel data system (SISAP). Some of the SISAP modules are not fully
operational yet, but the Government i s working toward the system's full operationalization during
2006. Installation of a new payment module that is integrated with SISAP would be a condition for
a second-tranche release.

Another key pillar of the MG government's human resource management reforms is to enhance the
merit base and performance orientations of the public servants. The government has already
introduced a new career structure and established 14groupingsfor its civil servants, not only with
a view to developing merit-based human resource structures, but also to increase flexibility in
strategic management of human resources. Seventy percent of its staff has been re-assigned into
such groupings. Besides strengthening the merit principle in staff recruitment, the new careers
would provide clear incentives for both aspirants to the public service and those who are already
working for the public administration, allow the government to invest in capacity building of the
existing staff, and, because of its more flexible design, let the government re-deploy staff more
easily than in the past according to its changing needs and priorities.

2) Efficiency and economy in logistics and supply management

InJanuary 2004 the state government launched a new IT system named SIAD - SistemaIntegrado
de Administra@o de Bens e ServiGos - which has been a key component in the state's efforts to
control expenditures, decrease waste, and improve value for money. Unit costs for supplies have
been cut (in the case of certain medical supplies by up to 50 percent)28through cross-checking
prices and tighter controls over procurement.         Overall the average economy on government
purchases has been of the order of 18 percent. The system now covers more than 90 percent of
purchases.

The government intends to expand the use of the registration of prices method more widely. This
i s a method, authorized in the federal procurement law but i s rarely used in practice, whereby the
government can solicit price proposals from would-be suppliers without having to commit itself to
purchasing their service at the time of the bidding. The government intends to operationalize this
method through installation of a SIAD module for the use of electronic registration of prices in
government purchases through the pregzo modality (reverse auction). It also plans to make a new
SIAD vehicle registrationmoduleto all the 16 state secretariats so that the fleets of motor vehicles,
an important segment of the state's physical assets, are efficiently managed.

3) Installation of results-based management

The core of the MG government's results-based management initiative has been the creation of
GERAESProgram as an operational framework for strategic management of government priorities
through the 31 "structural projects."     These projects receive preferential treatments in terms of
management attention and budgetary allocations. In 2005, the government defined and agreed on
pelformance goals and benchmarksfor all 31 of the "structural projects" and entered this data in



28 Presentationof the state governmentto World Bank staff, November2004.


                                                                                                  25

  the central project monitoring system ("Control Panel") for regular monitoring of their
  pet$ormunce.

  Results agreements are a key managerial instrument introduced to enhance results-orientations not
  only of the "structural projects" but also of selected government agencies. The government has so
  far signed results agreement with three "structural projects" and seventeen government agencies,
  and, as second-tranche conditions, plans to extend the number of results agreements to one more
  agency and also review and renew existing results agreements of at least jive of the six agencies
  listed below:29

            0    Instituto Estadual de Florestas - IEF;
            0    Funda@o Estadual do Meio Ambiente -FEAM;
            0    Instituto Mineiro de Gestiio das Aguas - IGAM;
            0    Instituto Mineiro de AgropecuBria -MA;
            0    Instituto de Pesos e Medidas do Estado de Minas Gerais -IPEM;
            0    Secretaria de Estado de Meio Ambiente - SEMAD.

. Finally, a new initiative the state is developing to improve the quality of social service delivery is
  the use of so-called OSCIPs (Civil Society Organizations with Public Interests). In this OSCIP
  arrangement, the government would first certify interested organizations as potential candidates for
  eventual performance-based contracts, and then enter into partnership agreements with those
  organizations that are deemed most suited to provide specified social services. The government has
  already signed six partnership agreementsfor OSCIP arrangements.

  4) Promotion of transparency and access to government information and services (e-government)

  Systematic and extensive use of e-government tools i s one of the features of the MG government's
  approach to public management reform. The government created the Executive Committee of the
  Electronic Government to establish a common focus among the e-government initiatives.
  Composed of 21 Deputy-Secretaries, the Committee has the authority to set standards for content
  and quality of information and services provided by Portal Minus, the government website. The
  Electronic Governance Department from SEPLAG i s responsible for implementation of Committee
  resolutions such as carrying on content evaluations and audit of each agency's home page.

  Portal Minas was created in 2004 to be a door for government services. The concept was to
  change organization of information from a formal (institutional) structure into a more user-friendly
  one accordingto subject matters of interest to citizens (education, health) and types of services that
  they seek.      The portal's user-friendliness i s enhanced with the organization of access to
  government services around "life events," which use more accessible language, like "Getting you
  driver's license", "Paying the IPVA" to make information search easier and faster.

  Finally, as further effort to promote transparency and access to government information, the
  government intends to create a new portal, the Portal de Planejamento e OrGamento, with the
  purpose of consolidating the integration of the planning and budgetingprocesses as to improve the
  monitoring of the structural project^.^' This portal will make the project management methodology



  29The results agreements for the "structural projects" are not subject to renewal.
  30The existing systems SIGPLAN (planning) and ElaborapTo da Proposta Orcamenthia - AOAD (budget)
  will retain its specific functions while the new system will add Microsoft's Enterprise Project Management


                                                                                                         26

more efficient through the use of the available technology.          The launch of the Portal de
Planejamento e OrGamento will constitute a second-tranche release condition.

C.      Promotion of Private Sector Development

1) Enhancement of the investment climate

Many of the reforms describedin earlier sections representcontributions to the investment climate;
for example, e-government and procurement reform, and the elimination of arrears from the public
accounts all bring benefits to the private sector. In addition, the following specific reforms have
strengthened the business environment inMinas.

First, the state government has initiated a set of streamlined processes for entrepreneurswishing to
start a business, including linkages to investment promotion, advisory, credit, and training services
provided by the state for businesses wishing to invest there.           These measures have been
implementedunder the umbrella project Facilita Minus, which includes a special line of credit for
small and micro enterprises and a "one-stop shop" (Minus Fricil) for registering new firms.

Second, Simples Minus, a program initiated in January 2005, provides micro, small and medium
enterprises with differentiated tax administration systems more appropriate to their needs,
dispensing with the need for onerous paperwork, reducing the number of procedures, and
simplifying tax calculations.

Third, adoption of a streamlined environmental licensing procedure with the use of decentralized
regional offices and web-based applications for environmental licenses simplifies private firms'
investment decisions.    Minas Gerais i s a national leader in decentralizing, automating, and
enhancing its system of environmental licensing.           Environmental licensing has now been
streamlined into a "one-stop shop" operation, in the sense that companies registering for licensing
of any activity submit a single request to the Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable
Development (SEMAD)and receive guidance on the whole environmental licensing procedure.

The establishment of Facilita Minus, Simples Minus, and the new environmental licensing
procedure constitute the conditions for the first-tranche release. For the second tranche, the
government intends to deepen these reforms by integrating the registry of taxpayers of the state
value-added tax (ICMS)in the Integrated RevenueAdministration System (SIARE)with the registry
of suppliers in SZAD so that a firm interested in bidding for government procurement would not
have to contact the Finance Secretariat separately to obtain the proof of no ICMS tax debt.

2) Public-privatepartnership

Minas Gerais was the first Brazilian state to pass a PPP law (Law 14.868, of December 16, 2003:
see Annex 7). Management structures are already in place within the Secretariat for Economic
Development (with grant financing form DB), financial guarantee mechanisms are being
developed, and the modeling of the first five projects i s now underway. PPP i s viewed by the state
government as an innovative means to provide core infrastructure services with emphasis on roads
and sanitation, improve public service delivery, and reduce regionaldisparities.



(EPM) solution for monitoring the projects and for controlling the main functions of the planning and
budgetingprocesses.


                                                                                                  27

The Minas PPP Law, like its federal counterpart, establishes the legal and administrative
framework within which PPP can occur. Key elements of the new framework include the creation
of guarantee mechanisms, with the participation of a state company (CODEMIG: Companhia de
Desenvolvimento do Estado de Minas Gerais) as a contractual counterpart and the holder of assets
to finance the payment of private-sector partner^.^'

The Minas law is in some aspects more restrictive than the federal law (or that of S5o Paulo,
another state with its own PPP law): projects must appear in the state multiyear investment plan
(PPAG), and PPP cannot cover, for example, the simple sub-contracting of public-service delivery
labor costs. Projects must also cover a period of at least five years and be for a value in excess of
R$20 million. These restrictions are designed to reduce the risk of PPP becoming a source of
significant future fiscal risk, through its overuse in cases where other modes of public contracting
are already appropriate. Finally, and perhaps most important, the law requires that for all PPP
contracts, prior technical studies clearly establish cost-benefit gains of PPP in comparison with the
alternative of public provision, to ensure that PPP improves the efficiency of the use of public
resourcesby the state government.

For the purpose of loan disbursement, the prior actions for the first tranche would be the approval
by the Minas Gerais legislative assembly of the state PPP Law and the creation of the specialized
PPP unit within the Secretariat of Economic Development. Prior to the second tranche release, the
government plans to conclude the design of a PPP guaranteemechanism

D. BANK FINANCIALASSISTANCEAND DISBURSEMENT CONDITIONS

The Bank's financial assistance in support of the program would be comprised of a two-tranche
loan for the total amount of US$170 million, divided between the first tranche of US$lOO million
and the second tranche of US$70 million. Given the State of Minas' fiscal and other policy
performance prior to the arrival of the current administration, the most remarkable achievement so
far was to successfully carry out the initial set of reforms including deep fiscal adjustments that
resulted in an impressive turnaround of its fiscal balance and the simultaneous launching of one of
the most comprehensive and coherently designed public management reform initiatives within the
Brazilian federation today. These reforms requireda number of legal reforms as well as technically
sound administrative reforms, which are not frequently observed among Brazilian states. The
second tranche would support continuation and incremental improvements of these efforts in
selectedpolicy areas.32Given the state's track record of reformimplementation so far, the risk that
the slight front-loading will dilute the government's incentive to carry out the remaining reforms i s
considered minimal (see the Risk section below).

The first tranche would be disbursed upon loan effectiveness in recognition of the significant legal
andadministrative reforms, described above and inAnnex 2, which the State Government of Minas
Gerais has already undertaken.




31The state law does not create the legal contract per se, since this is constitutionally within the aegis of
federal law; in this and other ways the Minas PPP Law i s entirely consistent with the Federal PPP Law.
32In fact, the loan preparation was delayed considerably because of the procedural complexity surrounding
preparation of sub-national loans in Brazil, and in the meantime, the state government implemented some of
the measures originally contemplated for the second tranche, attesting to its own commitment and capacity to
carry out the reforms independent of the availability of Bank financial support as an incentive.


                                                                                                         28

The second tranche would be released once the State Government met all the tranche release
conditions specified in the Annex 2 (Operations Policy Matrix, the fourth column "Next Steps
(Second Tranche)") and subject to the following additional conditions:

         (a) satisfactory overall Program implementation by the Borrower;

         (b) maintenance by the Guarantor of a macroeconomic policy framework that does not
jeopardize the objectives of the program; and

         (c) maintenance by the Borrower of an expenditure program and fiscal arrangements with
the Guarantor that are consistent with the objectives of the Program.

E. LINKTO CAS

The 2003 Brazil CAS for 2004-07 lays out a vision of a more equitable, sustainable, competitive
           The CAS also states: "building on progress over the past year, the Bank will continue its
ongoing relationship with sub-national governments, working in a more coordinated and integrated
fashion in the states and municipalities where it i s already active. Going forward, the Bank will
selectively lend to creditworthy states. State strategies, based on intensive dialogue with the state's
economic team on development priorities and goals, focus on the full array of challenges and
include policy reviews, public expenditure and other economic analysis, and fiduciary reviews and
relatedcapacity building, as well as other partners' activities in the state."

Inthe present context it is worth emphasizing two aspects of World Bank support to Minas Gerais.
First, the motivation which underlies the above paragraph is that state governments are, inpractice,
responsible for executing many areas of public policy in Brazil, from public safety to education and
health to export promotion. Bank support of effective public management at the state level i s
therefore fundamental for impact on the ground. This already constitutes a core of the Bank's
public sector governance strategy in Brazil, where the Bank supports strengthening of public sector
management through a series of integrated state and municipal investment operation^.^^          Second,
the Fiscal Responsibility Law and the system of checks and balances on state fiscal performance
has been a mainstay of Brazilian macroeconomic improvement in recent years. Bank support to
select states may therefore contribute to Brazil's development by strengthening this system.

The proposed strategy of support to Minas Gerais i s linked specifically to the CAS objectives of
strengthening macroeconomic and good governance foundations and competitiveness agenda in
Brazil. For the "foundations" the CAS identified three long-term goals: (i) macroeconomic
                                                                                 sound
management and fiscal reform; (ii)    more efficient public expenditure management; and (iii)      good
governance. All three are directly related to the objectives of the proposed operation, although
some of the medium-term outcomes that are thought to contribute to these long-term goals are not
touched upon in the proposed operation. For the "competitive Brazil pillar", the CAS listed the
following long-term goals: (i)    improved infrastructure; (ii)  broader and more efficient financial
sector; (iii)improved investment climate and competition; and (iv) more modem innovation policy.



33World Bank Report No. 27043-BR, December 2003.
34 Ongoing Bank support for public sector management in Brazil's sub-national governments includes the
states of Ceara (Multi-sector SWAP), Pernambuco (education quality and state reform), and Amazonas
(integrated regional development and health service delivery), and the municipalities of SBo Paulo (fiscal
management), Recife (fiscal management), Teresina (budget and education administration), and SBo Luis
(general public administration).


                                                                                                       29

The proposed operation supports the state's policies that are relevant to (i) (iii) these long-
                                                                               and         of
term goals. Links between relevant medium-term outcomes for Brazil set forth in the 2003 CAS
and the objectives pursued through the proposed operation are displayed in the Table 4.

Table 4: 2003 Results-basedCAS andthe ProposedOperation

  Long-term         Medium-term                CAS-supported            RelevantImpactIndicatorsfor
Country Goals          Outcomes            Contributors to Medium-         the ProposedOperation
                    Contributingto             termOutcomes              (ReproducedfromAnnex 2)
                   Long-termGoals
Foundationsfoi oundEconomvand C          3d Governance
Sound                Falling public debt    Fiscal institutions            Consolidated debt to the net
macroeconomic        Improved debt          strengthened                   current revenue ratio.
management           composition            Decreased debt/GDP ratio       Average cost of the portion of
andfiscal                                   Reduced indexationof debt      the consolidated debt that is not
reforms                                     to SELIC rate or foreign       owed to the National Treasury
                                            exchange                       (extru limit debt) and of floating
                                            Investment grade rating for    debt corresponding to judiciary
                                            public debt                    debt (precatorios).
                                            Increased transparency and     Growth rate of state tax
                                            accountability inthe           revenue.
                                            management of government       Number o f processesof
                                            debt                           registration, tax payments and
                                                                           control processes integrated
                                                                           under the PROMAT.
                                                                           State floating debt profile.
                     More fiscally          Social security reform      NIA
                     sustainable social     passed and implemented
                     security system
                     Increased              Implemented                 NIA
                     openness of the        competitiveness reforms
                     economy
More efficient       Reducedbudget          Legislation passedto           Decrease inthe percentage of
public               rigidity,              reduce impact of               RCL committed with personnel.
expenditure          reallocations for      earmarking, increase the
management           more public            share o f budget that i s
                     investments            discretionary
                     Increasedquality       Evaluation culture             Rate o f compliance with the
                     and efficiency o f     established: program           objectives defined inthe results
                     spending               evaluation incorporated as     agreements and with the goals
                                            part o f public expenditure    and benchmarks defined in the
                                            management                     Control Panel.
                     Increased              New law or amendment           Use of pregtio eletr8nico and
                     efficiency and         passed for procurement         cot@o eletr8nica expanded to
                     transparency in        methods                        10%of the common supply and
                     government             Procurement certification      services purchases
                     procurement            and training program
                                            implemented
Good                 Increasedcapacity      Improved systems for           Rate of compliance with the
governance           and results-           public expenditure             objectives defined in the results
                     orientation of sub-    monitoring, evaluation, and    agreements and with the goals
                     national               reallocation                   and benchmarks defined inthe
                     governments          n Improved incentives for        Control Panel.
                                            service delivery
                     Increasedpublic      n Effective models of            Complaint index of the Portal
                     participation          transparent, participatory     Minas: # of complaints (fale
                                            local government in place      conosco)/total # of access to
                                                                           Portal Minas.



                                                                                                           30

                                                    More municipalities with
                                                    participatorybudgeting




Furthermore, the proposed operation's support for the state government's results-based
management is in line with a key objective of the 2003 Results-basedCAS, which stated that "the
Bank would assist governments at the federal and subnational levels to strengthen their
frameworks for better results-basedmanagement and budgeting (original empha~is).~~

F. EXPECTEDBENEFITS

Besides the expected positive effects of the policy measures to be supported, the proposed
operation would have its impacts on state development through three additional channels: (i)
technical knowledge transfer, (ii) financial incentives to complete reforms, and (iii) promotion of
MGto investors by providing externalcredibility to the state's reforms and achievements so far. In
addition, the proposed operation would deliver significant benefits at the national level through
reinforcement of fiscal discipline in one of the largest states in the federation with troubled fiscal
performance in the recent past.

Knowledge transfer. Within certain areas there is scope for the Bank to advise the government on
technical aspects of policy design. Examples are the design of PPP contracts and regulatory
framework (e.g., in water and sanitation and in road transport), in systems of results-based
management, and in human resource management. All are areas where the Bank has technical
comparative ad~antage.~~

Financial incentives. Owing to the fiscal strictures the state faces, both tranches of the operation
would be relieving short-term liquidity constraints for the state government. As this would be an
untied budget support operation, the state government would have flexibility to determine how to
apply the loan resources. In principle, the state could use the additional liquidity for a variety of
purposes including (i) retiring highly burdensome debt taken on at costly terms, (ii) making certain
investments with high short-run returns for the government (e.g., modernization of tax collection),


35Brazil Country Assistance Strategy, 2003-2007, World Bank Report No. 27043-BR, December 2003, p. 33.
36During preparation, Bank staff and consultants have provided detailed input to the state government in
seven areas supported by the loan: (i)results-based public sector management; (ii) administrative reforms and
human resource management; (iii) strategic planning; (iv) fiscal sustainability analysis; (v) fiscal risk
mitigation in the state's civil service social security system; (vi) fiscal risk mitigation in the state's civil service
health insurance systems; and (vii) assessment of fiduciary systems.


                                                                                                                    31

(iii) funding its PPP guarantee fund to help promote growth, and (iv) planning for a prolonged
programof core high-returninvestments, particularly in infrastructure.

Promoting MG to investors by providing external credibility to state reform. Another
objective that has been emphasized by the state government i s the signaling role of World Bank
policy-based support at this stage, clearly associated with the government's program of structural
reforms, coming out of a difficult period of transition. To help promote Minas externally, there is
also the possibility of the World Bank Group's Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS)
providing technical support to the state government.

National-levelbenefits. The proposed operation would also provide benefits at the national level.
These benefits can be divided into three broad categories: the demonstration effect of the World
Bank Group signaling support internationally for a high-performing state government;
strengthening an economy that together with Sgo Paul0 forms Brazil's "industrial engine"; and
reinforcing the Fiscal Responsibility Law by strengthening the fiscal adjustment process in a state
where public finances have until recently been precarious.

G. CHOICE OF INSTRUMENT

DPL versus investment lending. The operation supports policy reforms to which the state
government is highly committed. A DPL i s therefore the appropriate vehicle. As the section above
describes, the state's reform program is robust, and its overall development strategy, public
spending priorities, and financial management give firm grounds for confidence that the funds will
contribute to poverty reduction.

Two-tranche DPL versus programmatic lending. A series of programmatic DPLs would be an
ideal vehicle with which to support medium-term institutional reform agenda such as the one this
proposed loan would support in Minas Gerais. Unfortunately, Brazil's rigorous fiscal control
regime that has contributed so much to sustenance of fiscal responsibility since the late 1990s also
imposes relatively high transaction costs involved in processing sub-national loans. Each loan
would have to go through a rigorous process of multiple reviews and approvals by federal
government agencies, and often this approval process could take months or longer and introduces a
high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of the loan approval. Given this reality, the MG
government has strongly preferred a two-tranche DPL for which a federal approval i s needed only
once, and the Bank concurred that under the circumstance a two-tranche DPL was the most
appropriate instrument.

DPL versus technical assistance. Another alternative would be TA lending focusing on areas
where the proposed operation would include TA in addition to policy-based lending. Given the
state's borrowing restrictions within its debt agreement with the federal government, the state has
not requested a separate TA loan, but instead intends to use a part of the proceeds of the operation
to fund consultancies in areas supported by the loan.

H. RELATIONSHIPTO OTHERBANK OPERATIONS

Existing World Bank Group support to Minas Gerais includes various activities: selective grant-
based funding; technical dialogue, both in the context of loan preparation and other recent
transactions; impact in the state through the execution of federal lending operations; and IFC
operations with the private sector. In addition, a state rural poverty reduction project has recently
become effective. The development of the proposed operation has benefited from the knowledge


                                                                                                 32

created by many of these activities, and its implementation would strengthen the enabling
environment for them all. Annex 11provides more detail on these other Bank operations.

As a first state-level DPL, the proposed operation also closely links with policy-based lending
support that the Bank has been providing Brazil over the past several years, especially in support of
the federal government's fiscal and competitiveness reform agenda. In recent years, the main
vehicles have been a series of three Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loans (January 2001-June 2004),
which have supported strengthening of fiscal management overall, including specific measures of
sub-national fiscal performance as a benchmark of fiscal sustainability of the country as a whole,
and the Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth (January 2004), which
supported, inter alia, measures to improve national investment climates and infrastructure
provision, including the passage of the federal PPP Law. These programmatic series are still
ongoing, and are expected to generate positive synergy with the proposed operation that supports
relatedpolicy reforms at the state level.

I.COORDINATIONWITHOTHERDONORS

The main other internationallender involved in Minas Gerais is the IDB, which i s financing several
roads projects in the state. These projects, which include the improvement of road access between
Belo Horizonte and neighboringregions of the state, complement the presentproposed operation in
that they finance core infrastructure investments, while the Partnership for Development focuses on
the enabling policy and regulatory environment for sustainableeconomic growth in the state. IDB
has also offered grant-funded technical assistance to the PPP unit within the government, which
dovetails with the policy-based financial support to the PPP initiative and the design of the first
contracts. The Bank has had constructive and enriching dialogue with the IDB on the state's
framework for PPP.

Coordination with the IMF has taken place at the national level, and the Bank and the Fund
recently collaborated on the pilot initiative on public investment, with important effects interms of
strengthening the selection and appraisal of federal infrastructure projects. Again, particularly in
the area of transport infrastructure (principally roads), many of the benefits will be felt in time by
the state of Minas Gerais.

Finally, collaboration with the private sector has been intense via the Program for Excellence in
Public Management, which has drawn on private-sector funding of management consultants to
advise the government on cutting-edge management reforms in the areas of fiscal management,
hospital management, public security, and planning and administration. This has been an important
source of understanding for the Bank during loan preparation of the improvements to efficiency
that the government has achieved.

J. LESSONSLEARNED

The design of the proposed operation reflects several important lessons of recent experience with
DPLs in Braziland more broadly.

Most important is strong client ownership of the reform program being supported. This is assured
in the proposed operation by the close dialogue that the Bank has conducted with the State, and by
the approach taken whereby the government took a proactive role in defining policy matrix with
measures that were both high impact and feasible within the time frame of the operation.
Furthermore, the state government strongly supported the two-tranche design, as opposed to a


                                                                                                   33

single-tranche design, clearly cognizant of the implication that the release of the second tranche
would be conditional on their fulfilling the agreedconditions.

The second lesson is the need for strong leadership at the highest levels of government for
significant fiscal adjustment and deep public sector reforms to succeed. As attested to by a track
record of over two full years in government, the present state government benefits from the
necessary strength of leadership throughout the higher levels of government. This i s a key attribute
of the client that makes the proposed operation likely to succeed.

Further lessons are underlinedin the World Bank guidelines on sub-national policy-based lending.
Conditions for success that are listed include that the client be of significant magnitude to have an
impact at the national level.

A fourth lesson that we have learned from Brazil's repeatedeconomic crises in recent years is the
vital importance of economic growth in assuring fiscal sustainability. Fiscal adjustments that take
place against a background of recession or stagnation, and which in some cases may exacerbate
these problems, run into vicious cycles of declining revenues and the need for further belt-
tightening.    The proposed operation therefore pursues the dual goals of fiscal discipline and
economic growth intandem and with equal importance attachedto each.

A final lesson from Brazil i s the central role played by the Fiscal Responsibility Law in anchoring
the fiscal discipline at the consolidated national level within Brazil's system of fiscal federalism.
For this reason a strong principle of the design of the proposed operation i s to work within the
LRF,to support its implementation, and to further the achievementof the objectives set inthe debt
agreementsbetween the states and the federal government.

V.       OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

The main impacts of the operation on poverty will be through two channels: improved economic
growth and more efficient delivery of public services through improved management. It is not
possible to simulate realistically the disaggregated effects of the project on different socioeconomic
groups or geographical subdivisions of the state, however, since its effects will be felt statewide.

The benefits of the operation can be divided into various levels. At the first level, the operation
brings benefits in terms of reinforcing the Fiscal Responsibility Law and Brazil's system of fiscal
federal checks and balances. As discussed elsewhere in this document, this system has been
fundamental to assuring Brazil's national macroeconomic stability since the Real Plan, and by
reinforcing the successful adjustment of Brazil's second largest state, the operation has
considerable significance at the national level. As macroeconomic instability tends to exacerbate
poverty (especially in Brazil), maintenance of fiscal discipline, a basic requirement for
macroeconomic stability, i s an essential prerequisite for poverty reduction.

Second, within the state itself, the fiscal adjustment combined with improved economic
performance will lead to poverty reduction both through higher incomes and through increased
spending available for direct poverty-reducing spending, such as education, health, and basic local
infrastructure. Fiscal adjustments in Brazil have not tended to result inreduction in social spending
because at the federal level adjustments have been done by way of revenue increases. Social
expenditures in particular tend to be well-protected because of the constitutional earmarking that


                                                                                                    34

mandates governments at all three levels of their revenues in health and education. Inthe case of
Minas Gerais, current and investment expenditures were reduced in the first year, as described
elsewhere in this Program Document. However, much of the reduction fell on new investment
projects, rather maintenance of ongoing recurrent programs, and was accompanied by various
measures to improve efficiency and economy of these spendings (e.g., through improved
procurement). Besides, the government has explicitly protected the priority expenditure programs
including programs oriented toward poverty reduction such as Basic Sanitation, Family Health,
Basic Education, Minas Without Hunger, and Rural Electrification, to name a few.

Work at the national level suggests that the elasticity of poverty with respect to economic growth in
Brazil i s about one, and Minas is unlikely to be a significant exception to this statistical regularity
at the level of the country. Furthermore, there i s a 25% headcount ratio of poverty in the state.
This implies that a one percent increaseineconomic growth is likely to reducepoverty in Minas by
about a quarter of a percentagepoint per year, or one percent every four years.

Third, the improvements in the quality of public management in Minas will bring better service
delivery to the poor. Efforts such as results-based management and performance-based human
resource management are key in this regard. Effects have already been felt, such as the extension
of basic education in the state at no fiscal cost through more efficient mobilization of teachers and
school buildings.

Finally, both of the state's development agendas, the Plano Mineiro de Desenvolvimento Integrado,
or PMDI, as well as the Plano Plurianual de A@o Governamental, or PPAG, have incorporated
poverty reduction into their programs. Both these plans include the reduction of state-level social
inequalities as one of their primary objectives and programs. Inthe case of the PPAG, the program
lists objectives and sub-objectives related to poverty reduction and assigns each to various state-
level organizations which will be held responsible. It also lists the indicator that will be measured
(such as infrastructure and irrigation projects), the date by which the goal should be achieved, as
well as the financing requirements needed in order to obtain the objective. The PMDI also
highlightsthe reduction of inequalities as a requirement for more balanced growth within the state
of Minas Gerais. Illiteracy rates and infant mortality are some of the areas related to poverty
reduction that this plan proposes to tackle. Although the proposed operation, as a policy-based
DPL, would not be supporting these expenditure programs directly, the Bank's general budget
support would help the government fund and implement these programs adequately so as to achieve
desired policy outcomes, including poverty reduction.

Minas' development priorities, as embodied in the PMDI and the PPAG, reflect not only rigorous
technical analyses but also a genuinely participatory process of decision making. In both of the
state's development agendas, the state has encoded laws decreeing a participatory process,
including active participation of the civil society. The process for developing the PMDIis defined
in the state's constitution and was proposed by the Conselho de Desenvolvimento EconBmico e
Social (Council for Economic and Social Development).                This council is composed of
representatives from government, private sector, and civil society, with non-governmental
representatives comprising more than half of the council membership. Similarly with the PPAG,
the laws governing the plan require full transparency and public participation. The government's
PPAG proposal was discussed in public hearings at the legislative assembly's Commission on
Popular Participation, where some revisions based on citizen inputs were incorporated. The PPAG
i s reviewed annually by the same Popular ParticipationCommission, where the government reports
on the previous year's program performance.           Annual revisions to the plan also involve
dissemination via the internet.


                                                                                                    35

The state's participatory/consultative mechanisms are found at the program level as well. In their
rural development program, the state seeks to improve the quality of life of the target population
through small-scale social and economic infrastructure subproject investments, increasing the
social capital of the rural communities participating in the project by strengthening community
associations and municipal councils. By providing communities the opportunity to address their
needs through this process, the local-level municipal councils have succeeded in i)reducing
political interference at the local level; ii)strengthening the capacity of both communities and
municipal governments to select, prioritize, and implement investment decisions; iii)creating
partnerships between communities, municipal councils, and municipal governments and more
generally, increased the community voice in the use of public resources; and iv) fostering
citizenship through increased awareness of social responsibilities of citizens, their representatives
and public authorities incommunity and public matters.

The laws governing the publidprivate partnerships, supported by this operation, have stated that
public consultation i s requiredby law during the approval phase of a project. Furthermore, bidding
and contracting of a project must be open to the public. These laws provide further evidence of the
state's ability to ensure a broad, and therefore more effective, development approach.

Overall, there are grounds to conclude that (a) the proposed operation's poverty and social impacts,
which are expected to become significant over the medium term as implementation of the reforms
continues, will be positive; and (b) that the state government's policy framework, budget
arrangements, results-based management processes, and administrative capacity to manage its
policy measures' potential effects on poverty and social outcomes are deemed adequate.

B. ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

The policies supported by this operation, includingnotably measures to strengthen the investment
climate and promote broad participation of private firms in infrastructure services provision, could
have significant positive environmental effects over the medium to long term. This operation
supports actions which will strengthen the government's capacity to monitor and manage those
effects.

The state of Minas Gerais is one of the three most advanced states in Brazil in terms of the
government capacity in environmental management, along with Paran6 and SBo Paulo, and boasts
of a well established Secretariat that leads Brazil in standards of environmental quality. The
federal government has put in place tripartite commissions which divide the responsibilities
between the municipalities, state, and the federal governments to ensure better enforcement of
environmentalregulations. Such a commission has beenput inplace inthe state of Minas Gerais.

Minas Gerais has qualified for the highest level of grant support under the Environmental Assets
component of the Bank-financedSecond National Environmental Project (NEP 11)by carrying out a
number of important reforms in a matrix of possible reforms. This matrix assigns points for a given
level of achievement in areas such as solid waste management, forest management, transparency,
etc. This level of qualification entitles the State to a grant of up to US$8 million which it will use
to support a project on the reduction of environmental impacts on the Rola Moca State Park. This
park encompasses much of the watershed that supplies water to the state capital of Belo Horizonte.
Activities include improvements in drainage, investments in fire prevention, development of
sewage and solid waste management and disposal, better protection of the park against violators, as
well as public education campaigns.


                                                                                                   36

Licensing has been among the core successful areas of environmental reform. Redesigning and
decentralizing environmental licensing is one of the reforms supported by this proposed operation.
The goal of the reform i s to strengthen the State Environment Secretariat (SEMAD) by replacing
the methods of environmental control that emphasized procedural compliance to one based on
active monitoring of environmental impacts and appropriate corrective measures in order to
promote sustainable development.

This objective has so far been realized through SIAM, Sistema Integrado de Informag6es
Ambientais (Integrated System for Environmental Information), a computerized tool to unify the
licensing of the "green," "brown," and "blue" agendas representing the areas of environmental
protection.   The reform has established an integrated system to aid in better environmental
management with a unified process for licensing, monitoring and control of the environment. The
system automatically determines the type and the extent of environmental assessment and
mitigation necessary for a particular project, once the works' profile i s entered into the system.
This user-friendly tool, financed through a grant which includes World Bank financing from the
NEP 11, allows detailed information on the local environment such as studies, analysis, and
licensing to be shared among all the users. Through this reform, the government i s reducing the
administrative cost to outside companies and i s establishing a simplified and more agile tool for
environmental management. Greater administrative efficiency in environmental licensing itself is
expected to free up the SEMAD's institutional resources for monitoring of environmental
conditions though indicators and on-site inspection.

One such improvement deals with compliance with environmental licensing. SEMAD has put in
place satellite photos and maps which aid officials in monitoring on-the-ground activities by
allowing instantaneous checking and matching of licenses via photos. Such improvements are
evidence of how SEMAD i s capitalizing on the administrative reforms (Choque de GestGo)
initiated by the state government and pushing to further upgrade their institutional capacities. A
number of decentralized agencies in the environment sector as well as one "structural project"
(Environmental Management in Minas 21StCentury) have signed results agreements and are
starting to adopt results-basedmanagement.37

The high level of environmental management capacity, including monitoring and accountability, is
applied to all projects undertaken in the State. It follows that with the development of the
publidprivate partnerships (PPP) component of this loan, the issue of environment will also be
addressed within the State's framework. To ensure this, the PPP partnership's managing council
includes the Secretary of Environment and Sustainable Development. Guidelines for PPP also
include public participation within the framework.

The environmental capacity of the state of Minas Gerais is of a reasonable and sound level to meet
the requirements of this operation.

C. PROGRAMIMPLEMENTATIONAND SUPERVISION

The Secretariat of Planning and Management (SEPLAG) will be responsible for overall
implementation of the proposed operation and for reporting progress and coordinating actions


37The environmentalagencies that have signedresultsagreements are IEF(Instituto Estadualde Florestas),
IGAM(Instituto Mineirode Gestiiode Aguas), andFEAM(Funda@oEstadualdo Meio Ambiente).



                                                                                                     37

between themselves and the Secretariats of Finance (SEF) and Economic Development (SEDE).
The Bank will monitor actions and review progress of implementation according to the matrix
conditions specified in Annex 2.

D. FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA, 2002) concluded that at the national
level, Brazil's fiscal system provides reliable information and that adequate systems exist to
manage and track the receipt and use of public funds. It also noted that there existed a highlevel of
fiscal transparency. All these conditions support a development policy lending program. The
report concluded that the riskto both Bank and country funds was low.

To supplement the national CFAA, the Bank conducted in December 2004 a financial management
assessment (FMA) at the state level to further assess the health of Minas Gerais' financial
management arrangement. A detailed and comprehensive assessment, conducted in the FMA,
found that the government of Minas Gerais had established a comprehensive and functional set of
legal covenants, norms, and regulations for the management and control of public funds. It also
found that the government of Minas Gerais was committed to, adhering to and enforcing
compliance with, these requirements, including LRF covenants. To improve control activities, a
new internal audit system was institutionalized, which is currently in the initial implementation
phase. Furthermore, there is an adequate level of fiscal transparency and dissemination of public
information, in compliance with respective laws. Given this assessment, the Bank has concluded
that the systems are appropriate for the DPL. The FMA also made detailed recommendations for
possible improvements which have been shared with the government (see Box 3).

                                     ~~~               ~~~~



Box 3: Recommendations of the Financial Management Assessment

I.Planning,BudgetFormulation,Execution,andMonitoring
         Enhancement of the budget/progradproject performance monitoring and evaluation
         Improvement inthe availability of civil servant personnel database
         Implementation of segregation of functions at the SIAFI's system level as a built-in feature and
         different levels of authority for the performance of transactions.
11.Accounting and FinancialReporting
         Improvement in the usability of the information produced by the S U F I system so as to allow better
         monitoring of progradproject performance.
111. Technology and InformationSystems
         Technical recommendations include: a development freeze on all mainframe-based systems, redesign
         of the payroll system, and strengthening of web-based systems with more robust database platforms
         such as Oracle, improving widespread availability of managerial reports and production of non-
         technical manager readable documentation for every new major system feature, and use of proved IT
         architectural methodologies.
IV. Internal Control
         Establishment of policies and procedures for staff allocation.
         Revision of current audit procedures, design and elaboration of news, norms, procedures, and audit
         methodology.
         Availability of financial resources and skilled staff.
V. ExternalControl
         Improving the effectiveness of the audit works performed by the State Court of Accounts including
         procedures, release of public information, and clarification of the TCE-MG's role.




                                                                                                             38

These recommendations are being duly considered by the State of MG, which i s continuously
strengthening its PFM institutional capacity, including through the modernization of the State
Treasury Sub-secretariat which the proposed operation would support.

E. DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING

The proposed loan will follow the Bank's disbursement proceduresfor development policy lending.
The untiedbalance of payment support will be disbursed against satisfactory implementationof the
development policy lending program and not tied to any specific purchases and no procurement
requirements will be needed. Once the loan is approved by the Board and becomes effective, the
proceeds of the first tranche will be deposited into a state of Minas Gerais Treasury Bank account
held with a commercial bank of the Borrower's choice. The Loan i s included in the 2006 State
Budget, and will be included in the 2007 Budget as well. The proceeds of the second tranche will
be deposited after all the conditions of the second tranche release are met. If, after depositing in
this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes as defined by the
Development Loan agreement, IBRD will require the Borrower to either: a) return the amount of
the account for use for eligible purposes or b) refund the amount directly to IBRD.

The administrationof this loan will bethe responsibility of the Secretariat of Finance.

The IMF conducted a Safeguards Assessment of the Country in order to establish whether the
Central Bank's control, accounting, reporting and auditing systems are in place to manage
resources, including IMF disbursements, and that they are adequate to ensure integrity of
operations. The assessment was done in December 2003 and updated in March 2004. The
assessment concluded that the Central Bank does not present widespread vulnerabilities that could
compromise the safeguarding of Fund resources. In particular its audit i s conducted by an
internationally recognized audit firm, while its internal audit function contributes effectively to
internal control systems. Therefore from a fiduciary point of view, the control environment,
procedures and regulations governing the Bank's operations are generally adequate. Given that
there i s adequate knowledge about the soundness of the country's public financial management
system, additional fiduciary arrangements (such as using a dedicated Deposit Account) have not
been deemed necessary. The Central Bank duly acknowledged the receipt of the IMF report and
informed that some of IMF's recommendations were under implementation.

F. RISKSAND RISKMITIGATION

The main risks to the operation are assessedto be the following.

Implementationrisk: This risk that weak implementation of the agreed measures will result in a
significant delay of the second-tranche disbursement i s deemed to be low. The government has a
proven track record of achievements since taking office in January 2003, and most of the matrix
conditions were proposed by the government itself with a view to implementing them within the
mandate of the present government (till the end of 2006). Mitigationi s thus embedded in the loan
design, and will be furthered by close supervision and ongoing dialogue with the state authorities.

Politicalrisks. There is the risk that unforeseen political events cause a regime shift at the state
level leadingto backtrackingon core reforms supported by this loan. This risk i s deemed to be low
to moderate. The present government in Minas enjoys considerable popular support, in no small
part coming from its perceived seriousness about tackling some of the state's hardest problems


                                                                                                  39

head on. A logical way to mitigate this risk will be to make sure that the ongoing reforms produce
tangible results to the state's population with timely support with the proposed operation.

Fiscal risks. There is the risk that further economic changes at the national level - for example
related to general price inflation, which exerts powerful influences on the state government's
financial obligations to the National Treasury, or renewed economic instability - cause recent fiscal
gains in Minas to be undone or reversed. This risk i s deemed to be moderate for two reasons.
First, under the present federal government, Brazil's macroeconomic situation has strengthened
considerably, and in particular vulnerability to external shocks has declined significantly, as
described in the Recent Economic Developments section of this document.                 Second, more
specifically, the Central Bank's inflation targeting policy has now brought the country's main
inflation indicators back down below the levels at which they impose such unhealthy dynamics on
the state's finances. Risk mitigation in this context consists of the Bank's very strong relationship
with both the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank of Brazil, and ongoing programmatic DPL
supporting both fiscal reforms and microeconomic growth-promoting reforms at the national level.
Further mitigation of fiscal risks is taking place at the state level through formal and informal
technical advice relating to the state's social security system, minimizing future judicial debts
(precatdrios), and strengthening the financial position of the state civil-service health plan, the last
of these being supported duringproject preparation.

Finally, a risk to the success of the state's PPP framework i s that the national framework for PPP
proves an inadequate supporting structure. The state's PPP law and regulation duly leave certain
roles for federal law and regulation to cover. Since PPP remains a new initiative in Brazil with no
track record to speak of to date, this risk i s deemed to be moderate to high. Mitigation comes in
two forms. First, the Bank i s actively supporting the design and implementationof the federal PPP
initiative through the programmatic loans for sustainable and equitable growth and associated TA.
Second, the design of the PPP framework in Minas Gerais is such as to minimize the fiscal risks
implied by state partnerships with the private sector. In this connection, close coordination with
the technical staff of the IDB,who are directly involved inPPPproject design inMinas Gerais, will
be an additional risk mitigation strategy.




                                                                                                     40

           GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MINAS GERAIS
           SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
           GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


OF.GAB.SEC/116/2006

                                                  Belo Horizonte, 06 de marqo de 2006.

Excelentissimo Senhor
Dr.PaulWolfowitz
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washington, DC, EUA


Prezado Senhor Wolfowitz.


Esta carta de politicas de desenvolvimento apresenta as aqaes do Estado de Minas
Gerais direcionadas para o ajuste fiscal, melhoria do setor publico e estimulo ao
desenvolvimento do setor privado. Vimos solicitar o apoio do Banco Mundial a essas
aqaes e assisthcia financeira na forma de um emprestimo de politicas de
desenvolvimento. Os recursos do emprestimo, que se pretendem sejam desembolsados
em duas parcelas, apoiargo reformas e medidas em ireas priorithias, fortalecendo a
execuqgo do Programa G E M E S e o gerenciamento da divida do Estado, em
observsncia ao que disp6e a Lei Estadual no 15.521 de 6 de junho de 2005,
regulamentadapel0 Decreto no44.18 1de 22 de dezembro de 2005.

Panorama do Estado de Minas Gerais

Ate o ano de 2003, Minas Gerais convivia com uma das piores equaqaesfiscais do Pais.
0 orqamento estadual, naquele ano, continha um deficit proximo de R$ 2,3 bilhaes,
equacionado mediante sobrestimativa de improviveis receitas de capital. Havia um
descolamento entre execuqgo orqamentkria e financeira      -  gerando divida - o que
determinava um contingenciamento linear e indiscriminado de custeio e investimento.
As estrategias de governo, neste contexto, ngo se efetivavam, resultando na ineficisncia
dos serviqos publicos e num clima de investimentos desfavoriivel. A forrnulaqgo
estrategica do Govern0 de Minas Gerais, definida em 2003, sustenta-se, portanto, em
duas premissas: a responsabilidade fiscal e a necessidade de uma agenda de
desenvolvimento que justifique para a sociedade os ajustes iniciais de reduqgo
(racionalizaqgo) de despesas e expansgo das receitas.

As reforrnas administrativas de curto-prazo implementadas no inicio de 2003 tornaram
possivel a construqgo de uma agenda de desenvolvimento para o Estado, que contou
com a participaqgo ativa de dirigentes do governo e representantes da sociedade civil
organizada: setores empresariais, de trabalhadores e organizaqaes ngo-governamentais.
Denominada de Plano Mineiro de Desenvolvimento Integrado (PMDI), essa agenda,
transforrnada em Lei emjaneiro de 2004, teve como caminho critico a elaboraqgo de urn
amplo diagn6stico do Estado. Foram abordadas as dimensaes econ6micas e sociais do
Estado, incluindo a situaqgo do setor pcblico, e apontados os principais gargalos e
oportunidades decisivos para o inicio do ciclo de desenvolvimento.

           GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MINAS GERAIS
           SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
           GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


0 diagnhstico provoufactivel avis50 de Minascomoo melhor estado do paisparase
viver e investir em 2020. Nesse contexto, tres diretrizes estratdgicas sgo hdamentais:
(i)reorganizar o setor phblico estadual a partir de urn novo modelo de gestgo; (ii)
realizar o ajuste fiscal; (iii)promover, de forma inovadora, o desenvolvimento
econbmico. Estas diretrizes constituem-se, portanto, nos trQspilares do Programa que
ora se pretende ter apoiado pel0 Banco Mundial.

0 NovoModelodeGestlo

A adoggo de umnovo modelo de gestgo, orientado para a otimizaqgo de resultadospara
a sociedade, moldou a reforma administrativa e a modernizaqgo dos instrumentos de
planejamento e gestao estaduais.      Esse novo modelo prevQ o fortalecimento do
planejamento e o desenho de mecanismos de incentivo que alinhem as organizaqaes do
Estado em torno da estratdgia proposta. A implantaqgo desse modelo de gestgo
demandou alteragaes na estrutura administrativa, modernizaqgo dos mecanismos de
planejamento e instituiqgo de boas praticas de gestgo de recursos humanos, materiais e
de tecnologia da informaggo.

Aspectos da ReformaAdministrativa

A Reforma Administrativa realizada em Minas Gerais teve como objetivo adequar a
administragBo publica ao novo modelo de Gestgo. Sua institucionalizaggo se deu a partir
da ediggo de urnconjunto de 63 leis delegadas emjaneiro de 2003. A partir desse marco
legal se criou o Colegiado de Gestgo Governamental, primeiro passo no caminho da
Reforma do Estado. 0 Colegiado, presidido pel0 Governador e com a presenga dos
Secretarios de Estado, visa assegurar coercncia entre a formulaq8o estratdgica de
govern0 e a execuggo das politicas phblicas. E compost0 de trQs ciimaras tematicas: a
Ciimara de Coordenaqgo Geral, Planejamento, Gestgo e Finanqas (CCGPGF), a Ciimara
de Desenvolvimento Econbmico          e Infra-estmtura (CDEI)        e a Ciimara de
Desenvolvimento Social e Cidadania (CDSC).

As Secretarias de Estado foram redesenhadas no modelo gerencial orientado para
resultados. Foram extintas 6 Secretarias, 43 superintendencias na Administraqgo Direta,
16 diretorias na Administraggo        Indireta e 388 unidades administrativas da
Administraqgo Direta e Indireta, e, por conseqiiencia, 1.326 cargos comissionados.
Houve a fusgo das funqaes de Planejamento e Coordenaqgo Geral com as de Recursos
Humanos e Administraqgo, dando origem a Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e
Gestgo (SEPLAG) integrand0 gerencialmenteplanejamento, orqamento e gestgo.

Esse mesmo modelo gerencial foi adotado na criaqBo da Companhia de
Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais - CODEMIG (que incorporou funqaes antes
dispersas de foment0 ao desenvolvimento), bem como na criaqgo da Advocacia-Geral
do Estado - AGE (unificando a representaqgo juridica estadual), da Ouvidoria-Geral do
Estado - OGE e da Auditoria Geral do Estado - AUGE (com a criaqgo de uma unidade
de Auditoria em todos os hrggos e entidades da Administraggo Phblica).

Paralelamente 9 reestruturaqiio dos brggos, seguiram-se outras medidas necessarias 9
criaggo de umnovo ambiente de gestao phblica, tais como:

            GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MINAS GEMIS
            SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
            GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


   centralizaqiio da folha de pagamento na SEPLAG (Decreto 43.188, de 10/02/2003),
   facilitando o controle e correqgo de distorqaes nos beneficios concedidos aos
    servidores;
   implantaqgo do Sistema de Administraqgo de Pessoal do Estado de Minas Gerais -
    SISAP, permitindo o conhecimento, at6 entiio insuficiente, e a gestiio sobre os
   dados de pagamento de pessoal;
    criaqgo, nos moldes do modelo de gestiio proposto, da nova estrutura de carreiras,
   reagrupando os servidores civis do Estado em 14 grupos.
    implementaqgo do Decreto no 43.699 de 11 de dezembro de 2003 relativo ao
    Sistema Integrado de Administraqgo de Materiais e Serviqos do Estado de Minas
    Gerais (SIAD) que, integrado ao Sistema de Administraggo Financeira (SIAFI),
   permitiu o melhor gerenciamento na contrataqiio de despesas com a previsgo
   orqamentariaifinanceira e a regulamentaqgo do sistema de registro de preqos, do
    cadastro geral de fornecedores e do preggo como modalidade de utilizaqgo
    obrigathria para a aquisiqiio de bens e serviqos comuns;
    desenvolvimento do programa de Governanqa EletrGnica, cujo objetivo C               a
    modemizaggo da gestgo publica e a democratizaqiio da informaqgo de forma a
    ofertar mais e melhores serviqos a populaqgo;
    Criaqgo da Gestiio EstratCgica de Recursos e Aqaes do Estado (GERAES), que
    identifica e prioriza, em termos de recursos e gestiio, a estratkgia principal do
    Governo, consubstanciada nos Projetos Estruturadores, conforme prevC o Decreto no
    43.554 de 28 de agosto de 2003 .
    Adoqgo de Acordo de Resultados e a Avaliaqiio de Desempenho Institucional como
    mecanismos para a implementaqgo do modelo de gestiio publica por resultados;
    Criaqgo de novo aparato legal para execuqiio de serviqos de relevgncia publica em
    parceria com a iniciativa privada e a sociedade civil organizada, notadamente a
    implantaggo e a disseminaqgo do modelo de Organizaqiio da Sociedade Civil de
    Interesse Publico - OSCIP e de PPP.

Essas aqaes sumarizam a necessidade e firme vontade do Estado em promover um
redesenho da arquitetura institucional da Administraqgo Publica, de forma a servir a
recriaqgo de um Estado permeavel aos interesses heterogheos, institucionalmente
preparado para conviver com a diversidade e para administrb-la democraticamente, de
forma mais agil e com menores custos para a sociedade. 0 apoio financeiro e t6cnico do
Banco Mundial sera fundamental para o avanqo nestas iniciativas e para a
institucionalizaqgo de umnovo modelo de gestgo.

GestSio EstratCgica de Recursos e Aqi5es do Estado GERAES
                                                       -

0 principal desafio assumido no Plano Mineiro de Desenvolvimento Integrado (PMDI)
C o de promover o ajuste fiscal e assegurar a prestaqiio eficiente dos serviqos publicos e
os investimentos nas areas estratkgicas. No que tange ao ajuste fiscal, a evoluqgo anual
do dCficit mostra a opggo incondicional do governo pela austeridade fiscal. Mas as
Secretarias de Fazenda e de Planejamento e               Gestgo reconheceram que o
contingenciamento linear e indiscriminado das despesas do governo, pratica usual no

            GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MINAS GEMIS
            SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
            GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


setor publico, nilo consolidam um ajuste estmtural e perene, alBm de sacrificar
indistintamente as aqaes de governo.

Nesse sentido, ao mesmo tempo em que se buscou definir aqaes capazes de equacionar
a quest50 fiscal a longo prazo, com aumento das receitas, reduq5o das despesas e
gerenciamento da divida,       foi criado, em 2003, um arcabouqo institucional que
garantisse a execuqilo dos projetos estruturadores presentes no GERAES, sem
comprometer o equilibrio fiscal. Compaem este arcabouqo institucional o PMDI, o
Plano Plurianual de Aq5o Governamental (PPAG), a L e i de Diretrizes Orqamentarias
(LDO), a Lei Orqamentaria Anual (LOA) e o Decreto de Programaqilo Orqamentaria e
Financeira. Complementarmente e particular a Minas Gerais, a Junta de Programaqilo
Orqamentaria e Financeira (JPOF), comitC compost0 por membros da Secretaria de
Fazenda e de Planejamento e Gestgo, funciona como instancia deliberativa permanente
sobre os instrumentos legais mencionados, acompanhamento dos resultados e
prescriqilo, a qualquer tempo, de medidas corretivas. Corporifica-se, assim, a integraqilo
planejamento-orqamento-finanqas.

0processo paraefetivar estearcabouqo tem inicio nadefiniqilo dasmetas fiscais, isto 6,
se busca definir a priori o volume de recursos que o Estado dispae para realizar suas
despesas. Para evitar uma dispersiio desses recursos e a conseqiiente ineficacia da aqBo
de governo, criou-se em Minas Gerais a Gestilo Estrategica de Recursos e Aqaes do
Estado, sugestivamente, GERAES. A carteira do GERAES e composta atualmente por
34 projetos estruturadores escolhidos no P M D I e materializados no PPAG e LOA, que
pretendem ser catalisadores do desenvolvimento no Estado. Esses projetos abrangem,
dentre outras areas, a modernizaqilo da Fazenda Estadual, a Reforma Administrativa
(Choque de Gest5o),o planejamento e orqamento governamental, a governanqa
eletrhica, a infra-estrutura, as parcerias publico-privadas e a gestilo do sistema de
defesa social. Os projetos estruturadores silo objeto de gerenciamento intensivo e,
importante em ambientes de restriq5o fiscal, tCm fluxo de recursos garantido.

N a implementaqilo dos Projetos Estruturadores silo utilizados recursos de gestBo de
projetos usuais no setor privado e busca-se um alinhamento de todas as areas envolvidas
em torno dos resultados finalisticos propostos. Institucionalmente, para gestilo dos
projetos, foi criada a Unidade de Apoio e Gestilo de Projetos (UAGP) na Secretaria de
Planejamento e       Gestgo,   que tem      as   atribuiqaes  usuais   de planejamento,
acompanhamento, apoio e avaliaq5o dos estruturadores, mas, de forma inovadora,
tambem define o fluxo orqamentario e financeiro em todas as suas etapas -
orqamentaqgo, liberaqilo mensa1de recursos e realocaqilo de recursos entre projetos em
funqilo do desempenho.

N o curto-prazo, o efeito esperado do GERAES, por meio dos resultados de cada um dos
projetos estruturadores, C     reforqar o ajuste fiscal mantendo os investimentos
estrategicos. HA consist2ncia na expectativa, pois: i)a condiqilo anterior a alocaqilo de
recursos B o equilibrio fiscal; ii)o foco estratkgico estabelecido pel0 GERAES aumenta
a taxa de efetividade dos projetos; e iii)alguns dos projetos tCm imediato impacto no
incremento da receita e reduqilo nos gastos correntes.

Para o aprimoramento desse modelo de planejamento, a principal aqilo C                   a
institucionalizaqilo do novo processo de planejamento e orqamento, integrand0 e

            GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MINAS GERAIS
            SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
            GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


harmonizando tais funqbes e, principalmente, agregando aos sistemas corporativos do
Estado o modelo de gerenciamento para os Projetos Estmturadores.

Modevnizaqcio da Gestcio

0 Projeto Estruturador "Choque de Gestgo: pessoas, qualidade e inovaqgo na
Administraqgo Publica" revitaliza o modelo de gestgo do Estado, orientando-o para a
obtenqgo de resultados baseados na qualidade e na produtividade e critdrios de
incentivos ao maior comprometimento dos atores responsaveis. Prev2 investimento na
capacitaggo do servidor publico do Estado e adoq5o de novos modelos de parceria
publico/privadas para a melhor oferta de serviqos aos cidadtios.

Estrutura-se sobre os seguintes pilares:

   Alinhamento Estratkgico que permite visualizar o grau de complexidade da agenda
   da organizaqBo, a convergsncia entre as estratkgias de govern0 e as demais
   estratkgias organizacionais e sua necessidade de fortalecimento institucional. 0
   processo de alinhamento C vital para integrar os processos de planejamento e a
    gestgo governamental. Reflete a perspectiva das partes interessadas, enfatizando o
    envolvimento das pessoas a partir do marco legal, e das politicas publicas setoriais.
   AvaliagBo de desempenho individual do servidor, condicionando a estabilidade, bem
    como a concess5o de beneficios para o servidor publico, a seu desempenho
    eficiente, mensurado por meio de criterios objetivos. Esse processo foi iniciado em
   julhoi04 e j i conta com mais de 5.000 servidores capacitados presencialmente e
    cerca de 18.000 a disthcia para sua aplicaq5o.
    Adicional de desempenho     - ADE, como remuneraqgo avaliativa, em substituiqgo aos
    adicionais por tempo de serviqo para todos os servidores que ingressaram no Estado
    ap6s julho de 2003, significando, atualmente, cerca de 6.000 servidores nesse novo
    modelo. Para os servidores que ingressaram ate a data citada, o ADE e opcional.
    Avaliag5o de desempenho institucional, ap6s a definiqgo de metas a serem
    cumpridas pelas instituiqbes, por meio de acordo de resultados. Os acordos
    conferem flexibilidade A gestgo e ampliam a autonomia financeira e orqamentaria
    das instituiqaes. Ate o momento, 17 acordos de resultados foram celebrados e,
    dentre esses, pel0 menos 5 est50 sendo aprimorados em processos de revisgo.
    Implementaqgo de modelo de Administraqgo Publica compartilhada com a
    sociedade civil organizada. A adoqBo, no Estado, do modelo de OSCIP's tem como
    objetivo fazer da sociedade civil uma co-participe na implementaqgo de politicas,
    em especial nas ireas de saude, educaqgo, assistibcia social, defesa do meio
    ambiente, desenvolvimento de novas tecnologias, foment0 ao esporte amador,
    cultura, ente outras. Ate o momento, seis termos de parceriaj a foram celebrados.
N a area de recursos humanos, alkm dessas aqaes, toda a estrutura de carreiras do Estado
foi reformulada. Em 2003, foram encaminhados d ALEMG 16 Projetos de L e i para
reformulaggo das carreiras do Estado, transformando 893 classes em 131 carreiras,
extinguindo 80.187 e criando 43.617 cargos. Todos ja foram aprovados e sancionados.
As aqbes de tecnologia de informaggo complementares ao Choque de Gest5o est80 em
desenvolvimento. Assim, est6 em curso, um novo sistema de pagamento, totalmente
integrado com o Sistema de Administraqgo de Pessoal (SISAP), do Estado, ora em fase

            GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MlNAS GEMIS
            SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
            GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


de alimentaqgo dos bancos de dados. Esse novo sistema de pagamento totalmente
parametrizado, utilizando banco de dados relacional, eliminara a redundhcia na
alimentaqiio e no armazenamento de dados hoje existente e sera amigavel ao usuario,
mediante rotina de calculo automatic0 de vantagens e beneficios, bem como atravCs da
ajuda aos usuaries, hoje niio existentes.

AlCm disso, esta em elaboraqgo um sistema informatizado para acompanhamento da
avaliaqgo de desempenho individual, que permitira uma gestgo segura e eficiente de
todo o process0 no Estado, tornando-o continuo, com menor indice de inconsisthcias e
de facil acesso As informaq6es.

Para racionalizar a gestgo de suprimento, 0 Govern0 do Estado de Minas Gerais
implementou em 1" dejaneiro de 2004 o SIAD Sistema Integrado de Administraqiio de
                                               -
Materiais e Serviqos. 0 SIAD C um sistema corporativo que, integrado com o Sistema
de AdministraqBo Financeira SIAFI e outros sistemas do Estado, permite controlar o
                               -
ciclo dos materiais e serviqos, desde a requisiqgo at6 o momento em que os materiais
forem distribuidos, patrimoniados e os serviqos realizados. Essa ferramenta tem sido um
grande facilitador para o cumprimento de metas e adequaqgo do ajuste fiscal no que se
refere A gestiio de suprimentos.


Esta prevista a implantaqgo de novos m6dulos que contemplam as aquisiq6es e a gestiio
dos bens e serviqos contratados, especialmente o que permitid a contrataqiio por
registro de preqos nas compras que utilizam a modalidade de pregiio.

ModernizaGiioda Fazenda Estadual

A ampliaqgo da Receita TributQriade Minas Gerais e o aprimoramento da gestBo
financeira se constituem em vertentes basicas do ajuste fiscal e SBO traduzidas no
Projeto Estruturador da Fazenda Estadual. 0 projeto consiste de investimentos
direcionados para a infra-estrutura fisica e logistica, a modernizaqgo dos processos
administrativos, tributhrios e financeiros, bem como o aprimoramento no atendimento
ao contribuinte para propiciar melhor clima de neg6cio no Estado.

0 melhor atendimento ao contribuinte, notadamente por meio do govern0 eletrhico,
tem como principal referencia a plena implementaqgo de novo sistema informacional
que estara concluido em 2007.

0 planejamento e execuqiio do esforqo de arrecadaqgo se realizam hoje de forma
matricial, sendo detalhados no Plano Diretor da AqBo Fiscal. As aq6es se
consubstanciam ainda no Acordo de Resultados firmado em 11 de agosto de 2004 pela
SEF com a SEPLAG e revisado nos anos de 2005 e 2006.

As metas estabelecidas est80 sendo alcanqadas e se traduzem em crescimento na
participaqiio relativa da arrecadaqgo estadual no total nacional do ICMS, que responde
hoje por 85% da receita tributaria de Minas Gerais. Os dados da COTEPEiCONFAZ
evidenciam que a participaqgo relativa do Estado na arrecadaqgo do imposto evoluiu de
9,1% do total nacional em 2002 para 10,1% em 2005. Isso porque a arrecadaqgo do

           GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MlNAS GERAIS
           SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
           GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


impost0em Minas vem crescendo numritmo mais acelerado do que no resto do pais e
acima da performance das atividades econdmicas no Estado.

A continua elevaqgo das receitas estaduais, simulthea com os ganhos decorrentes da
melhor gestgo sobre os gastos phblicos, possibilitou uma evoluqgo qualitativa nos
indicadores fiscais de Minas Gerais. Avaliada sob o Programa de Reestruturaqgo e
Ajuste Fiscal que o Estado mantCm com a STNno gmbito da Lei Federal 9.496 de 1997,
a trajetoria se expressa na geraqgo de crescentes Resultados Primarios e na reduqgo do
comprometimento da Receita Corrente Liquida (RCL) com a despesa com pessoal'. 0
Resultado Primbrio evoluiu de R$665 milhaes em 2002 para R$ 1.157 milhaes em
2003, alcanqando R$ 1.263 milhaes em 2004. JA o comprometimento da R C L com a
despesa com pessoal foi reduzida de 71,33% em 2002 para 67,17% no ano seguinte e
para 61,01% em 2004. Para 2005, as metas pactuadas siio de R$ 1.596 milhaes no
Resultado Primario e de 61,20% no indicador para a despesade pessoal, que devergo ser
avaliadas na proxima Missiio da STN a Minas Gerais a ser programadapara 2006.

A melhoria da situaqgo fiscal de Minas Gerais possibilitouainda a regularizaqgo de suas
dividasjunto a fornecedores, mediante diversas medidas, dentre as quais os pagamentos
de R $ 441 milhaes em 2003 e de R$ 611 milh6es em 2004, relativos a saldos de
exercicios fiscais anteriores*.

0 apoio financeiro do Banco Mundial propiciarhrecursos niio so paraprosseguir com a
implementaqgo do projeto estruturador da Fazenda Estadual mas, ainda, para melhorar o
perfil da divida fundada e flutuante do Estado mediante o pre-pagamento de R$ 100
milhBes nemas rubricas.

Parceriasptiblico-privadas

As parcerias publico-privadas (PPPs) representamuma inovaqzo na forma de o Estado
promover a oferta de infra-estrutura e disponibilizar serviqos publicos, atravds da
iniciativa privada. Esse modelo busca aperfeiqoar os instrumentos de contrataqiio
utilizadospela Administraqgo Phblica, compatibilizando os interesses da sociedade com
a garantia de retorno econamico para o setor privado. As PPPs tornam-se uma via
moderna para enfrentar o grande desafio de suplantar o deficit de investimento publico
em areas essenciais, como transportes, saneamento e saude. Como projeto autanomo,
consiste em importante ferramenta para o enfrentamento da demanda por investimentos
numcontexto de crise fiscal.

Considerando-se o contexto de restriggo fiscal e buscando retomar investimentos em
areas essenciais para o desenvolvimento econbmico e social do Estado atraves da
contrataqiio de serviqos, foi criado, em Minas Gerais, o Programa Estadual de Parcerias
Publico Privadas, por meio da L e i no14.868, de 16 de dezembro de 2003. Minas Gerais
foi o primeiro Estado a adotar ummarco legal especifico sobre PPP's no Brasil, visando
consolidar a institucionalidade do mecanismo.

A coordenaqgo do Programa cabe a Unidade PPP (instituida por meio do Decreto no
43.702 de 16 de dezembro de 2003), responsavel por organizar e disseminar conceitos e

'ConformeOficiono228106-Ade
           Oficio N"814312005 COREMBTNdatado de 16de dezembro de 2005.
 Conforme                      20 de fevereirode 2006 da STE1SEF dirigido ao Banco Mundial

            GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MINAS GERAIS
            SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
            GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


metodologias pr6prios das parcerias publico-privadas. Outra atribuiqgo da Unidade e
assessorar o Conselho Gestor de Parcerias Publico Privado (CGPPP), que C presidido
pel0 Governador do Estado, sendo responsavel pela seleqgo e aprovaqilo dos projetos de
PPP em Minas Gerais, bem como pela elaboraqgo do Plan0 Estadual de Parcerias
Publico Privadas.

Ap6s a aprovaqgo da L e i de PPP's de Minas Gerais em 2003, foram definidos 5
projetos-piloto em diferentes Areas para iniciar o Programa Estadual de Parcerias
Publico-Privadas. As Areas contempladas sgo: infra-estrutura e transportes publicos
(recuperaqgo e ampliaq8o da infra-estrutura da rodovia MG-050, interligando o leste
paulista a capital mineira); seguranqa publica e sistema penitenciario (oferta de 3000
novas vagas prisionais, incluindo serviqos de construggo e operaqgo das unidades);
saneamento basico (oferta de serviqo de saneamento basico em municipios de baixo
IDH); cigncia e educaqgo (construqgo e operaqgo do campus da Universidade do Estado
de Minas Gerais-UEMG em Belo Horizonte); e gestgo e desenvolvimento urbano
(construqgo e operaqgo do Centro Administrativo do Govern0 do Estado em Belo
Horizonte).

A modelagem destes projetos, que tem como objetivo definir a estrutura econ8mico-
financeira dos mesmos, C imprescindivel e tem sido realizada por empresas de
consultoria com ampla experiihcia internacional em PPPs. A primeira delas, voltada
para o projeto de infra-estrutura rodoviaria (MG-050) foi contratada em dezembro de
2004 e teve a KPMG Consultores Associados como lider desse trabalho. A segunda
modelagem, relacionada ao projeto de vagas prisionais, tambdm ja contratada, esta
sendo realizadapela PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Outro ponto fundamental para a operacionalizaqgo das PPPs diz respeito ao componente
garantia. Nesse sentido, alCm das consultorias para a modelagem dos projetos, o Estado
contratou os serviqos de consultoria do UNIBANCO        - Unigo de Bancos Brasileiros
S.A. que, juntamente com Levy & Salomgo Advogados e Caixa de Dep6sitos de
Portugal, esta elaborando o arranjo de garantias do Programa Estadual de Parcerias
Publico-Privadas. Este estudo, com a definiqgo do mecanismo de garantias a ser adotado
e dos instrumentos legais para sua a criaqgo, estara finalizado antes da liberaggo dos
recursos da segunda tranche do emprkstimo. Adicionalmente, a publicaqgo do edital do
primeiro projeto PPP do Estado, bem como a conclusgo do Manual de Operaqaes do
Programa Estadual de Parcerias Publico-Privadas, que estabelecera procedimentos para
a tramitaqilo e escolha dos projetos PPP pel0 CGPPP, deveriiocorrer ainda em 2006.

0 apoio financeiro do Banco Mundial contribuira para o fortalecimento do Programa
Estadual de Parcerias Publico-Privadas e especificamente para o esforqo de
capitalizaqgo do Fundo de garantias. Estima-se a alocaqgo de R$ 100 milhaes dos
recursos disponibilizados pel0 Banco para este esforqo de capitalizaqgo.

Otirniza@o dos sewiCos pdblicos de seguranGa

N o caminho salutar de prover a seguranga social como bem p ~ b l i c oindelCvel do
conjunto de obrigaqaes do Estado, Minas Gerais desponta no cenario nacional com o
projeto de integraggo das aq6es policiais, com destaque para a implantaqilo do Sistema
Integrado de Defesa Social (SIDS). 0 programa, entre outras fimcionalidades, conta

           GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MINAS GEMIS
           SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
           GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


com policiais civis, militares e Corpo de Bombeiros Militar, trabalhando no Centro
Integrado de Atendimento do Cidadgo e Despacho (CIAD). De forma analoga, tCm sido
integradas as Areas de policiamento, promovendo a sobreposiqgo das circunscriqdes das
areas das policias Civil e Militar.

Essa integraqgo dos serviqos de seguranqa permite a melhor alocaqgo de recursos,
confiabilidade nos dados sobre criminalidade, reduzindo, assim, o tempo e a capacidade
de resposta ao cidadgo. Adicionalmente, s50 aqdes essenciais, a profissionalizaqgo e
ampliaqgo do numero de vagas do sistema prisional; a profissionalizaqgo do
atendimento a adolescentes autores de ato infracional; a prevenqgo social da
criminalidade, com destaque ao Programa Fica Vivo, que atualmente conta com apoio
do BIRD- o programa-piloto implantado no Aglomerado Morro das Pedras reduziu em
47% a taxa de homicidios em 6 meses; e a implantaqgo de nkleos de controle de
homicidios nas Areas de maior incidCncia  ,


0 Sistema Integrado de Defesa Social (SIDS) pode ser definido como um sistema de
gest5o de informaqdes de defesa social que permite a integraqgo e o compartilhamento
de informaqdes por parte dos 6rggos responsaveis pela seguranqa publica. Seu objetivo
e proporcionar o atendimento e o despacho integrado de ocorr6ncias policiais (PM / PC)
e de bombeiros e o acompanhamento desses eventos, denuncia, queixa crime ou
representaggo at6 a condenaggo e execuqgo penal. 0 sistema abrangera todo o Estado e
est& sendo implantado em Etapas. A la. Etapa do programa 6 a implantaqgo do CIAD,
que j A se encontra instalado no Quartel do Comando Geral da Policia Militar de Minas
Gerais (CPMMG). As outras Etapas est20 em andamento e subdividas em fases, com
varios eventos intermediirios que possibilitem uma implantaqgo segura. Consistem na
implantaqgo do Registro de Eventos de Defesa Social (REDS), do Armazdm de
Informaqdes, da Estatistica Espacial, do M6dulo de Atendimento e Despacho e do
Registro EletrBnico Remoto de OcorrCncias Policias.

0programakeasIntegradas consistenaimplementaqgodeumametodologiadepolicia
de resultados inicialmente em BH e RMBH atraves da instituiqgo de uma
responsabilidade territorial compartilhada. Dessa forma, este programa se harmoniza
com a implantaqgo do SIDS na integraqgo das aqdes policiais proporcionando para a
sociedade: (i)reduqgo no tempo de atendimento das emergCncias policiais e de
bombeiro, (ii)ampliaqgo da capacidade de atendimento; (iii)possibilidade de
acompanhamento, pel0 cidadgo, da aqgo do Estado em relaqgo 6s emergCncias policiais
e de bombeiro; (iv) maior coleta de informaqdes, que propiciara melhores subsidios para
a investigaq5io; e, (v) aperfeiqoamento dos mecanismos de acompanhamento e controle
das aqdes dos Orggos de Defesa Social. Ap6s a definiqgo da circunscriqgo das areas
integradas para BH e RMBH, teve inicio a sua implantaqgo fisica e, em dezembro de
2005, a primeira area integrada da Capital entrou emfuncionamento.

Conjuntamente, os programas e suas diversas agdes tCm alcanqado progressivamente os
resultados esperados em relaqgo a criminalidade violenta. Os crimes violentos no Estado
se estabilizaram em 2004, ap6s 8 anos de crescimento, e, ate novembro de 2005,
comparando com igual period0 de 2004, ocorreu reduggo de 17% no numero de
homicidios em Belo Horizonte.

            GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MINAS GEMIS
           SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
           GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


0 apoio do Banco Mundialpoderia fortalecer as aqdes do programa, especialmente na
implementaqiio das Areas integradas de policiamento na RMBH e no interior, no
desenvolvimento dos m6dulos restantes do SIDS e na disseminaqgo das exitosas
medidas de prevenqgo social da criminalidade.

EstradaReal

0 Projeto Estrada Real apresenta-se como uma das principais a@es do Govern0 para
geraqgo de emprego e renda no setor de serviqos, atendendo algumas das regides mais
debilitadas do Estado. Institucionalmente, a consolidaqiio do produto Estrada Real
depende de assistencia e capacitaqgo dos agentes locais do setor de turismo e de maior
promoqiio e divulgaqgo de seus atrativos turisticos.

De outro lado, a provisiio dos serviqos de infra-estrutura ao longo da Estrada Real,
figura como a principal condiqBo para o desenvolvimento do turismo sustentavel. Existe
a necessidade de recuperargo e manutenqgo de 800 Km de vias de acesso na area de
influencia da Estrada Real, a um custo estimado de R$ 40 milhdes, e de expansgo, a
cargo da COPASA, dos serviqos de saneamento - 220 mil economias residenciais para
abastecimento de Bgua e 252 mil economias residenciais com carencia de esgotamento
sanithrio. Termos em que a participaqiio do Banco Mundial 8, certamente, fundamental.

Promoqtio inovadora do desenvolvimento sustentavel

0 projeto estruturador "Empresa Mineira Competitiva" tem como principal pilar o
programa FACILITA MINAS, instituido pel0 Decreto N"43.656 de 21 de novembro de
2003, cuja implementaqiio encontra-se em process0 avanqado. Seu objetivo 6, atravCs da
oferta de melhores canais de acesso ao Estado, propiciar soluqdes facilitadoras a
operaqgo, a expansgo e A modernizaqBo das empresas ja instaladas, bem como a
implantaqgo de novos empreendimentos em Minas Gerais.

Os segmentos de acesso priorithrios as empresas dizem respeito a questaes tributarias,
de credit0 e relativas aregulaqgo ambiental, a infra-estmtura e ao registro de empresa.

0 "Simples Minas" concedeu, a partir da Lei No15.219 de 7 de julho de 2004,
tratamento diferenciado nos campos administrativo, tributario, crediticio e de
desenvolvimento empresarial para as microempresas, as empresas de pequeno porte e
aos empreendedores aut6nomos. A sistemhtica adotada dispensou a escrituraqiio de
livros fiscais, ao considerar apenas o valor de compras dos contribuintes para o calculo
do ICMS devido. Eliminou a necessidade de acionar o contribuinte para conferir
cumprimento das obrigaqdes fiscais. Adotou tabela progressiva para o calculo do ICMS.
0 novo sistema oferece cidadania tributhria aqueles que estiio a margem da legalidade
fiscal ou atuam na informalidade, ao instituir o conceit0 de Empreendedor AutGnomo.
Estiio enquadrados nesse regime tributario 255 mil contribuintes ativos.


porte a Receita Estadual via Sistema Integrado de Administraqiio da Receita (SIARE).
Esta sendo implantado o acesso virtual (Internet) do contribuinte de medio e grande

Desde janeiro de 2005 estiio sendo oferecidos serviqos "on line" referentes a inscriqgo,
alteraqgo e baixa no cadastro de contribuintes; transmissgo de arquivos magnkticos;
alCm do atendimento a demandas relativas           documentaqiio fiscal e transfercncia.

            GOVERN0 DO ESTADO DE MlNAS GERAIS
            SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTAO
            GABINETE DO SECRETARIO


Ademais, o sistema integra-se com bases de dados de outras entidades detentoras de
informaqiio fiscal (Receita Federal, ANP, CRC, ABIGRAF, etc.). 0 SIARE abrange
tambem as declaragaes do ITCD. Em 2006 estarilo sendo atendidas as demandas
relativas a autorizaqiio para emissiio de documentaqgo fiscal, certidiio de debitos
tributhrios, sendo que ao todo seriio disponibilizados sete novos m6dulos. 0 cadastro de
contribuintes do ICMS esth sendo integrado ao cadastro de fornecedores do Estado    - o
SIAD, evitando que o contribuinte tenha que prestar a mesma informaggo ao Estado em
diferentes sistemas e Secretarias. Esta previsto ainda o acesso direto da Receita aos
registros da Junta Comercial (JUCEMG) e integraqilo de base de dados. A meta e
facilitar procedimentos administrativo-tributhrios, com a gradativa oferta de novos
serviqos na internet que deve propiciar reduqgo de custos para os contribuintes e para a
Receita, bem como pela melhoria do atendimento ao contribuinte. Adicionalmente, por
adotar mecanismos virtuais seguros na relaqgo FISCO-contribuinte, aprimora a
administraggo e fiscalizaggo tributhria.

Em outubro de 2005 foi implantado o Minas Fhcil que reune, no mesmo espago fisico,
diferentes orgiios do Estado e da Prefeitura de Belo Horizonte, permitindo que o
contribuinte obtenha seu registro em todos os 6rgiios numa unica etapa, em observbcia
ao disposto no Decreto no44.106 de 14 de setembro de 2005.

Destaque adicional no segment0 tributario C o projeto "Investe Minas" que tem por
objetivo a utilizaggo de crdditos acumulados de ICMS, incluindo-se mecanismos de
transfergncia entre empresas, para impulsionar os investimentos privados.

N a vertente do crCdito, o "Facilita Minas" simplificou a concessgo de emprestimos as
micro e pequenas empresas por fundos estaduais geridos pel0 BDMG, reduzindo de 25
para 3 o n6mero de documentos exigidos do interessado. AlCm disso, a tramitaqgo do
emprCstimo passou a ser feita pela Internet. N o que diz respeito a regulaqgo ambiental,
em 2003, foi criada a Central de Atendimento SemadBDMG. Desde entgo, os
empreshrios que requisitam financiamentos ao BDMG recebem tambCm orientaqties
para que seus projetos estejam de acordo com as normas de licenciamento ambiental.

Hh que se destacar, ademais, que o desafio do desenvolvimento sustenthvel em Minas
Gerais concentra-se no aprimoramento do um marco regulat6rio ambiental. 0 projeto
estruturador Gestgo Ambiental do SCculo XXI direciona-se para a descentralizagiio da
gestiio ambiental e a realizaqiio de avaliagaes estratkgicas ambientais, notadamente nas
areas de infra-estrutura e desenvolvimento econbmico. A descentralizaqgo da gestiio se
iniciou com a ediqgo do Decreto no43.278 de 22 de abril de 2003em 2003 e, ate o
momento, 7 dos 8 Conselhos Regionais de Politica Ambiental foram legalmente
instituidos. Esta em fase final de implantaqiio o Sistema Integrado de Meio Ambiente
(SIAM), que permite o acesso livre A ampla base de dados ambientais georeferenciados
e j a funciona como entrada h i c a para o licenciamento ambiental no Estado.

Todo o funcionamento do SIAM sera integrado aos indicadores ambientais que seriio
implantados tambCm no primeiro semestre de 2006. Uma vez selecionados, pretende-se
realizar a medigiio periodica destes indicadores, incorporando estes dados a base
georeferenciada do SIAM, de forma que todas as atividades dos 6rgFios ambientais do
Estado estejam referenciadas nestes indicadores.


                  ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY

                             LETTER DEVELOPMENT
                                     OF                POLICY



OF.GAB.SEC/l16/2006
                                                           Belo Horizonte, March 6, 2006.

Mr.PaulWolfowitz
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC


Dear Mr.Wolfowitz,

This Letter of DevelopmentPolicy presents the measuresby the State Government of Minas
Gerais for fiscal adjustment, public sector improvement, and promotion of private sector
development. We request World Bank support for these measures and financial assistance
in the form of a development policy loan. The loan proceeds, which are expected to be
released in two tranches, will support reforms and measures in priority areas, strengthening
the execution of the GERAES Program as well as the management o f State debt, in
observance of State Law no15.521 dated June 6, 2005, regulated by Decree no44.181 of
December 22,2005.

Backgroundof the Stateof MinasGerais

Until 2003, Minas Gerais was faced with one of the worst fiscal situations in the country.
The state budget that year registered a deficit of approximately R$2.3 billion, which was
balanced with improbable capital revenue estimates. Budget and financial execution were
inconsistent with each other - which led to debts and linear and indiscriminate budget cuts
of operation and maintenance as well as investment budgets. The government strategies, in
this context, could not be carried out, which resulted in inefficient public services and
unfavorable investment climate. The strategy of the Government of Minas Gerais, defined
in 2003, therefore, is based on two premises:     fiscal responsibility and the need for a
development agenda that justified to the society the initial adjustments of expenditure
reduction (rationalization) and revenue increase.

The short-term administrative reforms implemented at the beginning of 2003 enabled the
Government to construct a development agenda for the State, with active participation of
government authorities and representatives o f organized civil society: private sector,
workers and non-governmental organizations.      Named Mineiro Integrated Development
Plan (Plano Mineiro de Desenvolvimento Integrado - PMDI) and turned into a law in
January 2004, this agenda was built on the basis of a broad diagnosis of the State. The
diagnosis encompassed the State's economic and social dimensions, the situation of the




                                                                                          41

public sector, and identified key bottlenecks and decisive opportunities to initiate the cycle
of development.

The diagnosis demonstrated the viability of the vision of "Minas as the best state to live and
invest in" by 2020. Inthis sense, three strategic guidelines are fundamental: (i)  reorganize
the state public sector with a new management model; (ii)    carry out fiscal adjustment; and
(iii)promote economic development in innovative ways. These guidelines, therefore,
constitute the three pillars of the Programfor which we wish to seek World Bank support.

The New Management Model


The adoption of a new management model, geared toward optimizing results for the
society, molded the administrative reform and modernization of planning and management
tools of the State. This new model foresees strengthening of planning and design of
incentive mechanisms to align the State's organizations around the proposed strategy. The
implementation of this management model required changes inthe administrative structure,
modernization of planning mechanisms, and introduction of good practices in the
management of human resources, physical assets, equipment, and information technology.


Aspects of the Administrative Reform


The Administrative Reform implemented inMinas Gerais was aimed at adjusting the public
administration to the new management model. It was institutionalized with the passageof a
set of 63 laws delegated in January, 2003. It was from this legal frame mark that the
Governmental Management Collegiate Body (Colegiado de Gestco Governamental) was
established as a first step toward the reform of the State. The Collegiate body, presided by
the Governor, with the participation of the State Secretaries, aims to ensure coherence
among the government's strategic formulation and the execution of public policies. The
body i s composed of three thematic cabinets - the Cabinet for Coordination, Planning,
Management and Finance Chamber (Cdmara de Coordena@o Gera, Planejamento, Gestio
e FinanCas - CCGPGF), the Cabinet for Economic Development and Infrastructure
(Cdmara de Desenvolvimento EconSmico e Infra-estrutura - CDEI) and the Cabinet for
Social Development and Citizenship (Cdmara de Desenvolvimento Social e Cidadania -
CDSC).


The State secretariats were redesigned according to a result-based management model. Six
secretariats were closed, in addition to 43 super-intendancies in the Direct Administration,
16 departments in the Indirect Administration, and 388 administrative units in the Direct
and Indirect Administration and, consequently, 1,326 commissioned offices were
eliminated. The duties of General Planning and Coordination were merged with those of
Human Resources and Administration, thus creating the State Secretariat of Planning and
Management (Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Gestgo - SEPLAG), which unifies
planning, management and budget.


                                                                                            42

This same management model was adopted with the creation of the Minas Gerais
Development Company (Companhia de Desenvolvimentode Minus Gerais - CODEMIG) -
which incorporatedduties regarding support to development that were previously dispersed,
as well as upon the creation of the Advocacia Geral do Estado - AGE, (State Attorney's
Office), the State's Ombudsman Services (Ouvidoria-Geral do Estado - OGE) and the
State's General Auditing Service (Auditoria Geral do Estado - AUGE) (with the creation of
an auditing unit in all organizations and entities of the Public Administration).


Simultaneous to the restructuring of organizations, other measures necessary for the
creation of a new public management environment followed, such as:


    Centralization of payroll at SEPLAG (Decree No. 43188 of February 10, 2003) to
    facilitate control and correction of distortions inthe benefits granted to employees;

    Implementation of the System for the Administration of Personnel in the State of Minas
    Gerais (Sistemade Adrninistra@o de Pessoal do Estado de Minus Gerais - SISAP) that
    allowed for management of personnel payments;
    Creation, following the logic of the proposed management model, of the new career
    structure that regrouped the State's civil servants into 14 groups.
   Implementation of Decree no43.699 of December 11, 2003 related to the Integrated
    System for the Administration of Goods and Services of the State of Minas Gerais
    (SistemaIntegrado de Administrqlio de Materiais e SewiGos de Minas Gerais - SIAD),
   which i s integrated with the System for Financial Administration (Sistema de
   Administrqlio Financeira - SZAFZ) allowing better management of contracting
   expenses with the due budgetary/financial estimates and the regulation of the system of
   price registry, general roster of suppliers and of procurement processes for the
   acquisition of goods and services that are common;
   Development of the Electronic Governance program the objective of which i s to
   modernize public sector management and democratize information so as to allow more
   and better service to the people;
   Creation of the Strategic Management of State Resources and Actions (Gestlio Estratkgica
   de Recursos e Apjes do Estado - GERAES), which identifies and prioritizes the
   Government's main strategy in terms of resource allocation and management, as
   reflected in the "Structural Projects;" confirming to Decree no43.554 of August 28,
   2003.
   Adoption of the Results Agreements and the Organizational Performance Evaluation as
   mechanisms to implement the results-based management model;
   Creation of a new legal structure for provision of services that are relevant for the public
   in partnership with the private sector and the organized civil society, notably the
   implantation and dissemination of OSCIP (Organizqio da Sociedade Civil de
   Interesse Pu'blico - OSCIP) model and o f the PPP.




                                                                                           43

These measures sum up the need and strong will of the State to promote a redesign of the
institutional architecture of Public Administration as a basis for the re-creation of a State
that i s permeable to heterogeneous interests and that i s prepared to live harmoniously with
diversity and to administer it democratically and in an agile manner that yields lower costs
to society. The Bank's technical and financial support to these initiatives will be very
important for the institutionalization of a new management model.


Strategic Management of State Resourcesand Actions (Gestiio Estrate`gica de Recursos
e A@es do Estado - GERAES)


The main challenges taken on by the Minas Gerais Integrated Development Plan (PMDI)
are to foster fiscal adjustment, ensure efficient delivery of public services, and focus
investments toward strategic areas. In terms of fiscal adjustment, annual deficit figures
show the government's unconditional commitment to fiscal austerity. However, SEPLAG
acknowledges that linear and indiscriminate adjustment of government expenses - a normal
practice in the public sector - does not lead to a structural and permanent adjustment and
that, in general, it indiscriminately sacrifices governmental actions.


Inthis sense, while trying to define actions that would lead to long-termfiscal equilibrium,
with revenue increase, expenditure reduction, and debt management, the Government
created an institutional framework in 2003 to ensure the execution of structural projects
without hindering fiscal balance.       The following laws and regulations comprise this
institutional framework: the PMDI, the Pluriannual Plan (Plano Plurianual de Gestiio -
PPAG), the Law of Budgetary Guidelines (Lei de Diretrizes Orpmentdrias - LDO), the
Annual Budget Law (Lei Orpzmentdria Anual - LOA) and the Decree for Budgetary and
Financial Programming (Decreto de ProgramaGiio Orpmentdria e Financeira).
Complementary, and particular to Minas Gerais, the Board for Budgetary and Financial
Programming (Junta de Programa@io Orpmentdria e Financeira - JPOF) i s a committee
composed of members of the Secretariats of Finance and o f Planning and Management,
which provides a permanent deliberative body over the afore-mentioned legal tools,
monitoring results and which may, at any time, mandate corrective measures.


The operationalization of this framework begins with the definition of fiscal targets. In
other words, the process first defines the volume of resources that the state has available for
its expenses. The Strategic Management of State Resources and Actions (GERAES) were
designed to avoid undue resource dispersion, and resulting inefficiencies in government
actions. GERAES comprises the 34 structural projects chosen in the PMDI and enacted in
the PPAG and LOA, intended to work as catalysts for the development of the state. These
projects include, among other areas, the Modernization of the State Secretariat of Finance,
the "Choque de Gestiio" (administrative reform), government planning and budgeting,
electronic governance, infrastructure, public-private partnerships and management of public
security services. The structural projects are subject to intensive management and have a
guaranteed flow of resources, an important element inthe environment of fiscal adjustment.



                                                                                            44

In implementing the "Structural Projects," project management techniques, which are
common in the private sector, are used. Efforts are made to align all those involved toward
the proposed final results.     For project management, the Unit for Support of Project
Management (Unidade de Apoio e Gestio de Projetos - UAGP) was created in the
Secretariat of Planning and Management, with usual roles of planning, monitoring, support
and evaluation of the structural projects, but in innovative ways. The UAGP also defines
budgetary and financial flows in all stages - budgeting, monthly releases of resources, and
reallocation o f resources between projects based on performance.


Inthe short run, the expected effect of GERAES, through the results of each one of the
structural projects, i s to reinforce the fiscal adjustment while maintaining strategic
investments. There i s consistency in this expectation because: i)the pre-condition for the
resource allocation i s fiscal balance; ii)the strategic focus established in the GERAES
increases effectiveness of the projects; and iii)some of the projects have immediate impact
on revenue increases and current expenditure reductions.


To improve this model of planning, the key action i s institutionalization of the new
planning and budgeting process and harmonization of these functions, primarily by adding
the management model for the Structural Projects to the State's corporate information
systems.


Management Modernization


The Structural project "Choque de Gestio: People, Quality and Innovation in the Public
Administration" revitalizes the state's management model by guiding it towards the
attainment of results based on quality, productivity and on criteria that create incentives for
greater commitment on behalf of those involved. It foresees investments in the training of
state employees and the adoption of new models of public-private partnerships for the better
rendering of services to citizens.


It i s structured upon the following pillars:

      Strategic alignment that enables visualization of the degree of complexity of the
     organization's agenda, the convergence o f government strategies, and institutional
     strengthening. Furthermore, it focuses on the convergence between the government
     strategies and the organizations' strategies and their need for institutional strengthening.
     This alignment process i s vital for integrating the processesof planning and government
     management. It reflects the perspectives o f the interested parties and emphasizes the
     involvement of personnel following the legal framework and the sectoral public
     policies.
     Individual performance evaluation of the employee conditioned to tenure, as well as
     performance measurement and rewards by means of objectively measured criteria. This


                                                                                              45

    evaluation process was started in July of 2004, and through it more than 5,000
    employees have received face-to-face training in how to apply this evaluation method,
    and close to 18,000 employees have learned the method through distance-learning.
    Additional compensation based on performance (Adicional de Desempenho -ADE) as a
    substitute for time-in-service compensation for all employees that were contracted by
    the state after July of 2003, which has added 11,321 employees as of August 2005 under
    this new model. For the employees that were hired up to the fore-mentioned date, the
    ADE is optional.
    Organizational performance evaluation, following the definition of targets to be met by
    the government entities through results agreements. The agreements give the entities
    management flexibility and increase their financial and budgetary autonomy. As of this
    moment, 17 results agreements have been signed, and of these, at least five are being
    improved in a revision process.
    Implementation of the shared ("joined-up,')      public administration model with the
    organized civil society. The adoption, in the State, of the OCSIP model i s intended to
    turn civil society into a co-participantinpolicy implementation, especially inareas such
    as health, education, social assistance, environmental protection, development of new
    technologies, promotion of amateur sports, culture, among others.            So far, six
    partnership agreementshave already been signed.
Inthe areaof humanresources, besides these actions, all of the state'scareer structures were
reformulated.    In 2003, 16 Bills of Law (Projetos de Lei) were sent to the legislative
assembly (ALEMG)for the reformulation of state careers so as to transform the 893 classes
into 131 careers, by eliminating 80,187 and creating 43,617 positions. All of these Bills
have been approved and sanctioned.

The Government i s developing information technology as a complement to the
"Management Shock." Thus, development of a new payment system i s under way. This
new system will be fully integrated with the State Personnel Administration System
(Sistema de Administra@o de Pessoal - SISAP), currently in a phase of data entry into the
database. This new payment system, fully calibrated and using relational databases, will
eliminate duplicate data entries and storage that still exist today, and will be user friendly
due to automatic calculation of pays and benefits, as well as through user support, which is.
currently not available.

Furthermore, an informational system for monitoring individual performance evaluation i s
being designed, which will enable secure and efficient management of the evaluation
process in the State. This process will be continuous, suffer less from inconsistencies, and
offer easy access to information.

Inorder to rationalize supply management, the Government of the State of Minas Gerais
implemented the Integrated System for Administration of Goods and Services (Sistema
Integrado de Administra@o de Materiais e ServiEos- SIAD) on January 1,2004. SLAD is
a corporate system which, through integration with the Financial Management System
(Sistemade AdministrapTo Financeira - SIAFI) and other State systems, enables control of


                                                                                           46

the cycle of goods and services management, from procurement to the point where the
goods are distributed, accounted for as government assets, and the services are completed.
This tool has been a great facilitator of the achievement of the fiscal adjustment targets
related to supply management.

The Government intends to install new modules for procurement and management of
contracted goods and services, especially one that would allow for the price registry to be
usedingovernment purchases and contracting with the reverse auction @regLio)modality.


Modernization of the State Finance Administration


Both expansion of tax revenues of Minas Gerais and improvement infinancial management
form the core of fiscal adjustment, and are translated into the Structural Project of State
Finance Administration. The project consists of investments in physical infrastructure and
logistics, modernization of administrative, tax and financial processes, as well as
improvement intaxpayer services to create a better investment climate inthe State.


Better taxpayer services, especially through electronic government, are guided by the goal
of fully implementing a new information system in 2007.


Planning and execution of revenue collection efforts today follows a matrix approach,
which i s detailed in the Master Plan for Fiscal Action (Plano Diretor da A@o Fiscal).
These actions are also reflected in the Results Agreement signed on August 11, 2004 by
SEFand SEPLAG, andrevisedin2005 and 2006.


The targets are being met, as demonstrated inthe increase in the State's relative share of the
ICMS tax collected, which today corresponds to 85% of the tax revenues in Minas Gerais,
of the national total. The COTEPE/CONFAZ data show that the relative share of the State
inthe collection of this tax has changed from 9.1% of the national total in 2002 to 10.1% in
2005. This i s because the tax collection in Minas has been rising at a pace faster than in the
rest of the country and above the performance of the economic activities inthe State.


The continuous increase inthe state revenues, along with the gains from better management
of public spending, has led to a qualitative change in Minas Gerais' fiscal indicators.
According to the assessment under the Fiscal Restructuring and Adjustment Program which
the State maintains with the National Treasury Secretariat (STN) following the Federal Law
9,496 of 1997, the tendency i s for the State to generate increasing primary surplus and
reduce the ratio of personnel expenditures to the net current revenues (RCL).38 The primary
surplus increased from R$665 million in 2002 to R$ 1,157 million in 2003, reaching R$
1,263 million in 2004. The ratio of personnel expenditures to RCL was reduced from


38According to Offcio No8143/2005 COREM/STNof December 16,2005.


                                                                                            47

71.33% in 2002 to 67.17% in the following year, to 61.01% in 2004. For 2005, the agreed
goals are R$ 1,596 million in of primary surplus and 61,20% of the personnel expenditure
indicator, which will be assessed inthe next STNmission to Minas Gerais planned in 2006.


The improvement in the fiscal situation of Minas Gerais also allowed the Government to
regularize its debts owed to suppliers,through various measures, including the payments of
R$ 441 million in 2003 and R$ 611 million in 2004, for outstanding floating debts from
previous fiscal years.39


Financial support from the World Bank will make resources available not only for
continuation o f the structural project for the State Finance Administration, but also for
improving the profile of the State's consolidated and floating debts through pre-payments of
R$100 million inthese categories.


Public-PrivatePartnerships


Public-private partnerships (PPPs) represent an innovation in the provision of public
services by means of private initiative. This model strives to improve the contracting tools
used by the Public Administration and to make these tools compatible with the interests of
society as well as provide economic returns for the private sector. PPPs are a modern
means to address the deficit in public investments in essential areas such as transportation,
basic sanitation, and health. Autonomously, PPP constitutes an important tool for dealing
with demand for investments inthe context of fiscal crisis.


Considering the context of fiscal restrictions and trying to recapture investments in areas
essential for the State's economic and social development through service contracts, Minas
Gerais created the State Program of Public-Private Partnerships, via the Law No. 14,868 of
December 16, 2003. Minas Gerais was the first state in Brazil to adopt a specific legal
framework for PPPs, in order to consolidate and institutionalizethis mechanism.


The PPP Unit (set forth by Decree No. 43702 of December 26, 2003) i s responsible for
coordinating the program and for organizing and disseminating concepts and methodologies
that are unique to PPP. Another responsibility o f the Unit i s to advise the Management
Council of Public-Private Partnerships (Conselho Gestor de Parcerias Pziblico Privadas -
CGPPP), which i s headed by the state governor. The CGPPP i s responsible for selecting
and approving PPP projects in Minas Gerais, as well as for the elaboration of the State Plan
for Public-Private Partnerships.




39Accordingto Oficio no228106-A of February20,2006 of STEISEFaddressed to the World BankMundial


                                                                                             48

After the approval of the PPP Law inMinas Gerais in 2003, five pilot projects were defined
in different areas to start the program. The selected areas are: infrastructure and public
transportation (recovery and enlargement of the infrastructure of highway MG-050 that
connects the east of S5o Paulo state to the capital of Minas Gerais); public security and the
penitentiary system (provision of 3000 new prison places - including services for the
construction and operation of the units); basic sanitation (provision of basic sanitation
services in municipalities that have low levels of human development); science and
education (construction and operation of the State University of Minas Gerais campus in
Belo Horizonte); and urban management and development (construction and operation of
the State Government's Administrative Center inBelo Horizonte).


Detailed designs of these projects which define their economic and financial structure, are
imperative and have been carried out by consulting firms with broad international
experience in PPPs. The first of these, for the highway infrastructure project (MG-050) was
contracted in December 2004, with KPMG Consultores Associados as the project leader.
The second design work, for the prison construction project, has also been contracted, and
i s being carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers.


The other fundamental point for operationalization of the PPPs refers to the guarantee
component. In this area, besides the consultancies for project designs, the State contracted
consulting services of UNIBANCO (Uniiio de Buncos Brusileiros S.A).,which, along with
Levy & Salomiio Advogados e Caixa de Dep6sitos de Portugal, are designing the guarantee
arrangement for the Estate Program of Public-Private Partnerships.        This study, which
defines the guarantee mechanism to be adopted and the legal instruments for its creation,
will be finalized before the second-tranche releases of this loan. Inaddition, the publication
of the official announcement of the first PPP project of the State, as well as the conclusion
of the Operations Manual of the Structural Program of Public-Private Partnerships, which
will establish procedures for the processing and the choice of PPP projects by the CGPPP,
should take place in 2006.


The financial support by the World Bank will contribute to strengthening of the State
Program of Public-Private Partnerships, specifically to the effort to capitalize the guarantee
fund. The Government estimates that R$ 100 million of the resources made available by
the Bank will be allocated for this effort of capitalization.


Optimization of thepublic services in security


In pursuit of providing social safety as a public good indelible from the set of State
obligations, Minas Gerais emerges in the national scene with the project to integrate police
actions, with emphasis on installation of the Integrated System for Social Defense (SIDS).
The program involves civil and military police and the Military Firefighting Corps working
at the Center for Integrated Assistance to Citizens (Centro Integrado de Atendimento do


                                                                                           49

Cidadiio e Despacho - CIAD). Similarly, the areas of policing have been integrated to
encourage overlap of policing districts by the Civil and the Military Police.


This integration of public security services allows better allocation of resources and
reliability of the crime data, and thus reduction in response time and increased capacity to
respond to the citizens. Additionally, essential actions include professionalization of, and
the increase in the number of places in, the prison system; professionalization of services to
juvenile delinquents; social prevention of criminality, with the flagship Program Fiva Vico
("Stay Alive"), which i s currently supported by the World Bank - the pilot program
introduced in the Aglomerado Morro das Pedras region, reduced the homicide rate by 47%
in six months; and implantation of the nucleus for homicide control in the areas of high
incidence.


The Integrated System of Social Defense (Sistema Zntegrado de Defesa Social - SIDS) can
be defined as a system for managing information on social defense, which enables
integration and sharing of information by the entities responsible for public security. Its
objective i s to provide integrated responses and dispatch in police cases (PM / PC) and by
firefighters, as well as the follow-up to these events, reporting, complaint of crimes, or
representation up to accusation and execution of penalty. The system will cover the entire
State and i s being implemented in stages.          The first stage of the program i s the
implementationof CIAD, which i s already installed inthe Base of the General Command of
the Military Police of Minas Gerais (Quartel do Comando Geral da Policia Militar de
Minas Gerais - CPMMG).           The other stages are in progress, and are sub-divided into
phases, with various intermediate events for secure implementation. These events include
the implantation of the Registry of Social Defense Events (Registro de Eventos de Defesa
Social - REDS), Data Storage, Spacial Statistics, the Module of Response and Dispatch,
and the Remote Electronic Registry of Police Cases.


The program Integrated Areas (Areas Zntegradas) consists of implementation of a results-
based policing methodology inBelo Horizonte and the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region
through definition of a shared territorial responsibility.     In this way, this program is
harmonized with the implantation of SIDS in integrating police actions by offering to the
society: (i) reduction in response time in police and fire emergencies; (ii) expansion of the
capacity to respond; (iii) possibility for the citizen to follow up on the State's action with
respect to police and fire emergencies; (iv) expanded collection of information, which will
provide better support to investigations; and, (v) improvement in the mechanisms for
follow-up and control of the actions of the entities involved in social defense. After the
definition of the district of the integrated areas of Belo Horizonte and the Belo Horizonte
Metropolitan Region, began its physical implementation and in December 2005 the first
integrated area of the Capital startingfunctioning.


Altogether, the programs and their diverse actions have progressively achieved the expected
results in relation to violent crimes. From August, 2004, the reported incidence of violent


                                                                                           50

crimes remained stable, after eight years of growth, and up until November 2005, there was
a reduction of 17% in violet crimes in the State capital compared to the same period in
2004.


The support o f the World Bank can support the actions of the program, especially in the
implementation of the integrated areas of policing the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region,
and in the interior, in the development of the remaining modules of SIDS, and in the
dissemination of measures of social prevention of crime.


Estrada Real


The Project Estrada Real i s one of the principal actions of the Government for job creation
and income generation in the service sector, covering some of the most weakened regions
of the State. Institutionally, the consolidation of the Estrada Real Project requires support
to and training of local agents in the tourism sector, and greater promotion and publicity of
their tourism attractions.


On the other hand, the provision of infrastructure services along the Estrada Real i s
identified as the key condition for development of sustainable tourism. It i s necessary to
recuperate and maintain 800 Kmof access routes in the area of influence of Estrada Real, at
an estimated cost of R$ 40 million, and for COPASA to expand sanitation services -
220,000 residences for water supply and 252,000 residences that lack sewage.             The
participation of the World Bank will certainly be fundamental.


Innovative Promotionfor SustainableDevelopment


The Competitive Business of Minas (Empresa Mineira Competitiva) structural project's,
cornerstone i s the Fucilita Minas program (set forth by Decree No. 43656 of November 21,
2003), the implementation of which i s in its advanced stages. Its objective i s to provide,
through the offer of better channels of access to the state, solutions to facilitate the
operation, expansion and modernization of established business, as well as start of new
businesses in Minas Gerais, including areas such as tax, credit, environmental regulations,
infrastructure, and the registration of businesses.


The segments of priority access for firms refer to tax matters, credit, environmental
regulation, infrastructure, and company registration.


Starting in January of 2004, as set forth by Law No. 15.219 of July 7, 2004, Simples Minas
provides differentiated treatment in the administrative,         tax, credit, and business
development fields to micro businesses, small businesses and to autonomous entrepreneurs.


                                                                                          51

The system that was adopted eliminated the need for the use of tax records as it considers
only purchases by taxpayers for the purpose of calculating ICMS. It also eliminated the
need to call on the taxpayer to verify compliance with fiscal obligations. It makes use of the
progressive table to calculate the ICMS. It also offers tax citizenry to those that are on the
outskirts of fiscal legality or who work informally as it institutes the concept of the
autonomous entrepreneur. The estimate i s that it reaches out to 255 thousand active
taxpayers.


Virtual access of medium and large-scale taxpayers to the State Revenue Agency i s being
implemented by means of the Integrated Administration System of the Revenue Agency
(Sistema Integrado de Adrninistraqio du Receita - SIARE). Since January 2005, on-line
services are being offered for taxpayer registration, change in and removal from the
taxpayer registry; transmission of magnetic files; in addition to services regarding requests
for tax documentation and transfer.       Furthermore, the system i s integrated with the
databases of other entities that hold fiscal information (Receita Federal, ANP, CRC,
ABIGRAF, etc.).      The SIARE also covers ITCD declarations.          In 2006, requests for
authorization for issuance of tax documents and certidiio de de'bitos tributiirios (certificate
of tax debits?) will be included, thus comprising seven new modules in total to be made
available to all.   The ICMS taxpayer registry i s being integrated with the registry of
suppliers to the State - SIAD, so as to prevent taxpayers from having to provide the same
information to the State in different systems and Secretariats. It i s also foreseen that the
State Revenue Sub-secretariat will have direct access to the registries of Junta Comercial
(JUCEMG) and their databases will be integrated with each other. The goal i s to ease
administrative-tax procedures, with gradual offer of new services on the internet, which
should encourage cost reduction for the taxpayers and for the State Revenue Sub-
secretariat, as well as with the improvement in taxpayer services. Additionally, adoption of
virtually secure mechanisms in the State-taxpayer relations will improve tax administration
and audits.


InOctober, 2005, the Minas Fcicil was started. This program brings together different
entities of the State and the Municipal Governments in the same physical space, and thus
enables taxpayers to obtain their records from all the entities in one step, in observance of
Decree no44.106 of September 14,2005.


Another highlight in the tax segment i s the Investe Minas project whose objective i s to
make use of accumulated ICMS credit, including mechanisms of transfers between
businesses to strengthen private investments.


As a result, the Facilitu Minus has simplified the concession of loans to micro and small
businesses from funds managed by the BDGM and reduced the number of documents
required of the interested party from 25 to 3. Inaddition, the loan processing i s now done by
means of the internet. As regards environmental regulation, the SEMAD Call Center
(Central de Atendimento SEMADBDMG) was created in 2003. Since then, the


                                                                                            52

businessmenthat ask the BDMGfor financing also receive orientation so that their projects
are in accordance to the norms for environmental licensing.


Furthermore, it i s important to highlight that the challenge of sustainable development in
Minas Gerais i s concentrated on the improvement of an environmental regulations. The
Environmental Management of the 21st Century (Gesta"o Arnbientul do Se'culo XXI)
structural project, aims to decentralize environmental management and to carry out strategic
environmental assessments, especially in the areas of infrastructure and economic
development. The decentralization of management began with the issuance of Decree no
43.278 of April 22, 2003 in 2003 and, up to now, seven out of the eight Regional Councils
for Environmental Policies (ConselhosRegionuis de Poli'tica Arnbientul) have been legally
instituted. The Integrated System for the Environment (Sisternu Integrudo de Meio
Ambiente - SIAM) i s in its final stages of implementation. It allows free access to the large
database of regional environmental data and already functions as the only manager of the
state's environmental licensing.


All of SIAM will be integrated to the environmental indicators that will also be
implemented duringthe first semester of 2006. Once they are selected, a periodic measuring
of these indicators will be carried out and such data will be added to SIAM's database so as
for all activities of the state's environmental organizations to refer to these indicators.


Requestfor FinancialAssistance


The Government of Minas Gerais remains firmly committed to its program of reforms,
fiscal adjustment and structural projects outlined above and would welcome World Bank
financial assistance. We appreciate the prompt consideration of a development policy loan,
in two stages, in support of the measures that have already been adopted and those which
are under implementation.


Sincerely yours,




AntGnio August0 Junho Anastasia
State Secretary




                                                                                            53

L O
 rr

         *
         0




*
v:
E
e,
g
c*m
ti
4
22E
e,
*
e,
E
e,
w
>

B
.-Eon
v)

 v:
 a,
 0
.3



CA
8>




        t
        8
       .r
        "tP

                            ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE

Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 05/166, December 16,2005
IMFExecutiveBoardConcludes 2005 Post-ProgramMonitoring Discussionswith Brazil

On December 7, 2005, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded
Post-Program Monitoring discussions with Brazil based on the information available through that
date.

Background- Notwithstanding the difficult political context since May 2005, macroeconomic
performance has remained robust, underpinned by strong macroeconomic policies and favorable
external conditions. After slowing in the fourth quarter of 2004 and the first quarter of 2005,
economic activity rebounded strongly in the second quarter, before declining markedly in the third
quarter of 2005, mainly reflecting inventory decumulation. As a result, real GDP grew by an
average of 2% percent (year-on-year) during the first three quarters of 2005. Growth has remained
supported by private consumption-reflecting       steady gains in real incomes and employment, and
rapid growth in household credit-and by net exports.

The strong fiscal performance of recent years has continued, with the consolidated primary fiscal
surplus above the 2005 target. This improvement reflects continued strong tax collections-
particularly income taxes-as      well as higher primary surpluses of subnational governments and
public sector enterprises. However, pension imbalances have continued to grow. The prudent
tightening of monetary policy initiatedin September 2004 and the appreciation of the exchange rate
helped bringthe 12-month headline inflation down from a peak of 8 percent in May to 6.4 percent
in October. With inflation pressures abating and inflation expectations virtually converging to the
end-2005-06 targets, the central bank has lowered its policy interest rate since September, by a
total of 125 basis points to l8?hpercent.

The balance of payments position has remained strong. Export performance has continued to
exceed expectations, supported by rapid global growth and highcommodity prices, notwithstanding
the appreciation of the real in real effective terms since early 2005. Private capital inflows have
also strengthened, driven by higher foreign direct investment and renewed portfolio net inflows.
Brazilian corporates have continued to deleverage and external debt has declinedfurther.

Public sector net debt has declined further and its structure has improved further. Several important
steps were taken to improve the maturity profile and extend the duration of public debt, including
the issuance for the first time of a US$1.5 billion 10-year real-denominated external sovereign
bond in September. Nevertheless, the share of floating-rate domestic debt remains high and, while
improving at the margin, the averageduration of public debt is still short. The central bank resumed
intervention in the foreign exchange market in early October aimed at further building up
internationalreserves, which have continued to rise relative to short-term external debt.

Against this backdrop, financial market sentiment has remained favorable, albeit with bouts of
volatility. The real attained its highest level since early 2001, sovereign bond spreads narrowed to
all time lows, and stock prices reached historical highs. Since mid-October, Moody's upgraded
Brazil's sovereign credit rating in line with other credit rating agencies, while other credit rating
agencies have upgraded the outlook from stable to positive.

The strong macroeconomic performance, together with the increased coverage of the Bolsa Familia
program, has led to a significant reduction in poverty and income inequality between 2002-04. The


                                                                                                  57

poverty rate has declined to its lowest level since 1992, with the share of people below the poverty
line decliningto 25.1 percent in 2004, from 27.3 percent in 2003, well below the 35.9 percent rate
in 1992. The strengthening of the Bolsa Familia program, along with higher employment in the
formal labor market, allowed for a significant improvement inthe income of the poorest groups and
for a reduction in the income gap between formal and informal workers for the first time in the
decade. Income inequality has also declined to its lowest level since 1981.

ExecutiveBoardAssessment

Executive Directors commended the Brazilian authorities for the impressive performance of the
economy since the end of the stand-by arrangement. Directors attributed this performance to the
authorities' commitment to sustain and strengthen the macroeconomic policy framework and to the
comprehensive reforms implemented over the past several years, together with supportive external
conditions. The combination of high public sector primary surpluses, inflation targeting, and a
flexible exchange rate regime has proven highly successful in reducing vulnerabilities and keeping
financial market confidence high, despite uncertain political conditions. Directors also commended
the authorities for the significant progress made in reducing poverty in recent years, thus enabling
Brazil to continue lowering income inequality and to make progress toward achieving the
MillenniumDevelopment Goals.

Directors viewed the Brazilian economy as well placed for continued favorable economic
performance. Following buoyant economic growth in 2004, the economy has expanded at a more
sustainable pace in 2005. Export performance has remained strong, notwithstanding the marked
appreciation of the real, while on the domestic side rising employment and real incomes have
boosted consumer expenditures. Directors noted the unfavorable outcome for GDP in the third
quarter, but observed that this seemed to reflect mainly inventory adjustment and other specific
factors, and that the underlyingtrend of domestic demand remains positive.

With balance sheet vulnerabilities still a concern and the risks posed by the external and domestic
environment, Directors welcomed the authorities' commitment to sustain strong policies. Public
debt remains high and of relatively short maturity, with a large share still linked to short-term
interest rates. Along with sizable external borrowing needs, these factors still leave the Brazilian
economy exposedto abrupt changes in global conditions and the domestic political scene.

Directors commended the prudent conduct of monetary policy in the context of inflation targeting
and a flexible exchange rate policy. Inflation i s expected to continue to decelerate, reflecting the
convergence of expectations to the official end-2006 target and the modest adjustment in
administered prices expected for 2006. Directors considered that the benign inflation outlook
provides significant scope for further steady easing of the monetary policy stance, but maintaining
the cautious approach adopted by the Central Bank-given          the need to consolidate the gains
against inflation, the uncertainties surrounding the transmission mechanism of monetary policy,
and the risks in the environment. Inthis context, Directors noted the reforms to the credit market
and the improvements in central bank liquidity management that have strengthened monetary
policy, and encouraged the authorities to continue with these reforms. A number of Directors also
suggested that the present favorable macroeconomic conditions provide a good opportunity to
simplify further and reduce reserve requirements, and thus help reduce the high costs of financial
intermediation. Directors welcomed the staffs conclusion that the banlung sector remains sound;
nevertheless,they advised keeping under close monitoring the rapid growth in credit.




                                                                                                  58

Directors commended the authorities for the prudent conduct of fiscal policy in 2005, and
encouraged the authorities to preserve the strong stance of fiscal policy in the period ahead. Most
Directors agreed that the primary fiscal balance should remain the key policy target, and stressed
the importance of maintaining the strong observed performance with regard to the consolidated
primary surplus, in order to maintain the progress toward debt reduction, provide full scope for
monetary policy easing, and protect economic performance from unexpected volatility in 2006.

Directors stressed the importance of lowering the tax burden, simplifying the tax system,
and reducing spending rigidities while continuing to lower public indebtedness. In this regard,
Directors encouraged the government to develop an agenda for comprehensive fiscal reforms. They
noted that the new ceilings on expenditure and revenue, introduced in the 2006 budget guidelines
law, signal the authorities' desire to contain the steady rise in the tax burden and public spending,
while helping to shift expenditure priorities to needed infrastructure and to build a consolidated
fiscal structure for the future. At the same time, some Directors observed that the ceilings could
imply greater complexity in budgetary management. A number of Directors also viewed the
introduction of a countercyclical adjustment inthe 2006 budget guidelines law as premature. A few
Directors, however, saw the mechanism for countercyclical adjustments more favorably, if
implemented with needed safeguards. Directors stressed that a key element in a package of fiscal
reforms would be to increasebudget flexibility, while reducing tax distortions.

Directors commended the authorities' prudent debt management and the buildup of international
reserves, which have contributed to reducing vulnerabilities. They welcomed the progress made in
pre-financing sovereign external needs, improving the structure of public debt, and developing
domestic capital markets-including      with the recent issuance of the real-denominated sovereign
bond and the substantial overall reduction in the public sector's exposure to currency risk. With
reduced macroeconomic volatility and a downward sloping yield curve, Directors felt that
conditions are favorable for a significant improvement in the structure of public debt, and
particularly for further gains in overall debt maturity. Directors encouraged the authorities to
continue their efforts to develop domestic capital markets by further facilitating access to foreign
investors and by phasing out taxes on financial transactions. They also welcomed the authorities'
commitment to continue building up international reserves, while preserving a flexible exchange
rate regime.

Directors commended the authorities for the progress made with their poverty reduction agenda.
They welcomed the evidence that sustained growth, lower inflation, higher formal employment,
and the expansion of social programs have led to a significant improvement in social conditions
and living standards. Directors commended the reduction in the poverty rate and in income
inequality in2004 to their lowest levels since 1992 and 1981, respectively.

Directors urged the authorities to reinvigorate the reform agenda to boost medium-termgrowth and
to help further reduce poverty and inequality. They regretted that the political situation in 2005 has
delayed the government's reform agenda in congress, while they foresee further limitations to
progress in the run-up to the general elections in 2006. In this regard, they encouraged the
authorities to make efforts to advance key reform priorities, including with respect to the
harmonization of the state value added tax system; the establishment of formal central bank
autonomy; the implementation of regulations for complementary pension funds for civil servants;
and steps for further improvement in the business climate.




                                                                                                   59

                                        ANNEX 4: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE

                                          Brazil at a glance                                                                            1O i l 2/05


                                                                          Latin       Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                     America       middle-
                                                               Brazil  & Carib.      income      Development diamond'
2004
Population,mid-year (millions)                                 178.7        541        2,430
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             3,090      3,600        1,580                    Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                               552.7      1,948        3,847                           -
Average annual growth, 1998-04
Population PA)                                                    1.2        1.4         1.o
Labor force PA)                                                   1.5       0.9          0.7      GNi                                     Gross
                                                                                                  per       1                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                            capita                                enrollment
Poverty ("A of population below nationalpoverty line)             22
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                           83         77          49
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  69         71          70                            1
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                           33         28          33
Child malnutrition (X of children under5)                                                 11             Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)               89         89          81
Literacy (YA ofpopulation age 15t)                                86         89          90
Gross primary enrollment ("A of school-agepopulation)            148        123          114        **m=-    Erani
   Male                                                          153        126          115                 Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                        144        122          113

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1984       1994      2003         2004       Economic ratios'
GDP (US5 billions)                                  209.0      546.2      505.7        604.0
Gross capital formation1GDP                          15.7        22.1      19.8         21.3
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                    13.5         9.5      16.4         18.0                         Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                           21.4        22.5      23.4         25.8
Gross national savingslGDP                                       21.3      20.4         25.8                           T

Current account balanceIGDP                          -0.1        -0.3       0.8          1.9
Interest paymentsiGDP                                 4.5         1.1       2.9          2.1
Total debffGDP                                       49.7        27.9      46.6         35.2
Total debt semcelexports                             45.4        31.2      65.2         45.4
Present value of debffGDP                                                  50.2
Present value of debtiexports                                             292.1
                                                                                                                 indebtedness
                                       1984-94 1994-04          2003      2004      2004-08
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        2 0        2 1         0.5        5.2         3.5         q.-Erazil
GDP per capita                             0 2        0 8        -0.7       4.0          2.4                   Lowermddle-income group
                                                                                                        ~
Exports of goods and services              6 1        8 7         7.9      18.0          1.9


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1984       1994
(77 of GDP)                                                                                     IGrowth of capital and GDP (?A)                    1I
Agriculture                                          11.5         9.9      10.2         10.4     20

Industry                                             45.7       40.0       39.9         40.0
  Manufacturing                                      33.9       23.7       11.1
Services                                             42.8        50.2      50.0         49.6
Householdfinal consumption emenditure                70.4        59.6      56.7         55.4
General gov't final consumption expenditure           8.3      , 17.9      19.9         18.8
Imports of goods and services                         7.9         9.2                                         -GCF           - 0 - G D P



                                                 1984-94 1994-04
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                           2.2         4.1                            2o
                                                                           -1.o
                                                                            5.5          5.3
Industry                                              0.7         1.6                    6.2     i o
  Manufacturing                                      -0.7         1.2       2.7
Services                                              2.6         1.7      -0.7         -5.5      O


Householdfinal consumption expenditure                1.3         1.o      -3.3          4.3    -lo

General gov`t final consumption expenditure           4.8         2.8      12.7          0.7    -20
Gross capital formation                               3.7         0.8      -4.5         14.3                -E~olts         -0-Imports
Imports of goods and services                         7.1         2.0

Note: 2004 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
  be incomplete.




                                                                                                                                                   60

                                                                                                                             Brazil

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                            1
                                              1984     1994    2003    2004
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                               192.1  2,075.9     9.3     7.6
Implicit GDP deflator                         212.8  2.239.1    15.0     7.9

I"/.of GDP,includes current grants)
Government finance

Current revenue                                 9.1     18.6    23.7                     99      00     01       02      03       04
Current budget balance                          -1.4   -15.8     3.0
Overall SurDlusideficit                         -1.9             3.8                        "B-*GDP deflator   '-0-W


TRADE
                                              1984     1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                   Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)                I
Total exports (fob)                          27,004   43,545  60,832 81,466      00,000
 Coffee                                       1,771    2,500   3,456  4,759            1
 Soybeans                                     2,570    4,135  4,290   5,395      80.000                                             I
 Manufactures                                14,530   27,891  39,653 52,948
Total imports (cif)                          13,917   33,079  48,291 62,809
 Food                                             ..   2,014     924   1,058
 Fuel and energy                              7,345    2,339   6,579  10,317
                                                                                                                                    I
 Capital goods                                2,151   12,690  10,350  12,132

Export price index (2000=100)                                                                   99  00     01            03
                                                 85       99      97     108             98                       02

Import price index (2000=100)                    45       70      76     90                      Eqorts          rn Impotts      O4
Terms of trade (2000=100)                       188      141     128     120

BALANCEof PAYMENTS                                                                                                                  I
                                              1984     1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                28,938   46,702  83,531 109,059
Imports of goods and services                17,595   40,131  63,668  80,069
Resource balance                             11,343    6,571  19,863  28,990

Net income                                  -11,472  -10,848 -18,552 -20,520
Net current transfers                            10    2,588   2,867  3,268
Current account balance                        -119   -1,689   4,178  11,738

Financing items (net)                         5,488    9,037 -15,651 -15,377
Changes in net reserves                      -5,369   -7,348  11,473   3,639
Memo:
Reselves including gold (US$ millions)       11,995   38,806  49,296  52,935
Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)            6.72E-10      0.6     3.1     2.9

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                              1984     1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2004 debt ( U S mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       103,863 152,433   235,431 212,646                                                        I
  IBRD                                        3,969    6,311   8,588   8,668    1
                                                                                             G 19,600 A 8,668
  IDA                                             0        0       0       0

Total debt service                           13,710   15,940  56,718  50,992
  IBRD                                          669    1,883   2,010   1,843
  IDA                                             0        0       0       0

Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                                41       69      82
  Official creditors                          1,536   -2,293  -2,272  -2,788
  Privatecreditors                            4,550    4,671     316 -17,738
  Foreign direct investment(net inflows)      1,594    3,072  10,144
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)                  0                           I
                                                       7,280  2,973                      F. 140,161
World Bank program
  Commitments                                  306     1,024   1,150   1,215     A - IBRD                            E . Bilateral
  Disbursements                               1,300     640    1,291   1,447     6 IDA      D .Other multilateral    F Pnvate
  Principal repayments                         332     1,346   1,633   1,564     C IMF
                                                                                  --                                 G Short-term
                                                                                                                      --
  Net flows                                    968     -706    -342    -116
  Interestpayments                             338      537      377    280
  Net transfers                                631    -1,242   -719    -396


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                        10/12105




                                                                                                                                    61

             ANNEX 5: DETAILED DEBT SUSTAINABILITYANALYSIS

Summary

In 2003, the Minas Gerais state government promoted a strong adjustment program in order to
reverse the unsustainable trend that its fiscal accounts had been taken in the previous period.
Under a program called Choque de Gesta`o (Management Shock), the state government defined a
set of measures directed to curb the increasing trend of expenditures through tight control of
personnel and operating costs. On the revenue side, measures were taken to improve the efficiency
of tax collection.

The results were immediate and impressive. Minas Gerais generated substantial fiscal balances.
The primary balance increased from 4.4% to 7.5% of net current revenue, the current balance
increased from -5% to 2.8% of net current revenue and the nominal balance passedfrom -5.7% to
0.7% of net current revenue. It i s noteworthy that this fiscal turnaround happened in a period of
severe economic stagnation, which resulted in a decrease of 7% in fiscal revenues. Given reduced
revenues, the reduction of expenditures was the only way to improve fiscal balances. Total
expenditures decreased 10%.

In2004 the fiscal adjustment effort of Minas Gerais was deepened. The stategovernment obtained
a vigorous primary surplus of 15.5% of net current revenue, generated current account savings of
14% and generated a nominal balance of 8.6% of net current revenue. Different from the previous
year, the strengthening of the fiscal adjustment was focused on revenue collection. The strong
recovery of the Brazilian and Minas Gerais economies also contributed to the consolidation of the
adjustment, allowing an increase of fiscal revenues of about 12%.

Thus, the combination of the control of current expenditures and the enhanced efficiency in
collection allowed the Minas Gerais government to produce an impressive fiscal turnaround. At
the same time, the reduction of current revenues and the increase of tax revenues enhanced the
government's ability to generate current savings and ledto the recovery of investment expenditures
which would have a positive impact on the growth of the regional economy.

Projection exercises for the period 2005-2014 depict a favorable evolution of the main fiscal and
financial indicators showing that the continuity of the responsible fiscal behavior should guarantee
the debt sustainability. However, the sensitivity analysis shows that the predicted improvement
critically depends on further improvement in efficiency of tax collection and the continuation of
tight control over current expenditures. Additionally, positive prospects depend on the hypothesis
of a higher economic growth (which affects revenue) vis-&vis the population growth (which affects
expendituresj.

Risk analysis shows that the most important source of vulnerability is the high level of
indebtedness. Inparticular, there i s a highprobability that highdebt service will continue to exert a
strong pressure on the state public finances.       This vulnerability indicates the importance of
continuing policies of tight control over expenditures and revenue enhancementwhich are variables
under the government's control.

As for the expected fiscal impact of additional borrowing for the proposed operation, the amount
involved is small relatively to the size of the state in terms of fiscal numbers (debt, revenues and
expenditures), and thus its impact on fiscal balances would also be small. From 2006 to 2014, an




                                                                                                  62

increase in current and primary balances of an average of 3% and of 4% for nominal balance i s
expected.

This report is divided into seven parts. The first describes the evolution of fiscal balances,
revenues and expenditures for the period 2000-2004. The second section analyzes the evolution
and composition of state debt. The third relates to the evolution of the main Fiscal Responsibility
Law indicators of Minas Gerais and the accomplishment of the state fiscal accounts with the legal
ceilings. The fourth part contains the projection exercises which depict scenarios for the evolution
of fiscal accounts and estimate the impact of the World Bank lending operation on the state fiscal
accounts. The fifth section reports on results of a sensitivity analysis to illustrate the effects of
changes in the determinants of fiscal accounts. The sixth section consists of a risk analysis to
verify the consistency of the results obtained in the projection exercises. Finally, the section seven
concludes the report.

A -MINAS      GERAISFISCALSITUATION:           2000-2004

A.l Evolution of FiscalBalances

Minas Gerais emerged from the 1990s facing a very difficult fiscal situation. The combination of
lax fiscal behavior and the tight national monetary policy used for stabilization purposes duringthe
period 1995-98, ledto an unsustainable path for the state fiscal accounts at the end of the decade.

As a result of the Debt Refinancing Agreement signed between the state government and the
National Treasury Secretariat in 1999, Minas Gerais initiated a fiscal adjustment program aimed at
abandoning the unsustainable path that the state debt had followed inthe previous period.40

In2000, the turnaround in the fiscal stance and the economic recovery resulted inthe generation of
substantial fiscal balances. Primary balance achieved 4.4% of net current revenue, the current
account balance was 1.3%, and the nominal deficit was reduced to 4.7%41.

However, the period 2001-2002 saw weakening of this adjustment effort.                        Primary balance
decreased to 0.8% of net current revenue in 2001, although it recovered to 3.7% in 2002. Current
account savings turned negative at -2.8% of net current revenue in 2001 and -5% in 2002. Nominal
deficits increased to almost 10% of net current revenue in 2001 and stayed at 5.7% in 2002.
Additionally, the slowdown of economic growth and the exchange rate depreciation, due to a series
of adverse shocks suffered by the Brazilian economy during this period, led to a resumption
towards increasing state indebtedness.

In 2003, the new state administration launched a strong adjustment program. Under the program
called Choquede GestLio (Management Shock), the government defined a set of measures directed
to curb the increasing trend of expenditures through a tight control over personnel and operating




40The 1997 refinancing agreement between the federal government and state governments was conditioned on
the adoption of Fiscal Adjustment Programs, coordinated by the National Treasury Secretariat. The program
had targets on indebtedness,primary results, personnel expenditures, revenues, investments and privatization.
41Net Current Revenue is the variable used in the Fiscal Responsibility Law to establish limits to expenses,
indebtedness and other fiscal variables. For states, net current revenue consist of the total current revenue, net
of transfers to municipalities, the earmarked revenues for the funding of FUNDEF (education Fund) and state
employee's social security contributions.


                                                                                                               63

costs. Measures were taken on the also revenue side but the economic recession did not allow
significant increases in revenue collection.

The results were immediate and impressive: the primary balance increased to 7.5% of net current
revenue, current balance increased to 2.8%, and nominal balance achieved a positive 0.7%. It i s
noteworthy that this fiscal turnaround happened in a period of severe economic stagnation, which
resulted in a decrease in total revenues of 7.0%.                With reduced revenues, the reduction of
expenditures was the only way to improve fiscal balances. Total expenditures decreasedby 10.0%
at constant prices from 2002 to 2003, with a decrease of 7.0% in current expenditures and 31.O% in
capital expenditures. In this sense, the adjustment of Minas Gerais in 2003 differed from the
similar efforts at the federal government, which were basedon revenue increases.42

In2004 the fiscal adjustmenteffort ofMinasGerais was deepened. The stategovernment obtained
a vigorous primary surplus of 15.5% of net current revenue, generated current account savings of
 14% and generateda nominal balance of 8.6% of net current revenue. Different from the previous
year, the strengthening of the fiscal adjustment was focused on revenue collection. Total revenues
increased by 12.0% at constant prices inthis year, despite a reductionin capital revenues of 21.0%.
Current revenuesincreased 13.0%in2004.43

The recovery of the economic activity in 2004 and the improvement in the efficiency of tax
collection contributed to consolidating the fiscal adjustment. Tax revenues increased 12.4% in
2004 at constant prices. As the estimative for national GDP growth in 2004 is 5%, this represented
a growth 6.7% above nominal GDP.44 Thus, an important part of the tax revenue increaseresulted
from the enhancement of the efficiency on state tax collection.

On the expenditure side, the government maintained the strict control of current expenditures and
achieved significant savings - relative to the projected levels without the adjustment efforts - in
personnel and operating expenditures. With increased revenues, the ability to generate current
savings allowed the Minas Gerais government to finance the recovery of investment expenditures.
Thus, the deepeningof the fiscal adjustment in 2004, basedon revenue increasesand the control of
current expenditures, allowed the recovery of investment expenditures which would have a positive
impact on the growth of the regional economy.45

In summary, the combination of the control of current expenditures and the enhancement of
revenue collection efficiency allowed Minas Gerais to produce an impressive fiscal turnaround of
good quality. At the same time, the strengthening of the control of current expenditures and the
efficiency gains in tax collection, if maintained, would ensure the sustainability of the fiscal
adjustment effort initiated in2003.



42 While the federal government has the constitutional authorities to introduce new taxes and contributions
(and has used this power extensively), state governments are not allowed to create new sources of revenue.
This explains why the federal government tax revenues increased in aperiod of economic slowdown while the
state tax revenues were negatively affected by the stagnation of economic activity during the period 2001-
2003.
43 I t i s worth noticing that even with an increase of total expenditures of 5%, its level i s still 5% below 2001
level at constant prices.
44Minas Gerais State GDP has shown the same evolution as national GDP recently.
45 The impact of the adjustment on expenditure composition constitutes another important difference between
the adjustment of Minas Gerais and of the federal government which, given the difficulties to control current
expenditures, relied on investment expenditures cuts.


                                                                                                                64

The strong fiscal adjustment of the last two years has made it possible that in 2004 the Fiscal
Responsibility Law requirements on debt service and on personnel expenditures would be met.
The same i s expected of the debt level, whose limit would be met from the secondquarter of 2005
onwards.

                         Table 4: Minas Gerais Government - Fiscal Balances

                                                                             Millions of 2004 Reais (*)
                                               2000       2001         2002       2003     2004 (**)
CurrentRevenues I                               18,009      19,774      19,558    19,254      21,796
CapitalRevenues-I1                               1,995       1,046       1,976       841          667
Total Revenues I11= I I1
                       +                        20,004     20,820       21,534    20,095      22,463

Deductions IV                                    1,932         88           87        65            63
   InterestRevenues IVa                             89          9            7        22            24
   CreditOperations RevenuesIVb                     20         72           86         2             1
   DebtamortizationIVc                              42         46           45        37            35
   Asset Sales IVd                               1,205         24           26         2             2

Primary Revenue V = I11 IV-                     18,072      19,938      20,655    19,442      21,831

CurrentExpendituresVI                           17,832     20,199       20,318    18,840       19,473
CurrentExpendituresVI1                           2,723      2,390        2,267     1,557        1,960
Total Expenditure VI11= VI VI1
                             +                  20,555     22,589       22,585    20,397      21,433

Deductions I X                                   3,093      2,774        2,497     2,060        2,171
   InterestPayments IXa                          1,145       1,552       1,318     1,271        1,372
   AmortizationsIXb                              1,317         64           52        45          432
   Debt concessionIXc                              631         57           65        33          367
   Others IXd                                                                2

Primary Expenditure X = VI11 M -                17,462      19,816      20,088    18,337       19,262

Primary Balance XI = V- X                          610          12          56     1,105        2,569

Current Account Balance XI1= I VI  -               177       (426)       (760)        41        2.323

Nominal Balance                                  (649)     (1,442)       (874)        10        1,428
XITI =111-IVb-IVc-VIII+IXb

Total Balance XIV = I11 VI11
                        -                     (2,483.6)  (2,650.8)    (1,929.5)   (955.4)       398.3

Deductions                                       4,217      4,742        4,247     4,540        5,229
Net Current Revenue (NCR)                       13,792      15,032      15,311    14,714       16,566

Primary Balance /NCR                             4.4%        0.8%         3.7%      7.5%       15.5%
CurrentAccount Balance /NCR                       1.3%      -2.8%        -5.0%      2.8%       14.0%
Nominal Balance /NCR                             -4.7%      -9.6%        -5.7%      0.7%        8.6%
(*) IPCA
(**) Estimatedbasedon numbersuntil October




                                                                                                    65

A.2 Evolution of Fiscal Revenues, 2000-2004.

For the last five years, the trajectory of Minas' fiscal revenues can be divided into two periods.
The first period would be from 2000 to 2003, characterized by low growth performance, and the
other would be 2004 when a strong increase in economic growth was observed (and this trend
appears to be continuing in 2005). From 2000 to 2003 net current revenues increased 6.796, at
constant prices. Brazil's real GDP growth was of 3.8%, indicating 2.8% increase in revenues
above nominal GDP during the three years. In2004, net current revenues increased 13%. During
the first period, tax revenues grew by 10%. Most of the increase was in 2001. But it i s worth
noticing that 2001 was an atypical year, when the government implemented a one-time tax debt
amnesty to collect extraordinary tax revenues. In2004, tax revenues grew by 12.4%.

As mentioned above, the strong revenue growth resulted from the recovery of the level of economic
activity and the improvement of tax collection efficiency. Assuming that Minas Gerais grew at the
same rate as the national GDP in 2004 (Le., 5%), the growth of the state tax revenues at 6.7%
would be above the growth of nominal GDP. Thus a good part of the increase would be due to
improvements in tax collection effort. In 2003, the state government defined thirty one priority
structural projects under the name of "Geraes" Program.46 Among them i s the program of
modernization of the state revenue service, with investment in infrastructure, software, logistic,
modernization of administrative process. In order to increase tax collection, a regime of annual
collection targets and a scheme of incentives to the state employees were introduced.

The most important state tax, the ICMS,47which represented89% of tax revenuein 2004, increased
by 12%. From January to October, the increase of ICMS collection in Minas Gerais was higher
than at the national level for the same tax by 2.6%, which is likely due to the state government's
effort to enhance collection.         EVA4*and the remaining taxes increased by 18% and 15%
respectively. New fee charges were created and the existingfee scheduleswere adjusted.

The same pattern observed for taxes was observed for the current transfers from the federal
government: low growth performance until 2003 and strong recovery in 2004. During the period
2000-2003, federal current transfers fell by 2.6%. If SUS (National Health System) transfers were
not included in 2003, the fall would reach 13%.49 Despite an increase of 14% of the State
Participation Fund (FPE - Fundo de ParticipagZo Estadual), there was a decrease of 44% in PI-
Exp. and 37% in ICMS Compensation from Law 87/9650. Differently, in 2004, federal current
transfers grew by 11% at constant prices. Most of the increase (71%) resulted from the CIDE




46"GestBo EstratCgicados Recursos e A@es do Estado"
47A VAT collected by the states.
48Automobile property tax.
49SUS transfers to Minas Gerais began in 2002. Operation of SUS (National Health System - Sistema Unico
de Sadde) involves a transfer to cover the costs of health assistance provided by the state government, to
implement a national policy of decentralized health provision from federal government to lower levels of
government.
50 FPE i s a revenue sharing mechanism for resources from income tax (IR) and industrialized products tax
(IPI) charged by the state. IPI-Exp i s also a mechanism to share the revenue from the industrialized products
tax to exporter states. ICMS Compensation from Law 87/96 compensates states from the exemption from
ICMS taxation of goods produced for exportation, established by Complementary Law n. 87/96. The amount
of compensation was first established by a specific law, but now i s determined in annual federal budget laws.


                                                                                                            66

 transfer^,^^ which began to be transferred in 2004, and the transfer of SUS with an increase of 40%
at constant prices.

Overall, given the better performance of tax revenues vis-d-vis the federal transfers, the state
dependence on transferred resources was reduced. In 2000, current transfers represented 20.2% of
current revenue while in 2004 the dependence on transfers fell to 17.8%. It i s important to note
that in 2000, the transfers corresponding to the SUS and CIDE did not exist. As in 2004, they
represented 16.9% of current transfers. If these transfers were not included, the dependence on
federal transfers would fall to 15.3%.

As a result, the current revenue composition does not represent a major fiscal risk in the sense that
reductions in intergovernmental transfers do not have a significant impact on Minas Gerais' fiscal
situation.

On the capital account, capital revenues were reduced considerably from 2000 to 2004 - 67% at
constant prices. With the exception of capital transfers, all items strongly fell during this period.
Credit operations were reduced 95%, but have historically been very small in all the years due to
severe limitations on new credit operations imposed by the FiscalAdjustment Program, agreedwith
the National Treasury Secretariat, and by the National Monetary Council controls on credit
supplied by financial institutions to public sector.52 The highest level during this period was in
2000, with 1.5% of net current revenues, well below the Fiscal Responsibility Law ceiling for
credit operations, 16.0% of net current revenues.

After privatization at the end of the nineties, asset sales had reduced its importance as a revenue
source. From R$ 1.2 billions in 2000 (at prices of 2004), it amounted only R$ 29 million in 2003
and R$ 24 million in 2004. Capital transfers showed an irregular pattern since 2000. Froma level
of R$ 146 millions in 2000, it representedR$ 1.2 billions in 2002, decreasingto R$276 millions in
2004. From the R$ 1.2 billion registered in 2002, R$ 1billion was a federal government transfer
due to an agreement where the responsibility for maintenance of some of the federal highways in
Minas Gerais State was transferred to the state government.

Another important component of capital revenue i s debt amortization revenue. These revenues are
from state government funds for development that are managed by the state development bank
(BDMG- Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Geruis). Although it declined by 18% from 2000
to 2004 at constant prices, it still represented 53% of capital revenue in 2004.




51 CIDE (Contribui@o de Interven@o no Domini0 EconBmico) is an economic contribution charged over
commercialization and importation of oil and its derivatives, natural gas and its derivatives, and alcohol. It
was created in 2001 (ConstitutionalAmendment n. 33, 2001) and has its revenue collection shared with states
and municipalitiessince 2004.
52NationalMonetary CouncilResolutionsNo. 2827 limit bank exposure to the public sector to 45% of equity.




                                                                                                           67

                      Table 5: Minas Gerais State Government - Revenue Structure

                                                                               R$ millions of 2004 (*)
                                              2000       2001       2002        2003       2004 (**)
Total Revenue                                  20,004     20,820     21,534      20,095        22,463
Current Revenue                                18,009     19,774     19,558      19,254        21,796
   Tax Revenue                                 11,784     13,155     12,964      12,983        14,599
     ICMS                                      10,544     11,842     11,492      11,551        12,931
     IPVA                                         792        857         882        790           932
     Others (Economic Contributions, User
Charges, Real State Transactions Tax)             449        456         591        643           736
  Social Contributions                          1,235      1,383       1,638      1,553         1,795
     Social Security Contributions              1,031      1,138         499      1,474         1,703
     Others social contributions                  204        245       1,139           79          91
   Current Transfers                            3,637      3,642       3,891      3,506         3,890
     Federal Government Transfers               3,517      3,536       3,806      3,427         3,812
        FPE                                       905        996       1,137      1,031         1,066
        IPI- exp                                  393        384         299         220          245
        Lei 87/96 - ICMS                          527        460         468         332          329
        SUS (Health Unique System)                                       377         384          540
        FUNDEF                                                           302         270          270
        CIDE                                                                                      119
        Others                                  1,692      1,695       1,223      1,189         1,244
     Others Intergovernmental transfers             6          8
     Non-governmentaltransfers                    114         98          85           79          78

  Other Current Revenues                        1,353      1,593       1,065      1,211         1,512

  Deductions                                    4,217      4,742       4,247      4,540         5,229
     Social Security Contributions              1,03 1     1,138         798       1,126        1,357
     Constitutional Transfers                   3,186      3,604       3,449      3,414         3,872
Net Current Revenues                           13,792     15,032      15,311      14,714       16,566

   CapitalRevenue                               1,995      1,046       1,976         841          667
     Credit Operations                            209          72         86           20           11
     Capital Transfers                             146       244       1,173         407          276
     Asset Sales                                 1,205       247         265           29           24
     Debt amortization                            429        467         450         377          351
     Others                                         6          15          2            9            6

Credit Operations /NCR (%)                       1.5%      0.5%        0.6%        0.1%          0.1%
Fiscal Responsibility Law Ceiling: 16%
(*) IPCA
(*) estimatedbasedonnumbersuntilOctober




                                                                                                  68

                 Figure5: Compositionof Minas Gerais CurrentRevenue(2000 2004)    -

       100%
         90%
         80%
         70%
         60%
         50%
         40%
         30%
         20O/O
         10%
         0%
                    2000             2001             2002                 2003           2004
      1ElTax Revenue      Social Contributions 0 Current transfers 0 Other current revenues1

A.3 Evolution of Expenditures, 2000-2004.

From 2000 to 2004, current expenditures increased by 9.0% at constant prices. In 2001, current
expenditures showed a strong increase of 13.0%, followed by their stagnation in 2002. The
beginningof the fiscal adjustment in 2003 resulted in a reduction of 7.0% while the recovery of
revenues allowed an increase of 3.0% in 2004.           The behavior since 2003 exhibits the new
administration policy of public spending control. The level of current expenditures in 2004 was
still below the 2001 level at constant prices.

Personnel expenditures are the most important component of current expenditures, representing
54% of the total in 2004. From 2000 to 2002, they increased by 10% at constant prices, following
the same pattern of evolution of total current expenditures. In 2003, the government promoted a
strong reduction of personnel expenditures by 10.0%. In2004, there was an increase of 5.0% due
to stagnating growth, new hiring, and some wage adjustments that were postponed in 2003. In any
case, it i s important to mention that the new administration reduced personnel expenditures by 5%
at constant prices.

The fall in personnel expenditures was the result of a set of measures in the Choque de Gest6o
(Management Shock) program, as described in the government's Letter of Development Policy
(Annex 1) and elsewhere in this document. As a result, it was estimated that the monthly nominal
inertial growth of the wage bill was around 0.3% in the beginning of 2003, and now should be
around 0.1596, according to state officials.53 The effective control of personnel expenditures
allowed the state to reduce the Fiscal Responsibility Law indicator of personnel expenditure on net
current expenditures from 66.0% in 2002 to 59.0% in 2004, thus meeting the Fiscal Responsibility
Law requirement on this item.

The second most important component of current expenditure corresponds to operating
expenditures (classified as "other current expenditures"), mainly expenditures for purchases of
goods and services and operation and maintenance. In 2004, the level of these expenditures was
9.0% higher than in 2000 at constant prices. But all of the increases took place from 2000 to 2002,


53Personnelexpenditures here include not only employees but also retirees and pensioners.


                                                                                                69

when they increased 31.0%. From 2002 to 2004, other current expenditures actually fell by 17.0%
(7.0% in 2003 and 11.0% in 2004).

The fall in operating expenditures also reflects the adoption of a series of measures aimed at
improving the public spending control systems.             A new system of services and goods
administration i s being used since January 2004 (SIAP - Sistema de AdministraGZo de Materiais e
ServiGos do Estado de Minus Gerais). This system allows control of the complete contracting
process of goods and services and regulation of the registries of prices and suppliers. Also,
measures were taken to reduce current expenditures like leases of properties and utilities such as
water, electricity and phone.

Interest payments and constitutional transfers to municipalities increased20% and 22% from 2000
to 2004. The transfers to municipalities are determined by the Constitution in such a way that any
tax revenue increase would be translated into increases in transfers to municipalities. As both
interest payments and constitutional transfers are rigid expenditures, their evolutions are out of the
government control. In this sense, if we consider only personnel expenditures and other current
expenditures, the components over which the government has some control, there was an
accumulated reduction of 9%, at constant prices, in 2003 and 2004. This happened in spite of a
high degree of nominal rigidity in personnel expenditures, which makes this achievement even
more significant.

Capital expenditures declined by 28% from 2000 to 2004. Most of this reduction was due to a
decrease in debt amortization (67%) and other capital expenditures (49%). Duringthe same period,
direct investment increased 113%. The increase took place every year with the exception of 2003,
when it fell by 32%. In 2003, the new administration implemented an immediate reduction in less
rigid expenditures, most of which were capital expenditures. But direct investment recovered in
2004 to a level 13% higher than in 2002 thanks to the effect of the initial adjustment efforts. This
allowed an increase in the participation of investment in total expenditures during the period. In
2000, the share of direct investment intotal expenditures was of 2%. This increasedto 5% in2004.
 Debt service has been above the ceiling established by Federal Senate Resolution No.43/2001, in
compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Law. The legal ceiling is 11.5% often current revenue
and the State has been above this ceiling in all years from 2000 to 2004.

In summary, the evolution of the different expenditure categories shows that the fiscal adjustment
initiated in 2003 is having a positive effect on the quality of expenditures. The reduction in current
expenditures and the strong revenue increase allowed the state to increase the space for investment
expenditures. Over time, the increase in statepublic investment expenditures should allow the state
to overcome the infrastructure bottlenecks that constrained its economic growth, thus favoring the
state's debt sustainability.




                                                                                                    70

              Table 6: MinasGerais State Government:ExpenditureStructure(2000-2004)

                                                                                Millions of 2004 Reais (*)
                                                     2000     2001      2002        2003      2004 (**)
Total Expenditure                                    20,555    22,589   22,585       20,397      21,433
 CurrentExpenditure                                  17,832    20,199   20,318       18,840      19,473
     Personnel                                       10,011    10,954   10,977        9,914      10,440
       Employees                                       6,07 1   6,593    6,676        6,151       6,477
        Social security benefits                       3,940    4,361    4,301        3,763       3,963
     Interest Payments                                 1,145    1,552     1,318       1,27 1       1,372
     Constitutional Transfer                           3,186    3,604    3,449        3,414       3,872
     Other Current Expenditures                        3,491    4,090    4,574        4,241       3,790
 CapitalExpenditures                                 2,723.1  2,389.9   2,267.1     1,556.7      1,959.7
     Investments                                         503      783      948          640      1,069.1
     Debt Amortization                                 1,317      647      528          454       432.4
     Other Capital Expenditures                          903      961      791          462       458.2

Net Current Revenue                                 13,792.0  15,032.0 15,311.3   14,713.8      16,566.2

Personnel Expenditure (FRL)                          8,725.7  9,205.5  10,101.6     9,358.1      9,813.1
Personnel Expenditure /Net Current Revenue              63%      61%      66%          64%          59%
Fiscal Responsibility Law Ceiling: 60%

Debt Service (Interest Payments  + Debt
Amortization)                                        2,462.1  2,198.3   1,845.5      1,725.6     1,804.4
Debt Services /Net Current Revenue                    17.9%    14.6%     12.1%       11.7%        10.9%
Fiscal Responsibility Law Ceiling: 11,5%
(*) IPCA
(**) annualfigures estimatedbasedon informationuntilOctober

In terms to functional allocation, the most important item of the state expenditures corresponds to
education and culture, with 21.5% total primary expenditures in 2003, followed by security
(14.2%) and health and sanitation expenditures (9.5%).          Since 2000, there was a reduction in
education and security expenditures of 4.3% and 1.1% of total expenditures, respectively. At the
same time, there was an increase in spending on social security, health, transport and others.

It is important to notice that the state complied with the constitutional spending floor for basic
education and health in 2003. At the same time, the state government increasedthe basic education
cycle by one year, which impliedan increase in the number of students attending basic education.
This increase did not generate additional spending, showing that improving the provision of public
services can be obtained through efficiency gains without additional expenditures.




                                                                                                       71

           Figure6: MinasGerais State Government:expendituresby functionsof government




                                   2000                                 2003




B-Evolutionof Consolidated Debt.

From2000 to 2003, consolidated debt increased by 11% at constant prices, in a period where credit
operation amounted to only R$ 178 millions at constant prices of 2004. Most of the increase (78%)
was due to the evolution of the state debt with the Federal Government, which represented90% of
the consolidated debt stock in 2003. The origin of this debt was refinancing agreements between
federal government and state government^.^^

The last refinancing agreement between Minas Gerais and the National Treasury was done under
the Law No. 9496/97. It amounted to R$ 12.9 billion or 16% of state GDP, representing 84% of
the state debt with the National Treasury and 80% of the state's total debt.

The agreement under Law No.9496/97 was conditional on the adoption of the Fiscal Adjustment
Program, supervised by the National Treasury Secretariat. The program established targets on
indebtedness, primary balances, personnel expenditures, revenues, investments and privatization.
For the last revision of the agreement in 2004, Minas Gerais had achieved all the targets
established, with the exception of the target corresponding to assets sales. Even then, the State was
considered by the National Treasury as fulfilling the debt renegotiation contract, without any
penalty to the State.

The increase in the state indebtednesswith the federal government has two main causes. The first
i s the index used to correct the debt stock: the General Price Index (IGP). This index i s much more
influenced by exchange rate changes than consumer price indexes. While there was an exchange



54 Brazil's federal government set up three bailout operations in ten years, reflectingthe weak fiscal discipline
of state governments. In 1989 the federal government assumed R$ 10.5 billion of state's external debt which
represented 1.4% of GDP. In 1993, the National treasury assumed R$ 40 bi or 7.2% of GDP of state's debt
with federal financial institutions.Finally, in 1997, the federal government restructured state's bond debt by
R$87 bi or 11.7%of GDP. (for more detailedinformation, see Bevilaqua, 1999)


                                                                                                             72

rate devaluation of 48% from December 2000 to December 2003, the General Price Index during
this period showed a variation of SO% andthe consumer price index -IPCA - varied by 32%.

The other cause i s the ceiling on debt service. Debt service fromthe refinancingagreement and set
of contracts also set in the agreement should be below 13% of net real revenue.55Any debt service
above this limit i s automatically incorporated into, and thus increases,the debt stock. This explains
why, even inthe absence of large new credit operations, the debt stock has grown.

Another component of the state debt i s the debt with CEMIG, the public electricity company with
the state government controlling 51% of the voting shares, which also showed a significant increase
during the period (41%, or 906 millions of 2003 Reais). This debt is under renegotiation and
interests have not being paid in excess of dividends received by the state.

Finally, external debt was reduced during the period, despite devaluation of the Real. This is due
to amortizations done duringthe period and the absence of new credit operations since 1999.

The Federal Senate Resolution40/2001, complying with the Fiscal Responsibility Law, established
a ceiling for net consolidated debt to net current revenues of 200% for state governments. For
states that were above this ceiling, the Resolution mandated an adjustment to the ceiling in fifteen
years. In 2002, Minas Gerais was above the ceiling established by the adjustment path, as the high
depreciation and inflation measured by the general price index - as discussed above - caused a
considerable increase in state debt stocks.

As a result, the Senate Resolution 20/2003 exempted states and municipalities from fulfilling the
legal ceiling from January 2003 to April 200.5. Numbers from the Minas Gerais Fiscal Report of
August (Relatdrio de Gestiio               showed that at this time the State was only 0.43% above the
ceiling established by the path adjustment. It i s expected that this limit will be met in December
2004.




55Net real revenue is sum of current and capital revenues excluded: FUNDEF transfers, credit operation
revenues, asset sales revenues, capital transfers, constitutional transfers to municipalities and the SUS
revenues.
56Required by Fiscal Responsibility Law, this report should be published quarterly in order to verify the
compliance of limits established by Fiscal Responsibility Law.




                                                                                                       73

                       Table 7: Minas Gerais State Government- ConsolidatedDebt


                                                        2000       2001          2002        2003
ConsolidatedDebt                                         33,811     35,539        38,307      37,586
   Domestic Debt                                         32,641     34,429        36,847      36,603
     Contractual                                         32,603     34,344        36,460      36,256
       Federal Government - National Treasury            30,953     32,687        33,700      33,913
       Banks                                                249         177          131         113
           Federal Government                               226         157          114          99
           State Government                                  23          20           17          14
           Private Sector
       Others                                             1,362       1,395        2,242       2,229
     Judiciary Debt - PrecatBrios- after 5/5/2000            38          85          387         348
   External Debt                                          1,171       1,110        1,461         982

   Deductions                                             1,967       1,606       (2,403)      3,102
     Financial assets                                     4,869       4,858          574       4,631
     (-) ProcessedFloating Debt                           2,90 1      3,252        2,977       1,528

Net ConsolidatedDebt                                     31.844     33.933        40.710      34.483

   Other obligations                                        924       1,649          980         294
     Judiciary Debt - PrecatBrios- before 5/5/2000                                    152        117
     Non-processed floating debt                            924       1,649          828         178

Net Current Revenue                                      12,891     13,942        13,686      13,803
Net Consolidated Debt 1Net Current Debt                   247%        243%         297%        250%
Fiscal Responsibility Law Ceiling: 200%
Spacefor further indebtness (millions of 2003 Reais)     (6,062)    (6,050)      (13,339)     (6,877)
(*) IPCA

Interms of its composition, in2003,90.3% of the debt stock from Minas Gerais was indexedto the
General Price Index (IGP) and 9.5% to the exchange rate. As the general price index i s very
sensitive to changes on exchange rate, debt stock i s influenced by changes in the exchange rate.
Thus, the exchange rate constitutes the most relevant risk for debt sustainability as almost 100% of
the state debt i s indexed directly or indirectly to the exchange rate. This fact reveals that an
additional external credit operation will not generate additional exchange rate vulnerability. The
exchange rate risk will be analyzed in more detail in sections E and F on sensitivity and risk
analyses.

C -Compliance with the FiscalResponsibility Law

With the exception of the requirement on credit operations, it is clear that Minas Gerais did not
meet the Fiscal Responsibility Law key indicator requirements since its enactment in 2000. But it
i s important to notice that the adjustments made in the last 2 years, with expenditures control and
revenue enhancing, led to the compliance with the LRF requirements on debt services and on
personnel expenditures in 2004, as shown in Table 8. The same is expected of the debt level,
whose limit has to fall within the adjustment path from the secondquarter of 2005 onwards.




                                                                                                  74

                                   Table 8: FiscalResponsibilityLaw Limits

                                                                                2003 Millions of Reais (*)
                                               2000        2001       2002        2003          2004
Net Current Revenue                              13,792.0  15,032.0   15,311.3   14,713.8       16,566.2

Credit Operations                                   209.0      72.4        85.7       19.5          10.5
% Net Current Revenue                                1.5%      0.5%       0.6%       0.1%          0.1%
Space for further credit operations               1,997.7   2,332.7     2,364.1   2,334.7        2,640.0

Net consolidated Debt                            31,844.3  33,933.0   40,710.2   34,483.5
% Net Current Revenue                               247%      243%       297%       250%
Space for further Indebteness                 (29,085.9)  (30,926.6) (37,648.0) (31,540.7)

Debt Service                                      2,462.1   2,198.3     1,845.5    1,725.6       1,804.4
% Net Current Revenue                              17.9%      14.6%      12.1%      11.7%         10.9%
Space for further Debt Service                    (876.1)   (469.7)      (84.7)     (33.5)         100.7

Personnel Expenditures                            8,725.7   9,205.5   10,101.6    9,358.1   .    9,813.1
% Net Current Revenue                                63%       61%        66%         64%           59%
(*) IPCA deflator, Net CurrentDebt is at 2003 prices.

D-Projected FiscalSituation: 2005 -2014

In this section, Minas Gerais State fiscal situation will be projected in order to assess the state's
capacity to repay with regard to the proposed lending operation and its fiscal impact. For this, two
scenarios will be depicted: first without the lending operation and second with the World Bank
lending operation.

The projection will look at the evolution of current, primary and nominal balances and the
compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Law indicators.            Besides these figures, other two
indicators will be analyzed to assess the state's cash flow. The first i s interest coverage, which
represents current account cash flow without interest payments (flow of funds i s generated
internally) divided by the interest payment. The minimumlevel recommended for this indicator is
1.5. The second i s investment coverage, which represents the amount of investment financed with
cash flow (current account balance). The minimumlevel recommended for this indicator is 30%.

The main hypotheses for both projections are presented in Table 9 below.                   The market
expectations, based on the Central Bank Report "Market Readout," were used to set values for
inflation, GDP growth and exchange rate in these exercise^.'^ The level of investment from 2005
afterwards is set as equal to the average from 2000 - 2003, adjusted by inflation. The simulation
considers new credit operations when total balance i s not enough to finance current and capital
expenditures.




57The expectation was from the December 30, 2004.




                                                                                                       75

                                   Table 9: Assumptions for Financial Projections




  Population Growth                                     IBGE estimation for Minas Gerais population on the next
                                                        10years (from 1.3% in2004 to 1%in 2014)
  Inflation Rate (IPCA)                                 7.5% in2004; 5.7% in 2005 and 4.5% thereafter (*)
  GDP real growth                                       5.1% in 2004 and 3.5% 2005 and 3% thereafter

  Exchange rate                                         Market expectation for 2004 and 2005, varying with
                                                        inflation difference afterwards

  Revenue
  Tax Revenue
     ICMS                                               Increase with inflation and real GDP growth
     IPVA                                               Increase with inflation
     Others                                             Increase with inflation and real GDP growth
  Transfers from Federal Government
     FPE                                                Increase with inflation and real GDP growth
     sus                                                Increase with inflation
     IPI- exp                                           Increase with inflation
     L e i 87/96                                        Increase with inflation
     CIDE                                               Increase with inflation
     Others                                             Increase with inflation
  Other Transfers
     Others                                             Decreases linearlv and extinnuishes at 2009
~~         ___
  Other Current Revenues                                Increase with inflation

  Expenses
     Employees                                          Increase with population growth and inflation
     Social Security Benefits                           Increase with population growth and inflation
     Others                                             Increase with population growth and inflation


  Investment                                            Average of 2000 - 2003, adjusted by inflation

  New Loans

  World Bank                                            Indexed by the exchange rate with 4.5% interest rate. 3
                                                        years of grace period and 15 years for amortization.

  New loan contracted during the period projected       Indexed by General Price Index, 7% interest rate and
                                                        amortization in 15 years.
  (*) until2005. inflation assumptionswere basedon the markedexpectations CentralBank of Brazil - MarketReadout of
                                                                          -
  December 30,2004.

  Firstscenario: without the World Banklendingoperation

  This scenario projects the fiscal situation of Minas Gerais without the World Bank lending
  operation. The results are presented in Tables 10 and 11 below. All the balances are positive
  during the period estimated and increasing as percentage of net current revenue. In 2014, the
  current balance would achieve 21% of net current revenue, and the primary and nominal balances
  22% and 18%, respectively.

  Although the gross consolidated debt will increase duringthis period, there is a big reductionin the
  net consolidated debt because of the assumption that total savings will be accumulated and not
  spent. The estimation shows that the legal path for debt reduction will be accomplished every


                                                                                                              76

year.58 But this only happens because it was assumed that savings were not spent. If they were
totally allocated to investment, for instance, although debt to net consolidated level would decrease,
it would not be sufficient to guaranteethe compliance with the legalceiling each year.

The ceiling for personnel expenditures (60% of net current revenues) will also be achieved every
year in the projection even though Minas Gerais did not meet requirements on consolidated debt
and personnel expenditures until 2003.

The other two limits established by the Fiscal Responsibility Law are the ceilings for credit
operations and the debt service, both as percentages of net current revenue. As there are positive
savings every year and thus no need for additional credit operations, the limit on annual credit
operations will not be relevant. For debt service, the legal ceiling i s 11.5%. The projection shows
that the state will be above in all years, although showing a slightly decreasing ratio. But this
would happen only if the financial assets accumulated would not be used to amortize debt. The
increase in this indicator in relation to 2004 is probably due to the fact that our projections consider
the debt service of CEMIG debt, of R$ 2.2 billions in 2003. As mentioned before, this contract is
being renegotiated and the state government has not been paying all its debt service in the last
years.

For the other indicators considered, interest coverage and investment coverage, the projection
exercise shows that both will be above the minimumlevels recommended during the period 2005-
2014.

It is important to mention that the projected improvement in fiscal balances for the coming years
are due to hypotheses considered: some items of the revenues depend on economic growth while
important components of expenditures are influenced by population growth. As our hypothesis of
the economic growth i s higher than the estimated population growth, the estimation predicted a
better fiscal situation in the future. An analysis of the sensibility of the projection to economic
growth will be done inthe section E.




58 Federal Senate Resolution n. 40/2001, as determined by Fiscal Responsibility Law, established limits for
state indebtedness. The ceiling is of 200% of net current revenue. For states that were above this level, it was
given a 15 year period to reach this level, with a reduction of 1/15 each year. It was the case of Minas Gerais,
which net debt was 234% of net current revenue at 2001. Inthis sense, each year, the level of indebtednesshas
to decrease by 2.3% of net current revenue, achieving 200% in 2016.




                                                                                                             77

       Table 10: Minas Gerais State Government: FinancialProjections (2005-2014)         -FirstScenario

                                                                                                 Millions of 2004 Reais
                                      2005    2006           znnx   2009   2ni0
                                                                           -.-. 2011      2012        2013      2014
Current Revenues                      22,355 22,865  23,373 23,897  24,444 25,030 25,641  26,279     26,945     27,640
Tax Revenues                          15.077  15.502 15,939  16.389 16.853 17.330 17.822  18.329     18.851     19.389
   ICMS                               13.384  13,785 14.199  14.625 15.064 15.516 15.981  16,461     16,954     17,463
   IPVA                                  932     932    932    932     932    932    932     932        932        932
   Others                                761     784    808    832     857    883    909     937        965         994
 SocialContributions                   1,817   1.872  1,905   1,930  1,955  1.980  2,005   2,029      2,053       2,077
Current Transfers                      3,948  3.964   3.983  4,004   4,028  4,065  4,103   4,143      4,184       4,226
   Federal Government transfers        3.889  3,922   3,956  3.992   4.028  4,065  4,103   4,143      4.184       4.226
   Other currenttransfers                 59      42     27      13

 Others currentrevenues                1,513   1.526  1,546   1,573  1.609  1,654  1,710   1.777      1,857       1,949
   Financialrevenues                     248     261    281    308     343    389    445     512        591         684
   Others currentrevenues              1,265   1.265  1,265   1,265  1.265  1,265  1,265   1.265      1.265       1,265

Deductions                             5,338  5,480   5,607  5,730   5,857  5,987  6,120   6,256      6,396       6,539
   ConstitutionalTransfers             3,995  4.095   4,199  4,305   4,415  4.528  4,644   4,764      4,888       5,015
   Social securitycontnbutions         1,343   1,385  1,408  1,425   1.442  1,459  1.476   1,492      1,508       1.524

Net Current Revenue (FRL)             17,017 17,385  17,766 18,166  18,587 19,043 19,521  20,022     20,549     21,101

Current Expenditure                   20,315 20,715  21,046 21,369  21,696 22,016 22,263  22,504     22,743     23,126
Personnelexpenditures                 10,573  10.706 10,838  10,968 11.097 11,223  11,348 11,469     11,589     11,706
   Net personnelexpenditures (LRF)     9,939  10,064 10,188  10,310 10,431 10.550  10,667 10,781      10,894    11,004
Consutmonal Transfers                  3,995  4,095   4,199  4,305   4,415  4.528  4.644   4,764      4,888       5,015
Interest Payments                      1,558   1,596  1,619   1,652  1.687  1,715   1,669  1.618       1,564      1,653
Otherrevenues                          4,189  4,318   4,390  4,444   4,498  4,550  4.602   4,653      4,703       4,752

Current Balance                        2,041  2,150   2,327  2,527   2,748  3,014  3,378   3,774      4,201       4,514
 % Net Current Revenue                  12%    12%     13%     14%    15%    16%     17%    19%        20%         21%

Capital Revenues                       380.9  380.9   380.9  380.9   380.9  380.9  380.9   380.9      380.9       380.9
Amortizations                            351    351     351     351    351    351     351    351         351        351
Transfers
Credit Operations
Others                                    30      30     30      30     30     30      30      30         30         30

Capital Expenditures                   1,935  1,930   1,941  1,947   1,948  1,961  2,061   2,164       2,275      2,241
Investments                              719    719     719    719     719    719     719     719        719        719
Debt Amoruzauon                          561    556     567    573     574    587     687    790         901        867
Others                                   655    655     655    655     655    655     655     655        655        655

Primary Balance                        2,530  2,665   2,846  3,052   3,272  3,520   3,782  4,060       4,353      4,663
  % Net Current Revenue                 15%    15%     16%    17%     18%    18%     19%    20%        21%         22%
Total Balance                            486    601     768    962   1,181  1,434   1,698   1,992      2,308      2,654
  % Net Current Revenue                  3%      3%     4%      5%     6%     8%      9%     10%        11%         13%
Nominal Balance                        1,221  1,330   1,507  1,707   1,928  2,194   2,558  2,954       3,381      3,694
  9%Net Current Revenue                  7%      8%     8%      9%    10%    12%     13%     15%        16%         18%

Net ConsolidatedDebt                  37,493 37,653  37,846 37,896  37,784 37,484  36,977 36,245      35,271    34,040
GeneralPnce Index Debt                39,589 40.540  41,658 42,759  43,819 44,839  45,870  46,898     47,921     48.811
Dollar indexeddebt                     2,640  2,217   1,830   1,488  1,215  1,003     791     591        402        357
Other debt                                42     32      25      17     11      6       2       0          0          0
Judiciary debt                           374    374     374    374     374    374     374     374        374        374
New debt
FinancialAssets                        5,152  5,511   6,041  6,743   7.634  8.739  10.061  11,619     13.427     15,503




                                                                                                                    78


Second Scenario: with World Bank lendingoperation

Inthis scenario, the projection exercise considers the effects on debt, revenues and expenditures of
World Banking lending operation of R$ 510 millions for general budget support (i.e., not
earmarked to specific spending purposes).              Furthermore, it assumes that additional budget
resources that the Bank operation would release for the government to fully fund programs directed
to improve the fiscal equilibrium and provision of public service as well as promote economic
growth. These include programs for revenue and financial administration, planning, budget, supply
and personnel management, electronic government, debt amortization, citizen security, public
infrastructure investments and public-private partnerships project^.'^ Details of the application of
resources and the potential fiscal savings that each project would generate are shown on Box 4
below.

Box 4: Assumptions regarding the use off additional budget resources

The application of resources from the World Bank lending operation within different projects and the
projected fiscal gains are described below. Table 12 below shows a summary of the different government
actions. The projections of fiscal gains were done by the state government and were described in the Policy
Letter sent to the Bank.

To strengthen revenue administration, R$50 million would be allocated to finance investment in additional
infrastructure (e.g., hardware and software). The government has already invested in revenue collection with
results that can be observed in 2004. This project i s expected to generate additional tax collection of R$44.4
million of 2005 Reais from 2007 on. For financial management, an investment of R$10 i s planned in
software, hardware and staff capacity building. An expected return i s an annual reduction of expenditures by
R$4.4 million of 2005 Reais (R$3 million from more efficient data processing and R$1.4 million from
collection of supplier interest payments and fines that a more efficient financial managementwould allow) and
an annual increase of interest revenues due to better cash flow management of R$2.3 millions of 2005 Reais
from 2007 on.

For strengthening planning capacity, the government i s planning investments of R$5 millions, from which a
return of R$9.3 millions is expected from 2006 on, which would represent rationalization of 3.0% of the
investments in that year. Another R $ l million will be applied to the public management by the results
program.

Personnel management would benefit from an investment of R$8 million, in addition to the considerable
amount of measures the state has already implemented to allow for better control of personnel payment,
reduction of irregular payment as well as alleviation of stagnant growth. Additional Bank resources would be
used to improve the personnel administration system, SISAP, and to implement a new system of personnel
payment integrated to it. The return expected from this investment i s a reduction in personnel expenses of
R$4.3 millions of 2005 Reais from 2007 on. Also for personnel policy management, an investment in
employees training worth R$10 millions is considered. As a result, expected savings in personnel outlays
would reach R$2.3 millions of 2005 Reais from 2007 on, with a reduction of 300 contracted employees; and a
reductioningoods and services expenditures of R$ 3.04 million from 2007 on.

The state government has implemented a new system of services and goods administration (SIAP -Sistema de
4dministra@o de Materiais e ServiGos do Estado de Minus Gerais). This system allows control of the
zomplete contracting process of goods and services as well as regulation of the price and supplier registry
systems. With the proposed DPL's general budget support, the government would be able to allocate


59The proposed DPL would not directly finance these programs. The DPL would support some of the policies
of which some of these programs form part, but the programs mentioned here also include those that lie
outside the programmatic support of the proposed DPL (e.g., citizen security, infrastructure investments).


                                                                                                            80

additional R$8 million to finance the complete implementation of SIAD, which is expected to lead to a
reduction in goods and services outlays of R$4.8 millions of 2005 Reais from 2007 on.

The implementation of the electronic government initiative would absorb R$15 million with the following
fiscal impacts: reduction in telephone bills (R$2.6 million from 2006 on), reduction of maintenance
expenditures of the systems that will be part of the e-government initiative (R$0.69 millions from 2007
onwards) and reduction in paper acquisition (R$0.7 millions from 2007 onwards).

Inthe process of implementing a new managementmodel, the government introduced a new legal framework
to foster partnership between the government and civil society organizations and the private sector.
Partnerships with civil society organizations will be operationalized through the OSCIP model (Organizap5o
da Sociedade Civil de Interesse Pliblico) and its partnership with the state government, whose implementation
i s expected to consume R$ 1 million of the additional budget resources. For the private sector-government
partnership, a framework for public-private partnerships (PPP) i s being implemented, directed to promote
investments and economic growth. Implementation of these operations would require R$lOO million of
additional resources to capitalize a PPP guarantee fund (or an equivalent mechanism). The implementation of
the two first PPPs operations (five pilot-projects were already defined) would result in government saving of
R$20 million from 2007 to 2016.

Also with the aim of inducing private investment, R$40 million would be spent for infrastructure investment in
road maintenance and in support of the "Estrada Real" project. Estrada Real is an important project with the
aim of enhancing tourism in the state's historic cities. The projected fiscal impact is shown inTable 12 below.

Another planned investment activity i s an R$lOO-million investment in citizen security with fiscal gain of
R$60.77, R$60.09 and R$27.04 millions in 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively.

Some of the resources are going to be used for debt amortization: R$51 million to contracts indexed by TR
and with 12% interest rates and R$16 million to contracts indexed by IGP-M and 3% interest rates. Both
contracts have a high level of amortization in the next five years (79% for the TR indexed contracts and 100%
of the IGP-M indexed contracts). In this way, its payment will decreasethe debt service expected for the next
years.

Similarly, R$95 million would be used to retire some of the judicial debts (precatdrios). This debt i s
corrected by 12% year plus the INPC (National Consumer Price Index). Inthis sense, its early payment would
represent savings of fiscal resources over time. But it i s important to mention that this cannot be easily seen in
the fiscal balances. First of all, in this exercise, the level of judicial debt is computed by historical levels,
which may be very different from the actual ones. Inthis sense, the reduction on balances would be less than
R$ 95 millions paid (although it will be computed as expenses). Also, there is not any interest payment so the
implicit reduction in debt service i s not going to be detected in financial sheets.




                                                                                                               81

     C

Y    .e
     *
     0
C    m

      Table 13: Minas Gerais State Government Financial Projections (2005-2014) Second Scenario
                                                                                            -

                                                                                                     Millions of 2004 Reais
                                      2005    2006   2007     2008   2009    2010    2011     2012        2013      2014
Current Revenues                      22,355 22,870  23,425  23,957  24,511  25,100  25,713   26,354     27,022     27,720
 Tax Revenues                         15.077  15,502 15,939  16,389  16,853  17,330  17,822   18,329     18.851     19,389
   ICMS                               13.384  13,785 14,199   14.625 15,064  15.516  15,981   16.461     16,954     17.463
   IPVA                                  932    932     932     932     932     932     932      932        932        932
   Others                                761    784     808     832     857     883     909      937        965         994
 SocialContributions                   1,817   1.872  1,905    1.930  1,955   1,980   2.005    2,029      2,053       2,077
 CurrentTransfers                      3,948  3,964   3,983   4,004   4,028   4,065   4,103   4.143       4.184       4.226
   FederalGovernmenttransfers          3,889  3,922   3,956   3.992   4,028   4.065   4,103   4,143       4.184       4.226
   Other current transfers                59      42     27       13

 Others current revenues               1.513   1,532  1,554    1,589  1.631   1.680   1.739    1,809      1,891       1,985
   Financialrevenues                     248     266    289     324     366     415     474      544        625         720
   Others current revenues             1.265   1,265  1,265   1,265   1,265   1,265   1,265    1,265      1,265       1,265

Additional Revenues(WB Contract)                         44       44     44      44      44       44         44          44
   Primaryrevenues                                       42       42     42      42      42       42         42          42
   Financialrevenues                                      2        2      2       2       2        2          2           2

Deductions                             5,338  5,480   5,607   5,730   5,857   5,987   6,120    6,256      6.396       6,539
  ConstitutionalTransfers              3,995  4.095   4.199   4,305   4,415   4,528   4,644    4,764      4,888       5,015
   Social security contributions       1.343   1,385  1,408    1,425  1,442   1,459   1,476    1,492      1,508       1,524

Net Current Revenue (FRL)             17,017 17,390  17,819  18,226  18,654  19,113  19,593   20,098     20,626     21,181

Current Expenditure                   20,399 20,661  20,984  21,339  21,692  22,011  22,256   22,496     22,733     23,114
Personnelexpenditures                 10,573  10,706 10,838   10,968 11,097  11.223  11,348   11,469      11.589    11,706
   Net personnelexpenditures (LRF)
                              I        9,939  10,064 10,188   10,310 10,43 1 10,550  10,667   10,781      10.894     11,004
ConstitutionalTransfers                3,995  4,095   4,199   4,305   4,415   4,528   4,644    4,764      4.888       5.015
InterestPayments                       1,552   1,607  1,636    1,669  1,705   1.731   1,684    1,631       1,575      1,663
Other expenditures                     4.189  4.318   4,390           4.498   4,550   4,602    4.653      4.703       4,752
New expenditures- WB                                          4,444
                                          89    (65)    (78)    (47)   (22)     (22)    (22)     (22)       (22)        (22)
   Personnel                                             (6)     (6)     (6)     (6)     (6)      (6)        (6)         (6)
   Others                                 89    (65)    (72)    (41)   (15)     (15)    (15)     (15)       (15)        (15)

Current Balance                        1,957  2,209   2,441   2,617   2,819   3,089   3,457    3,857      4,289       4,606
 70NetCurrentRevenue                    11%    13%     14%     14%     15%     16%     18%      19%        21%         22%

Capital Revenues                       752.4  482.0   380.9   380.9   380.9   380.9   380.9    380.9      380.9       380.9
Amortizations                            351    351     351      351    351     351     351      351         351        351
Transfers
Credit Operations                        371     101
Others                                    30      30     30       30     30      30      30       30          30         30

CapitalExpenditures                    2,123  2,018   1,892   1,899   1,926   1,964   2,068    2,173      2,284       2,250
Total Investment                         858    818     680      680    680     686     691      691         691        691
Investments                              719    719     719      719    719     719     719      719         719        719
WB Investments(Net effect)               139     100   (39)     (39)    (39)    (33)    (27)     (27)       (27)        (27)
Debt Amortization                        610    544     556      564    591     623     721      826         938        903
Others                                   655    655     655      655    655     655     655      655         655        655

Primary Balance                        2,302  2,630   3,004   3,179   3,374   3,616   3,873    4,150       4,444      4,754
  % Net CurrentRevenue                  14%    15%     17%     17%     18%     19%     20%      21%         22%        22%
Total Balance                            586    673     930   1,099   1,274   1,506   1,771    2,066       2,385      2,737
  %Net CurrentRevenue                    3%      4%     5%       6%     7%       8%      9%      10%        12%         13%
Nominal Balance                          998  1,289   1,660   1,836   2,038   2,302   2,665    3,065       3,496      3,813
  % Net CurrentRevenue                   6%      7%     9%     10%     11%     12%      14%     15%         17%         18%

Net Consolidated Debt                 37,616 37,818  37,862  37,792  37,585  37,195  36,601   35,782      34,720     33,399
GeneralPnce Index Debt                39,579 40,535  41,657  42,759  43,819  44,839  45,870   46,898      47,921     48.811
Dollar indexeddebt                     3,012  2,681   2,285   1,934   1,629   1,369   1,112      867         635        549
Other debt                                 1
Judciary debt                            370    369     369      369    369     369     369      369         369        369
New debt
FinancialAssets                        5,346  5,768   6,450   7,271   8,231   9,383  10.749   12,352      14,206     16,331




                                                                                                                        83


E Sensitivity Analysis
  -
Using the World Bank lending operation as the baseline, a sensitivity analysis exercise was
performed. The purpose was to identify the most important risks to future financial performance of
the Minas Gerais state government. The analysis i s based on a set of potential risks considered
most important and assesses the state's financial performance sensitiveness to each of them.
Changes in revenues (tax, social contribution and current transfers) and expenditures (personnel
and others current expenditures - without interest and constitutional transfers) will be considered
as well as changes in the most important economic determinants of fiscal sustainability, economic
growth, and exchange rate.

In the previous section, there were six financial indicators used to analyze the financial health of
the state: the four indicators set by the Fiscal Responsibility Law (ceilings for debt level, debt
service, credit operations and personnel expenditures), plus interest and investment coverage. Of
these indicators, interest coverage, investment coverage, and credit operations will be excluded in
the sensitivity analysis, as the projection exercise showed comfortable situations for these
variables. Also, debt service to net current revenue will not be considered as it is already above the
ceiling defined by the LRF and it is clear that negative developments in its determinants will
increase the distance between this ratio and the LRFceiling. In this sense, the sensitivity analysis
will be focused on the other two remainingindicators: the ratios of debt and personnel expenditures
to net current revenues.

As shown in the previous section, only in 2004 the state beganto comply with the LRFceiling for
these two ratios. Initially, it is important to anticipate that there are high potential financial risks
for Minas Gerais in revenues, expenditures, and in the economic assumptions. Small variations in
each of these variables are sufficient to prevent the government from achieving the legal limits
considered. In particular, the analysis shows that the debt to net current revenue ratio is more
sensitive to changes inthe main variables than personnel expenditures.

On the revenue side, the most important risk i s tax revenues, as it represented67% of total current
transfers in 2003 and 2004. On the expenditure side, personnel expenditures are the major source
of risk, especially the state employees' social security imbalances which represent a real and
substantial source of risk for non-compliance with the LRF requirements. In this sense, programs
that are in progress in the state to increase revenue collection and to exercise a better control over
expenditures, particular personnel outlays, are crucial for the continuing fulfillment of the legal
requirements.

Exchange rate variations are also a major source of risk as almost all of the stock of debt i s
influenceddirectly or indirectly (through the general price index) by the exchange rate.

The projection exercise in the previous section depicted an improvement in the financial situation
during the period analyzed. However, this improvement i s the result of the hypothesis of higher
economic growth (which affects revenue) vis-&-vis the population growth (which affects
expenditures). In this sense, even if a negative development forces the state to fail to comply with
the legal requirements for a few years, the assumption about GDP and population growth rates will
guaranteethe return to a sustainable path.

This positive scenario is very sensitive to the hypothesis about economic growth. Inparticular, an
annual economic growth higher than 1.7% i s necessaryfor the debt path not to be explosive. Inthis
way, changes inthis hypothesis may change our results of fiscal sustainability in the longrun.


                                                                                                     85

i) Revenues

The debt level indicator (net consolidated level to net current revenue ratio) is very sensitive to
changes in revenues, as it depends directly on the latter. Since the debt level is very near to the
ceiling in the initial years, small variations in revenue can hinder meeting the legal requirement.
For example, a 2% decrease in tax revenue is already enough to prevent the state from complying
with the debt ceiling. This shows us that tax revenue i s an important source of risk for the state. In
this sense, revenue administration programs pursued by the state are crucial for its finances.

For social contributions, a decrease of 20% would be necessary before their performance begins to
affect the state's compliance with the debt ceiling. Although this is a higher number, a possibility
for charging compulsory contributions from public employees to provide health assistanceis under
discussion at the Federal Supreme Court. As contribution to health assistance represented an
average of 22.6% of the total social contributions collection in 2003 and 2004, we can point social
contributions also as another important risk for Minas Gerais financial situation.

At last, a decrease of 6% of current transfers would imply non-compliance with the debt ceiling.
However, 70% of the current transfers are constitutional, which makes them more stable and less
risky. Of the other current transfers, 21% are from two federal programs, FUNDEF(7%) and SUS
(14%), which we expect will be maintained for the following years. However, the state is only an
intermediary for the SUS system. In this sense, a reduction in the level of transfers should
represent also a reduction in the level of expenditures. But as SUS is a component of net current
revenue, its reduction still has a direct effect on the Fiscal Responsibility Law indicators
requirements.

The legal ceiling for personnel expenditures to net current revenue ratio (60% of net current
revenue) is also very sensitive to revenues, particularly to tax revenue. A reduction of 5% in tax
revenue would be enough for non-compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Law limit. For current
transfers, this number is 13%, showing less vulnerability. The sensitivity to social contributions, in
turn, is very small, as it would take a reduction of 99% for the risk of non-compliance with the
legal limit for personnel expenditures.

ii) Expenditures

On the expenditures side, two items are considered: personnel expenditures and other current
expenditures, excluding interests and constitutional transfers to municipalities. The state exercises
more control on the former items than the latter, which is constitutional and automatic. Interest
payments for debts already contracted are also outside the state's immediate control. Besides these
rigid expenditure categories, personnel expenditures constitute a substantial source of nominal
rigidity.

Legal ceilings for personnel expenditures and debt level are both very sensitive to changes in
personnel expenditures. An increase of 3% in personnel expenditures is already enough for non-
compliance with the legal ceiling for personnel expenditures. An increase of 4% in personnel
expenditures would place the state at above the legal debt ceiling. This high sensitivity of the legal
indicators to personnel expenditures indicates the importance of state policies directed to personnel
expenditures control.




                                                                                                     86

Imbalance in the state's social security system (only covering retired state public servants) is also
an important source of risk for personnel expenditures. The state's social security system for
government employees is composed of two funds: the FUNPENG (Fundo de Previd2ncia do
Sewidor Pziblico de Minas Gerais) and the FUNFIP(Fundo Financeiro de Previdgncia). The first
one covers new employees (contracted from 2002 on) and the secondone the remainingemployees.
FUNPENG, as a new fund, with no benefit already granted, had an actuarial surplus of R$ 0.8
million, as of the end of 2003. At the same time, the actuarial deficit of FUNFIP was R$51.2
billion. FUNFIP i s a financial fund, which presents an annual social security deficit. The state
government treasury is responsible for transferring the necessary financial resources that guarantee
the payment of pension and retirement benefits. Therefore, social security debt amortization was
already considered in financial balances. Even then, given the large actuarial deficit we should
expect an increase in the FUNFIP's financial needs at a higher rate than the population growth (as
considered inthe projection baseline scenario). Inthis sense, we classified personnel costs variable
of highrisk to Minas Gerais' financial situation.

The sensitivity to other current expenditures i s smaller, as it would take an increase of 11%for the
state to fail to comply with the legal debt ceiling.

iii) EconomicGrowth

As mentioned above, outcomes of the projection exercise depend critically on our assumptions
regarding economic growth. As growth has a direct impact on revenues while population growth
has a direct effect on expenditures, the hypothesis of an economic growth higher than population
growth i s crucial for the projected improvement of the fiscal balances in the future. This section
analyzes sensitivity of the state's public finances to economic growth.

An annual economic growth 0.8% lower than the original hypothesis is sufficient to prevent the
state from complying with the legal debt ceiling. In other words, if economic growth would be of
2.7% in 2005 and 2.2% from then on, the state would not be able to fulfill the Fiscal Responsibility
Law indebtedness requirement. It i s important to remember that Federal Senate Resolution n.40
established a decreasing path for debt level for states above the LRF ceiling of 200% of net current
revenue. In other words economic growth of 0.8% under the original hypothesis implies non-
compliance with the declining path defined by the Resolution 40, but it does not imply an increase
inthe debt level over time, or an explosivepath. An unsustainable fiscal path would result from an
economic growth rate of 1.3% or lower (Le., 2.2% in 2005 and 1.7% from then on).

Meeting the personnel expenditures ceiling i s also sensitive to economic growth, but to a lesser
degree. The state's personnel expenditure to net current revenue ratio would fall below the 60%
mark as defined by the LRF if economic growth were 1.8% below the assumed level for this
projection exercise.

iv)      Exchange rate

Minas Gerais' debt i s strongly influenced by exchange rate variations: 9.5% of its debt stock in
2003 was indexed to the dollar and 90.3% was indexed to the general price index (IGP), a price
index very sensitive to exchange rate. As a result, a 4% devaluation of the exchange rate would
imply non-compliance with the legal debt ceiling. For this calculation, we assumed that 50%
devaluation would have a direct impact on the general price index. Inthis sense, the achievement
of the legal debt requirement is very sensitive to the small variations inthe exchange rate.



                                                                                                   87

As Figure 7 shows this effect i s on the short run. In other words, a devaluation of 10%would lead
to noncompliance with the debt ceiling for only two years in the projection. After that, the net debt
to net current revenue would continue to fall, complying with the legal requirement. Thus, a
recurrent exchange rate shock would be necessary to prevent a sustainable path for Minas' public
debt.

                   Figure 7: Net Consolidated Debt to Net Current Revenue Ratio (%)




                 310%

            -    290 5%

                 27O?&

                 250%
            55   230%

                 210%
                 IBOw

                 170%

                 150%



                       I     t Scenariowith Exchange Rate Shock -E+  Baseline Scenario 1

F-Riskanalysis

Besides the sensitivity analysis for each variable, risk analyses were conducted, considering
simultaneous random shocks ina set of variables and their impacts on the state's financial situation.

To do this analysis, random error was added to each of the following variables: tax revenues,
federal government transfers, state government transfers, personnel expenditures and social
security contributions, other current expenditures (including goods and services), and exchange
rate. For each variable, the random error affected the simulation inthe following way:




where:
xt : variable at the time t;
xt-1: variable at t-1;
gxt: growth rate of the variable x at time t on the base case scenario;

Et: randomerror


For all variables, the assumption was normal distributions with zero mean for all random errors.
For the exchange rate the standard deviation was of 10%. Exchange rate errors will impact dollar
indexed debt and general price index (IGP) indexed debt. The hypothesis is that 50% of exchange


                                                                                                  88

 rate variation has a direct impact on general price index. For other current expenditures and
 personnel expenditures, the standard deviation was 3% and for the current revenues and transfers
 the standard deviation was 5%.        The lower standard deviation for expenditures i s based on the
 hypothesis that the state has more control over these variables. These assumptions are shown on
 Table 15. The model recalculated the financial projection based on a simulation of 1,000 trials.
 More information about the model presentedin Appendix I.

                             Table 15: Distribution assumptions for risk analysis

              Variable                           Distribution                       Parameters

 Tax Revenue                                       Normal                mean: 0%
                                                                          StandardDeviation: 5%

 Federal Government Transfers                      Normal                mean: 0%
                                                                          StandardDeviation: 5%
 Personnel expenditures and social                                       mean: 0%
 security contributions                            Normal                 StandardDeviation: 3%

 Other current expenditures                        Normal                mean: 0%
                                                                          StandardDeviation: 3%

 Exchange rate                                     Normal                 mean: 0%
                                                                          Standard Deviation: 10%

 Indebtedness seems to be the most important issue for the government, mainly due to debt service
 payments. As shown in Table 16 below, the most critical variable is debt service to net current
 revenue ratio, as already discussed above. The probability of compliance with the legal ceiling of
 11.5% for this variable is only of 1%. In our base case scenario this variable was not complied
 with in any of the years projected, although it showed a slightly decreasing pattern. At the same
 time, the ceiling for the indebtedness level i s achieved with probability of 63%. Although a much
 better figure, it indicates that the probability of non-compliance with this ceiling i s considerable.

 The probability of compliance with personnel expenditures ceiling i s 74%. Although the numbers
 showed a significant probability of non-compliance for indebtedness and personnel expenditures, it
 i s worth remembering that until 2003, these limits were not complied with by the state government.
 For interest coverage and investment coverage, indicators that try to evaluate the state's ability to
 generate positive cash flows, the result i s better.       The probability of meeting the established
 threshold is 94% for the interest coverage indicator and 97% for the investment coverage indicator.

                                  Table 16: Financial Risk Analysis Results

~       ~




             Financial Indicator                   Recommended         Probability of      Average (all
                                                                         compliance      years considered)
 Personnel expenditures / NCR                          < 60%                74%                56%
 Net consolidated debt / NCR                     decreasing ceilings*       63%                194%
 Debt service / NCR                                    < 11.5%               1%                12.3%
 Credit Operations / NCR                               < 16%                100%                0%
 Interest coverage                                      > 1.5               94%                 2.9
 Investment coverage                                   > 30%                97%                447%
 (*) from225% in 2005 to 205% in2014




                                                                                                       89

G Final Remarks
   -

The Government of the State of Minas Gerais has gone through an impressive fiscal adjustment in
the last two years, with reduction in expenditures and healthy increasesin revenue collection. As a
result, the state government presented better figures for primary, nominal and current surpluses
(respectively 15.5%, 8.6% and 14% of net current revenue) in 2004. This made it possible for the
state to comply with all the legal limits established by Fiscal Responsibility Law by the end of
2004. It i s worth noticing that at the end of 2003 three of the four ceilings were not complied with:
debt level, debt service expenses and personnel expenditures.

For the coming years it is expected that the state will continue to comply with all legal limits (with
the exception of the debt service ceiling) and also a significant improvement in balances obtained.
But this projection is based on two important assumptions: that economic growth will remain
higher than population growth and that the state government does not spend the savings
accumulated during the next years. A higher economic growth would allow a higher rate of
increase in revenues than expenditures, which, according to the assumptions used in the projection,
depend mostly on population growth. Annual economic growth of 1.7% instead of 3% is already
sufficient to create an unsustainable trend for the state's debt. Allocation of the savings resulting
from total balance surpluses to finance additional expenditures would also prevent the state from
complying with debt level ceiling.

The sensitivity analysis also showed highvulnerability. Small variations in revenues, expenditures
and exchange rate level would be enough to prevent the compliance with legal limits. The most
important source of vulnerability is the high level of indebtedness itself.             But personnel
expenditures also contribute to a high risk since an increase inthe social security imbalance, and as
a result, and increase inthe state treasury social security spending are expected

This high vulnerability indicates the importance of continuing policies of tight control over
expenditures and revenue enhancing. The government could allocate additional budget resources
made available as a result of the general budget support of the proposed DPL to finance many of
the projects already in progress that have been responsible for the state financial improvement. As
the amount of the proposed Bank loan (R$510 million, or US$170 million at the exchange rate of
R$3/US$) is relatively small to the total size of the state in terms of fiscal numbers (debt, revenues
and expenditures), its impact on fiscal balances would also be small.




                                                                                                    90

Appendix I

A random error was added to each of the following variables: tax revenues, federal government
transfers, personnel expenditures and social security contributions, other current expenditures
(including goods and services), and exchange rate. For each variable, the random error affected the
simulation inthe following way:




where:
xt:variable at the time t;
xt-l: variable at t-1;
gxt:growth rate of the variable x at time t on the base case scenario;

q: randomerror


The model calculated the financial projections for 2005 - 2014 based on 1000trials and showedthe
probability of each indicator would not comply, in any year of each trial, with the legal or
recommended level of the following six financial indicators: personnel expenditures, net
consolidated debt, debt service and credit operations to net current revenue ratios, and interest and
investment coverage.

The definition of each indicator is:


I)        Personnelexpenditures/ net current revenue (maximumof 60%)


     a) Personnel expenditure at each year i s definedby:




gpetdepends on inflation rate and population growth, as set at Table 9.

b) Net current revenue, = current revenue, (cr,) -contributionsto social security, (ssc,) -
constitutional transfers to lower levels of government, (ctJ

                            Current revenue, = tr,+ sc, +ft, + ot, + fr, +ocr,

     0   Where tr = tax revenue




where g, depends on inflation and real GDP growth according to the assumptions on Table 9.


     0   sc = social contributions = social security contributions (ssc)  + otherssocial contributions;
         where




                                                                                                     91

For social security contributions (ssc) variable, the rate of growth and the random error are the
same as for personnel expenditures. Other social contributions are not influencedby randomerrors.


    0    ft =federal government transfers




where gf,, depends on inflation and real GDP growth according to the assumptions on Table 9.


    0    The variables ot (other transfers) and ocr (other current revenues) are not influenced by
         random errors, havingthe same pattern as the base case scenario of section D.


    0    fr = financial revenues




Where fa, is the financial asset on year t, determinedby:

fa, = max (fao, fa,.l   + currentrevenues,   + contracted credit operation,+ other capital revenues -
current expenditures, - capital expenditures,)

Contracted credit operations inthis case are credit operation revenues from the World Bank loan.

Other capital revenues are composed mainly with amortization revenues.

Current expenditures = personnel expenditures (pe,)     + constitutionaltransfers (ct,)+ othercurrent
expenditures (oce,)  + interestexpenditures (int,),

Where:

ct,, or constitutional transfers, are transfers from states to municipalities, determined by the
constitution. Its pattern depends on transfers and tax revenues.

oce i s other current expenditures, which includes goods and services outlays.




where go,,, depends on inflation and population growth according to the assumptions on Table 9.

Capital expenditures = investments   +debt   amortization + other capital expenditures.




                                                                                                  92

11)       Netconsolidateddebt / net currentrevenue


The ratio of net consolidated debt to net current revenue has to follow a decreasing trend. Each
year it is reevaluated if the ratio has been below the limit for that year.60 The definition of the
variable is given below:

                           net consolidated debt, = total debt, -financial asset,

                                    total debt, = dex,+dgpi, + od, + nd,

dex,=debt indexed to exchangerate
dgpi, =debt indexed to general price index
od, = other debt (with other indexes)
nd,=debt contracted duringthe periodestimated.

Also, debt indexed to exchange rate and the general price index are divided in two groups: i)the
intra-limit, or the contracts where total debt service payment has to be lower than 13% of net real
revenue61, according to federal government agreement for the state debt restructuring; and ii)the
extra-limit. or the others contracts.

As a result, for each group of debt, with the exception of debt indexed to the intra-limit general
price index, the evolution of the debt stock is given by:

                                     d, =d,.l (1+ g,) (l+Et) -am, cot,
                                                                   +

g, i s the indexer for the debt accordingto the base case scenario.
& is the random error.
For exchange rate indexeddebt we have &          -N(0,O.l)
For general price index indexed debt, we have Egpit = &J2.             We assume here that 50% of the
exchange rate error has a direct impact on the general price index.
am, is the amortization payment inperiod t.
cot i s the credit operations during the period estimated. It involves the credit operations already
contracted - cco - (disbursement of existing contracts and World Bank project), and other credit
operations -occ -that are not contracted yet, but will be necessary in the future.

For the intra-limit contract indexed by the general price index6*,debt evolution i s given then by:

   d, =d,.l (1+ g,) (1+&,)-am,   + max   (0,debt service intra-limit contracts, - 13% net realrevenue,
                                                   (nrrt)),




60 The ceilings for the net consolidated debt to net current revenues are the following:2.25 in 2005, 2.23 in
2006, 2.21 in 2007, 2.18 in 2008, 2.16 in 2009, 2.14 in 2010, 2.11 in 2011, 2.09 in 2012, 2.07 in 2013 and
2.05 in2014.
'*Net   real revenue i s sum of current and capital revenues excluded: FUNDEF transfers, credit operation
revenues, asset sales revenues, capital transfers, constitutional transfers to municipalities and the SUS
revenues.
62This group represented84% of the total contracted debt at the end of 2003.


                                                                                                         93

111)     Debt service I net currentrevenue(maximumof 11.5%)


Debt service,= total debt amortization (am,)     + total interest expenditures (int,)

    b) am, = amex, + amgpi, + amod, + amnd,

Amex, is the amortization of debt indexed to the exchangerate (dex)
Amgpi, is the amortization of debt indexedto the generalprice index (dgpi)
Amod, i s the amortization of debt with others indexations (dodi)
Amnd, i s the amortization of the new debt. The new debt is the debt contracted during the period
projected.

Each of then i s calculated as:

                                              am, = pam, dt.l,

where pam, i s the percentageof debt amortized inperiod t on the base case scenario

    c) Int, = intex, + intgpi,  + intod, + intnd,

 Intex,is the interest expenditures of debt indexedto the exchangerate (dex)
 Intgpi,is the interest expenditures of debt indexedto the generalprice index (dgpi)
 Intod,is the interest expenditures of debt with others indexations (dodi)
 Intnd,is the interest expenditures of the new debt. The new debt is the debt contracted duringthe
period projected.

For each of these variables, with the exception of the intra-limit generalprice indexed contracts, we
have

                                               Int,= pint,dt-l

Where pint, i s the rate of interest of period t and d, i s the stock of debt on period t.

For the intra-limit general price indexed contracts, interest payments are given by:

 Intra-limit jdigp, = max (0.13 nrr, - intra-limit intex, - intra-limit amex, - intra-limit amgpi,; intra-
                                           limit pintgpi,dgpi,.l)


IV)      Credit operationsI net currentrevenue


    Credit operation = contracted credit operation (cco)      + other  credit operation (OCO)


  Other credit operation, = max (current expenditures,       +capital expenditures,-current revenues-
contracted credit operations,-other capital revenues- max (financial asset,.l - financial assetso;0);
                                                     0)




                                                                                                        94

This equation assumes that total balance before the new credit operations, in case of being
negative, are financed with cash flows accumulated in the past. However, a minimumcash stock
equal to the financial assets at the beginning of the period has been established.



V)      Interest coverage


                       Interest coverage, = (current account balance + int,)/ int,


VI)     Investment coverage


                          Investment coverage, = current account balance / inv,

    Where inv, i s the level of investment on year t.


The model calculates an evolution for each o f the variables for the estimated period, with random
errors at each year.     This simulation i s done 1,000 times.      The probabilities are calculated
considering all the years and all 1,000 trials.




                                                                                                  95

               ANNEX 6: MINAS GERAISPPPLAW AND REGULATION

Publicationof the State of Minas Gerais (Translation):
Public-PrivatePartnershipsinMinas Gerais September,2005

Introduction

Minas Gerais i s the most advanced state of the country in regards to the preparation to make use of
the public-private partnerships - PPPs. Law Number 14.868, signed by the state governor on
December 14, 2003, was the first tool of such nature in Brazil. In Minas Gerais, the management
structures are already operating, the guarantee mechanisms are being studied and the first projects'
moldings have already been started.

The state's advanced stance has drawn the interest of the Inter-American Bank - LDB. The Bank
madefund-purdue resources available so as to support the PPP Unit of Minas Gerais in developing
the moldings for the piloting projects, for creating the guarantee mechanismsand for disclosingthe
partnership model.      This was the Bank's first financial allocation for a PPP program in any
Brazilian state.

          `` The implementation of the PPP Program in Minas Gerais is quite an innovative
          initiative as it will generate conditions of credibility for an effective relationship between
          the state and the private sector in the provision of public services and infrastructure. The
          program's successful implementation will serve as reference for similar initiatives in
          other state,?.''
          Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank, in a 2003 documentjustifying the Bank's support to the Minas
          Geraisprogram.

Importancefor the State's Sustainable Development PPAG2004 2007
                                                           -               -
The Pluriannual Plan for Government Action (Plano Plurianual de Apio Governamental - PPAG
2004-2007) reflects the strategic orientation of the state's government, especially as regards the
priorities pronounced by the government in May of 2003. Among such priorities, let us highlight
the following -- "to make new means offinancing undertakings viable by building a new legal mark
focused on public-private partnerships." For this, the PPAG's priorities include actions such as the
structuring of the PPP Program, the forming of a management system and the elaboration of the
first projects - all of which are already taking place inMinas Gerais.

Making the PPP's Program viable shall not be seen as an end to itself, but instead as a means
through which the state can reach its true main priorities that include - to substantially improve
                                                                              "
the security of Minas Gerais' population (...); provide the infrastructure required by Minas Gerais
with emphasis placed on the enlargement and improvement of the roads network and basic
sanitation (...); improvement and increase of services to citizens by rendering quality public
services, especially as pertains to education, health and housing (...); fomenting the state's
economic development (...)and reducing regional inequalities."

It i s demands such as the fore-mentioned ones that the PPP Programwill start to answer to, and the
contributions they will make will not be small. Once the investments and resulting offer of services
gradually begin to be carried out by the private sector, the impacts of the disbursement of public
resourcescan be diluted over longer periods of time.




                                                                                                     96

                                    "Some time ago, we witnessed a time during which the state built a
                          motor vehiclefactory in partnership with Fiat, and also the Hotel Grande
                          de Araxd and an iron and steel factory. Nowadays, the state doesn't even
                          have the right to neglect thinking about placing priority on public security,
                          education and health so as to attenuate areas that are of the private
                          initiative's exclusive responsibility.   Nowadays, we are tracking in the
                          opposite direction of those times - we are bringing the private initiative
                          closer to us. We want the private initiative to be a growing tool, as the
                          state has been, to ensure the development of Minas Gerais in areas where
                          we still have great demands and needs."

                                   - Pronouncement of Governor ACcio Neves upon sanctioning the
                          laws that gives a start to the implantation of the Public-Private
                          Partnerships, on December 16,2003.

Minas Geraisis to be the First Brazilian State to Make Use of a PPP

It is expected that in 2005 Minas Gerais will have the first procured PPP inBrazil. The legislation
of Minas Gerais was the first to be enacted, and allowed the state to move ahead of the rest of the
country in the structuring of the essential management so as for the PPPs to be efficaciously and
securely established.

The Legislationof Minas Gerais-State Laws 14.868 and 14.869 of December 16,2003

In its first lines, the PPPLaw of Minas Gerais states the parameters that were also adoptedby the
Federal Law. The themes and solutions proposed for the implementation of a PPP culture are
present in both legislations. For the concession of guarantees to the PPP contracts, the Law of
Minas Gerais foresees the possibility of creating fiduciary funds, as well as the participation of
state-owned company - CODEMIG, as the contracting party and provider of assets designatedas a
guaranteeof payment to the private sector.

The difference i s that the Law of Minas Gerais i s more explicit and restrictivethan the Federal Law
and the Law of SBo Paulo, as it details exactly what can and cannot be a PPP. In addition, for a
PPP to be established in Minas Gerais, the project must be part of the State Plan for Public-Private
Partnerships, elaborated by Management Council and approved by the Governor of the state.

As the legislators of Minas understand that PPPcontracts should only be used in special situations,
they approved a law that lists cases that cannot be considered as PPP. Such cases include:
outsourcing labor that i s the sole object of a contract; isolated rendering of a service that does not
involve a set of activities, as well as a concession or permission contract whose term is of under
five years or R$ 20 million. Such care in the Law of Minas Gerais reflects the understanding that
banalizes the PPP tool would generate a serious risk of committing a substantial parcel of future
budgets.

Some other aspects of the Law of Minas Gerais:


     0   It does not create a PPP contract as such, as the constitutional competence for this belongs
         to the Union. The state law incentives and makes it possible for partnerships to be
         established by means of existing contractual forms (procurement processes / concessions).
         So, in this sense, it is perfectly compatible with the legislation institutedby the Union.


                                                                                                    97

    0   It is more analytical as per the competenciesof the Executive branch in approvingprojects.
        It specifies that PPPs can be developed in areas pertaining to education, health, social
        assistance; public transportation; basic sanitation; security, the penitentiary system, defense
        and justice; science, research and technology; agribusiness, and other areas of public or
        economic interest.

    0   It specifically voids any PPP that grants the private partner: power to edit any legal acts
        founded on power of authority of public nature; attributions of political, police, legal,
        normative and regulatory nature; attributions pertainingto the executive direction of public
        organizations and entities; and education activities that involve the pedagogical process.

    0   Foresees the annual elaboration of the State Plan for Public-Private Partnerships.

    0   Requires that the technical studies that precede a PPP clearly show the economic and
        operational advantage of the proposal to the state and the improvement in the efficiency in
        employing public resources, as related to other possibilities for the state to carry out the
        service;
        Observation: This list i s illustrative and selective and does not represent the full text of
        Law 14.868/03


Governance: The Management Council,the PPPUnitandthe PPPNetworkof Minas Gerais

The government of Minas Gerais understands that as the PPPs represent an involvement of future
governments and the use of public resources, there must be strict criteria for the processes
pertaining to their selection, evaluation, contracting and fiscalization.       For such, a structure
composed of the main elements listed below was set up:


    0   Management Council for Public-PrivatePartnerships (Conselho Gestor de Parcerias
        PBbZico-Privadas CGP). This council is responsible for elaborating the State Plan for
                           -
        Public-Private Partnerships and for approving the procurement documents, contracts and
        their amendments and prorogations. The CGP i s headed by the governor of the state, and
        its set members are the state's Attorney-General, the State Secretaries of Economic
        Development, Planning and Management, Finances, and of Transportation and Public
        Works, of Regional Development and Urban Policies, and of the Environment and
        Sustainable Development. The head of the secretariat that is directly associated to the
        service or activity that i s the object of the public-private partnership will also work as a
        member of the council.

    0   PPP Unit. The PPP unit is inserted in the scope of the Sub-secretariat for International
        Matters (Subsecretaria de Assuntos Internacionais - SEAIN) and of the State Secretariat of
        Economic Development (Secretaria de Estado de Desenvolvimento Econdmico - SEDE).
        It was created by means of Law Number 14.868/03 and is responsible for executing the
        operational and PPP coordination activities, to advise the CGP, and to disclose the
        concepts and methodologies that are unique to public-private partnership contracts. As
        such, it was consolidated as a Center of Reference on knowledge concerning PPPs. A
        sectorial operational unit will be set up within each organization or entity in which there i s
        potential for partnerships to be carried out, and this unit will be technically linked to the
        central unit. As the PPP contract i s quite complex and requires various studies as per the
        definition of the moldings, the costs for its elaboration is quite high. The PPP unit will also
        serve to minimize this cost as it will centralize knowledge on how to structure projects and




                                                                                                     98

         moldings, how to simplify contracting procedures and make them more transparent, and it
         can even provide advisory services to other public entities.

    0    PPP Network. The PPP network is formed by the entities of the State's Public
         Administration that are involved with the PPPs. It is, above all, a network of intelligence
         and knowledge: there are tens of key-persons within its respective organizations that are
         virtually linked. Inaddition to a central unit, the PPP network currently includes a sectorial
         unit of the State Secretariat of Planning and Management (Secretaria de Estado de
         Planejamentoe GestZo - SEPLAG),of the State Secretariat for Social Defense (Secretaria
         de Estudo de Defesa Social    - SEDS), of the State Secretariat for the Environment and
         Sustainable Development (SEMAD), of the Department of Roads and Highways of Minas
         Gerais (Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Minus Gerais          -  DER / MG), of the
         State University of Minas Gerais (UniversidadeEstadual de Minus Gerais - UEMG), of
         the Development Bank of Minas Gerais (Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minus Gerais -
         BDMG),of the Sanitation Company of Minas Gerais (Companhiade Saneamento de Minus
         Gerais - COPASA),and representatives from the relevant economic sectors. The network
         does not create a hierarchical link and it i s of great importance to the success of the
         program as it is through the network that the culture of PPP is disseminated and that the
         concepts and methodologies that are necessary for project implementation are consolidated.
         The PPP Program also counts on direct involvement of the State's General Auditing
         Service (Auditoria Geral do Estudo),the Advocacia Geral do Estado and the Company for
         the Economic Development of Minas Gerais (Companhiade Desenvolvimento EconBmico
         de Minus Gerais   - CODEMIG). The participation of all of these agents will be of great
         worth for the governance of the regulation and fiscalization structures.


The government of Minas Gerais will count on an operations manual so as to define the procedures
as per the interaction and operation of the PPP Management Council, the PPP Unit and the PPP
Network. This manual will state the steps that must be followed in all phases of project study and
elaboration in such a way as to strive for the best manner through which to develop knowledge and
make the PPPs viable. In addition to defining the role of each organization involved and the steps
to be followed, the manual's objective is to ensure that the knowledge acquired by means of each
project i s always usedto improve the remaining projects.

GuaranteesinPPPContractsinMinasGerais

As previously mentioned, the PPPs inBrazil should offer private investors a guaranteeincase there
are any flaws in payment on behalf of the contracting governmental party. Inthe case of Minas
Gerais, the use of various tools for the concession of guarantees i s foreseen. Such tools compose
the State's Arrangement for Guarantees (Arranjo de Garantias do Estudo). Among such tools let
us highlight the Fund for Public-Private Partnerships (Fundo de Parcerius Pu'blico-Privadas),
which was created by Law 14.869 of December 16, 2003. The financial agent for this fund i s the
BDMGandits managing organization is the SEDE.

The PPP fund will be composed of assets of various types and will offer great security to investors.
The following components are among the ones currently being evaluated:

-   Preferential nominative shares of the Electricity Company of Minas Gerais (Companhia
   Energe`ticade Minus Gerais- CEMIG);
-   Royalties paidby the CBMM to CODEMIG, as a result of niobium mining;



                                                                                                    99

-   Resourced loaned by the state of Minas Gerais from multilateral agencies so as to form assets
    and/or real guarantees;
-   Rightsover part of the dividends paidby CEMIG to the state of Minas Gerais;


Other possible tools include: contracting of insurance, the cession of credit and the association of
revenue resources. Notwithstanding, the Company for the Economic Development of Minas Gerais
will also play an important role as in addition to acting as the contracting party in PPP projects, it
can also make guaranteesto contracts available basedon its portfolio of assets.

The function of this ensuring structure supported by real assets is to offer security to investors. In
case a future government does not abide to its obligations, the investor i s automatically refunded by
means of the guarantee mechanisms foreseen in that contract. Thus, the investor that has running
and capital expenses to cover in the project is ensured in case of legal wrangles with the
government that can last for years.

The fund's composition and structure will be studied by a specific consultancy service renderedby
banks that have vast experience with long-term operations. It is probable that each of the fund's
components has a specific molding and different applicationfor each contract.

An interestingimplication of this structure created inMinas is that the Arrangement of Guarantees
will strive to avoid the issuingof precatory letters in case the state does not fulfill its obligation and
will, therefore, not contribute to increasing the indebtedness of the state.

The Selection of Projects and the FirstFive Piloting Projects

The government of Minas Gerais made the study of the molding of five piloting projects a priority
so as to begin the PPP Program. Inaddition to being important projects for the state, the projects
were chosen so as to represent different sectors. Therefore, efforts were made to maximize the
learning process from the new modality that was created.

Another care the government is taking regards the viability of the projects to be carried out. In
order to know if it i s worth taking a given project forward, all of its costs and benefits over time
should be considered. In order to make these estimates, the government i s preparing a matrix for
the selection of PPP projects.       This matrix contains the methodologies and criteria that are
necessary for their evaluation.

The five piloting projects that represent the beginningof the PPPprogram in Minas Gerais are:

    0    Recovery and enlargement of the infrastructure of highway MG-050 (Mateus Leme - SBo
         SebastiBo do Paraiso);

    0    Provision of 3000 new prison openings (including the services for the construction and
         operations of the units);

    0    Rendering basic sanitation services in municipalities that have low indexes of human
         development;

    0    Construction and operation of the State Government's Administrative Center in Belo
         Horizonte;

    0    Construction and operation of the University of Minas Gerais campus in Belo Horizonte.



                                                                                                      100

For 2006, studies as beingmade as per the possibility of including the modelingfor the expressway
from downtown Belo Horizonteto the Tancredo Neves International Airport.

For the molding of the first piloting projects, the government has been counting on services
rendered by specialized consulting firms that have great international experience with PPPs. It i s
expected that by means of these projects the knowledge and practices that are needed for new
partnerships will be consolidated and made appropriate, and will thus yield an important instrument
with which the economical and social challenges of Minas Gerais can be overcome.

The expectation i s that the MG-050 highway project and the prison openings project be the first
PPPs to be procured inMinas Gerais.

Schedule of Activities

What has already been carried out (2003 - 2004)


    0   Sanctioningof state laws;
    0   Installationof Management Council;
    0   Priority pilotingprojects and sectors;
    0   Creation of PPPunit;
    0   Consolidation of work groups (PPP Network);
    0   Approval of IDBEOMIN resources;
    0   Internalseminars for the PPPNetwork of Minas Gerais;
    0   Elaboration and dissemination of criteria and methodologies;
    0   Monitoringof the governanceprocess was started;
    0   Contracting of the MG- 050 highway molding in conjunction with consulting firm KPMG
        (studies are already underway).

What i s beingcarried out in 2005


    0   Training of the PPP Unit and Network;
    0   Contracting consulting services from PricewaterhouseCoopers for the studies for the
        molding of 3000 new prison openings (studies are already underway);
    0   Closing to the process for selecting the Chief Information Officer - CIO, of the PPP Unit
        and preparation for contracting selectedperson;
    0   Contractingof technical support for the elaboration of moldings;
    e   Preparation for the contracting of consulting services to mold the PPP piloting project for
        basic sanitation, according to IDB selection criteria;
    0   Selection of a financial institution to be responsible for elaborating the Arrangements of
        Guarantee in PPP contracts. The following banks were invited to submit their proposals:
        Unibanco, Banco Itad, Banco do Brasil, BANIF, and ABN AMRO;
    0   Elaborationof the PPP ProgramManual of Operations;
    e   Elaborationof studies on the regulatory/ supervision structure;
    0   Elaboration of specific rules and editingof regulations;
    0   Discussion to set up the PPP seminar between the World BanWUNDP and the state of
        Minas Gerais.




                                                                                               101

Next Steps

         Regulation of the PPPFundand of the CGP;
         Implantation of regulatory / supervision mechanism;
         Structuring by the BDMGof the potential for financing;
        Procurement of the first PPPs in Minas Gerais;
         Seminars supported by multilateral agencies and international organizations;
         Seminars, events and courses for the PPP Network of Minas Gerais;
         Setting up of the Coordinating Group of the PPP Fund and PPP Unit, State Secretariat of
        Finance, State Secretariat of Planning and Management, BDMGand CODEMIG;
        Increasing the auditing of the governance process through a course by Partnerships UK
        (PUK);
        Preparation of the Terms of Reference for the Manifestation of Interest on behalf of the
        private sector for the Project for the Expressway from Downtown Belo Horizonte to the
        Tancredo Neves InternationalAirport.

In order to support the PPP Program of Minas Gerais in 2005, R$ 4,100,000.00 in ordinary
identifiable resources from the state budget are foreseen, and also R$ 1,3 10,000.00 o ffund purdue
resources from the covenant agreement between the IDB and the state o f Minas Gerais.




                                                                                                102

                              ANNEX 7: FISCALADJUSTMENT

A) Thefiscal adjustment effort of Minas Gerais, 2003-2005

Since 2003, Minas Gerais has adopted a strong fiscal adjustment policy which allowed an
impressive turnaround in its fiscal situation. The primary balance increased from 3.7% of net
current revenue in 2002 to 7.5% of net current revenue in 2003 and to 15.5% of net current revenue
in 2004. Current balance increasedfrom -5% of net current revenueto 2.8% in2003 andto 14%of
net current revenue in 2004. Total balance also grew from -12% of net current revenue in 2002 to -
6.5% in 2003 and to 2.4% of net current revenue in 2004. In2005, the figures for the first semester
of 2005 indicate the continuity and strengthening of the fiscal adjustment effort.

                           Figure 8: Minas Gerais: Fiscal Balances, 2000-04
                                     (% of Net Current Revenue)


           2 0 %
            1 5 %
            1 0 %
       g
       z      5 %
       E      D 74
            - 5 %
          -10YO
          -15 %




The sound fiscal performance of Minas Gerais was recognized by the National Treasury Secretary
(STN) through the approval of the Fiscal Adjustment Program for the period 2003-2006 and its
subsequentrenewal for the period 2005-2007 as agreedto in the debt agreement signed by the state
government and the STNunder the law 9496/97. Also, the state was upgraded in the STNranking
system on repayment capacity, going from C to B grade which allows the state to contract new
credit operations. Finally, the state recovered STN certification as the state i s regularly honoring
its debt service payments with the federal government.

The fiscal turnaround was obtained by a combination of revenue increases and a strict control of
current expenditures. Given the economic stagnation of 2003, tax revenues did not grow in 2003.
The recovery of the economic activity in 2004 and the improvement in the efficiency of tax
collection promoted a tax revenue increase of 12.4% in 2004.

B) Improvement of the tax collection performance and the modernization of the State Revenue
Service (SRE)

A good part of revenue increase in 2004 can be attributed to improvements in the tax collection
effort. Among the state government's thirty-one priority structural projects under the name of
"Geraes Programs", the modernization of the State Revenue Service (SRE) contributed for the
strong increase in state tax revenues. The implementation of a set of actions for the strengthening
of control to reduce tax evasion, the use of electronic tools to increase the efficiency of tax



                                                                                                 103

collection, the rationalization of processes and programs of fiscal-tax education were all
instrumentalin providing good results.

On the reduction of tax evasion, the state government implemented a matrix system for the state
VAT (ICMS) collection. Crossing information on tax collection by economic sectors and by
regions and comparing revenue performances among them, this systemallowed the identification of
potential tax evasion. The matrix management system also served as a basis for the definition of
tax revenue collection targets that are used in the result agreement contract signed by the SRE and
the Secretary of Planning and Management (SEPLAG). Furthermore, the SRE established a
scheme of incentives based on annual collection targets for SRE staff, derived from the result
agreement contract and the matrix control of revenue collection.

Under the modernization of SRE project, the state government launched an aggressive program to
enhance the efficiency of tax collection. Besides the tax collection growth objective, investments
in software and the modernization of administrative processes were directed to improve and
simplify the transactions between taxpayers and the StateFinance Secretary (SEF), which also have
positive effects on tax revenue.

The Integrated System of Administration of the State Revenue Service (SIARE) consists of the
electronic integration of all the administrative processes associated with the state taxes collection
activities. The SIARE has two main components. The first is the PROMAT system, which
consists in the standardization and the introduction of electronic devices in the transactions
between taxpayers and the SRE. The second is the CRIAR, which will electronically manage the
revenue system.

The PROMAT has two main dimensions: the taxpayer registration and information system and the
tax collection management system. Duringthe first phase of implementation in 2004, the modules
for taxpayer registration, alteration of registries and the emission of regularity certification for
taxpayers were incorporated into the taxpayer registration system. The issuance of tax collection
documents, the on-line Real State Transfers Tax (ITCD) collection, and the establishment of the
electronic system for the simplified collection of the ICMS for small firms (SIMPLES) were
integrated into the tax collection dimension of the PROMAT.

In 2005, seven additional modules are being integrated into the two dimensions of the PROMAT
system. On the taxpayer registration and information system, the fiscal account of taxpayers and
the taxpayer dossier modules are being tested and expected to be functioning at the end of the year.
On the tax collection dimension, the taxpayers' tax debvcredit system, the special regime of control
and supervision, the authorized fiscal document control, the automatic issuance of tax receipts for
small firms and autonomous producers, and the module of electronic data management are
expected to be implantedby mid2006.

The CRIAR development involves activities on the standardization of tax credit management
procedures, capacity enhancement activities for the SRE staff on tax credit claims by taxpayers,
elimination of tax credit duplicity and the decentralization of tax collection. It is expected that the
modules of the CRIAR system will be installed during 2006. The complete implementation of the
CRIAR will allow its integration with the PROMATinto the SIARE system.




                                                                                                   104

   Box 5: A Result-oriented Management Model for Tax Collection

   The impressive results in tax revenue collection can be explained by the introduction of a result-oriented
    management model within the State Revenue Sub-secretariat (SRE). In 2003, the State Secretariat of
   Finance (SFE) introduced for the first time a model based on results with the establishment of a working
    agreement with the SRE for tax collection to be developed in 2004. The SRE replicated this agreement
    with its central and regional units.

   In a more systematic way, in August 2004, the SRE signed a Result Agreement (RA) contract with the
    SFE and the SEPLAG which sets the performance results of the SRE in terms of state tax revenue
   collection for 2005. The RA has two main objectives: i)performance indicators and collection targets
   and ii)action plans and budgetary allocations to the SRE for the improvement of tax collection efficiency.

   The RA has three parties (SRE, SFE and SEPLAG): the SRE, the SFE and the SEPLAG. The obligations
   of the SRE include achievement of the results agreed, use of the resources allocated to the different
   activities included in the result agreement and production of regular reports to be sent to the Committee
   of Monitoring and Evaluation. The obligations of the SFE include monitoring of the execution of the RA,
   provision of budgetary and financial resources and guarantee of managerial autonomy to the SRE, and
   publication of the reports on the achievements of the targets. The obligations of the SEPLAG the
   provision of the budgetary resources to the SRE, guarantee of managerial autonomy, and approval of the
   RA reports and potential modifications to the original RA. The RA establishes a Committee of
   Monitoring and Evaluation, which will be composed by representatives of the three counterparts and a
   representative    from the     SRE    staff.   (Detailed information can be found in the site:
   http://www.sepla~.m~.~ov.br/~overno/clio~ue/acordo     resultado)

   The performance indicators and targets are divided in three main areas: i)tax collection of ICMS (state
   VAT); ii) tax collection of ITCD, IPVA and other user charges and other activities as tax debt recovery,
   administrative collection of tax credits; and (iii)organization of tax education events. The targets are
   defined quarterly with different weights (70% for the first area, 10% for the second and 10% for the
   third). Each target has a minimum, a superior, and an ideal level with ranks calculated by formula.

   The RA also includes an action and an improvement plan setting 20 actions that will enhancethe tax
   collection efficiency of the SRE. This part establishescompletion dates of the actions defined inboth
   plans with an overall weight of 10%. The RA also contains an annex that describes the methodology of
   monitoring and evaluation. Finally, the RA includes a detailed budget allocation of the activities included
   inthe action and improvementplans.

The integration of these modules guarantees the consistency of taxpayer data basis reducing the
space for tax evasion and the automatic issuance of tax certification and tax payments which will
reduce administrative costs not only for the SRE but mainly for the taxpayers. At the same time,
the system will allow an automatic integration with other state systems, as well as the revenue
services of the federal and municipal governments. This has potential impact on tax revenue
efficiency for the three levels of government.           The integration of the revenue with the state
financial management system (SIAFI) deserves particular attention as it will permit a better cash
flow administration and a more efficient financial execution.

C)Expenditure containment:personnel and operating expenditures

On the expenditure side, the government has exerted a strict control on current expenditures. In
2003 the government reduced expenditures by 7% while the recovery of revenues allowed an
increase of expenditures of 3% in 2004. Inparticular, the government promoted a strong reduction
on personnel expenditures of 10% in 2003 with a recovery of 5% in 2004. From 2002 to 2004
personnel expenditures were reduced by 2.9%. As net current revenues increased by 8.2% from
2002 to 2004, the state reduced the Fiscal Responsibility Law indicator of personnel expenditure on


                                                                                                           105

net current expenditures from 71% in 2002 to 61% in 2004, thus meeting the Fiscal Responsibility
Law requirement on this expenditure category.            Decomposing the effects, the reduction of
personnel expenditure was responsible for 30% of the reduction of the personnel expenditure to net
current revenue ratio while the revenue increase was responsible for 70% of this reduction.

The fall in personnel expenditures was the result of both short-term emergency actions as well and
long term structural actions. Among the first, the centralization of the payroll bill at the SEPLAG
secretary, the elimination of the upostilumento and of more than 1,300 commissioned positions, the
increase in the state employees contribution for the social security rate from 8% to 11% and the
establishment of a salary ceiling for all the state public sector. The centralization of the payroll bill
improved the control of personnel payments. Crossing information among the different personnel
databases of the state secretaries and with other data sets allowed the identification of irregular
payments and social security benefits.

At the same time, the new administration quickly got the constitutional approval of its
administrative reform proposal, with the reduction of the number of secretaries from 21 to 15, the
reduction of high top positions, and the change in the methodology for salary adjustment with the
replacement of time of services automatic increases by one based on individual performance. It
was estimated that the monthly nominal inertial growth was around 0.3% in the beginning of 2003,
and now should be around 0.15%, according to state officials. Also with the aim of reducing
personnel expenditure, there was the creation of a flexible timing of work ("bunco de horus") to
reduce additionalpayments for overtime ("horus extras").

It worth noticing that social security imbalance is also an important source of risk for personnel
expenditures.     The Minas Gerais state government social security system for government
employees i s composed of two funds: the FUNPENG (Fundo de PrevidZncia do Sewidor Pdblico
de Minus Geruis) and the FUNFIP(Fundo Finunceiro de Previd2nciu). The first one corresponds
to the state employees contracted after 2002. Given the lack of beneficiaries, this fund is in
equilibrium. The second one generates an annual deficit of about R$3 billion which is financed by
the state treasury. The actuarial deficit of FUNFIP is estimated at R$ 51.2 billion. Given this, an
increase in the future level of personnel expenditures (contributions to social security or benefits to
retiredpersonnel and pensioners) i s very likely.

The state government is taking a set of measures to alleviate the pressure of the social security
system obligations in the state accounts. In particular, the implementation of the public sector
employees social security reform, established in the Constitutional Amendment n. 41from 2003,
would allow the reduction of the actuarial disequilibria. Inthe short run, the reform establishes the
possibility of collection of social security contributions charged over retirement and pension
benefits, but with a floor of benefits (do you mean ceiling no it i s a floor, a minimum level,
beneficiaries that receive a transfer higher than R$ 2400 should pay the contribution?). This floor
i s the same for federal, state and municipal governments. This represented an advance to the
federal government, which had been trying to charge this contribution without success, but, for
state governments the gain i s not significant as the level of benefits is lower than the observed at
the federal government.

The state government is analyzing additional measures. The establishment of a complementary
social security systemwould allow the adoption of a general benefit ceiling. Managerial reforms as
the unification of the administration of the social security system for the three branches of
government would generate savings.



                                                                                                     106

The second most important component of current expenditure corresponds to the operating
expenditures. The adjustment in this expenditure category was impressive. From 2002 to 2004,
operating expenditures fell by 17% (7% in 2003 and 11% in 2004).

Besides the fiscal adjustment effort, the fall on operating expenditures also reflects the adoption of
a series of measures aimed at improving the public spending control systems. A new system of
services and goods administration i s being used since January 2004 (SIAD - Sistema de
Administra@io de Materiais e SewiCos do Estado de Minus Gerais). The coverage of the system
was expanded quickly. In 2004 90 percent of government purchaseswere processedby the SIAD
system through 2000 auctions for estimated savings of 18%.

This system has 15 modules that monitor the entire cycle of requirement, procurement, purchase,
distribution and consumption of materials and services allowing the control of the complete
contracting process of goods and services and the regulation of the price register system. The
incorporation of the modules i s progressive and it i s expected to complete the SIAD in the next
months. The system is being integrated to the Treasury information systems, mainly with the
SIAFIsystem.

The strengthening of government web systems is another relevant area not only for potential fiscal
gains but, mainly for the rationalization of the use of state resources. The implementation of the
electronic government initiative will make available state information through government
websites.




                                                                                                  107

                        ANNEX 8: PUBLIC SECTORMANAGEMENT

"Choque de Gestiio": State Reforminthe State of MinasGerais, 2003-05

During the tenure of the current Governor ACcio Neves, the State of Minas Gerais (MG) has
become nationally known for its aggressive state reform initiative. Under a strategic umbrella,
popularly known as "Choque de Cest6o (Management Shock)," the State Government has adopted
a series of legal, administrative and structural changes to the public administration in order to
"restructure the public machinery" (Le., reestablish fiscal equilibriumand improve performance of
the public administration). While the Minas program is not the only recent effort at public sector
reform in the Brazilian federation, the magnitude of challenge faced by the Government at the
beginning of its term and the audacity with which it has addressed these challenges place MG
among the most notable cases of comprehensive state reforminthe contemporary Brazil.

Initial Diagnosis: Fiscallyunsustainableand operationallyinefficient

The unsustainable public finances were the clearest and the most worrisome sign of MG's
institutionaldysfunction in the early 2000s. Inparticular, personnel expenditures surpassed 70% of
net current revenue, well above the permitted threshold of 60% as established in the Law of Fiscal
Responsibility.   Inaddition, a comprehensive diagnosis of MG's policy challenges, which was
prepared by the Minas Gerais Development Bank (BDMG), noted other weaknesses in MG's
public administration, including:


    0    Fragmented administrative structure as a result of years of uncoordinated institutional
         creations (e.g., the administrative structure of the agriculture sector, which might have been
         adequate inthe 1970~-80s,did not reflect the increasedrole of the private sector)

    0    Inflexible human resource management that causes inefficient deployment of public
         servants (e.g., in the education sector, teachers used to be hired into very specific jobs and
         locations, which made it virtually impossible to re-assign them from one school to another,
         let alone from one municipality to another; nearly 2,000 teachers were working outside the
         classrooms due to the reduced student enrollment)

    0    Ineffective salary policy that cannot be used to motivate and retain specialized staff (e.g.,
         the Government has had a policy of permitting into the public service graduates of the
         government-run School of Government, but a number of these graduates would leave the
         public service after a few years given the inhospitable working conditions in the public
         sector)

    0    Weak planning system (e.g., government planning could not ensure that priority objectives
         would guide government activities, and instead, availability of cash resources and political
         urgency dictated resource allocations)

    0    Delayed development of e-government initiatives (compared to the federal government and
         some states)




                                                                                                   108

MeasuresAdopted

Administrative Reform and WageBill Controls

In light of these diagnoses, the Government took decisive measures to implement a comprehensive
public sector reform upon assuming power in January 2003. A first set of measures concentrated
on adjusting the personnel establishment, regaining fiscal sustainability of the wage bill, and
reorganizing the State Government's macro structure ("administrative reform") to make it leaner
and more consistent with the redefined role of the state, with an emphasis on revamped policy
planning and inter-sectorial coordination.      Using a series of legal measures, the Government
merged organizational units. These mergers resulted in elimination of 1,326 political appointee
positions (and the corresponding salary and benefit expenditures), or about 20% of all such
positions in the public sector. According to the Government, this measure alone produced financial
saving of R$19.8 million. Other measures taken to control personnel expenditures included:


     0    Upward adjustment of public servants' retirement contributions from 8% to 11% of their
          base salary;

     0    Changing the criteria for calculating non-salary benefits (Le,, top-up) from length of
          service to a performance-basedbonus;

     0    Elimination of the rule that granted former holders of political appointments the same
          salary and benefit packageeven after they vacate these appointments (apostilamento);

     0     Reduction of salaries of political appointees and definition of the Governor's salary
          (R$10,500) as the ceiling for the entire public sector;

     0    Better control of staff attendance and part-time working arrangements (via Banco de
          Horas).


To ensure that the financial gains achieved through these measures are not easily reversed by
imprudent future decisions, the Government has mandated the cabinet-level committee (Cdrnarade
CoordenaGGo Geral, Planejamento e Gestzo, CCGPG) to review and approve all policy decisions
with fiscal implications, including sectors' requests for new hires and other personnel or
administrative decisions. Upon receiving requests, the Secretariat of Planning and Management
(SEPLAG) analyzes the medium-term fiscal implications and recommends an action to the
CCGPG.        SEPLAG has centralized management of payrolls, including of the Indirect
Administration entities (e.g., public enterprises), to gain full control over salary payments and
standardize criteria for concession of benefits to public servants. In order to identify irregular
concessions of benefits (including retirement benefits), SEPLAG is also conducting audits of
individual public servants' records, although this task is proving difficult to implement given the
sheer volume involved - currently there are around 4,000 cases of retirement requests that are
overdue.

Centralizing decisions for strategic establishment control at the highest instance i s a positive step
toward responsible fiscal management of the personnel contingent. However, without adequate
information, the cabinet committee would not be able to make the most informed decisions. The
State i s therefore working to improve its integrated personnel data system (SISAP). Some of the
SISAP modules are not fully operational yet, but the Government i s working toward the system's
full operationalization during 2006.




                                                                                                  109

Human Resource Policy Reforms

Establishing quantitative control over the wage bill was necessary for regaining fiscal
sustainability, but hardly sufficient to improve the performance of the state bureaucracy. To
achieve the latter, the State Government has elaborated a new, more coherent policy to manage
human resources and strengthen the merit features of public administration. The main pillars are:
(i)newpublicsectorcareerstructure; and(ii)newmechanismsfor stimulatingincentivesand
    a
accountability of individual public servants.

New career structure: In the Brazilian administrative tradition, a proven way to fortify the merit
principle is to structure well-designed careers within given administrative or sectorial functions.
Thus, the federal government has managed to upgrade the quality of its staff in key areas of
economic management (via careers of economists, financial analysts, planning and budget anaiysts,
tax administrators, etc.), prosecution (public ministry), and a few other areas.          The Minas
government is following this approach, and has restructured its career system, not only with a view
to developing merit-based human resource structures, but also to increase flexibility in strategic
management of human resources. The previous structure where the public sector jobs were
classified into 893 detailed classes (and their sub-divisions) was transformed into a less rigid
structure composed of 132 careers divided into 14 main job groups (e.g., management, planning,
treasury, audit and political-institutional group, environment group, basic education group, etc.). In
the previous system, a public servant recruited into a particular class of job could not be re-
assigned to other jobs (which severely limited the government's ability to re-allocate its human
resources according to the changing needs and priorities), nor could he/shebe promotedbeyond the
upper boundary established for each class into which he/she was recruited. The new structure not
only allows the government greater flexibility in staff re-deployment, but also allows well-
performing public servants to be promoted within their vertical career structures so long as they
meet certain criteria (e.g., good performance, experience, additional education/training).

Performance bonus schemes and individual performance evaluations: Another pillar of the
merit-orientedpersonnel managementreform i s the introduction of performance-oriented incentive
schemes. These measures are also linked to the broader efforts at results-based management
(discussed below).     The most basic form of these incentive schemes i s called Adicional de
Desempenho, ADE (or performance bonus in rough English translation). To introduce the ADE,
the Government had to replace the old form of "bonuses" given strictly on the basis of length of
service (irrespective of the pubic servants' performance at their jobs). The measure required an
amendment to the State Constitution, which was approved in July 2003. The new rule applies
automatically to those public servants who have been appointed since this date (11,321 appointees
as of August 2005). The remaining public servants were given the options of staying within the old
system or switching to the new rule. (According to the government official, no one has opted out
of the old rule.)

With ADE public servants may earn a bonus of up to 70% of their basic salaries, as determined by
their individual performance (50% weight), their training  (lo%), and the performance of the agency
in which they work (40%).        Those public servants whose agencies do not participate in the
institutional performance evaluations (see below) are not entitled to that 40% share in the ADE
scheme.

The Government has taken care to ensure that these monetary incentives do not affect sustainability
of the wage bill. The state LDO states that the overall envelope for wage increases i s restricted to:
[annual change in ICMS revenue -crecimento vegetativo] x [a determined %I.


                                                                                                  110

The percentage in the formula i s set to keep the overall wage bill within the LRE limits. Now, the
wage bill envelope will be impacted by the new salary scale proposals that are currently
(September 2005) sitting in the state legislature for consideration. As monetary awards based upon
individual performance evaluations also count toward the total wage bill, the formula (with the
LRE) i s a cap on both salary scale increases and individual performance awards. Based upon the
estimated costs of the approved salary scales and an estimate of the number of employees eligible
for individual performance awards, the amount of money for individual performance awards will be
set. The first individual performance evaluation monetary awards are scheduled to be granted in
2006.

Individual performance evaluations are a cornerstone of Minas' results-oriented personnel
managementreform. Each public servant would agree ex ante with hidher superior the criteria and
goals for which hidher actual performance will be assessed. Poor performers would be identified
and directed to improve their capabilities through training, or dismissed from the public service in
extreme cases (two consecutive unsatisfactory performance ratings, three unsatisfactory ratings
within five years, or four within 10 years). Although international experiences show a number of
practical difficulties in institutionalizing individual performance evaluations in the public sector
such as the tendency to encourage staff to perform "to the numbers" (i.e., focusing almost
exclusively on those tasks that are explicitly linked to the performance indicators and neglecting
other, equally important tasks), or, more commonly among developing countries, the tendency of
managers to award positive performance ratings to most or all staff and thus for the performance
bonuses to become de facto entitlements which everyone receives irrespective of the actual
performance levels. The Minas government i s aware of these pitfalls, and its approach appears to
be coherent at least at the conceptual level. The new system i s being rolled out gradually (The
government has evaluated 14,000 public servants with the newly developed methodwithout linking
the results, as yet, to ADE or other incentive mechanisms.). It would be in the interest of the
government to monitor its effects rigorously as it i s applied over coming years.

Revitalization of the Planning Apparatus and Results-BasedManagement

Reforms of government planning have been "in vogue" in Brazil since the late 1990s, largely
thanks to the federal government's effort to revamp its own planning framework and link it to fiscal
realities, budgeting, and results-oriented management of public policy programs. A number of
states and municipalities have initiated similar efforts since then. The efforts thus far by the
Government of MGare arguably the most systematic and strategic.

Geraes: One of the hallmarks of Choque de GestGo in Minas i s the initiative called Geraes
(Gestcio Estratkgica dos Recursos e A@es do Estado, Strategic Management of Resources and
Activities of the State). The initiative revolves around 31 priority programs called "structural
projects" (projetos estruturadores, PES). Following the model developed by the federal
government, each of these 31structural projects has performance indicators, each i s led by a senior
project manager responsible for its performance and answerable directly to the Governor, and each
i s guaranteed budgetary and financial resources (the Law of Budget Guidelines or LDO prohibits
legislative amendments from reducing funding for these structural projects and the SEPLAG and
the Treasury guarantee not to retain spending authorizations for these projects, a common practice
in Brazil's public budget execution).       The Minas government's ability to guarantee funding
predictability is a notable political achievement which the federal government and other state
governments have so far not been able to accomplish.



                                                                                                111

Results agreements:      Another key difference between Minas' approach to the results-based
planning/management and the previous federal effort is the use of results agreements as explicit
instruments of accountability. The government initially intended to sign results agreements with
the manager of each of the 31 structural projects. Given the high transaction costs involved in
developing these agreements, with the legal status of a "contract," the government has adjusted its
approach and now has opted to sign results agreements with secretariats and other government
entities. Since the LDO prohibits changes to the budget allocations to the structural projects from
the executive proposal, the agencies in charge of implementingstructural projects can plan ahead
and continue preparing for budget execution (e.g., continuing with a procurement activity) at the
very beginning of the following year. Typically in Brazil, uncertainty about the exact budget
allocation and the expectation that a portion of the approved budget will be retained by the
Ministries of Planning and Finance keep agencies from continuing with program execution between
fiscal years. Thus, this arrangement has apparently contributed to increasedoperational efficiency
in executing the structural projects by providing them with greater budgetary predictability. Actual
implementation of the 31 structural projects is closely monitoredby SEPLAG with an information
system (SIGPlan usedby the federal government).

Once a results agreement i s signed at the institutional (i.e., agency) level, it becomes the basis for
institutional (agency) performance evaluations. The agency's performance i s tracked on a regular
timetable (Le. quarter, trimester, semester) depending on the nature of the activities. When an
agency achieves its pre-set performance targets while generating savings in its current expenditure
budget or an increase of own revenues, it i s allowed to redistribute part of the saving inthe form of
"productivity award" to its staff. Similar to individual performance evaluations, accumulation of
poor agency performance is subject to sanction such as cancellation of certain administrative
advantages (e.g. budget predictability, productivity award). Results agreements have been signed
with the following "structural projects" and government secretariatdagencies:

Structural Projects with Results Agreements Signed

     1. Pavimentagiio de LigagGes e Acessos Rodovicirios aos Municl`pios (Paving of Road
         Connections to Municipalities)
    2. GestiioAmbiental MG Skculo XXZ (Minas EnvironmentalManagement 21st Century)
    3. Minas sem Fome (Minas without Hunger)

Government Agencies with Results Agreements Signed

     1. IEF- InstitutoEstadual de Florestas (environment)
    2. IGAM- Instituto Mineiro de Gestiio de Aguas (water resource management)
    3. FEAM- Fundasgo Estadualdo Meio Ambiente (environment)
    4. HEMONINAS - Fundas20 Centro de Hematologia e Hemoterapia de Minas Gerais (health)
    5. IMA - Instituto Mineiro de Agropecuaria (agriculture and fishery)
    6. IPEM- Instituto de Pesos e Medidas do Estado de Minas Gerais (science and technology)
    7. AGE - Advocacia Geral do Estado de Minas Gerais (1egaVadministration)
    8. SEPLAG- Secretariat of Planning and Management (administration)
    9. SEF -Secretariat of Finance (administration)
     10. SES - Secretariat of Health (health)
     11. FUNED-Funda$io       EzequielDias (health)
     12. AUGE - Auditoria Geral da Uniiio (auditing)
     13. FCS -Fundasgo C16vis Salgado (culture)
    14. SEMAD -Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (environment)


                                                                                                   112

    15. SEDS - Secretariat of Social Defense (public security)
    16. IPSEMG- Instituto de Previdencia dos Servidores do Estadode Minas Gerais
    17. VISA - Superintendencia de Seguranqa SanitBria

Contracting out service delivery: Reliance on results-basedmanagementtechniques is not limited
to performance compacts within the public sector. The government's desire to expand provision of
services within the state's limited fiscal capacity has led to the policies of partnerships with non-
governmental providers of services: through public-private partnerships (PPP), mostly in
infrastructure provision, and through OSCIPs (Orgunizu@o du Sociedade Civil de Interesse
Pziblico, Civil Society Organization with Public Interest) in social areas. Minas Gerais was among
the first in the Brazilian federation to pass a PPP Law. The Government has set up a specialized
unit within the Secretariat of Economic Development, and i s preparing its first PPP projects (in
roads, water and sanitation).

An OrganizupZodu Sociedude Civil de Interesse Pziblico (OSCIP) is a legal designation conferred
by the State on a non-profit organization with social objectives consistent with public policy goals.
The OSCIP is intended as an instrument to enable a new form of partnership between the state and
civil society (or the so-called "Terceiro Setor") in the delivery of public services, redefining
thereby the role of the state. The innovation of OSCIPs is that these institutions, representing
"organized civil society," can enter into partnerships with the state, receiving budget resources and
other public goods to support their activities.

The legal foundation of the OSCIP model in Minas Gerais is Lei 14.870/2003, as regulated by
Decree 43.749/2004 and Resolution 48. (The precursor to the Minas OSCIP model i s the federal
Lei 9.790/99.) These legal documents define the characteristics and procedures necessary for an
organization to qualify as an OSCIP, and the standards (e.g., accounting) that must be satisfied for
an OSCIP to enter into a Partnership Agreement (Term0 de Purceriu) with the state. [Note: certain
organizations are barred from becoming OSCIPs, for example commercial organizations, labor
unions, political party and religious organizations.] The Partnership Agreement must specify the
social objective of the OSCIP, and the responsibilities, rights and obligations of the signatories. It
also includes the goals to be achieved through the Agreement, and how those are to be measured.

The arguments for the creation of the OSCIP model are that they will lead to a more efficient
allocation of resources, more responsive to the needs of citizens, and a more effective and efficient
delivery of services. They are meant to induce greater civil society participation in implementing
public policy, subjecting public resources to greater social control, while also strengthening social
capital. OSCIPs are governed by private sector law, and therefore enjoy managementflexibility.

The states of CearB and Si20 Paulo have also begun experimenting with the OSCIP model,
particularly in the health sector. The government of Minas Gerais beganto certify organizations as
OSCIPs in 2004 (e.g., in education, environment, etc.). The Government has already qualified 26
non-governmental organizations as potential service providers as OSCIPs in areas ranging from
social assistance, health, and education/culture/sports to environment and to and social and
economic development in general. The government i s discussingsigningof "terms of partnership"
with several of them, and has already signed six Partnership Agreements.

                             Entity                                            Areas
Agsncia do Prograrnade Desenvolvirnento Sustentivel do Centro
Oeste Mineiro - PRODESCOM                                         Economic and social development

AssociaGBo de Educadores e Profissionais Especializados - CriaqBo         Social assistance


                                                                                                  113

Associaqiio de Proteqiio Ambiental, Saiide, EducaqBo, Seguranqa
Alimentar e Assisdncia Social - APASE                                      Free education

Associaqiio Mineira dos Portadores do Virus de Hepatite C-
AMIPHEC                                                                        Health

Associaq5o Mineira de PromoqBode Entidades de Interesse Social
de Minas Gerais -AMEIS                                                    Social assistance

AssociaqBo Pr6-Comunidade de Conquista                                    Social assistance

AssociaqBo Recreativa Dener                                      Social assistanceand promotion of
                                                                                sports
Banco de Exitos SIA                                                       Social assistance
Centro de Artesanato Mineiro - CEART                                           Culture

Centro de Estudos e Projetos Pedag6gicos Helena Antipoff         New "s6cio-productive" models and
                                                                         studie sand research
Centro Preserv                                                              Environment
Cons6rcio Intermunicipal de Saddeda Mantiqueira - CISMAN                        Health
FundaGHo Matutu                                                             Environment
Instituto Bioterra                                                          Environment
Instituto Brasileiro de AdministraGZo - IBA                        Education and social assistance
Instituto Cultural SBrgio Magnani                                              Culture
Instituto Horizontes                                             Environment, studies and research
Instituto Mineiro de Desenvolvimento da Cidadania - IMDC                   Social assistance

Instituto Publix para o Desenvolvimento da GestBo Pdblica       Studies andresearch, development of
                                                                         public management
Instituto de Tecnologia de PrevenGBo de DesastresNaturais e
Industriais- ITPD                                                Studies and research, volunteer work

MissBo Ramacrisna                                                          Social assistance
Nova Sociedade                                                   Economic and social development
ONG Verde Vida                                                              Environment
OrganizaqBode Inclusiio Social - 01s                                       Social assistance
OrganizaqBopara EducaGBoe Extensilo da Cidadania - ECO                      Environment
Organizaqgo Ponto Terra                                                     Environment

Pr6-Sadde OSCIP                                                    Free health services and social
                                                                              assistance
SociedadeCiCncia e Democracia - SCD                                      Studies and research
Vale da Cidadania                                                          Social assistance
Veni Creator                                                             Free health services

Vila Formosa de Alfenas - VIFENAS                                  Social assistanceand free health
                                                                               services


Electronic Government: Systematic and extensive use of e-government tools i s one of the features
of the Minas government's approach to public management reform. The government created the
Executive Committee of the Electronic Government to establish a common focus among the e-
government initiatives. Composed of 2lDeputy-Secretaries, the Committee has the authority to set
standards for content and quality of information and services provided by Portal Minus, the
government website. The Electronic Governance Department from SEPLAG i s responsible for
implementation of Committee resolutions such as carrying on content evaluations and audit of each
agency's home page.




                                                                                                    114

Portal Minas was created in 2004 to be a door for government services. The concept was to
change organization of information from a formal (institutional) structure into a more user-friendly
one according to subject matters of interest to citizens (education, health) and types of services that
they seek. Another classification i s around "life events" that use more accessible language, like
"Getting you.driver's license", "Paying the IPVA" to make information search easier and faster.

The management of Portal Minas i s decentralized. Information and services are updated by each
agency based on the Committee guidelines. For instance, the agencies' websites must run in any
software, information requests (Faze Conosco) must be replied within 48 hours, and content must
be factually accurate. Electronic Governance Department does the oversight of agencies' sites to
check if the content is insufficient, intermediate or advanced in quality.

Several initiatives to improve government management, quality of services delivery and
transparency have been taken by Choque de Gest6o. Governance has improved with better use of
information instruments such as project monitoring systems and more user friendly management
reports.  There was a reduction of current costs, administrative personnel and time through
reengineering of processes like office automation, intranet, workflow and digital certification.
Additionally, the government has been offering information and services through terminals or
online, for instance emission of documents, bills, forms, payment of taxes and traffic tickets
(DetranNet). The structural project Digital Inclusion (Znclusik Digital) i s a program to promote
Internet access to the population of small municipalities. By the end of 2005, around 320 internet
centers will be installed in public spaces and 40 technology centers. Transparency of decisions has
been enhanced with a telephone line for governmental information (LIG-Minas) and openness of
procurement process with reverse auction (LicitaNet). Also, there i s information available for
entrepreneurs on sources of financing, export procedures and how to close business.

Procurement reform: The goal of improving efficiency and reducing government expenditures has
led a number of governments in the Brazilian federation, includingMinas, to focus on procurement
reform. The Minas government has initiated an aggressive use of "pregzo" (reverse auction) to
purchase standard supplies, developed a single registry of suppliers (including a registry of
suppliers barred from participating in public procurement), and adopted mandatory use of the
Integrated System of Administration of Materials and Services of the State (SIAD). With these
(and other) measures, the Government has reportedly obtained savings of 32 percent of the cost of
government purchases and procurement, totaling R$2 billion a year. The government plans to
extend the use of e-preg6o to further improve the economy in government procurement, and
complete a number of SIADmodules that are still not fully operational.




                                                                                                   115

                      ANNEX 9: PRIVATE SECTORDEVELOPMENT

Support of PrivateSector Developmentby the Governmentof Minas Gerais

The State Government of Minas Gerais has created an array of mechanisms and institutions with
the objective of promoting private sector development in the state in order to promote growth.
Most, but not all, of the government initiatives in support of private sector development are
included in some of the 31 structural projects (projetos estruturadores) initiated by the current
administration of Minas Gerais.

The overall approach to support private sector development in Minas Gerais i s to provide, through
the offer of improved channels of access between the state and the private sector, solutions to
facilitate the operation, expansion and modernization of established businesses, as well as the
implementation of new businesses in Minas Gerais, including areas such as tax, credit,
environmental regulations, infrastructure, and the registration of businesses.

The main components of the government strategy in support of private sector development in
Minas Gerais are: 1) The structural project of Competitive Business of Minas (which includes a
special line of credit and programs to lesser the impact of government bureaucracy in the private
sector: Facilita Minas and MinasFAcil); 2) Simples Minas (which is a simplified tax treatment for
small and medium-sized firms); 3) The Institute of Integrated Development of Minas Gerais (INDI,
which acts as the business promotion agency of the government); and 4) The Public-Private
Partnerships (in which Minas Gerais has taken a lead role in Brazil and it is expected to increase
substantially private sector investment in infrastructure). The first three are covered in this annex,
while the last one is described indetail inAnnex 7.

1)CompetitiveBusinessof Minas

The main component of this effort is summarized in the projeto estruturudor called Competitive
Business of Minas (Empresu Mineira Competitimu). As one of the 31 structural projects, this
program, led by the Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (Development Bank of Minas
Gerais) or BDMG, has two components, the first one, a credit line (Empresa Mineira Competitiva)
aimed at improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized firms, and the second one,
Fucilitu Minas, is a program aimed at generating a business-friendly environment in Minas Gerais
so as to facilitate the generation of private investment, and make possible the success of businesses
by easing the sometimes complicated and bureaucratic relationship between the different state
institutions and the firm.

1.1)CreditLineEmpresa Mineira Competitiva

This line of credit for small and medium-sized firms, aims at financing the modernization of
processes and increases in competitiveness and productivity for the production of goods and
services. The line of credit includes basically intangibles (and not equipment per-se) such as the
development of products and processes, adaptation of programs and consulting services for
management, environmental management, training to improve research and development, quality
control and marketing, modernization of computer equipment and software, and others.




                                                                                                  116

1.2) Facilita Minus

The Program Fucilitu Minus was created in 2004 and i s under the leadership of the President of
BDMG. The main objective of the program i s to diminish the impact of the government
bureaucracy in the private sector, and simplifying the relationship between different levels of the
state government and the firms. Private sector investment can be fostered, according to the design
of this program, by easing transactions costs to firms and reducingbureaucratic redtape.

The program aims at promoting private investment in Minas Gerais by introducing administrative
reforms and technical coordination among the state government agencies so as to facilitate the
creation of new firms and the expansion of existing ones.

Facilita Minus has created a website in which it is possible, for current and potential investors, to
inquire about taxation, firm registration, credit lines, environmental regulations, and infrastructure.
A team of experts, provided by different government agencies, is in charge of analyzing and
designing optimal solutions to the different inquiries.

The first practical outcome of the Facilita Minas program, has been the creation of MinasFdcil, an
office in charge of minimizing the amount of effort and time to register a new business in Minas
Gerais

2) MinasF6cil

The design of MinasFdcil consists of the creation and staffing of an office in which the processes
of the different state institutions that deal with the registration of new firms are integrated. The
first office was to be inaugurated in September 2005 in the capital of the state, Belo Horizonte.
The guidingphilosophy of MinasFdcil is that firms should concentrate on its business development
plan: market demand, clients, suppliers, credit, technology, etc., while the government will try to
reduce to the minimumthe costs, interms of resources and time, to the new firm.

The process of MinasFdciZ starts with a preliminary inquiry so as to verify that there are no legal
impediments for the investor (future firm and its legal structure) to begin the process of opening a
business according to the regulations of the state, the federal government, and the local
government. This can be done either in person or through the Internet. Following this first step,
the investor can get an overall picture of what is needed in terms of processes and documents,
including the legal requirements of the different government agencies.           Once the office of
MinasFdcil answers positively in support of the registration of the new firm, MinasFBcil provides a
specific list of requisites to be presentedby the investor. The investor then presents all the required
documentation to MinasFdcil, following the responseto the initial inquiry.

In addition to concentrating all of the government agencies that are required in the process of
registering a new business in one place, as a one-stop shop, MinusFdcil's administrative process
has been designed so as to eliminate the need for duplicate documents, as they are all now part of a
single process. The implementation of this process of selection aims at helping both the investor
and the government, by avoiding extra work to the government agencies and giving to the investor
an overall picture of the process about all the government agencies included inthe registration of a
new firm.

The list of registries needed for opening a firm in Minas Gerais includes: Identity number of
registered firms (NIRE), the national registry of firms, or tax identification number (CNPJ), the


                                                                                                   117

municipal and state registries, and the license of location and operation. In addition, the process
includes environmental license, health licenses, and fire department license.

Box 5: The list of government agencies included inMinasFciciZ:

Federalgovernment:
         Tax agency (Receita do Brasil)

State Government
         Secretariat of Economic Development
         Secretariat of Finance
         Fire Department

Municipal Government
         Municipal Secretariat of Finance
         Municipal Office Health Supervision
         Municipal Secretariat of Urban Regulation
         Municipal Secretariat of Environment

Others
         Office of small and medium-size firms (SEBRAE)
         Commodities and Futuresmarket (BMF)
         Office of Information and Technology (PRODEMGE)
         Office of IT of Belo Horizonte (PRODABEL)

3) Simples Minas

The State Secretary of Finance devised a simplified tax treatment for small and medium-sized
enterprises. Simples Minus is defined as a program of simplified and differentiated treatment for
small and medium-sized enterprises. It was created by Law inJuly of 2004.

Inorder to benefit from Simples Minus, gross annual total sales of the firm should be less than
R$2.2 million. The simplifiedtax treatment allows firms to check the value added tax (ICMS) in a
more convenient way. Total income can be estimated as either "real income" (receitu brutu real)
or presumed income (receitu brutu presumidu). "Real income" i s equivalent to the sum of all the
sales of goods and services, as accounted by the documents of sale. This method applies mainly to
industries, or productive firms. Presumed income is estimated as the sum of all inputs used, and
accounted for receipts of sale, increased by a percentage estimated as the value added of the
economic activity of the firm. This method can be used by industries, but it is mandatory for
commercial firms.

The program simplifies the "formalization" of firms, by facilitating the registration on the internet
with almost no requirements. Taxes are exempt for annual revenue lower than R$5,600, and scale
i s created such that the tax-exemption i s reduced progressively as annual revenue increases. An
electronic system of tax preparation (SIAP) has been created with a simplified structure. Tax
credits will be maintained, even if the ICMS taxes collected are lower, up to 10 %, than the verified
tax declaration. Another advantage of SimplesMinus i s that it does not require the firms and
individuals to keep accounting books. Instead, all registers will be kept through the Internet in the
Secretary of Finance.




                                                                                                 118

4) The Institute of Integrated Development of Minas Gerais (INDI)

INDI(Instituto de Desenvolvimento Integrado de Minas Geruis) was reformed in July of 2005 on
the basis of the Institute of Industrial Development of Minas Gerais. INDI was created as a
privately managed institution, owned by the Development Bank of Minas Gerais (BMDG) and the
Power Company of Minas Gerais (CEMIG), both state-owned companies. The board of directors
of INDI is composed of the State Secretaries of Economic Development, Planning and
Management, Finance, and the Presidents of BDMGand of CEMIG.

The main objective of INDI i s the promotion of private investment in the state of Minas Gerais.
The concept behind INDIis that of a business promotion agency, but with greater autonomy and
political weight, as it can more easily influence required changes within the government agencies,
as they are leadingit.

According to the Board of Directors, INDI, as an agency in charge of promotinginvestment, will:

    Keep up-to-date systems and data as to monitor business projects and investments within the
    state.
    To organize and lead the efforts of other government agencies in order to promote investment
    and strengthen private sector firms.
    Articulate strategies with municipalities, government agencies, and local communities to
    promote regionaldevelopment.
    Promote with specific actions and extensive campaigns, products and services of firms as well
    as the potential of Minas Gerais for business development.
    Coordinate the participation of Minas Gerais in an effective and intensive way, in fairs and
    business meetings at the national and national level.

Even before its recent reorganization, INDI has played a significant role in business promotion.
From 1972 to mid-2005, INDIassistedmore than 1,600 investment projects, with a total investment
of about US$16 billion and more than 280,000 jobs generated. By June 2005, INDIwas working
with more than 200 projects with a potential investment of US$8.7 billion, of which US$2.7 billion
have been or are on the process of being implemented.




                                                                                              119

Box 6: Administrative unitsof INDI

         a) Unit for Regional and Economic Assessments: In charge of statistics, technical assessments,
economic analysis, analysis of regional development poles, strategic information, keeping up-to-date
information of incentives given by the state for new investments, permanent actualization and promotion of tax
and fiscal legislation in Minas Gerais, evaluation of infrastructure in the different regions of the state.

         b) Unit for Strategic Information: In charge of updating a database, management of business
contacts, data collection in relation to public and private investment in Minas Gerais promoted by the state
government, monitoring of projects and investments, monitoring of obstacles and/or difficulties faced by
current and potential investors, and collection and promotion at the national and international level of results
obtained by the development system of the state.

         c) Unit for Institutional Promotion of Minas Gerais: Incharge of the organization of Minas Gerais in
national and international business events and fairs, promotion of the state, state products, and business
opportunities - "Minas Brand" (Marca Minas), leading campaign of the state advertising agencies in relation
to the promotion of investment, organization of business meetings in key cities of the state, with the
participation of domestic and international firms, organization of road-shows, workshops and other forums in
Brazil and abroad, active involvement with chambers of commerce of other countries, support to firms from
Minas Gerais in the external market.

         d) Unit for Regional Integration and Support to Firms: Creation and support of a registry of firms
and output from Minas Gerais, integration with municipalities and other entities of micro-regions, program to
intensify the sale of products and services of the state by foreign firms in the state, support of firms under
stress by helping them to link with other firms, an active program to promote exports of state firms, programs
to promote the gains in competitiveness, productivity and quality developed by firms within the state.

         e) Unit for Investment and Business: Incharge of attracting investment in the industrial, commercial
and services sectors, promote measures to stimulate the establishment of firms as suppliers of other firms,
provide managerial support to new projects to be established andlor expanded in the state, provide up-to-date
information for an area of new projects, and maintain a stock of projects to be offered to potential investors.




                                                                                                             120

           ANNEX 10: RELATIONSHIPTO OTHERBANKOPERATIONS

This Annex describes the ongoing and planned support by the World Bank Group to the State of
Minas Gerais.

a) Other World BankLoansto the State of MinasGerais

Rural Poverty Reduction Project. The Bank i s currently negotiating a US$35 million dollar loan
supporting community-driven rural development (PCPR: Projeto de Combate h Pobreza Rural).
Resources will focus on productive subprojects in the three poorest areas inthe north of Minas: the
Jequitinhonha and Mucuri Valleys, and the Norte de Minas. Given the extreme inter-regional
inequality within Minas, the PCPR would complement the Partnership for Development, with the
former focusing explicitly on regional inequality, the latter on the overall climate for sustainable
growth and social progress.

Cancelled State Privatization Loan. The Bank's Board approved a State Privatization Loan for
Minas Gerais in 1998 (Staff Appraisal Report No. 16466-BR). The objective of this investment
loan was to support the state's privatization and concession program, reducing vulnerabilities to
losses on banking operations and increasing the efficiency of gas and highway maintenance
services. The project also included social sector grants to mitigate the social costs of adjustment,
and road and school maintenance and rehabilitation. The components of this project were (i)
privatization of state banks (Banco de Crkdito Real de Minas Gerais and Banco de Estado de
Minas Gerais); (ii) the salelconcession of Companhia Estadual de Gris de Minas Gerais; (iii) the
concession of 460 km of state roads; (iv) an improved regulatory framework for the private
provision of public services; and (v) fiscal performance consistent with the capital spending
program and agreed fiscal indicators. Despite its approval by the World Bank's Boardof Directors
and Brazil's National Treasury, the state government, elected in 1998, declined the loan.

b) FederalOperations

Roads. The Federal Highway Decentralization and Rehabilitation Project provides financing for
the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 800 kmof roads on the MG state portions of the federal
paved road network, the backbone of Brazil's transportation system. As this i s a project executed
by the federal government, the participation of the state government is limited to participating to
the design and supervision of the works.

Health.    Municipalities with populations of over 100,000 participate in the Family Health
Extension Project. The state is also the recipient of loan proceeds to strengthen M&E of family
health services. The state as well as 3-4 urban municipalities in the metropolitan area of Belo
Horizonte will also be recipients of financing through VIGISUS 11(recently declared effective).
The Bank has an active technical dialogue with the State Secretariat of Health.

Environment. The Bank supports several NGOs (e.g., Funda@o Biodiversitas) and Universities
(UFMG, UFUberl2ndia) in Minas Gerais through grants from the PROBIO and FUNBIO Projects.
These grants tend to be small in size (< $100,000), but have played an important role in
strengthening conservation efforts for remnant Atlantic Forest and Cerrado throughout the State.
These activities have kept the Bank engaged with key stakeholders in the state's environmental
management and are complementary to the support proposed in the operation for improved
environmentallicensing through automation and decentralization.



                                                                                                121

Federal level DPL. The proposed operation also ties in with two series of programmatic DPL at
the federal level: the Fiscal Reform series of loans reinforcing fiscal balance, the most recent of
which supported social security reform,63 and the series for Sustainable and Equitable Growth,
which supports microeconomic growth-oriented reforms at the national

c) MunicipalLending

Minas Gerais has been the pioneer of World Bank municipal lending in Brazil. The Bank's
objective is a coherent long-term strategy for Bank lending to municipal governments in Brazil,
recognizing the important role these governments have to play in providing basic services to the
population, in particular the poor. The program is being developed in response to a growing
demand by municipal governments to borrow from the World Bank.               To date, the federal
government has authorized 15 municipalities to seek World Bank financing, with a federal
guarantee, of which three are in Minas Gerais. While these operations deal directly with the
municipal governments, the state water company (COPASA) has a role to play in complementary
investments in Water Supply and Sanitation.

Betim. The World Bank's first loan to a municipality has been developed with Betim, a medium-
sized city near Belo Horizonte. The objectives of the project are: (a) to promote sustainable socio-
environmental development; (b) to reduce inequality; and (c) to enhance the city's quality of life
through integrated, well-targeted investments in local infrastructure and social services, coupled
with broader institutional strengthening to improve municipal governance and regulatory policy.
Similar loans are in their final phase of preparation in Belo Horizonte, the state capital, and
Uberaba.

d) Grants

Minas benefits from two sources of grant funding administered by the World Bank. First, in one
slum area of the state capital Belo Horizonte, the anti-violence programFica Vivo is supported by
Bank technical assistance through a Dutch trust fund. Fica Vivo is viewed as best practice in
community-driven violence reduction programs, and i s included among the state government's 31
priority structural projects.

Plantar. The prototype carbon fund i s financing a carbon offset credit to Plantar SA, a
manufacturer of pig iron in four areas of Minas Gerais within 200 km of Belo Horizonte. The
purchase aims to achieve reductions in carbon dioxide emissions of 12 million tons over the
lifetime of the project (28 years). These reductions will be achieved through establishing new fuel
wood plantations, switching from coking coal to charcoal, and regenerating native forests on
pasture land. The prototypefund will purchase US$13.8 incarbon emissions reductions.

e) IFC Operations

IFC has investments in the following companies in Minas Gerais: Algar Telecom, Andrade
Gutierrez, Coteminas, Fosfkrtil, Guilman Amorin (hydro plant), Mineraqdes Brasileiras Reunidas
(MBR), Samarco, and Wembley. Its latest investments have been in Satipel (US$25 million) and
V&M do B r a d (the Netherlands Carbon Facility has committed 15m to purchase carbon dioxide
emission reductions from V&M).        IFC grant funding supports the Zmtituto Terra (technical


63 World Bank ReportNo.
64 World BankReportNo.


                                                                                               122

assistance for environmentally and socially sustainable business in Aimores) and Voluntdrios de
Minus (a FIEMG corporate social responsibility project).      The IFC has participated in project
identification and expressed interest in seeking ways to support PPPcontracts.




                                                                                             123


ANNEX 11:MAP




                124


                           70W                 To Ciudad Guayana      60W                                                          50W                                                 40W
                                               R.B. DE                GUYANA
                                          VENEZUELA                                                              French                                                                                                                  BRAZIL
                                                                                                                Guiana
                                        O ri noco                                           SURINAME               (Fr.)                                          ATLANTIC
                    COLOMBIA                               Boa Vista                                                                                                OCEAN
                                                                                                                     AMAP
                                                                                                                     AMAP                                                                                                            STATE CAPITALS
                                                               RORAIMA
                                                                                                                      Macap
                                                                                                                      Macap                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL

               0                                                                                                                                                                                                 0                  RIVERS

                                                A       m Negroa      z      o           n                    Amazon                       Belm
                                                                                                                                           Belm                                                                                      MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                   So Lus
                                                    Amazon     Manaus                                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                     B      a      s     i  Madeira                 Tapajs                                                                                      Fortaleza

                                                                               n                                                                        MARANHO
                                                                                                                                                        MARANHO                Teresina               RIO GRANDE                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                A M A Z O N A S                                                                 PA R                                                                      CEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                           CEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                       DO NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Natal

                                               Purus                                    Teles                                                                                                        PARABA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARABA    Joo
                                                                                                                                                                    P I A U I
                                                          Porto Velho                        Pires                   Xingu                                                                                      Pessoa

                         ACRE                                                                                                                  Tocantins                                     PERNAMBUCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Recife

                            Rio Branco                                                                                                                                                                       Macei
               10S                                RONDNIA
                                                   RONDNIA                     Juruena                                       Araguaia        Palma                                                       ALAGOAS
                                                                                                                                      TOCANTINS                                                         Aracaju

                     PERU                                                                           M A T O                                                          SoFrancisco
                                                                                                                                                                         B A H I A                   SERGIPE

                                                                                                  G R O S S O

                                                                            Mato Grosso                                               B r a z i l i a n                                           Salvador
                                                                               Plateau
                                                                                                      Cuiab
                                                                                                      Cuiab                               F.D.
                                                  BOLIVIA                                                                     BRASLIA
                                                                                                                              BRASLIA
                                                                                                                          GOIAS          Goinia
                                                                                                                                         Goinia        M I N A S G E R A I S

                 PACIFIC                                           To                                                                 H i g h l a n d s
                                                                Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                   Belo
                 OCEAN                                                                            MATO GROSSO
                            CHILE                                                                                                                                                       ESPRITO
                                                                                                                                                                                        ESPRITO
                                                                                                       DO SUL                    Grande                          Horizonte
                                                                                                                                                                                        SANTO
               20S                                                                        Paragu      Campo                                                                                                    20S
                                                                                                       Grande                                                                   Vititria
                                                                                                                                                                                  ria
                                                                          To                  ya
                                                                      Santa Cruz                                           SO PAULO
                                                                                                                           SO
                                                                                                               Paran                                                       RIO DE
                                                                            PARAGUAY                                                   So
                                                                                                                                       So Paulo                Rio de      JANEIRO
                                                                                                                    PARAN
                                                                                                                     ARAN                                     Janeiro                       ATLANTIC
                                BRAZIL                                                                                                  Curitaba
                                                                                                                                                                                               OCEAN
                                                                                                                                         STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                         Florianpolis

                                                                                                       RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                           DO SUL
                                                                                                                            Porto Alegre
SEPTEMBER      30S                                 ARGENTINA                                                                                                 0      200             400    600 Kilometers      30S                                                                      IBRD
                                                                To Buenos                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                    Aires                        URUGUAY                                                      0                 200           400 Miles                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank         33377
         2004                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                    70W                                   60W                                             50W                                               40W                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                   To Montevideo

