Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1227 
Operation Name 
BR Minas Gerais Partnership for Development 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P088543 
Borrower(s) 
STATE GOVERNMENT OF MINAS GERAIS 
Implementing Agency 
STATE GOVERNMENT OF MINAS GERAIS 
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [X ] No (Category C) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 16, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 1, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 31, 2005 
1.  Key development issues  
 
Minas is the second largest state by population and the third largest by GDP in Brazil. The population of 
Minas in the 2000 census was 17.9 million (10.5 percent of the national total)
.
The state’s total income 
in 2001 was R$113.5 billion, 9.5 percent of national income, smaller only than São Paulo (33.4 percent) 
and Rio de Janeiro (12.3 percent), giving Minas Gerais an economy slightly larger than that of Peru.  
Minas is sometimes called a microcosm of Brazil. While its income level is close to Brazil’s average 
(ranked 10 out of 27), Minas contains a poor Northeastern region with the same conditions of extreme 
poverty, subsistence agriculture, and intermittent drought experienced in the rest of the Northeast. At the 
other extreme, the state contains some of Brazil’s most dynamic industrial areas and the metropolis of 
Belo Horizonte. Using a national poverty line of about R$125, Minas has a poverty headcount ratio of 
about 25 percent, implying that Minas is today home to nearly 5 million poor. 
 
Minas Gerais has recently turned around its public accounts. In 1995–98, Minas ran primary deficits of 
more than R$1.5 billion and accumulated debt rapidly. Improvements in 1999–2001, though significant, 
were not sufficient to halt debt accumulation. More recent improvements have been the result of much 
hard work by the new state government. Upon assuming power on January 1, 2003, the current state 
government launched a managerial shake-up that aimed to get public spending under control and lay the 
foundations for improved public-sector management. Among other actions, the program reduced by six 
the number of state secretariats, cut non-salary personnel costs, improved government purchasing 
systems, defined the integrated state development plan, and started the process of results based 
management of government programs and human resources. 
2.  Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Consistency with CAS objectives. The Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil, 2004–07, seeks a 
more equitable, sustainable, competitive Brazil. The state’s own development strategy and the 
operational structure envisaged reflect CAS design: the Partnership for Development will pursue a more 
equitable, sustainable, competitive Minas Gerais. By supporting fiscal sustainability, public sector 
management (with elements that enhance both equity and sustainability) and private sector 
competitiveness, the operation would clearly be consistent with the CAS. 
Page  2
Reinforce the Fiscal Responsibility Law. By improving the quality of state government spending, and by 
tying disbursement to the achievement of fiscal targets agreed to with the federal government but at the 
same time providing the state with funding protection for its own priority investments, the operation will 
contribute to the overall strengthening of Brazilian fiscal federalism as embodied in the LRF and related 
agreements. 
Technical knowledge transfer. Within certain areas there is scope for the Bank to advise the government 
on technical aspects of policy design. Examples are the design of PPP contracts and regulatory 
framework, in systems of results-based management, and in human resource management. Technical 
inputs are already being provided at project preparation stage on some of these issues. All are areas 
where the Bank has technical expertise to offer. 
Providing an internal commitment device for complex reforms. Even in cases where technically the state 
government has already developed clear proposals, many of the reforms envisaged are complex and will 
take time. By laying out an action plan and timetable for disbursement, the operation helps the 
government pursue its own reforms. 
Protecting core investments. The liquidity provided by the loan in combination with the commitments 
undertaken by the state government to accord priority to certain structural projects implies that the loan 
enhances the government’s ability to plan for a prolonged program of core investments, particularly in 
infrastructure. 
Providing external credibility to state reform and promoting Minas Gerais to investors. A final objective 
that has been emphasized by the state government is the signaling role of a Bank project at this stage, 
clearly associated with the government’s program of structural reforms, coming out of a difficult period 
in terms of the economic management of the state. 
 
3. Proposed objective(s) 
 
“The best place to live in Brazil” is the vision that drives the state government’s strategy. The operation 
would help Minas Gerais pursue its vision through the dual strategy of fiscal balance and private-sector 
led growth. It builds a 
Partnership for Development 
with the state based on three principles: A 
shared 
understanding 
of the basic necessity of the sound management of government finances as the foundation 
on which to build development;  
state ownership 
of
the program—the measures supported by the 
program come from the state’s own integrated development program; and 
cross-cutting impact 
by 
integrating into sector policies a number of improvements in taxation, spending, public sector 
management, and partnership with the private sector. 
The program will support the following objectives of the government program: 
(a) 
fiscal balance 
through measures to enhance revenue raising efficiency and reduce current spending, 
including debt service;  
(b) 
improved government effectiveness 
through reforms to public spending, program monitoring and 
evaluation, and public sector management; and  
(c) 
private sector development 
through investment in infrastructure, sensible regulation, and 
innovative public-private partnerships (PPP) in basic services.  
Page  3
The design has been arrived at in consultation with the state government based on the shared assessment 
that responsible fiscal management is a 
sine qua non 
of
development. The state government views as a 
key objective of the program the strengthening of its commitments under the debt agreement with the 
federal government, as well as the Fiscal Responsibility Law (LRF). Furthermore, in order to reach a 
fiscal stance consistent with higher growth and improved well-being, the state needs to channel a higher 
proportion of existing spending towards investment and away from consumption. Actions in the 
program will facilitate this improvement in the quality of public spending in Minas. 
Strengthening fiscal federalism. For the Bank, a key strategic objective of this state-level operation is the 
strengthening of 
national 
fiscal-federal institutions. Stable institutions safeguarding national fiscal 
balance are a cornerstone of Brazil’s development strategy, as discussed in the Bank’s Country 
Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board in December 2003, and supported by programmatic policy-
based lending at the national level. The strengthening of the LRF through the improved ability of an 
important state to thrive within the law is not merely a by-product of this operation, but a core objective. 
State ownership of the operation. The partnership comprises a commitment by the state to a program of 
actions that were devised by the state. The Bank team views its role as catalytic and enabling, in four 
ways: (
i
)
technical advice in key areas, (
ii
)
reinforcing the government’s strategic framework for 
reforms, (
iii
)
signaling our view of the technical consistency and thus the credibility of the state’s 
approach, and (
iv
)
guaranteeing financing for certain key activities. 
Focus on cross-cutting reforms. Each of the three pillars represents a cross-cutting opportunity for 
impact on the entire program of government policy and spending. For instance, impacts on social 
indicators are envisaged through strengthened management of public service delivery rather than sector-
specific actions in health, education, or social protection. Similarly, the public sector management 
component of the program may contain strengthened environmental licensing procedures (in turn 
expected to have growth impacts by cutting red tape), in which the state has been an international leader. 
A
strong signal of support to a strategic partner. Minas Gerais is an important state for Brazil and for the 
Bank owing to its size, its history of leadership, and its reflection of national patterns. Its bold public-
sector reforms are being looked at as a model for other Brazilian states. And Minas contains about 10 
percent of Brazil’s poor. Recent years have seen the Bank reduce its activities in Minas in the face of 
some difficult political and economic circumstances. Given all this, the Partnership for Development 
with Minas Gerais represents an immensely valuable opportunity to reengage with a key Brazilian 
partner. 
 
4. Preliminary description 
 
To pursue these objectives the operation would likely comprise a two-tranche adjustment loan, totaling 
US$170 million. The first tranche of the adjustment loan would be conditioned on a series of public 
sector reforms undertaken or currently underway. The second tranche would have an estimated 
disbursement date at end 2005, subject to subsequent reform conditions being met.   
Institutional Arrangements. The operation would have counterparts in three state secretariats, broadly 
reflecting these three objectives: Finance (SEF), Planning and Management (SEPLAG), and Economic 
Development (SEDE). The primary coordinator would most likely be SEDE. 
Page  4
Fiscal balance. Within this category the project concept envisages actions relating to (a) increasing tax 
collection, (b) reducing personnel spending as a fraction of net current revenues, (c) generating primary 
surpluses, and (d) reducing the ratio of consolidated net debt to net current revenues. 
Public sector management. (a) strengthening integrated planning capacity and links to the monitoring of 
state HDI, (b) reducing crime and violence, (c) increase service delivery efficiency, including in social 
and environmental programs, (d) results based management of programs and human resources, and (e) 
increase efficiency of purchasing and personnel management. 
Sustainable private sector development. (a) implement PPP strategy, (b) increase competitiveness, (c) 
implement “Twenty-First Century” environmental management and licensing, (d) promote Minas Gerais 
to foreign investors, (e) facilitate private-sector projects within the context of the Estrada Real project, 
and (f) improve the knowledge economy of the state. 
 
5. Environment Aspects 
 
Not Applicable.  The proposed project does not involve any activities that are likely to have any 
environmental impacts. 
 
6. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
170 
 Total 
170 
 
7. Contact point 
Contact: Mark Roland Thomas 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0615 
Fax:  
Email: mthomas1@worldbank.org
 
