Dowument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA /a3>- Cc
Report No. 5231-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 6, 1984
South Asia
Irrigation I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = Rs 25.2      Rs 1 = US$0.0397
UNITS AhD EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)              =      3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)           =      2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)          =      2.204  pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)       =      1.0161 long tons (1 ton)
1 m3/sec                 =      35.3357 cubic feet/sec (cusec)
1 bushel of paddy        =      20.8655 kg
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
AEAR    -     Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
ARTI    -     Agrarian Research and Training Institute
ASC     -     Agrarian Service Center
CIDA    -     Canadian International Development Agency
DA      -     Department of Agriculture
DAC     -     District Agricultural Committee
DAS     -     Department of Agrarian Services
DD      -     Deputy Director
IND     -     Irrigation Management Division
ECL     -     Engineering Consultants Ltd.
GOSL    -     Government of Sri Lanka
ID      -     Irrigation Department
iIMI    -     International Irrigation Management Institute
Io      -     Institutional Officer
LCD     -     Land Commissioner's Department
MADR    -     Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
MASL    -     Mahaveli Authority of Sri Lanka
MCM     -     Million cubic metres (M = million)
HIRP    -     Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
NILID    -    Ministry of Lands and Land Development
NEDECO  -     Netherlands Development Consultants
INMAS   -     Program for Integrated Management of Major Irrigation Systems
PM      -     Project Manager
PMB     -     Paddy Marketing Board
SDC     -     Switzerland Development Cooperation
TIMP    -     Tank Irrigation Modernization Project
UOP     -     University of Peridenya
USAID   -     United States Agency for International Development
VIRP    -     Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
WMP     -     Water Management Panel
WMS     -     Water Management Secretariat
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICMIL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Sulmmary
Borrover        The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount      :  SDR 17 Million (US$17.0 Million equivalent)
Terms       :  Standard
Project         To increase agricultural production in seven selected major
Description:   irrigation systems.  The project would (a) rehabilitate
existing irrigation systems serving a total area of about
46,000 ha; (b) introduce an Integrated Management Program to
ensure proper operation and maintenance of the systems and
distribution of irrigation supplies; (c) strengthen support
services provided by various Government agencies; and (d)
make provisions for monitoring and evaluation of project
execution and performance. The project would also provide
support for the International Irrigation Management Institute.
Project         The Project is expected to generate an incremental production
Benefits       of about 73,800 metric tons of paddy and 6,200 metric
and Eiskb      tons of soya, benefitting about 34,400 families.  Project
induced increases in family income would range from about
Rs 5,900 to Rs 10,600. Sri Lanka's economy would realize
16% economic rate of return from project investments. The
project faces a general risk from declining trend in long
term price of paddy and a possible risk from failure to
implement the proposed water management improvements.
Proiect Cost:                                      (US$ Million Equivalent)
Proiect Components                 Local   Foreitn  Total
Civil Works, etc                 19.0      11.2     30.2
Equipment and Vehicles            1.8       6.6      8.4
Tech. Assistance & Training       1.3       0.4      1.7
Administration, etc               2.9       0.0      2.9
Tctal                     25.0       18.2     43.2
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Financing Plan:                                    Local   Foreign   Total
GOSL                               11.8       0.0     11.8
IDA                                 7.2       9.8     17.0
CIDA                                1.6       5.2      6.8
SWITZERLAND                        4.4        3.2      7.6
Total                           25.0      18.2     43.2
I This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of l
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimsted
Disbursement:                            (US$ Million Equivalent)
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
MDA FY
IDA Annual        0.4   2.4   4.2   3.2   2.6   2.2   2.0
Cumulative    0.4   2.8   7.0  10.2  12.8  15.0  17.0
CIDA jj Annual    0.0   0.2   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.5   0.4
Cummulative  0.0   0.2   0.8   1.5   2.1   2.6   3.0
SDC Annual        0.1   1.1   1.6   1.6   1.4   1.0   0.8
Cummulative   0.1   1.2   2.8   4.4   5.8   6.8   7.6
Rate of Return:      16X
Map8s                IBRD No. 18021, 18022
1/ CIDA joint contribution only.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITAXION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
_ ....................................................................... Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ...............................................    1
II.   SECTOR PERFORMANCE ....................................    2
Agricultural Sector ....       .............. . , ,            2
Irrigation Subsector .....                                     3
Irrigation Management and Rebabilitation    .     .            3
Bank Group Support for Irrigation Development ............    4
III. THE PROJECT AREAS .6
General.                                                       6
Topography, Soils, and Climate                                 6
Population and Landownership                                   7
Cropping Practices.                                            8
Irrigation Constraint to Cropping.                             9
Agricultural Institutions, Research, Inputs, and Credit       10
IV. THE PROJECT                . . .12
Project Objectives                  . . .    12
Project Components .......................................   13
Water Availability ...................................................   20
Status of Project Preparation ................. ...........   22
Implementation Schedule ................. .................   22
V.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, AND PROCUREMENT        ................   23
Project Costs    ............................................   23
Financing     ...............................................   23
Project Special Account ......     ............................   26
Procurement .......................................................   26
Disbursements ..................................................   27
Accounts and Audit        .......................................   28
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANA&GEMENT ...................... .... .0.  29
Overall Project Management . ...... .................. ..O..    29
;            Management of Rehabilitation Works . .......... ...........   30
The Integrated Management Program .................   o ......    31
Monitoring and Evaluation .............. ..    ..............   32



Paige No.
VII.  PRODUCTION. MARKETING. FARM INCOMES, AND COST RECOVERY  ...   32
Production    ....................... ........................   32
Marketing  and  Prices  ...... ...............  ..... .  .  .     .......................  35
Farm Income ....................... .......................   36
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact .....   .....................   37
VIII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION. AND RISK .............. .   40
Project Benefits .................... .....................   40
Economic Analysis   .......................... . .............   41
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks ...................   43
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS ...................
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 3.1 - Sub-Project Systems: Salient Features
3.2 - Climatological Data
3.3 - Population and Labor Force
3.4 - Table 1: Distribution of Holdings by Ownership Status
Table 2: Distribution of Holdings by Size of Farms
ANNEX 4.1 - Criteria for  Irrigation Systems Rehabiltation
ANNEX 4.2 - Cropping Intensities and Water Shortage Years
ANNEX 4.3 - Implementation Schedule-Chart 26370
ANNEX 5.1
Table 101  - MLLD Irrigation Management Division
Table 102 - Kantalai
Table 103  - Moraweva
Table 104 - Iranamadu
Table 105 - Giant's Tank
Table 106 - Rajangana
Table 107  - Nachchaduwa
Table 108 - Huruluvewa
Table 109 - Procurement
Table 110 - Support
Table 111  - Land Commissioner Department
Table 112 - Department of Agriculture
Table 113 - Department of Agrarian Services
Table 114 - University of Peradeniya
Table 115 - International Irrigation Management Institute
ANNEX 5.2
Table 1   - Project Components by Year (Base Cost)
Table 2   -  Project Components by Year (including contingencies)
ANNEX 5.3 - Phasing of Equipment Purchase and Funding by Donors
ANNEX 5.4 - Schedule of IDA Disbursement



ANNEX 7.1 - Croppiug Intensities
ANNEX 7.2 - Summary of Cropped Area, Production, and Yield
ANNEX 7.3 - Crop Input Requirements
ANNEX 7.4
Table 1    -  Giants Tank Illustrative 3-ha Farm Model and
Estimate of Producer Rent
Table 2    -  Iranamadu Illustrative 2-ha Farm Model and
Estimate of Producer Rent
Table 3    -  Rajangana Illustrative 1-ha Farm Model and
Estimate of Producer Rent
ANNEX 8.1 - Total Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
ANNEX 8.2 - Financial and Economic Prices
List of Charts and Maps
I-A - Present Values of Incremental Benefits and Costs Against
Discount Rates.
I-B - Incremental Benefits and Costs.
I-C - Benefit Cost Switching Value at OCC.
Giant's Tank Irrigation System          25845
Nachchaduva Irrigation System           25846
Buruluwewa Irrigation System            25847
Rajangana Irrigation System             25848
Morawewa Irrigation System              25849
Iranamadu Irrigation System             25850
Kantalai Irrigation System              25851
Mahaweli Supplies-Line Diagram           26292
Organization Chart                      26291
Location. of Systems (Subprojects)      18021
Iranamadu Subproject                    18022
;



SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01    Sri Lanka continues to place major emphasis on irrigation as a
vehicle for agricultural development, an emphasis that has a long history and
is evident in both the magnitude and the diversity of investments. Modern
irrigation development commenced in the last century, but rapid expansion of
the irrigated area took place only after independence through settlement
schemes in the sparsely populated dry zone, a process that has culminated in
the massive Mahaweli program for exploiting the power and irrigation poten-
tial of Sri Lanka's largest river system. In 1982, the Accelerated Mahaweli
Program accounted for about 40% of national investment.
1.02    Rapid expansion of irrigation has been accompanied by a growing
awareness that benefits from the existing irrigation systems are not at full
potential. Though farmers and managers have responded to attempts to improve
performance, this response has been limited by the physical characteristics
of the schemes, their deterioration due to inadequate maintenance, and the
perpetuation of out-of-date management. Questions relating to the
rehabilitation, modernization, and management of existing systems have there-
fore received increasing attention, and a range of pilot projects and
institutional initiatives have been undertaken. These have been handled
mainly through GOSL's own resources. Nevertheless, donors -- in particular
USAID and IDA -- have been actively involved. The IDA-supported Tank Irriga-
tion Modernization Project (TIMP), Credit 666-CE, was the first initiative
to tackle the problems of major existing irrigation systems. The Village
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (VIRP), Credit 1160-CE, is similarly con-
cerned with minor systems. Important lessons have been learned from these
earlier projects; as a result, GOSL has revised its approach to physical
rehabilitation and to the management of rehabilitated systems. The proposed
Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (MIRP) will support this process.
1.03    In 1983 a feasibility study for MIRP was prepared by FAO/CP.  Reports
on the cropping potential under the project, as determined by water
availability, vere prepared by Engineering Consultants Limited (ECL), and the
University of Peradeniya (UOP) provided the socioeconomic data.  These
reports formed the basis for appraisal by a joint rDA/CIDA mission, which
visited Sri Lanka in March 1984. The appraisal mission comprised J. Srivas-
tava, D. J. Berkoff, R. Stevenin (IDA) and V. Carvell (CIDA). P. Aklilu
assisted the mission in the preparation of this report.



-2-
II. SECTOR PERFORMANCE
A. Agricultural Sector
2.01    About 75% of the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture
continues to account directly for about 25% of GDP, 50% of employment, 40%
of Government revenues, and 60% of export earnings. The country has about
2.25 M ha under permanent cultivation, of which paddy (0.65 M ha) and tree
crops (0.95 X ha) account for about 70%.  In addition, shifting (chena)
cultivation by clearing poor forest areas is also practiced during maha
season (October to March) and could amount to about 1.0 N ha in some years.
The agriculture sector's basic characteristics are determined by the two
broad climatic zones of the country. The wet zone (with an average annual
rainfall in excess of 1900 m) encompasses the island's southwest quadrant.
It accounts for only 30% of the land area but for as much as 65% of the area
under permanent cultivation, with population densities rising as high as 700
per sq km. Rain comes with both the northeast and southwest monsoons, per-
mitting the double cropping of rice and the cultivation of field crops as
well as perennials such as tea, rubber, and coconuts. In contrast, the dry
zone (annual rainfall between 900-1,900 mm) covering the remaining land area
receives most of its rainfall during maha and cropping during yala (April
through September) is possible only with irrigation. As a result, population
densities in the dry zone average only about 75 per sq km.
2.02    In line with overall economic trends, agricultural growth accelerated
from about 2% p.a. during 1970-76 to about 5% p.a. during 1977-82. The major
factor contributing to the increase was a substantial rise in paddy produc-
tion, which rose from an average of about 1.4 M tons in 1970-76 to about 2.2
H tons in 1980-82. This increase can be attributed largely to farmers'
response to the incentives created by the Government's liberalization reform
and, to a lesser extent, to additional use of irrigation and other inputs.
In contrast, the performance of other field crops has been mixed, and that of
the crucial export crops has been disappointing. Combined value-added in
tea, rubber, and coconuts was no higher in 1980-82 than in the early to
mid-1970s.
2.03    There is considerable potential for further agricultural growth and
diversification in Sri Lanka. To achieve this, emphasis needs to be given
to: (i) strengthening the liberalization and incentive policies successfully
implemented in paddy and extending these to other crops (field crops,
coconuts) and to livestock so as to stimulate private initiative in accord-
ance with Sri Lanka's long-term comparative advantage and shorter-term needs;
(ii) improving Government programs in support of private agriculture so as to
encourage efficient use of available land and water resources, stabilization
of upland and rainfed farming, and smallholder replanting programs; (iii)
resolving the management and institutional issues in the public estate sector
so as to lay the basis for long-term recovery in the crucial tree crop sec-
tor; (iv) allocating investment funds more closely in accordance with



-3-
economic priorities and with the need for rehabilitation and proper operation
and maintenance of existing assets; and (v) generating the public and private
resources needed to maintain and expand productive facilities in the agricul-
tural sector as well as to contribute to the economy's wider requirements.
B. Irrigation Subsector
2.04    Irrigation in the wet zone, where crop intensities average about
170%, is normally confined to run-of-the-river diversions to supplement
rainfall. In contrast, in the dry zone, where rainfall is less certain, most
of the irrigation systems are based on storage tanks (reservoirs) designed to
supplement maha rainfall. The residual supplies after the maturity of the
maha crop are used to support Yala cultivation to the extent possible. The
country has about 180 major tanks, each with a storage capacity in excess of
about 25 MCM (20 thousand acre ft), irrigating a total of nearly 165,000 ha
(408,000 acres). About the same area is commanded by some 2,500 village
irrigation schemes (each supporting 80 ha or less), of which about 60% are
tank scbemes in the dry zone and the rest diversion schemes in the wet zone.
The past settlement programs in the dry zone have also included river basin
developments, such as the Gal Oya and Uda Walave projects. The ongoing
Mahaweli Ganga program envisages irrigation of about 365,000 ha of new or
poorly irrigated land (effectively doubling the irrigated area) both within
the basin, as well as by transfer of supplies to the neighboring dry zone.
Mahaweli supplies are already reaching a number of existing tanks in the dry
zone, including three to be rehabilitated under the proposed project (para
4.16). These three are receiving supplies for the last 6 to 8 years.
2.05    Actual irrigated area under paddy (both maha and yala) in Sri Lanka
has increased from about 430,000 ha in 1972 to about 520,000 ha in 1982, the
major systems contributing about 60% of the irrigation. During the same
period the availability of irrigation facilities increased from about 351,000
ha to 433,000 ha, mainly from major systems. Actual irrigation in Sri Lanka
is however, highly susceptible to rainfall, and irrigation peaked at about
536,000 ha in 1978, when irrigation facilities existed for about 402,000 ha
only.
C. Irrigation Management and Rehabilitation
2.06    The benefits from major irrigation systems remain below their full
potential. The main cause is the traditional emphasis on the distribution of
water to guarantee the main subsistence paddy crop rather than to maximize
total agricultural output. A general lack of incentives for efficient water
use, resulting from absence of suitable water rates and penalties, con-
tributes to late cultivation of the main paddy crop (resulting in an ineffi-
cient use of maha rains), to substitution of water for other inputs (mud
ploughing, use of standing water to control weeds), and to excessive water
application as insurance against possible future shortages. With few control
structures or measuring devices on systems, water distribution can not be
controlled to match the demand and is inequitable. Physical deterioration



-4-
from inadequate maintenance has further adversely affected system perfor-
mance. Finally, significant problems continue to be associated with coordina-
tion among Government agencies and between and among farmers and officials.
Rehabilitation of the major irrigation schemes and introduction of proper
management of these schemes is therefore being given priority.
2.07    GOSL has decided to rehabilitate all the major irrigation systems in
need of rehabilitation under a phased program.  Five systems (13,000 ha) were
rehabilitated under TIMP, while seven (46,000 ha) are proposed to be
rehabilitated under MIRP. Feasibility studies for rehabilitation of another
four systems are about to commence with Japanese assistance. The selection
of the systems for rehabilitation has been based on their potential for
increase in paddy production. Thus systems with relatively better paddylands
and systems benefitting from Mahaweli releases have been preferred. Increase
of paddy production on the selected systems having good paddy lands is also
in line with GOSL policy of crop diversification, since lands marginally
suited for paddy under other systems could be used for non paddy crops. Also
adequate regional distribution over the dry zones to benefit all communities
by the rehabilitated systems has been considered.
2.08    Lessons learnt from TIMP have guided the planning for MIRP.  Dry
years after rehabilitation of TIMP systems did not permit an analysis of the
impact of rehabilitation on production. However, enquiries made from farmers
(ARTI Study) have indicated that rehabilitation has improved water distribu-
tion. Farmers lower down the system acknowledge better water availability,
though general water shortages resulted in non compliance with the rotation
of supplies and even structures were damaged by farmers. For implementation
of rehabilitation and operation and maintenance thereafter, the main lessons
have been to: (i) carry out surveys and detailed designs and plan the con-
struction of works adequately in advance to avoid delay in implementation;
(ii) allow sufficiently long construction periods for rehabilitation works in
view of the limited time during which canals can be closed; (iii) prevent
indiscriminate land and water use in the catchment areas which reduce inflow
to the tanks and increase erosion; and (iv) organize an efficient system of
water management. Proper management requires the creation of an awareness in
the farmers to play their role in the distribution of water including
properly maintaining and operating the part of the irrigation system assigned
to their care instead of damaging structures in the false belief that these
obstruct flow. Confidence must also be built among farmers that water will
arrive on time and that distribution will be equitable, the extent to which
demands are met being dependent on water availabiliy of which they would have
advance information. Moreover farmers must be assured that the changes in
cropping practices expected from them will be supported by the necessary
assistance from agencies concerned.
D. Bank Group SuDport for Irrigation Development
2.09    The Bank Group's lending in the agriculture sector is expected to
account for about 33% of the 1985-88 lending program for Sri Lanka. The Bank
and IDA have supported, in the context of the Maha-reli program, one project



-5-
(Lu. 653-CE/Cr. 174-CE - US$14.5 M each) that has been completed, two
projects that are under implementation (Cr. 701-CE, US$19 M, and Cr. 1166-CE,
US$90 M), a fourth project that was recently approved by the Board (Loan
US$12 M and Credit US$30 M), and a technical assistance credit (Cr. 979-CE,
US$3 M) for studies relating to the long-term evolution of the Mahaweli
program. IDA has also financed three water sector projects that have been
completed - Lift Irrigation ICr. 121-CE, US$2 M), Land Reclamation and
Drainage (Cr. 168-CE, US$2.5 M), and the TIMP (Cr. 666-CE, US$5 M) -- as well
as the ongoing VIRP (Cr. 1160-CE, US$30 M). Irrigation rehabilitation has
also been prominent in three ongoing rural development projects (Cr. 891-CE,
US$20 M; Cr. 1079-CE, US$33.5 K; and Cr. 1363-CE, US$26.5 H). In addition,
an on-going Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 931-CE, US$15.5
M) complements the activities under irrigation and other projects.
2.10    The Bank Group has provided extensive support for the irrigation
sector.  Economic returns of two completed irrigation projects have been
satisfactory. Main points from the PPAR (No. 2801 of December 28, 1979) of
the Low Lift Irrigation Project were: (i) deficiency in project design, (ii)
delays in implementation due to civil works procurement delays, (iii) inade-
quate extesion service, and (iv) lack of adequate support services. PPAR
(No. 3730 of December 28, 1981) of Mahaweli I Project brought out:
(i) Although no provision was made to improve agricultural services
the project farmers responded positively to sound technological
package.
(ii) Prevention of encroachment is difficult unless preventive
measures are provided for during project preparation and
appraisal and legal action taken soon as it occurs.
(iii) Water management and maintenance of irrigaton systems not
appreciated during appraisal.
(iv) Farmers open to fair water charges since the privatization of
rice trade and price control abolished.
Continued Bank group support for irrigation projects is justified to ensure
that rehabilitation is done along proper lines, that the lessons from earlier
projects are reflected in system design, operation, and management, and that
the institutional and policy changes proposed by GOSL to improve water
management are implemented. GOSL is giving priority to rehabilitation
projects to maximize returns from past investments in different sectors
including irrigation and Bank group support would go a long way in assisting
GOSL to achieve the rehabilitation targets.



-6-
III. THE PROJECT ARE&S
A. General
3.01    Salient features of the seven tank irrigation systems to be
rehabilitated are given in Annex 3.1, their locations shown on Map 18021, and
the main channels of the system with their irrigated areas presented by line
diagrams in Maps 25845 to 25851.  The total net agricultural area to benefit
from the rehabilitation of the schemes is about 46,000 ha (Kantalai 6,990,
Noraveva 1,960, Iranamadu 9,430, Giant-s 12,460, Rajangana 5,910, Nachchaduwa
5,400, and Raruluwewa 4,090), comprising purana lands traditionally owned and
settled under ancient tanks (about 26,000 ha), and settlement lands settled
more than about 20 years back under Government colonization programs (about
20,000 ha).
B. Topography, Soils, and Climate
3.02    ToDoxraphv.  The area serviced by each system has a typical terrain,
the undulating relief established by streams descending to the sea. The
humps between the streass are conspicuous: land slopes are steeper in the
upper parts of the systen near the tanks, but lower down the valley the area
flattens to a gently sloping plain cut up by a number of shallow streams.
The main canals accordingly run as one-bank contour canals in the upper part
and branch out into branches and distributaries to feed the areas lying
between different streams. The area under the Giaut's Tank is different from
the others and the gently sloping plain right from the Tank needs many canals
originating from the tank itself. Drainage of the areas is generally good,
the natural streams acting as draijs right up to the end of the system,
except in isolated areas where farmers have extended cultivation to beds of
drainage channels.
3.03     Soils. The available soil data is based on a low intensity mapping
except for Kantalai and Rajangana (medium intensity). Soils under the
Giaut's system are mostly grumusols and alluvial. Both are underlain by
alluvial sands at 5 to 10 meters' depth. Grumusols (clay loan to clay) are
characterized by low permeability and high available water and are very
suitable for rice cultivation but need puddling for land preparation.
Alluvial soils (sandy clay loam to sandy clays) have higher infiltration
rates and less available water. Rowever, these soils are also being used
entirely for paddy cultivation.  Iranamadu soils are alluvial (deep sandy,
shallov to moderately deep sandy) and clayey. The alluvial soils occur at
higher levels. These permit tillage under dry conditions, can be maintained
under saturated conditions because of clays below, and are therefore used
exrensively for rice in Maha. The clayey soils occur in valleys. These are
hard when dry and need puddling for land preparation. Rantalai. Nachchaduwa.
*   Raiauzana. Huruluvewa. and Morawewa soils are reddish brown earths (RBE), lov
humic gley (LEG), and alluvial. RBE occur on the upper slopes and are well
drained because underlain by sandy clay loams.and gravel layers of variable
thickness are commonly met. LEG soils occur in bottomlands. These are deep
soils (grey to dark grey sandy clay loams) with poor drainage and have high



-7-
water table suited for paddy; they are extremely hard vhen dry but when wet
change to sticky and plastic. The area under alluvial saile is significant
only in Kantalai, where these soils are poorly drained and are suitable for
paddy.
3.04    Climate.  The dry zone of Sri Lanka is divided into eight
agro-ecological zones designated by the Land and Water Use Division of the
Department of Agriculture, and the project area lies in four of these: DL 1
(Rajangana, Nachchaduwa, Korawewa, and Huruluwewa), DL 2 (Kantalai), DL 3
(Transmadu), and DL 4 (Giant's Tank). The climatic characteristics of these
zones are given in Annex 3.2. Annual pan evaporation varies between 1,550
and 1,800 am (61.4 and 70.7 inches), while annual 75X availability rainfall
varies from 625 to 965 mm (24.6 to 37.9 inches). Evaporation is at a maximum
in the months of June, July, and August (150 to 200 mm per month) vhen rain-
fall is practically nil.  Rainfall is maximum in October, November, and
December (120 to 225 mm per month), and in these months evaporation is close
to rainfall (75 to 190 am per month). The rainfall pattern, however, is
quite variable, and extended droughts occur even during the rainy season.
C. Population and Landownership
3.05    Population.  About 34,400 farm families, or a total population of
about 193,000, depend on the seven irrigation systems. About 68% of the
project area population is under 30 years of age, about half of these 15
years of age or younger. Literacy exceeds 90% (those having more than five
years primary education). Annex 3.3 gives the details of the popula,ion and
labor force.
3.06    Land tenure.  The landownership varies from system to system (Annex
3.4, Table 1). Most farmers of purana laud have title deeds. The title
deeds have also been issued to settlers on some of the older colonization
schemes (notably Iranamadu which is 80 years old). In contrast, recent
(about 20 years old) settlers have been issued Land Development Ordinance
(LDO) permits. These permits are also normally given to encroachers, whose
holdings are later regularized, and to others receiving state lands. Lands
held under an LDO permit cannot be sublet or sold without Government concur-
rence, although these lands can be inherited. In practice, however, unoffi-
cial leasing, sale, and other arrangements are common, with the original
settler often remaining effectively as a laborer on his own land. Leasing of
Land accounts for the relatively high proportion of leased-in land (20-30x)
in Iranamadu, Kantalai, and Nachchaduwa. Illegal encroachments are quite
comnon and account for about 10-20% of the area commanded (see Annex 3.1).
3.07    Average holdings of paddyland (reported by the socioeconomic survey)
range from 3.2 ha in Giant's Tank to 0.9 ha in Rajangana (Annex 3.4, Table
2). Settlers on early colonization schemes (notably Iranamadu) were given 2
ha, but in later colonizaton schemes allotment to settlers was reduced to 1.2
ha (Kantalai, Huruluveva, and parts of Moraweva) and then to 0.8 ha (the rest
of Noravewa and Rajangana). The distribution of landholdings tends to be
more variable and inequitable on systems with a high proportion of purana



lands (Giant's Tank, Iranamadu, Kantalai, and Nachchaduwa) than on those
having higher proportion of colonization settlement lands. In addition to
their paddyland, most farmers also hold an average of 0.5 ha in the highland,
while in Anuradhapura district some farmers also cultivate chena land. Chena
cultivatioa, however, is significant only in the Huruluweva area, where about
25% of all farmers report an average of 1.5 acres each.
D.  Croppiun  Practices
3.08    HIaha Cropping Patterns. Practices, and Yields.  The universal maha
crop is paddy, and the large majority (95% or more) of farmers use improved
new varieties issued by the Department of Agriculture. Decisions on the
timing of cultivation and related issues are taken at the preseason cultiva-
tion meeting, attended by the farmers and representatives of concerned
Government agencies and chaired by the Government Agent. Given the
unreliability of rainfall, the timing of cultivation always remains flexible
and the normal practice is to delay cultivation until a certain water storage
is available in the tanks. These cultivation meetings are very useful but
abnormal delays in arrival of rain sometimes upsets the decisions completely.
3.09    Cultivation practices vary considerably between the extremes repre-
sented by those of Iranamadu and Rajangana:
o   Iranamadu.  The farmers under this system are predominantly
large-scale (relatively) and commercially oriented. The soils
(para 3.03) permit dry land preparation and dry sowing thus
utilizing maha rainfall fully in about 80-85% of the maha crop
area. This significantly reduces use of stored water, but
necessitates heavy weeding inputs. This agricultural practice is
possible for those farmers with the financial resources to hire
tractor services for land preparation. Labor is predominantly
hired (85-90X), fertilizer use and chemical weed/pest control
are virtuilly universal, and a large portion (85-90%) of
production is sold.
O   Raiangana.  Farmers on this system are predominantly small-scale
and subsistence oriented. Land preparation is normally delayed
until water is available from the tank, since soils are less
suited to dry cultivation and farmers lack the resources for
tractor hire. Land preparation is predom;mantly with buffalo,
and a small proportion (25%) of the area is transplanted.
Fertilizer use and chemical treatments are universal, but input
levels are significantly lower than in Iranamadu.  Family labor
contributes more than 50% of the total, and the proportion of
output sold is relatively low (55-60%).
These differences in crop practice result from (i) the different water supply
situation (fairly good in Rajangana, relatively short in Iranamadu), (ii) the
soil conditions, and (iii) the economic status of the farmers. These factors
also influence practices on other systems. The uncertainty of supplies in



-9-
Giant-s Tank encourages cultivation of minor tank beds (at minimal input
levels) in advance of filling, as well as considerable dry land preparation
(where soil conditions permit) and transplanting (over 50X of the area, often
utilizing groundwater for establishing the nurseries).  Water shortages at
Noravewa have discouraged use of inputs (being the lowest of the seven sys-
tems), but have encouraged land preparation and cultivation in advance of
water issue.
3.10    Yala Crops. Yala croppiug has also traditionally been dominated by
paddy, eveu under conditions of water constraint and even on permeable soils
unsuited to paddy. The area planted in Yala is decided at the preseason
cultivation meeting, taking into account the water remaining in the tank
after the end of maha. Cultivation rights are sometimes redistributed under
the bethma system 1/ to ensure that all share equitably in the permissible
crop area. If adequate water is available, yields in Yala can be somewhat
higher than in maha, but in general agricultural practices appear to be
fairly comparable in the two seasons. Although paddy remains the main yala
crop, some diversification has been attempted, most notably in Hurluwewa,
where successful soya crops were grown in 1981 (over lOZ of the area) and
1983 (over 40Z of the area), and in Iranamadu, where chillies and oilseed
crops are increasingly being grown.
E. Irrization Constraints to Croppin2
3.11    Water Availability and Cropping Intensities.  The intensity of crop-
ping and crop yields on the tank-fed irrigation systems are directly related
to the availability of water (catcbment yield, transfer of supplies from
neighboring basins) and the storage capacity of tanks to balance runoff with
crop requirements. Runoff from the catcbments varies widely from year to
year, and the unreliability of supplies places a major constraint on the
stabilization of cropped areas. Inter basin transfer of water has therefore
been practiced, wherever possible, to augment the inflow to the tanks. The
biggest of these transfers has been the diversion from the Nahaweli basin to
a number of existing and new tanks in the dry zone. Hap 26292 shows
schematically the diversion path of Mahaweli supplies to the three project
tanks, which receive direct supplies and to another project tank receiving
supplies through return flows, from Mahaweli area. The systems receiving
allocations from the Nahaweli could in theory approach cropping intensities
of 200% (GOSL's long-term objective). Simulation studies of the Mahaweli
system done by NEDECO indicated that double cropping on all systems down-
stream of Polgolla Tunnel (a total of 83,600 ha, including 22,400 ha under
the four MIRP schemes) is possible with an average annual diversion through
Under the bethma system, land rights are temporarily suspended to allow
all farmers to share cultivation in proportion to the land owned in the
area cultivated, which is usually located near the tank. The system
evolved in traditional farmer-operated schemes but has been transferred
to major settlement schemes.



-10-
the tunnel of 875 MCM. 1/ This analysis, however, assumed much greater
system efficiencies than have so far been achieved. In practice, despite
diversions that have exceeded this figure, cropping intensities in recent
years have fallen well short of 100% during yala. Cropping intensities on
the systems outside the Mahaveli specification area remAin low due to
shortage of water in yala. High evaporation from the tanks reduces the
availability of water for the crops even if the tanks have leftover storage
after maha.
F. Agricultural Institutions, Research. Inputs, and Credit
3.12    Agricultural Institutions.  Sri Lanka's agriculture is supported by a
profusion of Government institutions and organizations at the national,
district, and local level. The most significant of these for the project
are:
o   The Ministry of Lands and Land Development (NLLD), which
is responsible (outside areas administered by the Mahaweli
Authority): (i) through the Irrigation Department (ID), for
irrigation development; (ii) through the Land Commissioner's
Department (LCD), for land settlement and administration; and
(iii) through the Forestry Department (FD), for all forestry
matters including catchnent management;
o   The Ministry of A2ricultural Development and Research (MADR)
which is responsible: (i) through the Department of Agriculture
(DA), for research and extension in relation to field crops; and
(ii) through the Department of Agrarian Services (DAS), for
input supply, the administration of tenancy legislation, minor
irrigation, the election of village irrigation headmen, and a
range of other supporting activities; and
o   The District Authorities, notably the Revenue Department headed
by the Government Agent, which is legally responsible for land
allocation within a district, revenue collection (including water
charges), the convening of preseason cultivation meetings, etc.;
and the District Development Councils chaired by the District
Minister, together with the District Agricultural Committees
(DACs), which are responsible for coordinating irrigation and
agricultural matters at the district level.
3.13    Research and Extension.  The DA conducts research on paddy, other
annual field crops, and minor export (perennial) crops. It maintains a
Central Rice Experimental Station and a network of five Regional Research
Centers and twelve branch stations. Sri Lanka has a strong rice breeding
1/ NEDECO: Mahaweli Ganga Implementation Strategy Study: Final Report,
July 1980.



-ll-
program. In recent years, research on other field crops suited for irrigated
agriculture has been stepped up. National Coordinated Research Programs have
now been launched for a number of crops (including soya, pulses, maize) in
association vith international and bilateral research organizations. Under
the IDA-supported Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research (ARAR) Project
(Cr.931-CE), a major adaptive research program incorporating trials on
farmers' fields is being undertaken. The DA's agricultural extension divi-
sion is also being supported under the AFAR project through the "Training and
Visit" (T&V) system. The number of extension staff is programmed to increase
to provide one field extension worker for 600 farm families against 1,000
before the project began.
3.14    Agricultural Inputs and Marketing.  The policy changes introduced by
the present Government since 1977 have liberalized the marketing and dis-
tribution of agricultural inputs and outputs, greatly expanding the alterna-
tive channels open to the farmer. Fertilizer is imported mainly by the
Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation, and both imports and local production are
distributed through a variety of channels, including private traders, multi-
purpose cooperatives, and the Agrarian Service Centers (ASCs) of the DAS.
Fertilizer subsidies relative to import prices have been substantially
reduced in recent years, but they still r-Ain significant (Annex 8.2 gives
the financial and economic prices) and have contributed to a substantial
increase in fertilizer use on paddy. Agro-chemicals, imported by the private
sector and the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, are freely available at import
parity prices, and are universally used in the project area (para 3.09).
About 15Z of the annual seed paddy requirement is produced by the DA on its
network of seed farms and in conjunction with private certified seed growers
and is distributed through the ASCs. About 50% of all seed is retained by
the farmers from their own output, with the balance coming from other farmers
and traders.  Seed for other crops, although not so readily available as for
paddy, is also available from DA sources, and improved non-rice seeds are
still largely to be developed. Tractor services are widely available in the
private sector, and tractor imports have largely responded to market demand.
Hire charges have, however, risen substantially, leading also to significant
increases in hire charges for buffalo.
3.15    GOSL operates a guaranteed price support scheme (GPS) for both paddy
and a range of subsidiary field crops (including oilseeds and pulses). For
paddy, prices have been adjusted to levels broadly comparable to world market
levels. Together with the impact of the Government's liberalization reforms,
this price adjustment has led to a major shift to private marketing and
distribution, and farmers are now served by a flexible and efficient private
sector, with prices guaranteed by an effective support system operated by the
*   Paddy Marketing Board (PHB).  In contrast, marketing of other crops is much
less certain: markets tend to be narrow, prices fluctuate significantly in
relation to supply conditions, and overall price levels for many commodities
are kept relatively low. Depressed prices are attributable to competition
from coconut products (prices of which are depressed by significant export
duties and trade controls, affecting in particular oilseeds and fodder crops)
and to trading and exchange rate policies (affecting particularly the export



-12-
items such as chillies, onions, and pulses). Some broadening of market
outlets has occurred - for instance, through the commissioning of
soya-processing facilities (soya has major long-term potential), and PMB is
strengthening its role in price support programs. Nevertheless, further
developments and policy changes will be necessary before the risks associated
with these other field crops are reduced to levels comparable to those for
paddy.
3.16    Axricultural Credit.  Although price incentives will be the primary
determinant of farmers' willingness to introduce better methods, the weak
performance of agricultural credit institutions in Sri Lanka has also
affected the adoption of improved cropping practices. Institutional credit
is handled primarily by the two state-owned commercial banks, the People's
Bank (PB) and the Bank of Ceylon (BC).  PB operates through :ulti-purpose
Cooperative Societies and their banking divisions called Rural Banks. BC
operates directly, in particular through its branches in ASCs. National
agricultural credit policy is established by a Rural Credit Advisory Board,
chaired by the Governor of the Central Bank, with the Central Bank's Depart-
ment of Rural Credit functioning as the secretariat. The major problem has
been high default rates on agricultural loans. Reliable figures for defaults
are not available; BC and PB reporting about 16% default (not considering
about 54% delays in payment as default). The situation was aggravated during
maha of 1977-78, when GOSL instructed the banks to relax lending criteria.
To improve loan recovery, lending criteria were tightened in 1979, and the
volume of lending fell sharply. The banks are trying to regularize their
position, but the overall situation remains somewhat unsatisfactory.
Agricultural credit is being improved with support from the Asian Development
Bank.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
4.01    The project's main objectives are to increase agricultural production
under the seven major irrigation systems and to introduce an effective
program for their integrated management, in general through:
o   The rehabilitation of the systems for optimum utilization of
available water; and
o   Support for the Program for Integrated Management of Major
Irrigation Systems (INMAS) at national level, and specially
for the rehabilitated systems to ensure proper operation and
maintenance (O&M) and distribution of irrigation supplies and
the complementary programming of agricultural activities and
inputs.



-13-
B. Proiect Components
4.02    The project components are broken down by implementing agency to
identify clearly responsibilities and to facilitate allotment of funds.
Ministry of Lands and Land Development (Base Cost US$1.26 N)
4.03    MLLD will be responsible for INNAS, which is a national program and
has been designed to meet the needs of integrated management, drawing on the
experience of methods of water allocation and distribution (Minipe), institu-
tion building (Gal Oya), diagnostic approach to field problems (Rajangana and
Kala Weva), and the resolution of problems encountered (Twenty-five Project
Management).  The program will establish an organization mainly compris,ng
conuittees of farmers representatives and concerned government officials at
various levels (Field channel, Distributary, and Project) and skeleton
management staff to:
(a) Schedule agricultural cropping patterns and activities includ-
ing input availability, in relation to the physical character-
istics of a particular system so as to maximize agricultural
output;
(b) Plan distribution of water among the farmers in accordance
with their needs and in conformity vith crop and soil require-
ments, allocating shortages in supply in the best interest of
agricultural production;
Cc) Activate maintenance programs and ensure that farmers fulfill
their maintenance obligations defined under the new management
program;
(d) Ensure that farmers' discipline is maintained ia preserving
the irrigation network (especially in years of short supply),
emphasizing cooperation and participation but if necessary
enforcing legal actions to control damage to system or
unauthorized water use;
(e) Arrange GOSL allotment of adequate funds for O&K and make these
available to ID according to an agreed program;
(f) Propose to GOSL water charges to be levied, gradually changing
these to reflect irrigation service provided, through different
rates for each crop and varying with crop seasons, and ensure
timely payment of water charges by the farmers;
(g) Establish criteria and assessing system performance, both on
the water distribution system and on-farm, in each crop season;
and



-14-
(h) Monitor and evaluate socioeconelmlc and agricultural benefits
resulting from rehabilitation and integrated magement.
4.04    All cultivation activities (crop calendar, choice of crops, input
servicing, credit and marketing) will be linked to water management through
the Project Manager (PK) approach, thus strengthening the farmers and manage-
ment decision making for seasonal (based on anticipated inflows) and
within-season (in response to rainfall) water utilization.  For long term
needs of integrated management, a team of specialists with close liaison with
the specialists working in the line agencies would identify actions to be
taken and recommend measures for implementation. These specialists would
also provide technical support and guidance to PM.  INMAS would thus improve
coordination between ID personnel operating and maintaining the irrigation
systems, other line agencies staff providing agricultural services and
inputs, and the farmers. Line agencies would continue to have their separate
identities; line agency staff would retain their career prospects in the
parent departments, but their functional responsibility for a specific
irrigated area vould be guided and monitored by PM. Farmer organizations
would be promoted through Institutional Officers (10) attached to PM, and
farmer decision making for cropping patterns, inputs, and rotations of
irrigation supplies as well as participation in scheme management would be
encouraged. District level concerns would be coordinated through the DAC.
A special subcommittee of DAC, with the Regional Deputy Director (DD) of
Irrigation as Secretary, will be responsible for resolution of the project
problems. Interaction with the Executive Committee of the Development Coun-
cil would be established by suitable representation in this subcommittee. At
the national level, an Irrigation Management DivisiontIND) has been created
in the MLLD, and the Division Director has been appointed. The team of
specialists will be located in this division. The organization for IND is
given in Chart 26291.
4.05    To assure smooth cooperation, the MLLD has defined the pattern of
working of IMD and its relationships with various line agencies, ID in par-
ticular. However, working relationships would take time to establish and
periodic reviev of the system would be necessary to establish if management
objectives were met and whether changes were required. Assurances have been
obtained that GOSL shall conduct a mid-term review to determine the effec-
tiveness of the administrative changes introduced in respect of INMAS, and a
report on the findings of such review shall be furnished to IDA not later
than December 31, 1987.
4.06    The project will finance: ti) investment costs for setting up InD
such as (a) the office and audiovisual training equipment, (b) vehicles for
staff movement, and (c) buildings for the project staff where available
buildings fall short of requirements; (ii) recurrent costs for staff and
office costs for the duration of the project; and (iii) training and research
studies: (a) induction training of 27 IOs, (b) training of 7 PM; in basic
management, farmer organizations and coordination, techniques of monitoring
and evaluation, (c) training of 120 field staff in farmer organizations and
O&M, (d) seminars for district level staff, (e) training of farmers, and (f)



-15-
research studies for specific problems related to water management to be
conducted by the Department of Agriculture. Local training will be given at
the Agrarian Research and Training Institue (ARTI), Project for Advancement
of Settlement Expertise (PASE), and the various institutes for agriculture;
overseas training will be arranged at Irrigation Projects/Institutes con-
nected with water management. The IND cost is estimated at Rs 50.34 million.
Irrigation Degartuent (Base cost US$26.54 M)
4.07    ID will be responsible for the rehabilitation of works, the main
component of the project. Rehabilitation of the tanks and the irrigation
network has been planned in accordance with the criteria given in Annex 4.1.
The irrigated area under each system will include areas irrigated by the main
tank, by subsidiary tanks in the same hydrological system, by feeder channels
to the tanks, and by return drainage flows, but will exclude the areas under
lift irrigation, Government agriculture farms, and under sugarcane cultiva-
tion by the Sugar Factory. The channels for irrigation in Government farms
and industrial estates will be rehabilitated by the respective owners at
their expense, and GOSL would make this rehabilitation requirement a condi-
tion for continuation of irrigation supplies. Areas served by the lift
irrigation systems are not being irrigated due to farmers' lack of interest
in paying for diesel oil or electricity. GOSL has been considering various
possibilities for utilizing these facilities including handing over lift
irrigation facilities to the farmers. Assurances have been obtained that
GOSL shall, by December 31, 1985, furnish to IDA for its review a program for
the utilization of lift irrigation systems and shall take necessary action to
implement said program, as agreed by IDA, by June 30, 1986.
4.08    A pilot program (Annex 4.1) will be included in the rehabilitation to
ascertain the impact of technological improvements in control of irrigation
supplies on about 150 to 200 ha in each of four selected systems. The pilot
program will make no changes in the system layout, but works will be modified
to include the technological improvements for better control on water levels
in the channels and flow through offtakes and farm turnouts. An expatriate
consultant will be engaged for about 4 months to assist ID in preparing type
designs and implementation of improved works. Assessment of im;act would be
an important aspect of the pilot program. It would also be necessary to make
the farmers fully aware of the provisions in the pilot area through special
contacts, so that there will be no tendency on their part to damage the
structures. Special staff will be required to distribute water in the ini-
tial stages until the farmer groups take over distribution.   Data will be
collected by the same staff to monitor the comparative advantages or disad-
vantages of the pilot area over the conventional area, in accordance with a
program agreed by IDA.  Assurances have been obtained that in order to make
the farmers familiar with the pilot area program, GOSL shall deploy, by
September 30, 1986, additional staff in the pilot areas. GOSL shall collect
data on the relative performance of the pilot program, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA, and shall, by December 31, 1987, furnish to IDA
the data collected.



-16-
4.09    Rehabilitation work would involve measures for (a) increasing irriga-
tion water availability, assuring safety of storage works, and minimizing
losses on feeder canals, and (b) improving the channels network to assure
adequate capacity to deliver the required supplies throughout the command,
better control on distribution of water, and drainage. Rehabilitation of
storage works and feeder canals includes:
(i)    Kantalai System - improvement of drainage of top of dam and
downstream slope, removing trees on dam which can be removed
without endangering safety and repairing gullies, and improv-
ing Mineriya - Kantalai feeder channel bringing Mahaweli
supplies to the system, as well as strengthening upstream face
protection of Wan Ela Tank and increasing capacity of its
feeder channel;
(ii)   Iranamadu System - raising the full supply level by one foot
to utilize part of the spill (about 30% of inflow), repairs to
spillway damage (1984 floods), and providing inverted filter
at dam toe in areas showing seepage;
(iii)  Giant's System - raising the full supply level of tank by one
foot and remodelling the tank feeder for 28.3 m3/sec (1,000
cfs) to divert to the tank part of the spill at Tekkam anicut
(about 40% of inflow);
(iv)   Rajangana System - additional riprap on the upstream face of
Angamuwa Dam;
(v)    Nachchaduwa System - improvement of the tank feeder bringing
Mahaweli supplies and its connection with the upper left bank
canal; and
gvi)   the Huruluwewa System - improvement of tank feeder bringing
Mahaweli supplies.
Channel network rehabilitation would include raising banks wherever
needed to assure safety at maximum discharge, erosion protection, and works
for controlling and measuring the flow. A sinmary of main works required and
the total cost of rehabilitation of each system is given below:



-17-
Remodelling
Existing                        Total J
Net                and New   Improved  Improved   Rehab.
System        Area   Earthwork   Structures Offtakes  Turnouts   Cost    Cost/Ra
(ha)   (000' m )      (nos)     (nos)       (nos)   (Rs M)    (US$)
Kantalai     6,990       350        154         356       4,590    100.3      560
Morawewa     1,960        35         64         163       1,345      27.6     550
Iranamadu    9,430       920        227         311       1,632    171.9      709
Giant's     12,460    1,850         294         754       8,461    192.9      602
Rajangana    5,910       680        168          29       6,545    151.9   1,000
Nachchaduva  5,400       450        112         145       1,463    147.6   1,064
Huruluwewa   4,090       250         49          84       2,591      58.6     557
Total   46,240     4,535       1,068       1,842      26,627    850.8      720
sJ  Includes modifications to structures in pilot areas, and contingencies
(Annex 5.1, and Annex 5.2, Table 2)
4.10    Facilites needed to rehabilitate the works and for maintenance
thereafter will be created under the project. These include:
(a) Equipment for (a) supplementing the available construction
machinery to allow simultaneous work on all the seven schemes
(Rs 182.81 million, or US$6.65 M), (b) strengthening capacity
for transport of materials for the operation and maintenance
(Rs 12.76 million, or US$0.46 M), (c) hydrological data collec-
tion and modelling of systems (Rs 3.94 million, or US$0.14 N),
(d) surveys and designs (Rs 3.22 million, or (US$0.12 M), and
(e) quality control laboratory (Rs 0.67 million, or US$0.02 M)
as well as vehicles (Rs 9.11 million, or US$0.33 M).
Cb) Buildings (7 for Technical Assistants, 6 for Work Supervisors,
and 5 for operators) to supplement the available residential
accommodation for O&M (R. 6.79 million, or US$0.25 M).
(c) Surveys, aerial and soil, for preparatory work for planning rehab-
ilitation are currently financed under VIRP (Credit 1160-CE);
funds will be provided under the project to complete the remain-
ing surveys (Rs 1.93 million, or US$0.07 million).
(d) Technical Assistance. (a) Consultancy to develop hydrological
models for each scheme permitting use of microcomputers (Rs 4.27
million, or Us$0.16 H); (b) an expatriate consultant for 4 months
for the pilot program (Rs 2.00 million, or US$0.07 M); (c) an
expatriate systems management consultant for a period of about
18 months (Rs 4.33 million, or US$0.16 M) to provide technical
guidance to rehabilitation (the consultant has already been
engaged on terms of reference agreed by IDA and is currently



-18-
financed under VIRP, Credit 1160-CE, for a period of six months,
which excludes 18 months under the project); and (d) local
consultants to be employed for recommending and implementing
measures for improving the management information and project
accounting (terms of reference have already been agreed by IDA;
expected cost is Rs 9.99 million, or US$0.36 X over a period of
5 years).
te) Trainint. The project will finance training of ID staff locally
as well as send a few selected persons overseas for specific
training in India, Pakistan, Thailand, Philippines, and Great
Britain. Two engineers will pursue post-graduate degree course
in hydrology and water resources development. Training is
estimated to cost Rs 10.96 million, or US$0.39 M.
Land Ccomissioner's Department (Base cost US$0.72 N).
4.11    LCD would be responsible for regularizing farmers encroacbments on
adjacent lands, clearly defining irrigation rights, and major repairs to LCD
roads in the project area. Encroachments (Para 3.06) need to be regularized
to clearly establish the area irrigated under each system. For safety of
structures and convenience of O&M operations, certain land encroachments have
to be cleared, which is an integral part of rehabilitation work. Land owner-
ships have to be ex3mined and regularized (specially in Moraweva) where
original settlers, to whom land was allotted, left the area due to water
shortages and their lands were taken over by others in unauthorized manner.
Irrigation rights are generally clear, but uncertainty exists in some areas
such as the relative rights of purana and settlement lands and the priority
for the Sugar Corporation in Kantalai. Repairs to LCD roads would improve
the movement of agricultural products and inputs between the farms and the
market. The project would finance: (i) the incremental costs of LCD's
operations (Rs 1.25 million, or US$0.5 M) to regularize landholdings under
this project; (ii) purchase of two jeeps (Rs 0.72 million, or US$0.03 N); and
(iii) repair of 35 miles of gravel-topped LCD roads and 255 miles of unpaved
LCD roads (Rs 29.67 million, or US$1.06 N).
Department of Agriculture (Base cost US$0.32 M).
4.12    The Department of Agriculture would be responsible for conducting
studies on catchment management and on-farm water management. The study for
catchment management (which would be conducted on Nachchaduva and Noravewa
catcbments) would provide (i) the basic information needed to model the
catchment water balance which will be used to develop the water balance
simulation models of each system, (ii) the pattern on which catchment manage-
ment organization should be developed so as to ensure erosion control as well
as allocation of water and lands to different uses to maintain availability
of sufficient runoff at the major tanks, and Ciii) changes to existing legis-
lation, if necessary, to provide the legal means to ensure proper catchment
management. Unless efficient catchment management is established, upper
vater use could seriously reduce the availability of water to any system.



-19-
On-farm water management studies vill be conducted in selected areas compris-
ing small hydrological units to provide a clear understanding of the utiliza-
tion of applied water and of measures to improve the efficiency of utiliza-
tion. The project would finance (i) incremental staff and other costs (Rs
7.69 million, or US$0.27), (ii) equipment for data collection, computer for
data processing and modelling, (Rs 3.32 million, or US$0.12 N), (iii) pur-
chase of 3 jeeps (Rs 1.16 million, or US$0.04 K); and (iv) training of a few
staff in foreign centers involved in similar studies (Rs 1.02 million, or
US$0.04 M). Assurances have been Obtained that GOSL shall not permit any
further development of irrigation by tanks or diverions veirs in the catch-
ment areas of the seven irrigation systems included in the project, and no
diversions, other than the existing, from Nalwatu Oya shall be allowed
upstream of diversion weir at Tekkam. GOSL shall, by December 31, 1987
furnish to IDA its proposal for organizational set up, including legal
framework, for proper catcbment control.
Department of Asrarian Services (Base cost US$0.34 M).
4.13    In order to assure that farmers will have adequate and timely
availability of agricultural inputs, additional facilities need to be
provided. The DAS has established additional requirements (after detailed
review of existing facilities) of agrarian service centers (ABCs) and stores
for fertilizer and other inputs that would be needed so that their respon-
sibility towards INNAS is properly fulfilled in the Project area. These are
Ci) one ASC (IranamAdu), 35 fertilizer or seed stores of different
capacities, and 5 garages (Rs 8.40 million, or US$0.30 M); and (ii) purchase
of 3 pickups, 2 jeeps, 17 motorcycles, and 42 bicycles (Rs 4.07 million, or
US$0.15 M) for improving movement of staff and emergency supplies, which will
be financed under the project. Motorcycles and bicycles will be purchased by
the designated DAS personnel against money advanced to them by DAS.
University of Peradeniva (Base cost US$0.12 M).
4.14    UOP will be commissioned to follow up on their initial baseline
socioeconomic surveys with two further studies:
(a) A mid-term evaluation of project implementation, including
assessment of farmers participation in and attitudes toward the
rehabilitation process, with the aim of making recommendations
for corrections, if any, and
tb) An evaluation study following completion of the works, which
would be used for the preparation of the project completion
report.
MLLD would assign staff to work with UOP in the data collection. The project
would finance (i) the incremental staff costs of MLLD (Rs 1.15 million, or
US$0.04 M); (ii) procurement of a jeep (Rs 0.4 million, or US$0.02 M) and
a photocopier (Rs 0.1 million, or US$0.004 M); and (iii) the consultancy
costs of UOP (Rs 4.23 million, or US$0.15 M).



-20-
International Irritation Mana2ement Institute (IInI) (Base cost US$0.77 M).
4.15    III, having the goal of enhancement of independent national
capacities to improve the performance of irrigation systems with special
emphasis ou irrigation management, was recommended by the "Study Team on
Irrigation Management", constituted by CGIAR in 1981. IIM is currently
funded by a Support Group comprising 11 members iucluding ADB, Ford Founda-
tion, IFAD, Rockefeller Foundation, USAID and GOSL. Its charter ba8 been
approved in the fourth meeting of the Support Group (May 22, 1984). IMT is
programmed to mainly (i) conduct multidisciplinary research jointly with
national agencies using irrigation systems as laboratory, (ii) contribute to
professional development through training and short study courses, and (ii)
prepare and diseminate research and training materials. The network approach
for IINI proposed by the CGIAR Study Team has been further detailed by the
"Working Group on Participating and Cooperating units and other Methods of
Collaboration' formed by the IIMT Board at its first meeting. Recommenda-
tions of this Working Group generally involve (a) establishment of about four
branches in different parts of the World with which IItH (located in Sri
Lanka) will have extensive interaction, the first to be established in Pakis-
tan by the end of 1984, (b) establishment of a network with participating
institutions in 10 to 15 locations using a shared methodology and common
focus under IIMI sponsorship and guidance, and (c) promotion of exchanges
between Ina1 and institutions in several countries. IIn is expected to
start functioning in Sri Lanka by the end of 1984, GOSL having agreed to
renovate and expand existing housing and other facilities at Digama (near
Kandy) and construct new facilities at field sites. RDI is planning to have
its "Irrigation Management Course" for participants from South Asia region at
II( in early 1985. The facilities at Kandy would include offices for the
permanent and visiting staff, a data-processing and computer center, con-
ference rooms and classrooms, staff residences and a guest house, and
auxiliary facilities. Facilities at field sites would include offices for
staff, office equipment, a guest house, and residential quarters. The
project would finance the GOSL contribution to the creation of these
facilities which will be implemented by the Irrigation Department and MASL.
The establishment of IIMT in Sri Lanka would be in the project's interest and
INMAS could benefit considerably from IIMI advice, especially if one of the
field sites of IIMI is identified at one of the project schemes. Estimated
cost is Rs 27.29 million, or US$0.99 M.
C. Water Availability
4.16    Nahaweli Supplies.  Nahaweli supplies diverted through the Polgolla
tunnel directly augment the inflow from the tank catchments in the case of
Kantalai, Huruluweva, and Nachchaduva, while return flow from area H
(irrigated from Nahaweli supplies) augments the inflow to Rajangana. Allot-
ment of Mahaweli supplies to all the irrigation systems receiving Nahaweli
support is studied every year by the Water Management Secretariat (WMS) of
the Mahaveli Authority of Sri Lanka (NASL). Allotments are determined before
the maha and yala seasons, when cropping patterns are determined from the



-21-
availability of water in the tanks at the beginning of the seasons, with an
expectation of inflow corresponding to 80Z probability of rainfall. The
allotments are subsequently reviewed every month. Actual issues are based on
ten-day reviews by WKS, which are approved by the Director General of MASL.
Since 1976, when Polgolla became operational, annual diversions have
generally exceeded 1,000 MCM. These diversion were possible because irriga-
tion and power demands on the Mahaweli had not developed. The situation
would change with the completion of Kotmale (scheduled for 1984), Victoria
(scheduled for 1985), and Randenigala (scheduled for 1986) reservoirs on the
Mahaweli, and power generation at these dams would create a conflict of
interest. Therefore, the cropping patterns on the three Mahaveli fed systems
will have to be developed on an average of 875 MCM (a range of 675 to 1100
MCN depending on dry or wet year) annual diversion through Polgolla tunnel
(para 3.11).
4.17    The releases from Mahaweli reach the tanks through long feeder chan-
nels that are partly natural streams.  The feeders often pass through small
village tanks or supply unauthorized water to such tanks for irrigating local
areas. Unauthorized direct tappings for irrigation are also common.
Nahaveli releases for the tanks are thus reduced en route. To control such
unauthorized use, the ID has recently issued orders that the management
responsible for 0&M of tanks would also be responsible for the O&M of feeder
channels (other than those maintained by Mahaweli). ID would in addition
introduce a system of monitoring the efficiency of transmission of the feeder
channels. Assurances have been obtained that GOSL shall make adequate arran-
gements to determine the efficiency of transmission of Mahaweli supplies by
the feeder channels to the project area in each crop season by appropriate
gauging of supplies at control poiats, and shall furnish a report to IDA
within 3 months after each crop season.
4.18    Water Balance Studies.  For each scheme, the ECL has studied the
shortages that will be faced in irrigating different cropping patterns given
the water availability (based on 30 years of inflow data, improved by cor-
relation techniques, and rainfall runoff relationships) including Mahaveli
diversions and existing tank capacities, after the communal and industrial
water demands are fully met. Annex 4.2 simmarizes the main results. The
scope of ECL studies is being enlarged to cover the entire area under each
interconnected system (earlier studies were for main tanks only which cover
most of the area). The studies will continue till finalization of simulation
models. The criteria for establishing an acceptable cropping pattern is a
shortage of water in only 4 years out of 30 years, after permitting control-
led deficits of 30% when reservoir storage goes below 30%. Such criteria
though somewhat arbitrary, are reasonable and attempt to rationalize the
planning for tank fed irrigation in Sri Lanka. Based on the hydrological
studies, the assured cropping intensities with the project have been taken
as: Kantalai, 150%; Huruluwewa, 150%; Nachchaduwa, 150Z; Rajangana, 188%;
Iranamadu, 143%; Giant, 95%; and Morawewa, 150%. Annex 7.1 gives the present
and anticipated cropping intensities with and without the project.



-22-
D.  Status of Project PreParation
4.19    The preparatory work for the implementation of the project is well
advanced. Detailed planning for rehabilitation and detailed designs are
progressing well on realistic assumptions for land areas. These assumptions
will be confirmed by aerial surveys, for which flying has been done. Staff
for the preparation of designs has been posted in the field divisions. Con-
struction drawings are in progress and will be completed for the first-year
works by end of September 1984. No land has to be acquired. Transfer of
equipment with necessary operating staff Arom completed projects and comple-
tion of tender formalities for contract works will be achieved in time for
commencement of work after the maha rains of 1984-85. The project is there-
fore well prepared to start rehabilitation works from Juae 1985, when local
funds would be available.
E. Implementation Schedule
4.20    Rehabilitation of systems will be carried out simultaneously on all
the schemes and phased over six years (Annex 4.3). Each year, the program on
an individual system would cover the complete rehabilitation of a section of
the system. Areas thus developed yearly would be:
Area Rehabilitated (ha)
Scheme                  1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1990    Total
Ksantalai                308   1,541   1,391   2,043   1,048       659   6,990
Morawewa                 265     464      710     341     180       -    1,960
Iranamadu                700     900   1,500   2,000   2,200   2,130   9,430
Giant'8 Tank             475   1,858   2,958   3,603   1,500   2,066  12,460
Rajangana                684     948   1,207   1,345      936      790   5,910
Nachchaduwa              250   1,400   1,400      940   1,100      310   5,400
Huruluwewa               458     770      589   1,035     750      488   4,090
Total Project          3,140   7,881   9,755  11,307   7,714   6,443  46,240
Works for the pilot program will be implemented in 1986.  Works to be per-
formed by other agencies will be scheduled to match the rehabilitation
program. Renovating and expansion of housing and other facilities for IIMI
will be completed in 1986.



-23-
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING. AND PROCURENENT
A. Proiect Costs
5.01    The total project is estimated to cost about Rs 1206.2  H (US$43.2 M)
including Rs 333.5 N (US$10.2 M) for price escalation. Cost estimates
include Rs 72.9 N (US$2.6 M) for taxes and duties. Foreign exchange costs
would be about Rs 505.2 N (US$18.2 M) or 40 of the total. The project costs
for each implementing agency are summarLzed in Table 5.1. Details are given
in Annex 5.1, Tables 101 to 115. The cost of civil works is based on
detailed quantities of work and unit costs (mid-1984 prices) estimated for
sample areas covering about 10% to 15Z of each scheme. The estimated unit
costs of civil works include depreciation of construction equipment. Since
construction equipment is partly available by transfer from other projects
(free of cost) and is partly purchased under the project, the depreciation of
construction equipment corresponding to force account work is deducted from
the total cost to avoid double counting for investment. Physical contingency
is taken as 10% overall, and price contingencies are as shown in the foot-
notes to Table 5.1. Because estimated domestic inflation rates are generally
expected to remain higher than foreign inflation rates, particularly in the
early years of implementation, year specific exchange rates have been assumed
to maintain purchasing power parity. The project costs have also been broken
down into different categories of work for financing and procurement plans.
Civil works account for 70%, equipment procurement 19%, training 4%, and
incremental staff and administration costs 7%.
B. Financing
5.02    The project has been approved by the GOSL cabinet for financing from
1985 onwards, and will be financed by GOSL budget allocations from its own
resources and funds available to GOSL from IDA (credit), CIDA (credit and
grant), and SDC (grant). The GOSL budget for the project would be voted in
the MLLD for IND. IND would then allocate funds to various departments
participating in the implementation of the project.  In view of severe con-
straints on the availability of local funds, the project could not be
financed earlier than 1985. Sufficient local funds to implement the project
are expected to be forthcoming, and GOSL would not apply cuts after initial
allotments, which had to be done in 1984. Such cuts, if imposed on MIRP
works, would upset the construction program and commitments under the con-
tracts. Assurances have been obtained that GOSL shall make adequate and
timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of the Project in line
with the financial requirements of the Project.
5.03    The financing of the project by different donors (IDA, CIDA, and SDC)
and GOSL is shown in Table 5.2. GOSL contribution would cover the incremen-
tal staff, engineering and administration, and taxes and duties.



Table 5.1 Project Cost'Summary
(Rs '000)                                        (US  '000)
Z Totel                                        I Total
% Forelsn  Base                                I Foreign  Bau
Local    Foreign    Total      Exchange   Costs   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchmni    Costs
-:::::::: S::S::=:_ S_":g:*  uaua::ana u*xagg    --                    --xxzS   :::s=g:3  Jagansg Baaas
A. HLLD IRRIDATION MOT DIVISION                 25,839.0   70446.8    33,285.8          22       4    979.9    22.4  1,262.3           22        4
B. IRRIGATION DEPARTIENT
to REHABILITATION SCHEMES
KANTALAI                                  37.688.B  20.671.1    589359.9          35       7  1U29.2    783.9  2.213.1           35        7
MORAIEWA                                  11.059,3   6.051%2    17P110,5          35       2    41994    229.5    648.           35       2
IRANA"ADJ                                 67,568.1  34.555.2   102.123.3         34       13  2,562.3  19310.4 3.972.7           34      13
GIANT TANK                                67,428.4  460812,7   114,241,1          41      14  2,557.0  1775.2  4,332.2           41       14
RAJAMA                                    59.105.2  28.21.1    87.92602           33      11  2o241o4  1tM02,9  3,334.3          33       11
NACHCHADUV                                57,977.3  31,956.0    890953.4         36       11  2199.4  1W211.8  3,411.2           36       11
HURULUWEVA                                22,876.9  12.041.3    34.918.2          34       4    967.5    456.&  1,324.2          34        4
Sub-Total REHABILITATION SCHEMES            323,723.9 180,908.5   504,632,5          36      64 12,276.2  6,860.4 19,136#6          36       64
2. PROJECT SUPP& RT                          55,271.7 140,078,9   195,350.6          72      25  2,096.0  5i312.1  7,400.1          72       25
Sub-Total IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT                378,995,6 320,987.5   699,983.1          46      80 14,372.2 12,172o4 26,544.7          46       88
C. LAND IWMIISSIOWER DEPT                       10,26207   8,934.4    19,097.0          46       2    389.2    335.0    724.2          46        2
De DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                     5,896,6   2,655.3      8,551.9         31       1    223#6    100.7    324,3          31        1
E. DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN SERVICES               5,181,6   3,652.4      8,834.0         41        1    196.5    138.5    335.0         41        1
F. UNIVERSITY OF PERADENITA                      3,041.4      226.4     3,267.8          7       0    115.3        8.6    123.9          7       0
9. INTERNATIONAL IRRIGATION NOT INSTITUTE       13,671#0  6,640,8    20#311,8           33       3    518.4    251.8    770.3          33        3
Total BASELINE COSTS                             442,89880 350,443.5   793,331.5          44     100 16,795.1 13,289,5 30,084.6           44     100
Physical Contingencies                         444289,B  35,044.3    79,333.1          44      10  1,679,5  1328#9  3p008,5           44      10
Price Continiencies                           213,81207 119,713o4  333,526.1           36      42  6,621.0  3,551.8 10,172,8           35      34
Total PROJECT COSTS                              700,989,4 505,201.3 1,206,190.7          42      152 25M0957 18,1702 43t265.9            42     144
Note: Price Contingencies (according to Bank estimates) are taken as:
Years                 1985      1986      1987      1988      1989    1990
Local(%)               12        11        10          9        7.5        6
Foreign(X)              8         9         9          9       7.5         6
I       ,                                                                                    . 



-25-
Table 5.2: Financing of Proiect 1/
(US$ million)
Financini by
Item                             Cost    GOSL    IDA    CIDA       SDC
Foreign 11.2    -       7.0     1.4       2.8
1. Civil Works, etc       Local   19.0    7.1    7.2       1.6      3.1
Total   30.2    7.1   14.2      3.0       5.9
(25%)  (45%)   (10%)    (20Z)
Foreign  6.6    -       2.8     3.8       -
2. Equipmeut & Vehicles  Local    1.8    1.8    -          -        -
Total    8.4    1.8    2.8      3.8       -
3. Tech. Assistance,      Foreign  0.4    -       -        -        0.4
Training, Survey,etc. Local    1.3    -        -        -        1.3
Total    1.7    -       -       -         1.7
4. Engineering & Adm.    Foreign  -        -      -
& Incremental Staff   Local    2.9    2.9    -
Cost                   Total    2.9    2.9    -         -        -
Foreign 18.2    -       9.8     5.2       3.2
(53Z)    (29Z)    (18x)
Total Project       Local   25.0   11.8    7.2       1.6      4.4
(47%) (29%)      (6z)    (18%)
Total   43.2   11.8   17.0      6.8       7.6
% Financing of Total Cost           (27%) (39%)    (16%)    (18%)
Z Financing of Cost less Taxes    (22%) (42%)    (17%)    (19%)
Note: Figures in parentheses are percentage financing of items by GOSL, IDA,
* CIDA, and SDC.
1/  Share of financing by implementing agencies would be:
bLLD    ID    LCD      DA    DAS    UPO    IIMI    Total
GOSL      1.10   9.82   0.25   0.31   0.12   0.02   0.25    11.87
IDA       0.37  15.36   0.48   0.12   0.22   0.01   0.44    17.00
CIDA      0.06   6.43   0.14    -       0.05    -      0.12     6.80
SDC       0.28   6.60   0.26   0.04   0.06   0.18   0.18        7.60
Total   1.81  38.21   1.13   0.47   0.45   0.21   0.99    43.27



-26-
IDA would be financing part of the equipment and civil works; CIDA would
provide parallel financing for the remaining equipment and joint financing
with IDA (CIDA contribution) for civil works; SDC would provide joint financ-
ing with IDA (SDC contribution) for technical assistance (para 4.10(d)),
surveys (paras 4.10(c) and 4.14), training (paras 4.06(iii), 4.10(c) and
4.12(iv)) and civil works. SDC's conditions for funding are similar to those
of IDA. External financing of the project amounts to nearly 78% of the total
project cost less taxes (IDA 42%, CIDA 17%, and SDC 192). The relatively
high share of total foreign financing is justified given the serious
budgetary constraints prevailing in Sri Lanka. To cope with the investment
restriction measures in line with the recommendation of the IMF and IDA, the
Government's investment program is being curtailed substantially. Maximum
possible foreign participation in project financing would be desirable.
C. Proiect Special Account
5.04    The estimated schedule of expenditures is given in Annex 5.2, Tables
1 and 2, and reflects the implementation program discussed in paragraph 4.20.
Funding of civil works by IDA, CIDA and SDC will be on a reimbursement basis
(para 5.09) requiring GOSL to finance the works initially. To relieve GOSL
from making available necessary funds for initially financing the works and
to facilitate the project's timely implementation, a Project Special Account
(PSA) in US dollars will be established for the financing of civil works.
Funding by IDA, CIDA and SDC will be through the Special Account. The PSA
will be established and operated under procedures acceptable to IDA. It will
be operated by the Project Director (MIRP) in IMD (para 6.01). Opening of
the PSA in the Central Bank will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
D. Procurement
5.05    Equipment and_vehicles (US$8.4 M).  Funded both by IDA and-CIDA,
equipment and vehicles will be procured under the procedures of the respec-
tive donors. The equipment to be separately funded and the phasing of
delivery is shown in Annex 5.3. IDA-financed equipment for an estimated
c.i.f. cost of US$2.8 M will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines of August 1984. The equip-
ment procurement would be phased under three tenders, the first covering most
of the equipment will be issued in 1984, the other two being issued in 1985
and 1986. ID will be responsible for the entire procurement of equipment
including the requirements of other implementing agencies. Goods manufac-
tured in Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to the guidelines. Hydromechanical equipment and small
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each, for which international
tendering is impracticable, would be procured after comparing prices from not
less than three independent suppliers in accordance with GOSL procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases will not exceed the equivalent
of US$0.25 M.
5.06    Civil Works (US$30.2 M).  Such works will be individually small,
simple, labor intensive, and scattered. Furthermore, the works will be



-27-
subject to the constraints of ongoing cultivation and therefore would not be
suitable for ICB. Civil works vill be partly contracted under local competi-
tive bidding (LCB) and partly carried out by force account (para 6.06). ID
has detailed procedures for calling bids and award of contracts which are
satisfactory to IDA. All canal structures and earthwork on the smaller
channels will be executed under unit price contracts with local contractors.
Since each year rehabilitation program would cover the channel network for a
specific portion of the command, contracts will be awarded separately for
each years work on channel earthwork etc, and structures. All work contract
over US$100,000 would be subject to IDA review prior to award. Other con-
tracts would be subject tu selective post award review.
5.07    Procurement procedures are summarized in Table 5.3 below:
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
(us$ million)
Procurement Method
Proiect Element               ICB        LCB     Other    Total Cost
Civil Works                    -         18.1    12.1         30.2
(8.4)   (5.8)       (14.2)
Equipment                     3.4         -        5.0         8.4
(2.5)               (0.3)       (2.8)
Technical Assistance           -          -        1.7         1.7
and Training
Engineering and                -          -       2.9          2.9
Administration
Total                 3.4       18.1    21.7          43.2
(2.5)      (8.4)   (6.1)       (17.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
E.  Disbursements
5.08    Disbursement of IDA credit, CIDA contribution, SDC contribution would
be for:
o   Civil works - by IDA 45%, by CIDA 10%, and by SDC 20%.
O Equipment and vehicles - by IDA, 100X of the foreign
expenditure for procurement abroad; and 100% of ex-factory
costs, or 80% of the cost of procurement locally.
o   Technical assistance, surveys, and training - by SDC, 100%.



-28-
5.09    Rehabilitation works would be carried out by force account and a
number of small contracts and payments would be made at suitable intervals as
the work progress. To avoid processing of large number of applications of
small denomination, disbursements for civil works would be made against
statements of expenditures, which will be audited (concurrent audit) accord-
ing to procedures acceptable to IDA. Supporting documents will be retained
by GOSL for one year after completion and made available to supervision
missions whenever required. The borrower will submit reimbursement applica-
tions only when the amount expended has reached the equivalent of US$20,000
or more. All expenditures disbursed on statements of expenditure will be
audited by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA. For civil works con-
tracts exceeding Rs 500,000, disbursement would be made against full docu-
ments in accordance with IDA's standard requirements. Disbursement against
contracts for items other than civil works will be documented in accordance
with IDA's standard requirements. To assist in record keeping for contracts
awarded under this project, IMD would submit to the Bank on a monthly basis a
register of contracts; this register would be submitted for the duration of
project implementation. IDA would be holding CIDA funds in trust for CIDA's
funding of civil works, and payments will be made by IDA on CIDA's behalf.
The conditions of the CIDA credit and grant will be detailed in the "CIDA
Contribution Agreement" negotiated between COSL and CIDA. Fulfillment of the
effectiveness conditions of this agreement would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. IDA would be implementing agency for SDC funds, would provide
decisions for all matters concerning technical assistance and civil works,
would review withdrawal applications, and would request the SDC to make
payments on withdrawal applications approved by IDA. The conditions of the
SDC grant negotiated between GOSL and the SDC will be detailed in the "SDC
Contribution Agreement." Fulfillment of the effectiveness conditions of the
agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. Disbursements for
equipment and vehicles would be made against full documentation and would be
subject to normal IDA procedures. It is anticipated that the final disburse-
ments of the IDA credit, CIDA grant and credit, and SDC grant would be made
by June 30, 1.991, about six months after the scheduled completion of project
implementation. The estimated IDA disbursement schedule is given in
Annex 5.4. These dibursement projections are based on the standard sectoral
disbursement profiles for IDA credits, deemed appropriate for an irrigation
rehabilitation project of this type.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.10    IND, ID and other Departments are subject to normal GOSL expenditure
and auditing procedures, which are considered satisfactory. Project accounts
would be maintained by the respective agencies, separately from overall
departmental accounts, to permit auditing by an independent auditor. The
IMD would be preparing the project budget, on the basis of requests from all
departments concerned, and would submit it to NLLD for approval by the
Project Steering Committee (see paragraph 6.02). On receipt of funds from
MLLD, IMD would allocate these to all departments.  IND would also maintain
the consolidated project accounts by collecting the disbursement information



-29-
and documents from all the departments to which funds are released and would
submit reimbursement claims to IDA. IMD would submit to IDA annual statement
of expenditure categorywise within six months after the end of each fiscal
year on a pro forma agreed by IDA. The other departments and agencies would
be responsible to the Project Director (MIRP) in IMD, for preparing annual
budget requests, maintaining accounts of expenditures, and preparing and
furnishing audited accounts in support of their claims for reimbursement.
Assurances have been obtained that GOSL shall;
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts for the project;
(b) have the accounts audited both on concurrent basis for SOEs and
annually by an independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(c)  furnish to IDA, for review, certified copies of audited accounts
and the auditor's report as soon as available, but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year,
including a separate opinion by said auditors whether the proceeds
withdrawn on the basis of statements of expenditure have been
used for the purposes for which they were provided.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Overall Project Management
6.01    The newly established IMD in the MLLD (para 4.04) will be the project
implementing agency. An Additional Director in this division will be eesig-
nated Project Director (MIRP), with the sole responsibility to implement the
project and to coordinate the activities of the various participating depart-
ments and agencies. A Project Officer (MIRP) would be appointed in the ID to
be responsible for coordinating all the activities of the ID for rehabilita-
tion works. Appointment of the Project Director and Project Officer would be
a condition for effectiveness of the Credit.
6.02    A Project Steering Committee in the MLLD, chaired by the Secretary,
with representatives from ID, MADR, DA: DAS, LCD, the Ministry of Finance and
Planning, the Department of External Resources, UOP, and other agencies that
may be included, will be responsible for providing overall control and
guidance. It will in particular on similar lines as in VIRP: (i) approve
annual programs and budgets, (ii) allocate funds to the various departments
and agencies involved, (iii) review and monitor project progress,
(iv) resolve implementation and other problems that may emerge, and
(v) approve changes, with IDA agreement, that may become necessary in project
design during the course of implementation. The Project Coordinator will act
as secretary to the Committee. The formation of the Project Steering Commit-
tee would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



-30-
6.03    At the district level, subcommittees of the DACs would be estab-
lished, chaired by the Government Agent (GA), and with the ID's Range Deputy
Director (DD) as secretary, to provide policy and program guidance to all
major irrigation systems in the district, including those to be rehabilitated
under the project. District departmental heads of concerned agencies, as
well as the scheme PM, would be members of the subcommittees, which
ultimately might also include farmer representatives (as has already been
introduced for the Gal Oya project in Amparai district in the context of the
USAID-supported water management project). It is GOSL policy to establish
these committees in all districts where there are major irrigation schemes.
B. Management of Rehabilitation Works
6.04    The ID is responsible for the development of land and water resources
for the entire country except the areas which lie in the jurisdiction of the
MASL. The department is headed by a Director (DI) who is assisted by an
Additional Director. Major planning and design of water projects is done in
the head office at Colombo, where functions are divided into seven different
sections called Branches. Each Branch is headed by a Senior Deputy Director.
The implementation, operation, and maintenance of projects is carried out by
the field staff, who are divided into sixteen ranges. Each range is headed
by a DD. The ranges are further subdivided into divisions and projects.
Each of the major tanks forms one division or project which is headed by an
Irrigation Engineer. ID's strength has gradually been rebuilt, after its
depletion by transfers to Mahaweli and emigration, and no staffing con-
straints are envisaged. Chart 26291 gives the ID organization pertinent to
the project. The ID has the capacity to design and implement the rehabilita-
tion works, and assistance is required only through specific consultancies
(para 4.10). ID recently rehabilitated five tank schemes under IDA Cr.
666-CE, and has thus gained the experience to plan and execute such projects.
6.05    Preparation of DesiRns.  Detailed DI instructions outlining proce-
dures to be used for rehabilitation planning and design are available. The
Design Branch of ID has provided type designs for various structures and
these designs are used by the ranges for preparing drawings for specific
structures as required. New type designs will be issued for the structures
in the pilot area. Design units exist in each range as well as in divisions
having major tanks. These units are being strengthened to assure completion
of designs fairly in advance of construction.
6.06    Construction and Ouality Control.  Rehabilitation will be carried out
both by force account and through contracts. Force account work (about 40%
of civil works) will be limited to those works for which contractors are not
readily available and where construction period cannot be exactly determined
in advance due to irrigation requirements. These works are mainly earthwork
on canals involving long transport, control of moisture, and mechanical
compaction. ID has developed expertise for these works under TIMP and VIRP,
and force account execution will be more efficient. The division/project
unit responsible for each irrigation system would supervise the construction
work. A system to collect samples of compacted earth in embankments and



-31-
samples of concrete for structures vill be introduced, and tests vill be made
frequently to assure quality of works. Additional technical personnel will
be posted in each project unit before the construction starts. ID expects no
problems in posting an adequate number of suitable staff for construction
supervision and quality control, since major construction activity in the
department is rather limited at this time as a result of severe limitation of
funds. Quality control of works will be entrusted to the Central Materials
Branch of ID operating separately from the Range Offices, as vas achieved
successfully under VIRP (Credit 1160-CE).
6.07    Operation and Maintenance.  The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of
the irrigation systems would continue to be the responsibility of the ID but
would be subject to the overall coordinated program of IND. Sufficient ID
staff would be available for operation of each system. The ID staff would
be under the Range DD for administ.ration, financial, and technical matters
but would have close liaison with the IMD staff and the farmers. The farmers
have been damaging irrigation structures in the wrong belief that the struc-
tures were reducing their supplies. They need proper education through the
Water Management Program to respect the structures and to participate
actively in the maintenance of field channels. The ID practice of carrying
out maintenance by permanent labor gangs needs to be changed because it is
not effective, and such labor is a severe drain on available funds. In the
past, sufficient funds have not been available for maintaining the irrigation
systems properly. With funds available from collection of water charges
(para 7.16), GOSL will be required to budget only the balance required for
proper O&M, and availability of funds to ID for good system maintenance
should be assured. Assurances have been obtained that GOSL shall Ci) provide
sufficient funds for the operation and maintenance costs for irrigation
systems rehabilitated under the Project, and (ii) furnish to IDA by January
31 each year a statement on an agreed pro forma indicating that sufficient
funds have been allocated to meet the operation and maintenance costs for the
Project during the fiscal year.
C. The Integrated Manazement Program
6.08    The organization for IMMAS has already been discussed (para 4.04).
Each system will have a hierarchy of system-level co  ittees.  These would be
at the project, distributary, and field-channel levels, but considerable
flexibility would be maintained, and the formality of the field-channel
comittees would be variable. These committees would mainly comprise farmers
representatives with a few government officials to assist in decision making.
The committees would meet regularly to resolve problems in implementing the
rehabilitation and the integrated management programs. The scheme PM would
chair the project-level committee and would be responsible for the formation
and smooth functioning of all the committees. The appointment of project
managers (IMD cadre) for each scheme will be a condition of Credit effective-
ness.



-32-
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.09    Monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of the Project
Director (MIRP) in IMD, who will issue necessary instructions for collection
of data and assign agencies for different types of assessment, including
consultancies, as required. During implementation of the project he will
monitor progress and prepare quarterly and annual reports on progress of
rehabilitation, including agricultural impact. After completion of
rehabilitation, IMD would continue to monitor and evaluate performance.
Monitoring and evaluation would then have two aspects--(i) technical perfor-
mance and (ii) agro-economic impact. The assessment of technical performance
would be the responsibility of the ID and the DA, while the assessment of
agro-economic impact would be that of DA, assisted by the UOP. IND will
prepare annual reports on monitoring and evaluation of rehabilitated areas at
the end of each Yala Season and submit it to GOSL and IDA for review.
6.10    Monitoring and Evaluation of Technical Performance.  Technical per-
formance would be measured by (i) the efficiency of water supply at the farm
and (ii) the efficiency of transmission by the channel network. The former
will be monitored and evaluated by the DA, and details of the recording
procedure would be worked out to have sufficient, reliable data to compare
farm irrigation requirements (commencing from the date of land preparation to
the maturity of crop) with the actual water delivery and rainfall. ID would
monitor and evaluate the losses on the channels and bottlenecks in transmis-
sion, if any, to establish the network efficiency.
6.11    Monitorinz and Evaluation of Agro-economic Imnact.  UOP has done the
baseline survey on the socioeconomic and agricultural conditions prevailing
under the systems. IMD through the Project Managers at each system will
continue to collect data which would permit comparison with the base. In
addition UOP will conduct agroeconomic studies at mid-term and completion
(para 4.14).
VII. PRODUCTION. MARKETING. FARM INCOMES. AND COST RECOVERY
A. Production
7.01    Overview.  The seven project systems covering a net irrigable area of
about 46,000 ha represent 28% of total lands under major irrigation tanks in
Sri Lanka. The production potential of each of these schemes is high given
adequate and timely supply of water, adoption of improved water management,
inputs, and other supporting agricultural services. Without the project,
land resources in these schemes would remain underutilized and there might
even be a further deterioration of existing facilities. The expected
incremental paddy and soyabean productions from the project will be due to
improvements in cropping practices and to higher cropping intensity and
yields.



-33-
7.02    Cropping Practices.  Changes in cropping to make better use of land
and water are recommended under the project, some of which have already been
adopted by farmers. These include: (i) dryland cultivation and dry sowing
(as practiced in Iranamadu), utilizing the maha rains for seed germination;
(ii) transplanting to reduce early water demand for land preparation;
(iii) the adoption of shorter-season varieties; (iv) intensive application
of weedicides and adoption of row sowing to replace the use of standing water
to control weeds; (v) improved on-farm water management (e.g., rotational
issue at the farm level, reduced applications, etc.); and (vi) crop diver-
sification, especially during yala.
7.03    The efficient land preparation at Iranamadu, the extent of
transplanting at Giant's Tank, and the successful soya cultivation at
Huruluvewa demonstrate the viability of the improved practices. The incomes
earned from soya at Huruluvewa facilitated considerable early land prepara-
tion for the 1983/84 maha and demonstrate what can be achieved from improved
management. Provided that the overall context for improving irrigation
management is established and that the appropriate mix of incentives,
cooperation, and discipline is developed, some increases in cropping inten-
sities appear possible through the systematic promotion of new agricultural
practices responsive to local conditions.
7.04    Cropping Intensity.  The assumptions for land use intensity are based
primarily on: Ci) the hydrological simulation studies undertaken by ECL, and
(ii) the farm survey undertaken by UOP and MLLD during project preparation.
Annex 7.1 gives the cropping intensities under present conditions and those
expected with and without the project. The extent to which projected
benefits are in practice achieved will depend on the management and opera-
tional measures supported under the project.
7.05    Despite the relatively high water use efficiencies arising in part
from a unique distribution system and impervious paddy soils, cropping inten-
sity in the Giant's scheme would reach only 95%. In contrast, croppir.g
intensity for Mahaweli assisted schemes - Rajangana, Nachchaduwa,
Huruluwewa, and Kantalai -- would vary from 150% to 188%. These increases in
intensity would be made possible largely by crop diversification in yala and
by ensuring a full or maximum possible maha paddy crop. Cultivation of soya
in yala would occupy about 25Z of the land.  With the completion of R-11lu Oya
diversion scheme, crop intensities in Moravewa would increase significantly,
even without the project, from 90Z to 130%. The ECL studies indicate ;hat,
with the scheme, crop intensities could rise to 150X and considerable areas
of reddish brown earth soils would allow significant diversification into
non-paddy crops during yala. For Iranamadu, the ECL studies show that some
crop diversification into soya is likely during yala. With the increase of
the tank capacity under the project, cropping intensity is likely to reach
143%. For the total project, cropping intensity would average 138%--compared
to 98% at present and 124% anticipated without the project. At full develop-
ment, paddy would account for 126% of the cropping intensities, the remaining
12% being Soya. The predominance of paddy in the proposed cropping pattern
would utilize the full potential of the paddy lands under the project and



-34-
thus accelerate GOSL stride towards rice self sufficiency. Concentration on
paddy based on comparative advantage would also lead to a gradual conversion
of marginally suitable paddy lands in other schemes for cultivation of other
crops promoting GOSL crop diversification policy.
7.06    Crow Yields. The present and projected crop yields and production
(Annex 7.2) are based on the results of the farm survey, respective district
statistics, recently completed projects and system records. Because the
survey was conducted in a relatively dry year, present yields have been
adjusted upvard (for Giants Tank, Huruluvewa, Iranamadu, and Rajangana). For
the overall project, paddy yields are projected to increase from 2.9 tlha
without the project to 3.98 t/ha at full development.  Soya yield would also
rise from 1.25 t/ha to 1.75 t/ha. Over 90% of the farmers in the project
area have already adopted improved variety seeds, but fertilizer application
varies considerably among the systems. The projected incremental yield is
attributed both to better water availability and to an increase in fertilizer
application.
Proiect Output
7.07    Crop production under without and with project situations is
estimated as:
Crop Production
Present   Future    Future   Z Increase
_without   with    (iii):(ii)
(i)      (ii)     (iii)
--Tons
Paddy            155,540   158,600   232,400       46
Soya               1,280     3,570      9,800     175
Paddy Straw      234,550   239,000   346,400       45
Total paddy production at full development (reached in 1995) would account
for about 7Z of the national total, assmiing 3X annual growth between
1984-1995. Giant's Tank system would contribute the highest share (23Z) of
incremental paddy production under the Project, Morawewa the lowest (4%).
7.08    Under the project, soya would be introduced in line with the Govern-
ment-s crop diversification policy.  Although it would occupy a very small
proportion of cultivated area, the production at full development is
estimated to reach about 10,000 tons, an increase of 175% over the
anticipated without project situation.



-35-
7.09    The principal input requirements, to attain the estimated production,
are listed below:
Input Requirements
Present      Future       Future
Without        With
Tons
Paddy Seed (tons)           6,130        6,190         6,075
Fertilizer (tons)
N                       3,890        4,060         5,765
p                       3,920       4,130          6,045
K                       1,385        1,440         1,990
Hired Labor (1000 man-days) 3,310        3,475         6,140
Detailed crop input requirements per ha are presented in Annex 7.3. An
average of 5OZ of paddy seed is obtained from the ASCs which would be
expected to supply the requisite amounts. As part of improved cropping
practices package, seed rate would also be reduced by about 8% from the
present rate. According to the farm survey, delays occur in the delivery of
fertilizer to farmers. With the construction of additional stores under the
project, adequate inventory of fertilizer and other inputs would be main-
tained to meet farmers" needs. With respect to the substantial increases in
demand for hired labor, it is envisaged that both the underemployed and
unemployed would be tapped. The villages in the schemes vould continue to
provide about 80% of the required hired labor and the balance would be sup-
plied by the respective Districts (10%) and from outside the Districts (10x).
B. Marketinn and Prices
7.10    Psaddy Marketing.  In the project area, private traders absorb 75Z-95%
of marketable rice, and will have no difficulty in handling additional
production. Government-sponsored outlets such as cooperatives and the Paddy
Marketing Board (PMB) are considered less attractive to farmers. Respondents
in the farm survey indicated that private traders show greater flexibility
with respect to collection of the produce from the farms, give immediate cash
payment on collected produce, and are not very strict on quality control.
Private traders also provide production credit.
7.11    Paddy Pricing.  The shift to the private sector has had major
implications not only for the share of harvest passing through public sector
agencies, the PMB and the Food Department, but also for the role that each
plays. In general, GOSL's policy objective has been to expand the role of
the private sector while concentrating public sector activities on stabi-
lizing the market within acceptable limits of seasonal price variation.
Critical to the success of such policies is the setting of a range between



-36-
floor and ceiling prices to provide adequate scope for the private sector
without adversely affecting producer or consumer interests. Following the
recent Government Paddy Price announcement, the domestic price of paddy is
in line with import parity price.
7.12    Rice Imports.  Over the last decade, rice imports averaged 325,000
tons annually, representing about 25X of consumption. Since 1978, imports
ranged between 160,000 and 210,000 tons per year in part due to the start of
Mahaweli production. Provisional data for 1983 indicate that domestic paddy
production reached a record of 2.5 M tons, a 15% increase from the preceding
year, and that rice imports in 1984 may be less than 7.5Z of total consump-
tion in 1983.  Despite considerable success in boosting paddy production,
population growth, rising per capita consumption, the need to maintain buffer
stccks, and climatic vagaries are expected to keep Sri Lanka a net rice
importer through the middle of the next decade.
7.13    Paddy Stora2e and Milling.  PMB currently has about 335,500 tons
storage capacity and owns 28 rice mills with a total annual capacity of
181,000 tons. To supplement its own capacity, PMB maintains a register of
about 400 "quota mills", with an aggregate capacity of about 600,000 tons,
that mill PMB paddy (for administered fees and reimbursement for handling and
transport expenses). In addition, there are approximately 1,500 mills
operated by private traders that buy and sell in the open market and also
mill for consumers. In 1982 these private mills had a total capacity of
approximately 1.2 N tons (about two-thirds of that year's paddy crop). PMB
has recently initiated a program to close down its most obsolescent plants.
USAID and other donors are financing projects designed to increase and
upgrade rice-milling and storage capacity in Sri Lanka. Suffficient milling
capacity will exist in the project area to absorb additional production.
C. Farm Income
7.14    Average farm holdings excluding homestead plots range from 0.9 ha in
Rajangana tc 3.2 ha in Giant's Tank. To assess the likely project impact on
the incomes of farm families, three representative farms from Giant's (3 ha),
Iranamadu (2 ha) and Rajangana (1 ha) have been analyzed. These farms
reflect tenural differences and variations in cropping intensity, crop
yields, and cropping practices under without-project and with-project situa-
tions. A summary of the estimated farm incomes is presented in Table 7.1;
detailed tables are given in Annex 7.4, Tables 1 to 3.



-37-
Table 7.1: Estimated Farm Income
Financial Returns
(Rupees)
Present   Without    With     W-W
Giants Tank (3-ha)
Net Cash Farm Income /a               2,170     5,690    14,600   8,910
Per Capita I/
Per family member                    400     1,050      2,700   1,650
Per agriculturally employed        1,360     3,560      9,130   5,570
Iranamadu (2-ha)
Net Cash Farm income La              10,200    16,600    27,260  10,660
Per Capita /c
Per family member                  1,830     2,980     4,890   1,910
Per agriculturally employed        6,000     9,760    16,040   6,280
Raianaana (1-ha)
Set Cash Farm Income /a              11,040    16,440    22,350   5,910
Per Capita /d
Per family member                  2,060     3,070     4,180   1,110
Per agriculturally employed        5,020     7,470    10,160   2.690
La- After payment of water charges.  Starting with Rs 250/ha and reaching
Rs 500/ha by 1991. Without project, only 50Z of these rates are
assumed to be paid by farmers.
Lb Average family size 5.41, of which 1.6 are actively employed on-farm.
,'. Average family size 5.57, of which 1.7 are actively employed on-farm.
,'d Average family size 5.35, of which 2.2 are actively employed on-farm.
In Giant's Tank, with project income (compared to without project) would
increase by 156Z, in Iranamadu 64%, and in Rajangana 36Z. Farmers in Giant's
Tank, currently below the family poverty income level of Rs 300 per month,
would generate adequate income with the project to meet their basic needs.
The incremental incomes are significant enough to induce farmers to par-
ticipate in the project. As evidence of farmers' eagerness to participate in
the project, 80Z of those surveyed have expressed their wiilingness to
provide labor for both rehabilitation and maintenance of the schemes.
D. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
7.15    Backzround.  Government's low priority for maintenance of irrigation
schemes has given rise to substantial losses to the economy. The annual



-38-
budget allotments for the seven schemes proposed for rehabilitation, has been
only about 45% of the amount needed for proper OM. Such inadequate allot-
ments arose mainly from GOSL inability to collect as well as farmer's reluc-
tance to pay water charges for irrigation services, although suitable legis-
lation existed.
7.16    Water Charges.  Extensive dialogue was held in 1981 between the Bank
and GOSL on cost recovery (during negotiations for the IDA-financed Mahaveli
Project III) through introduction of Mahaweli Basin-specific water charges.
GOSL then agreed to start collection of water charges reaching 100I of
expected O&M costs by 1991. However, collection could not be started because
of the 1982 elections and also because of the drought conditions that
prevailed during the 1981-82 season. Collection of water charges under the
Irrigation Ordinance also proved problematical partly because of inadequacy
of enforcement procedures and partly because of lack of a viable collection
mechanism. To remedy these deficiencies, Government (i) established a
Cabinet-level panel to recommend water charges, and (ii) through amendments
to the Irrigation Ordinance (a) reintroduced magistrate court jurisdiction to
try water charge payment defaulters, and (b) empowered Government Agents to
recover costs of repair of damaged irrigation works. Following GOSL's deci-
sion in July 1983 to introduce a new set of water charges, MLLD issued in
February 1984 detailed circulars on collection procedures to all Government
Agents (GAs). These circulars require GAs to identify a few currently
employed permanent officers to act as water charge collectors. Project
ManAgers (IND) in each scheme would extend assistance to water charges col-
lectors by monitoring and supervising the field collection. Each collector
would be assigned to a hydrologic area and would be given 5Z co ission on
the actual collection. Water charges collected from any scheme would be used
for O&E requirements of the same scheme (additional funds would be provided
by Government to the extent necessary until the collected vater charges fall
short of the OEM needs). Transfer of water charges funds between schemes
would not be permitted. This utilization of vater charges for OEM of the
respective schemes would provide the necessary incentive to the farmers for
prompt payment. In the event of crop failures, over and above that can be
covered by crop insurance, water charges would be waived accordingly.
7.17    GOSL approved in July 1983 nationwide water charge at Rs 2,000/ha for
major lift irrigation projects, Rs 688/ha for drainage, and Rs 500/ha for
gravity irrigation, to cover current average O&M costs. GOSL also approved
special accounts for OEM of works into which collected water charges would be
credited. However, to phase collections, GOSL decided to collect 50Z of the
approved rates initially (1984), with a progressive increase per year until
full rates are imposed and collected in about five years. All irrigation
schemes would thus have water charges equal to full 06K costs from 1991
onwards. Thereafter, as permitted under the Irrigation Ordinance, rates
would be reviewed periodically and increased to accommodate any cost escala-
tion. Approval of this program represents a step forward, emanating from a
recognition of past inadequacies in resource mobilization and the realization
of the need for adequate budget allotments to meet 06& requirements for
irrigation works. GOSL has sent to IDA in May and July 1984 interim reports



-39-
on collection of water charges. In Mannar District, vhere Giant's Tank is
located, collection amounts to about 45% of the assessed water charges (50X
of OEM). Given the poor 1983/84 maha harvest caused by the failure of the
early rains and record high raius from December 1983 to March 1984, the
collection rate is considered satisfactory, considering that this is the
first concerted campaign by the Government to collect water charges under the
Irrigation Ordinance. Assurances have been obtained that GOSL, by July 31 of
each year of the Project period, shall provide IDA with a detailed report on
the progress made on the collection of water charges with regard to irriga-
tion systems in Sri Lanka, and shall take all necessary action to improve its
collection procedures if the reports show that the collection performance is
unsatisfactory.
7.18    Collection of vater charges has already started at Rs 250 per ha in
1984. The charges would increase to the full O&M cost (alloving for increase
in costs) by 1991. Toward this end, assurances (similar to that reached for
Hahaweli IV) have been obtained that GOSL, by July 31, 1986, shall carry out
a review designed to assess whether the water charge collection program is
successful and what adjustments thereto may be necessary; to determine the
current costs of operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems in Sri
Lanka and to propose a program for annual rate increase in order to achieve
full operation and maintenance cost recovery not later than September 30,
1991. Assurances have also been obtained that until such time as the
recovery of full operation and maintenance costs is attained, GOSL shall
annually provide the funds necessary for adequate operation and maintenance
of the irrigation systems in Sri Lanka. Receipt of evidence satisfactory to
IDA t -t O&M funds will be readily available for the fiscal year 1985 shall
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
7.19    On the basis of plAned collection of water charges up to the year
2009 (life of Project), GOSL would recover 118% of incremental O&M expendi-
tures or 10% of the investment for rehabilitation and incremental O&M expen-
ditures expressed in present value terms at 10% discount rate. The share of
incremental farm income recovered through water charges would range from 4%
in Rajangana to 8Z in Giants Tank. However, 5% in Rajangana and 131 in
Giants Tank of incremental project rents .J would be recovered through col-
lection of water charges. The project cost recovery cash flow projection is
presented in Table 7.2.
AJ Project rents equal net farm income (before recovery of water charges)
less imputed value of family labor and management.



-40-
Table 7.2   Proiect Cost Recovers
1991-   Total PV
1985     1986     1987    .1988    1989    1990  2009       @ 1oz
Inflow
Incr. Water          -         390    1,650    3,640   6,420   8,950  11,560   67,670
Charges /a
Outflow
Invest. Cost /b  141,930  222,775  149,950  116,350  89,830  71,550    -        601,430
Incr. O&M Exp./c     -         630    2.220    4,150   6,420   7,960   9,250   57.18
Total Outflow      141,930  223,405  152,170  120,500  96,250  79,510   9,250  658,610
Total Cost Rec. /d             .2        1.0      3.0      7.0    11.0    125       10.0
Incremental O&H Cost
Recovery Le                62.0       74.0     88.0    100.0   112.0    125    118.0
La  Rs 250 per ha in 1986 and rising to Rs 500 per ha in 1991.
However without project it is assumed that the actual collection would
amount to 50Z of the with project rate.
lb  Costs for MIRP including physical contingency.
tC  Incremental O&M expenditure of Rs 200 per ha.
Ia  Incremental water charges as a percentage of total outflow.
/e  Incremental water charges as a percentage of incremental O&M expenditure.
Although the cost recovery is low, given the sensitivity of the water charge
issue in Sri Lanka and the Government's futile effort in the past, the deci-
sion to phase in water charges gradually is realistic and pragmatic. During
the first year of the application of the nev water charge, the poor 1984 mAba
harvest prevented the Government from enforcing collection strictly. Never-
theless, it is hoped that the stronger legislative and judicial framework nOW
in place, as well as the firmer institutional support expected from Do, will
permit significant improvements.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION. AND RISK
A. Project Benefits
8.01    The project would rehabilitate irrigation systems for 11% of the
total irrigated area in Sri Lanka and would transform this currently under-
utilized area into highly productive land. At full development the project
would generate 73,800 tons of incremental production of paddy and 6,200 tons
of soya. The net incremental benefit to the economy is estimated at about Rs
78.0 million annually at full development (Annex 8.1). The net benefit per



-41-
hectare of agricultural land would increase by 87%, from Rs 1,950 without the
project to Rs 3,640 with full operation of the project.
8.02    Based on the national poverty income level, about 40% of the project
beneficiaries fall within the poverty income bracket. In particular, the
farm families in Giants Tank earning 40% below the poverty income threshold,
constitute the largest low income beneficiaries in the proposed project.
Despite the relatively large farm sizes, the Giant's scheme suffers from
severe water shortages resulting in cropping intensity of about 88% and also
depressed low paddy yields. Furthermore only less than 4Z of the farm
families in Giants Tank are gainfully employed in non-agricultural activities
to supplement farm income. Although the Giant's scheme would still
experience the lowest crop intensity following the implementation of the
project, farm family incomes would rise substantially (156Z). The
rehabilitation of the schemes and provision of other supporting services
under the project would increase farm family income significantly and would
alleviate rural poverty.
8.03    Employment Impact. The project would generate substantial employment
opportunities during both implementation and production. During the six-year
implementation phase, an estimated 3,000 new full-time jobs would be created
yearly. In addition, total on-farm labor requirements would increase to 9.5
mi'lion man-days at full development compared to 5.4 million man-days without
the project. Hired labor would constitute 65% of total labor requirements.
The labor input composition is envisaged to remain similar under the project
situation-hired labor would meet the core labor requirements. This is
dictated partly by the presence of alternative income opportunities for farm
family members, partly by the requirements for seasonal labor. Moreover,
through production, marketing, and processing linkages, the proposed project
would also create employment and income that have not been quantified.
8.04    Foreign Exchange Impact.  The incremental outputs of rice and soya
would contribute, respectively to foreign exchange saving and earning. Sri
Lanka's average 1980-83 rice import was about US$40.3 million. At full
development of the project, the net foreign exchange (equivalent) receipt,
based on international prices of inputs and outputs, would be about US$3.1
million annually.
B. Economic Analysis
8.05    The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 16%.  The
project's net present value, discounted at 10% (the estimated opportunity
cost of capital) over the project life, is about Rs 211.4 million (US$8.4
million). A simmary of ERRs and NPVs for the seven schemes and the whole
project is presented in Table 8.1. Economic cash flow projections for the
project are given in Annex 8.1. Chart I-A plots the present values of
incremental benefits and costs against various discount rates and Chart I-B
presents the undiscounted stream of benefits and costs.



-42-
Table 8.1: ERR and NPV of Schemes
Share in
Scheme                       ERR       m         NPV     Total NPV
(Z)     (Rs.N)    (US$H)       (Z)
Kantalai                    18.0      27.7       1.1      13.1
Moraweva                    20.0      12.8       0.5       6.0
Iranamadu                   18.0      65.8       2.6      31.0
Giants Tank                 13.0      21.8       0.9      10.7
Rajangana                   18.4      45.8       1.8      21.4
Nachchaduva                 13.0      16.8       0.7       8.3
Huruluvewa                  19.0      20.7       0.8       9.5
Total Project         16.0     211.4      8.4      100
= ==      seem       ,m      m
The underlying assumptions for the economic analysis are as follows:
(a) Proiect Cost.  In addition to the direct investment costs of the
seven schemes, expenditures for support services (MLLD, DAS, LCD, DA,
and UOP) are included. These costs have been proportionally allo-
cated to each scheme on the basis of irrigated area. The cost for
the IIMI is excluded. The financial investment costs (local com-
ponent) are converted to economic costs by a standard conversion
factor (SCF), estimated at 0.85. The present value of these invest-
ment costs is estimated to be Rs 461.9 million, or Rs 10,000 per ha.
(b) Oueration and Maintenance Cost. O&M expenditures under existing
limited budgetary appropriation conditions, are about Rs 3(0 per ha
including farmers labor contributions in cleaning field channels and
ID costs. These expenditures have to be raised to Rs 500 per ha for
proper OM and GOSL would make budgetary provisions accordingly (para
6.07). The incremental OLN cost of Rs 200 per ha is therefore con-
sidered as project cost and for economic analysis it is adjusted by
SCF.
(c) Proiect Life and Phasing. Project works would commence in 1985
simultaneously on all seven schemes. By 1991, the entire project
area would be under improved irrigation and full development would be
reached by 1995. The life of the project is assumed to be 25 years.
(d) Agricultural Practices. Recommended cropping intensity and other
input coefficients are described in detail in Section VII and Annexes
7.1, 7.2, and 7.3.
(e) Output Prices. Sri Lanka is likely to achieve self sufficiency in
rice by the middle of the next decade. Therefore, the analysis is
based on the import parity price of rice up to 1994 beyond which the
export parity price is used. On the basis of the Bank's commodity



-43-
price forecasts, farm gate prices of traded commodities have been
derived in constant 1984 values.  The nontradable paddy straw is
valued at the current domestic price adjusted by the SCF. Details on
prices are given in Annex 8.2.
(f) Input Prices. All traded inputs are valued at border prices derived
from the Bank's commodity price forecasts.  Import parity prices have
been used for all types of fertilizers. Family and hired labor wages
are based on the weighted average peak (80%) and nonpeak (201) rural
unskilled labor wage rates.  To derive the shadow wage rate, the peak
wage rate portion is adjusted by the SCF and the noupeak by both the
SCF and the specific conversion factor of 0.80. The resulting shadow
wage rate is Re 21 per man-day, or 80Z of the peak market wage rate.
Seed prices have a 20Z premium over the respective output prices.
C. Sensitivity Analysis and Proiect Risks
8.06    Sensitivity Anallsis.  The project's resilience to possible changes
in the vain parsmeters, as reflected in their switching values is shown
below. A locus of all possible switching values for benefits and costs is
presented in Chart I-C.
Sensitivity Analysis Indices
Appraisal Value Switching Value
Index           Index          Z Change I
Investment Cost                 100               146             +  46
Incremental O&M Cost            100               536             + 436
Incremental Production Cost    100                123             +  23
Incremental Benefits            100                87             -  13
Incremental Paddy Yields        100                84             -  16
Cropping Intensity              100                80             -  20
Paddy Price                     100                86             -  14
jj Indicates the percentage change in the selected variable to generate ERR
of 1OZ, equivalent to the opportunity cost capital in Sri La-ka.
The project's economic viability is sensitive to shocks arising from major
cost increases or reductions in benefits, which are both unlikely. For
incremental benefits to drop by 13%, either the projected yields or the
cropping intensity will have to drop significantly. With anticipated crop-
ping intensity unchanged, the incremental paddy yield vill have to drop by
16Z (from 1.07 t/ha to 0.9 t/ha). This occurrence is unlikely given the
relatively high yields attained even under existing conditions. With
anticipated yields unchauged, the cropping intensity has to decrease by 20%
or from 138% to 110%, which is also very unlikely. Such an occurrence would
mean that with-project cropping intensity would be lower than without the
project case, which is equally unlikely. Another variable endangering the
viability of the proposed project is the long-tern price of paddy. Recently,



-44-
paddy price in real terms has been declining and the long-term price
forecasts reflect a downward trend. Moreover, Sri Lankan rice is valued 30%
lower than the international reference price of rice stemming from poor
quality. Given the Government's target to enter the export market by mid
1990's, when Sri Lauka is expected to become surplus rice producer, a rice
improvement program would be warranted to reap the full benefits in the
export market. Strengthening of rice research program which is currently
underway, would promote quality improvements in the medium term. The project
can also withstand a delay in generating the incremental benefits up to 1.5
years and still remain economically viable.
8.07 As described in Section III, the lessons learned from TIMP have been
considered in the planning of the proposed project to minimize future project
risks. However, institutional reforms and the adoption of the proposed
improved water management practices are considered vital to the viability of
the project and a possible source of risk. INMAS is an innovative water and
land management program. Similar programs have been under implementation in
recent years. The very encouraging results are partly attributed to active
participation of farmers in planning and management of cropping practices and
water use. In a farm survey undertaken for the preparation of MIRP over 90%
of the farmers surveyed indicated that they would actively participate in the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the schemes. GOSL has demonstrated its
strong committment to the implementation of INMAS throughout Sri Lanka. It
should be noted that INMAS is also complementary to the Government"s long
standing policy of promoting political as well as economic decentralization.
Moreover the provisions made under the project would ensure timely implemen-
tation of the program to safeguard against any risks. The staffing require-
ments for the promotion of INMAS is rather modest. Provided that the
proposed training program is executed, adequate staff would be made available
on time.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) GOSL shall conduct a mid-term review to determine the
effectiveness of the administrative changes introduced
in respect of INMAS and a report on the findings of
such review shall be furnished to IDA not later than
December 31, 1987. (Para 4.05).
(b) GOSL shall, by December 31, 1985, furnish to IDA for its
review a program for the utilization of lift irrigation
systems and shall take necessary action to implement said
program, as agreed by IDA, by June 30, 1986. (Para 4.07).
(c) In order to make the farmers familiar with the pilot
area program, COSL shall, by September 30, 1986, deploy
adequate additional staff in the pilot areas, and shall



-45-
collect data on the relative performance of the pilot
program, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA,
and shall, by December 31, 1987, furnish to IDP'tbe data
collected. (Para 4.08).
(d) GOSL shall uot permit any further development of irrigation
by tanks or diversion weirs in the catcbment areas of the
seven irrigation syttems included in the Project, and no
diversions, other than the existing from Malwatu Oya shall
be allowed upstream of diversion weir at Tekkam. GOSL shall,
by December 31, 1987, furnish to IDA its proposal for organi-
zational set-up, including legal framework for proper catchment
control. (Para 4.12.)
(e) GOSL shall make adequate arrangements to determine the efficiency
of transmission of supplies by the feeder channels to the Project
area in each crop season by appropriate gauging of supplies at
control points and shall furnish a report to IDA within three
monthbs after each crop season. (Para 4.17)
(f) GOSL shall make adequate and timely budgetary provisions
for the implemeatation of the project in line with the
financial requirements of the Project. (Para 5.02)
(g) GOSL shall establish and maintain separate accounts for the
project; shall have the accounts audited both on concurrent basis
for SOEs and annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
and shall furnislh to IDA, for review, certified copies of audited
accounts and the auditors' report as soon as available but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year; including a separate opinion by said auditors whether the
proceeds withdrawn on the basis of statements of expenditure
have been used for the purposes for which they were provided.
(Para 5.10)
(h) GOSL shall provide sufficient funds for the O&H costs for
irrigation systems rehabilitsted under the Project, and
furnish to IDA, by January 31 each year, a statement on au
agreed pro forma indicating that sufficient funds have been
allocated to meet the 0EM costs for the Project during the
fiscal year. (Para 6.07)
(i) GOSL, by July 31 of each year of the Project period, shall provide
IDA with a detailed report on the progress made on the collection
of water charges witb regard to irrigation systems in Sri Lanka,
and shall take all necessary action to improve its collection
procedures if the reports show that the collection performance
is unsatisfactory. Also GOSL, by July 31, 1986, shall carry out
a review designed to assess vhether the water charge collection



-46-
program is successful and what adjustments thereto may be
necessary; to determine the current costs of O&M of the irriga-
tion systems in Sri Lanka; and to propose a program for annual
rate increase in order to achieve full O&M cost recovery not
later than September 30, 1991. Further until such time as the
recovery of full O&M costs is attained, GOSL shall annually
provide the funds necessary for adequate O&M of the irrigation
systems in Sri Links. (Paras 7.17, 7.18.)
9.02    Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit would be:
(a) Opening of the PSA (para 5.04);
(b) Fulfillment of the effectiveness conditions of the "CIDA Con-
tribution Agreement" negotiated between GOSL and CIDA (para
5.09);
(c) Fulfillment of the effectiveness conditions of the "SDC Con-
tribution Agreement" negotiated between GOSL and Switzerlaud
(para 5.09);
(d) Appointment of the Project Director and Project Officer
(para 6.01);
(e) Formation of the Project Steering Committee (para 6.02);
(f) Appointment of. project managers (ID cadre) for each scheme
(pars 6.08); and
(g) Receipt of evidence satisfactory to IDA that O&M funds vill
be readily available for the fiscal year 1985 (para 7.18).
9.04    With the above agreements and conditions of negotiations and effec-
tiveness, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR
17 X (US$17 M equivalent). The Borrower vould be the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.



RI 
MAJOR IRIGATION RBEAUILITATION PROJECT
staff ADnraiSal Report
Sub-Proiect Schems:  Salient Features
Original   Additional
Date of            Catchment  Ave.        Supplementary         Nat Reservoir         Command        Area
District          Origin                Area    Inflov         Supplies              Capacity            Area      Encroached
(en km)   (MC1)                                (MCII)              (ha)         (ha)
1. Giant's Tauk System         Mannar         Ancient System             102       43    Diversion from Malvatu          41.4              8     143    273
initially restored                         Oya at Tekkam anicut
(Including Giant's                        1890-92                                    Cross Catchuent above  (excluding storage                      (excluding
Tank on the right                                                                    Tekkam - 2,978 sq km    of about 190 minor                      minor tank
bank, and Akathi-                                                                                              tanks)                                beds)
murrippu on the left
bank, of Malvatu Oya)
2. 8uruluweve                  Anuradhapura  Ancient system              199       54    From Mahaveli via feed-         ILI               3.524         564
restored 1949                              er canal constructed
in 1973 (2.8 .3 per sec)
3. Iranasmdu                   Kilinochchi   Colonization scheme         280      159               Nil                 128.3              7.854       1.570
constructed 1902-22                                                                       (excluding
x                                                                                                                                        lift irri-
x                                                                                                                                        gation area)                    1
4. Kantalai Sylst              Trincomalee   Ancient system ini-         210      149    From Mahaveli via MMTE         160.6              5,571        1.451
tially restored                            restored/constructed                           (excluding
(Includng Kantalai                       1869: further devel-                        1977 (17.01 .3 per sec)                        3,850 ha
and Venderasan                            oped this century                                                                         sugar estate)
tank.)
5. Eoravews                    Trincomalee   Colonization scheme          Al       40    From Nelu Oya via                                 1 636         327
Stage I, l?59-62:                          diversion canal to
Stage II completed 1982                    be completed in 1984
6. !chchaduva                  Anuradhapura  Ancient system              291      124    From Kal* Weva (1917-78).                         44849$
restored 1906        (catchebnt            From Mahaweli via feeder
(interconnected with                                           area contains         canal from lala Veva RJ
Turuwila Wewa and                                              large no. of          Canal since 1978
Anuradhapura city tanks)                                       minor tanks)
7. Ranianatna System           Anuradbapura, Colonization                898      237     From Mahaweli via Kala         09jJ              5.371         537
Kurunegala    schem  constructed    (below                 Oya and drainage from                           (excluding
(Including both           and Puttalum  1957-63                  lala Wewa)           System H                                       lift irriga-
Ranjangana and                                                                                                                       tion area)
Angsauwa tanks)



Sri Lanka
Haior Irrlgation Rehabilitation Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Climatological Data
_____-_ |DLI                  1                    DL2               2/               DL3               3/      D         DL4             4
Month                          1   1  I                                          I    I                                                   I -          '
2  tl  |i  |N t Efi N!  I2 0                                                      2il0                                       i       s l    v 0  6  1i 
January      85  701 3.01 4.01 711 90 1091 80  76  6.8   4.91 781 82 12701 831 721 1.61 3.41 721 8811081 831 741 1.61 4.41 76  8512241
February 1 871 711 1.51 5.01 711 90JIlU1  831 76I 2.4 | 4.61 751 82 12131 861 721 1.01 4.01 691 8911101 861 741 1.01 5.21 721 8811911
March      1 921 721 2.01 5.91 621 SCIlOII 861 771 1.6 1 5.41 741 85 11561 891 761 1.01 4.71 681 8611421 891 751 1.0  5.41 701 8911621
1   1          I         I             I   I       I    II          I       ll               II              I       i    I    I   I   I   I
April     | 921 751 5.01 4.71 671 88I 821 901 781 2.6 I 5.51 721 86  11531 901 801 2.41 5.01 741 84|2221 901 78; 2.41 5.3  751 8811661
Mnay       | 901 771 1.01 5.21 721 8611731 931 791 1.0 1 6.61 661 82 12491 881 821 1.61 5.31 781 8313611 891 811 1.b1 5.61 761 8412321
l  l           I      11         11                I    1618            I   I   I    I        11          11              I      11ll l l        l l l l   
June       1 901 771 1.Uj 6.21 651 8412071 931 801  -  1 8.1  611 78 13251 871 811  - I 6.11 791 8213961  881 811  - |6.11 761 8212571
July      | 901 7bl  - I 6.61 641 8412181 931 781  -  I 7.91 611 78 12951 861 801  - I 6.61 791 8313521 871 791  - | 5.91 771 8412401
AuguLt    1 921 761 1.0I   6.81 601 8212121 921 761 1.0 1 7.81 631 80 12751 861 801  - 1 7.61 791 8413131 81! 79)  - I 6.31 771 851242!
I   I    I     1     I   I    I    I   I    I      t     I    I    I    I    I   I     I     I    I    I   I    I   I     I     I    I   I    I
Septemberl 911 751 1.41 6.01 631 8411861 921 771 1.0 1 7.61 641 80 1245!  86! 801 1.01 6.31 78! 831224| 871 791 1.01 6.11 761 841240|
October   | 881 731 6.01 4.61 73! 8811301 88! 761 4.5 I 5.31 731 86 12001 851 781 5.U; 7.41 791 8611241 87! 771 5.01 4.51 78! 8711761
November I 861 721 7.01 3.01 751 901 661 841 751 8.0 | 3.61 791 88 12051 841 751 7.01 3.01 791 901110!  841 761 7.01 3.41 791 8811681
1   1   1    13.1 751  71 8! 71 77  9.0I 341 8! 8  1126'1  6'16'
December   81| 691 6.01 3.41 751 871 82' 791 771 9.0 1 3,4| 801 85 12751 831 731 4.0  3.31 76! 89 236  83  75  4.0  3.3  791 86 2161
I1 1        I     I1I1      I I1      I!         I    I   I    I   I         I I  II                           II   l                    t I 
TOTAL     |34.9161.41                             1   137.9 170.71   1    1   I                                                 2 !24.6I6.7l   24.6 61.51    |  | I
.__________1                                                                             64 I1_
1/  Data for Maha Illuppalama                                  Note:
2/  Data for Trincomalee
3/  Data for Jaffna                                            Temperature in  F
4/  Data for Mannar                                            Rainfall, Evaporation in inches
5/  Data for Anuradhapura                                      Humidity in X
61  Data for Kantalai                                          Wind In total of average m.p.h. per day in the month
I/  Data for Iranamadu
8/  Data for Vanatavillu
.S       ,                                                                                            a 



SRI LANKA
Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Population and Labor Force
No. oF                     Z of Population            X of Popula.   Z of Pop,
Farm       Total        ---------                     over 5 yrs      in Labor  Occupied   Occupied    House-  Students &
Families  Population  Sinhala  Tamil  Muslim          Primary Educ.   Force    in Agri.  in non-Agri. wives   Unemployed
2------  ----------  --------- X-                                                                 X
Giant's Tank             10,728       58,000         -        65     35              93.0          62        46.2         3.5        30.3       20.0
Hluruluwews               2,500       16,200        100      -       -               82.8          60        54.5         8.3        22.6       14.7
Iraanamadu                5,710       31,800         -      100      -               95.7          67        44.5         8.1        26.7       20.1
Kantalai                  4,580       26,760         50       25     25              81.3          62        44.9         5.9        27.2       22.0
Morawewa                  1,300         7,400        35       40     25              82.1          56        51.2         4.4        31.4       13.0
Nachchaduwa               2,924       17,200         90       -      10              88.0          74        45.6         8.7        22.9       22.8
Rajangana                 6 634       35,500        100      -       -               86.7          64        64.3         4.0        29.2        2.5
Total            34,375        192,860        43       41      16                                                                                  i



Sri Lanka
Maior Irritation Rehabilitation Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Distribution of Holdings by Ownership Status
Weighted
Giant's                                                                       Project
Tank      Huruluvewa  Iranamadu  Kantalai Koravewa   Nachohaduva  Raiantana  Average
Z of Land Area
Title Deed                67.7        7.0          58.4      25.4      37.4         40.5        14.2      50.5
LDO Permit                12.2       86.0           6.5      30.1      23.7         31.4        70.1      23.5
Leased Out                 8.8        0.7          0.2        0.8       -            3.7         1.1       4.8
Leased In                 10.3        3.1          28.5      29.6       6.2         24.4         3.4      15.8
Encroachments              1.0        2.7          6.4       14.0      32.7          -          11.3       5.4
Total              100.0      100.0         100.0     100.0     100.0        100.0       100.0     100.0
Z of No. of Respondents
Title Deed                90.7        4.9         69.2       18.5      40.0         40.5        16.8      60.1
LDO Permit                16.6       91.0           7.5      51.8      22.1         44.4        66.6      27.7
Leased Out                 8.3        0.8           0.2       1.4       -            4.3         1.2       3.4
Leased In                 14.1        3.7          21,7      24.8       2.9         22.1         4.4      17.2
Encroachmens               2.9        4.5          14.4      26.2      39.3          -          14.8      12.0
Total              132.6      104.9        113.0      122.7    104.3         107.3       103.8    120.4
Memo Items
No. of Respondents     1,165        244          620        583       140          279         735     3,766
Land Area Covered (ac) 9,242        849        2,951      2,840       422        1,038       1,603    18,945
Sources:  MLD and the University of Peradeniya: "1MIRP: Socio-Economic Report,"  November 8, 1983.
I4
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *



Sri Lanka
Maior Irritation Rehabilitation Proiject
Staff Appraisal Regort
Distribution of Holdingt by Size of Parms
Weighted
Giant's                                                                           Project
Tank      Huruluveva  Iranamadu  Kantalai Norawewa   Nachcbaduva  Raianiana  Averaae
X of Land Area
less than 1.00 ac           0.5         1.1          0.9        1.5        0.5          3.3          1.4        1.0
1.01 - 2.00 ac              2.5         4.0           5.2       6.3       15.8         16.7         64.9        9.9
2.01 - 3.00 ac              4.8        51.2          16.9      29.9       62.9          13.7        14.4       15.1
3.01 - 5.00 ac             13.1        30.5          16.4       9.5        7.6          19.0        13.1       14.1
5.01 +                     79.1        13.3         60.7       53.4       13.3         47.7          6.4       60.1
Total               100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0      100.0        100.0        100.0     100.0
Z of No. of Respondents
Less than 1.00 ac           4.3         3.7           5.1       4.8        1.4          14.3         3.4        4.9
1.01 - 2.00 ac             10.6         8.6          15.1      16.3       24.3         33.3         73.2       26.5
2.01 - 3.00 ac             13.1        59.8          31,4      49.1       63.6          17.9        13.:       26.9
3.01 - 5.00 ac             23.3        22.1          20.6      10.0        5.0          16.1         8.3       16.6
5.01 +                     48.7         5.7          27,9      19.2        5.7          18.3         2.0       25.0
Total               100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0     100.0         100.0        100.0     100.0
Memo Items
No. of Respondents      1,165         244           620       583        140           279         735      3,766
Land Area Covered:AC   9,242          849         2,951     2,840        422        1,038        1,603    18,945
Average Holding Size:AC    7.9          3.5           4.8       4.9        3.0           3.7         2.2        5.0
(ha)    3.2         1.4          1.9        2.0        1.2          1.5          0.9       2.0
F!0



-     ~-52-
Annex 4.1
SRI LANKAL
Maior Irrigation Rehabilitation Proiect
Staff Appraisal Report
Criteria for Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation
1.      Definition of Sub,roiect Areas.  The seven irrigation systems
(subprojects) to be rehabilitated under the project are defined by their
primary storage tanks. The systems, however, besides the main tank,
include subsidiary or interconnected tanks, feeder channels, and reuse
systems. The area for rehabilitation of the irrigation network has
therefore been determined ae follows:
(a) Each subproject area comprises a clearly identified hydrological
unit including subsidiary tanks whether feeding independent
agricultural areas or providing auxiliary storage;
(b) Authorized areas served directly by the feeder channels to the
tanks are included (this is of particular significance for the
systems receiving Hahaweli supplies and for Giant's tank);
Cc) All encroachments on adjacent lands are considered to the extent
permissible without compromising safety of the system and
operation and maintenance needs(only such encroachment areas
will be regularized under the project);
Cd) Areas benefitted from use of return flows are included,
together with new areas where such use is possible;
(e) No new land has been included under the subproject except that
permitted under (d);
(f) Areas under Government corporations (notably the sugar estate
at Kantalai), DA farms, and lift irrigation areas are excluded.
2       Rehabilitation Planning.  Rehabilitation is planned to (i) improve
the reliability of water deliveries at the field channel offtakes, (ii)
assure the safety of the canals during peak demand periods, and (iii) allow
sufficient control including measurement of deliveries in each segment of the
system. The methodology has been:
(a)  Ascertaining cropped areas currently developed under the
systems and the established cropping pattern; also consi-
sidering possibilities of crop diversification in both
maha and yala seasons and establishing the most probable
cropping pattern as well as alternatives and their water
requirements;
(b) Establishing non-agricultural water requirements (domestic,
industrial, fisheries) and the likely increase in their demands
with time;
(c) Comparing the availability of water with the demands, using
available hydrological data and determining the frequency
of shortfalls in meeting requirements, the most probable



-53-
cropping pattern anticipated to develop being established
by (i) accepting shortages in only 4 years out of 30 years
after allowing 30% controlled deficits whenever the reservoir
storage goes below 30%, and (iii) overall water use efficiency
of 70% which is considered permisable due to reuse of return
flows;
(d)  Reviewing the irrigation network for ability to transmit water
for the anticipated crops and determining canal capacities at
various system locations during the peak requirement, on the
basis of a continuous running system;
(e)  Examining the system right upto field channels and its turnouts
for ability to deliver the required supplies at each point of the
system and providing the following as determined to be necessary:
(i)  repairing damaged structures, remodelling these for higher
(if required) discharge, and adding control devices;
(ii) constructing new structures for controlling distribution
of supplies or for metering the flow; and
Ciii) raising canal banks to provide required freeboard at
revised discharges, strengthening the banks wherever
lacking in safety, enlarging channel section wherever
tight, providing erosion protection in vulnerable reaches
through appropriate lining (general improvement of the
channels involving section improvement for better hydraulic
performance will not be done); and very limited lining in
canal reaches having extra pervious formations;
(f)  Evaluating the results of hydrological studies for water lost
through spilling at the tanks or anicuts, examining the possibility
of additional utilization by increasing the capacity of tanks or of
feeder channels to the tanks, and providing such capacity increase
where economically justified. Also providing strengthening of the
dams and appurtenances to assure safety and improving facilities for
improved operation and control. Progressive removal of trees
growing on the tank embankment slopes.
(g)  Erxmining the drainage of the low lying areas (drains have mostly
been converted to rice fields by farmers) and constructing drains
and metering stations to determine return flow; and
(h)  Providing improvement to roads in the irrigated area, including
resurfacing of roads on canal banks.



-54-
3.      Pilot Program.  The progran is planned over about 600 ha, to ascer-
tain the impact of technological improvement in control and distribution of
irrigation supplies by making modifications in the structures (without a
change in systems layout) of four systems-Kntalai, Iranamadu, Rajangana,
and Huruluwevs, which practically cover different cropping practices and land
tenure conditions. The pilot area in each system covers the total area under
a distributary canal (DC) and its field canals (FC), and structural modifica-
tions include (i) automatic constant downstream level gate at the head of the
distributary channel; (ii) static cross or long crested weirs in the DC for
self-regulation of the water level at PC offtakes, (iii)  baffle distributors
at the head of DC and FCs, and (iv) flow dividers on the FCs for providing
steady supply to farms. These structures would assure controlled supplies to
each farm on a rotation system with duration of supplies fized for each crop.
The evaluation of the Pilot area in comparison with the conventional area
will be done by collecting data on (i) O&M effort, (ii) reliability and
equity of water distribution, and (iii) impact on crop years.



iS25~~~~-                               -j |ilWEg -   - - - - @_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
04 ^"2*S                                                                               I r- r I  e  _  E  e  r. < ^ ". r r. * r. r. r. E rs  W V
4      a  66                  *         6
Win-!     ^      n                  V      *w                                                                                    *                            f       
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --.  - - 
""g8  t   "  "    "    o  o    W    W  W  s   w    w    w    >         w          o    8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  o     6 2 ti   1      
cr~~~~~~~~                                                                          c
n.            o.                                                                                                            ___$as.*  r  p.    p.  ~   p.    ~.  p.  p.  p. pW  r  .  r  .
o.i |       }t .W-                                                               5              -          -    -W    S                                                  - O  9        N o2 M_   
I                      ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tttA. 0                                         -It  he    *      I.       I
Q*7~                   -                              -------------                      -40      -l                    C       C        " M    " -t
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
i                                                                                                                                 "'4I , f 1   
-4    Id  -4  1  1   -~~~~4  '4       '4                                               4 '444 '414  '
"Pitt              p.-  --   --    -  -c -1- --
a~~~~S  S.                14   he                      hi    hi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t   La  c.0      W     L        ar
47iF   8    s  }    *}   g    2    g~~~~~~~~'   'A  'A  'Aie                  2t 25.3                 2       2,    r3i i1
.,                                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- -   - -- -     - --   -     - -~c :                                          .- ~ C            .           '
rw                       w _____    ___  __    'A__________________________-                                             _______________
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                         Ch



SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implmentation Schedule
MV   IMdal       i965  [maw I      10    IMow       W"   IM.  il      1     M8 9"   ll                  1WO I0
Ifau, (Ne 4II ha)                             I I  RWh"u04fSkhWshfW0.1
Nec Reh PetaII                      I 1i             I     I       II                                                                     III R
Note:
lAll structures & earthworks on field channels, roads 6 drains by local contractors. Earthworks for tanks,
inlet channels, mawor canals by I.D. on force account.
2Znnual work program - first year civil works pro curenent ahown in Procurement Schedules available in
Implementat6on Piles.
3Constructlon will be prograsmmed to minimise disturbance to on-going cultivation & rehabilitation of structures &
canals of various category will proceed simultaneously in order to complete one section after another.                                 263a a70
:  ,'                         ,41
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                       :6IIIIio I    I



:           I                                                                            SRI LNIKA
MIAJR IRRIGATION RENAILITATION PROLCT
Table 101. ILt IRRIGATION NOT DIVISION
Detailed Cost ablet
(Rs '00v1                                         Paaseters
Quantita                                                 Base Costs                           Phw.
..-- ...-.....................             ------------- -------------------------------------------CCant.   For.    Grasss   S5aaar
Unit  85  86  97  88  89  90  Total  Unit Cost       95      86      87       89      89      90     Total   Rate  Exch. tax Rati Acount
522 33 :22322 33 3323  1312222522133 23 22133  323333X 1223222 3.Z 2233 15 25 9        ..... am,3 . 33. 53....23
1, liWESTIENt COStS
A. Buildings
Ouarters - GR S                 No     -   4   3   -   -   -      7    343.904          - 10375.6 1,031.7        -        -       -  20407.3   0.1  0.33      0.05       SU
tuartets - 6R 4                 No     -   4   4   -   -   -      8    290,169          - 1,160.7 1160.7        -        -       -  2,321.4   O.l 0.33       0.05       tlJ
Quarters - OR 3                 No     2   4   4   -   -   -    10       322,41     644.9 1,289.6 1,299.         -   -        -      3,2241   0.:  0.33       0,05       pi
Sub-Total Puildinss                                                                    644.8 3,925.9 3M4G2M0        -        -       -  7952.9
B. Eouinent
Audiovisual                    sum     -                                            533,2        -       -            -           -    533.2   0.1   0.9       0.1       Ea
Office                         SUm     -    -    -    -    -                      1493.0         -       -       -        -       -  1,493.0   0.1   0.8        0.1      Ea
Sub-Total ECuipsent                                                                  2,026,2        -       -        -       -       -  2r026#2
C. Vehicles
llotarcara                      No     2   -    -    -    -    -  2    159.958      319.9        -       -        -       -       -    319.9   0.1  0.59       0.35      YE
x4 Lni Vehicle                  N     io 0   -   -   -   -   -    10    287.924   2,979.2        -       -       -        -       -  2,979.2   0.1  0.58      0.35       YE
12 Seats Van                    No     I                          1    266.596      266.6        -       -       -        -       -    266.6   0.1  0.58      0.35       VE
Spare Parts                   Wu       -    -    -    -    -    -  -                586.5        -       -       -        -       -    586,5   0.1  0.58      0.35       VE
Sub-Total Yehicles                                                                   41052.3        -       -       -        -       -  4:052.3
ID Training
Overseas                               -    -    -   -    -    -                    406.9   535.4   267.7  267.7          -       -  1,477.8  01   0.6           0      TR
Local                                                                               540.0   540,0   540.0   540,0         -       -  2,160.0   0.1      0         0      TR
Sub-Total Training                                                                     946.9 1,075.4   807.7  907.7          -       -  3637.8
.....   .....        .. ..   .. ..   ....   _._._._..   ......
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                  7,670,2 4M901,4 46289.7   907.7         -       - 17,669.0
3S3._223 1333333 333333  W131335  2335353  23332551
[i1 RECURRENT COSTS
A. Sta'f ard Incxoental Costs
Staff                                   -   -   -   -   -    -                   2214.0 2,214.0 22140 2,2140 2,214.0 242140 13284.0   0.1              0        0       SC
Office Expenses                         -   -   -   -   -    -                     151.2   151.2  1512   151,2   151.2   151.2   907.2   0.1           0        0      SC
Vehicle Oeeration                     -    -    -    -    -    -                   237,6   23746  237.6   237.6  237.6   237.6  1.425.6  01           0        0       SC       5U
Sub-Total Staff and Incremental Costs                                               2M602,9 2M02.S 2.602,8 2M602,9 2M602M8 2M602,8 15,616,9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                   2M602,8 2,602.8 2,602,8 2r602.8 2.602,9 29602.8 15.616,9
3322=223 3s33233  1s31313  S23=3Wz 99 ::S :
Total                                                                                   10273,0 7M504.? 6,992#5 3,410.5 2M602.8 2,602.8 33P2M5.8
33XX2333 3333333M 3335122 3333135 s23ssIZ  33333=3 2333.3s 



NILMICA
PAM 111101A1X1 IEN3lITATIM AZTt
Table 102. KANTLAI
htalled Cost Table
(26 '0001
Oamtitv                                          gmw Costs                            P.
Mt  Ct--                                                           Ct. For.  Utes        av
IVit 85  6 V7  9  90   Total Cost 15             86        7       Be       99       90    Totl    bta E,. Ta /btokat
It I T lU COMT
As CIVL NM
.t Iurks                                       -  -  -  -  -  -            -      107.2    214,4   iO7.2         -  1715.2 41234  6,967.9  0o1  0.5    0.05          w
2. EarUtwor
Main I Iranch Conals1IJak                    -  -50.1  1242.4  15U9.4  11,930.9    n9.3    2.o  69539.    0.1  0.5    0.05                                       EA
Istuilulru Canls C731)                       -                                 321.1    469.3   592.9    6916    271.7   123.5  2,470.0  01 0.39    O.0s         EA
Field Canas (1746)                           -  -  -  -  -  -    -             305    512.2    647.0    754,9    296.6   134.8  2.696,0   0.1  0.1    0.0S        EA
(401                                                                           140.-  -  -  -  -  -    -  104    205.2    25192    302.4    118.8    54.0  1l060.0   0.1    0    0.01  EA
SuToW  EIhUI*Sr                                                                 1,662.0  2.429o1  3.044  3,17.3  1406.3   639,2 127s5M0
3. hads(40b)                                                                      627.1    916.5  1WV7.7  1,3W0.7    530.6  241,2  4ME2'.9   0.1  0.5    0.e0        RD
4. Sntuas
bai a 8rwh Cools                             -  -  -  -  -  -    -               9.   3.016.4  2     7  2136,6  2,390   1,256,0 12,568.3   0.1 0.36    0.05       ST
lstribtUrg Caals                             -  -  -  -  -  -    -             398.7  1,366,9  1t09.9    968.2  1,02.1   569.5  5,695.1   0.1 0.34    0.01        ST
Field Canls                                  -  -  -  -  -  -                 171.2  4.38.3  4,176,7  3,07,2  3450.  1116.0 19,195.7   0.1 0.14    0.05           aT
Pilot Area Idificatioms                           -  -  -  -   -         -               135      464      44,1    32.9    36,8    174,2   0.1  0.3    0.05       aT
hA-Total Stias                                                                  2,19.6  14.755.t  .42M3  6,236.4  6,913.3 3,679.1 36,97.3
5. USE11 EllllT CTO  FRM     E  CCtCT -  -  -  -  -  -    -                     -494.6 -1,231#5 -14275#7 -1,11l67 -1,060.5  -38.3  -6,17,4   0,1 0.36    0.05   FD 
SATot  CIVIL el   4k451.4  11,063.6 11,46.  10,050.2  9144.9 8345.0 550056.5
. E,l ASTIMN                                      -  -  -  -  -  -    -              267,1    65.0    1.9    60360    M.7   506,7  3MO,4   0.1    0              0    UK
Total lENTlw   aSTS                                                                   471    11746,7 121703 10.65332 10.117.6 B,951.7 589.9
Total                                                                                  4,71.4  11M746,7 12,170.3 10,653.2 10,117.6 83,917  16,389.9
Runn  _         _ _         u _



iSLMIC
~MO  WUNTION  IMhIMITATIU FRjiT
T*bl 103. -N
tliud Cot Table
(I '")
SlIsU    ts tt..
ihit                                                           Cat. rove -M&ss   9mrn
Unit    1 t l7U       99 "oTl Cost  1               36       7        0       89    90  Total    bte Eck, Tax ulta k mt
= _ _ =    = =                                      ===                                           -- _
I. nen cmi
1. Eart*rns
lW   I Dric, Ends (Ila)                                                -           192.9  712. 9   579.6   2314    192.9   -  12927    0.1 0.S           0,05      [A
3istrihitarv Cmis (13)                        -  -  -  -  -  -    -                300.7 1142,8   9022   3U0.9   300.7   -  3M007M4    0.1  0.37    0,60          EA
FriidCls (3ai                                 --  -    -                           140.2    327    420.6   168,2   140.2   -  1.401.9   0.1  0,1    0.05           [A
baim(l3t                                      -  -  -  -  -  -    -                 21.6     2.1    64.8    23.9    21.6    -    216.0   0.1    0    0.M           EA
1*Tta brt  tts                                                                       65.4  2490.5 19M662   786.5   SS54    -  6o553,9
2. 1    (2                                       -  -  -  -  -  -    -                214,4   914.7   64.2   257.3   214.4   -  2.143,    0.1  0.5    0.05           U
3. Strwu
Nin I  aA r C    s                            -  -  -  -  -  -    -                2Mo  '601.9 o       4    301.0   236,5   -  2o149.7   0.1  0.32    0.06         sT
stib  u         s                             -  -  -  -  -  -    -                36*6   541.3  14051.6   40.7  130.5    -  3,004.7   0.1  0,43    0,05           ST
Fld Cms                                       -  -  -  -  -  -    -                490,0 143.3  1429.1    D1.7   449.2   -  4,003.2   0.1  0,34    0.05            ST
-Tot   Utur                                                                         1.110,5 2416.5  3,m.2  12pM3  1,016.1    -  9237,6
4. t   M    M C            Fn                    -  -  -  -  -  -    -               -197,   -39.2  -54.3  -253.7  -10.6          - -1.73.    0.1  034    0.05   FMC
-Toal CIIL GOI                                                                         ltM05  5,302,6  W113  2M103  1,697.3   - 16,142.0
.       i    u    T                                 -  -  -  -  -  -    -               16#1   318.2   313.5   126.2   101,1   -    9U.5   0.1          0        0    ANt
Toal IIWUn    CMIt                                                                      1.W7.  5620.7 5573,3  2,2295 1M,2    - 17M110.5
====== m                                       -,
Totl                                                                                      1,sW.3  S,20.7  DU3*1 2M2M9   IM9.2    - 17M110.5
-~~                           =    



au ut
MM 11lmnTIu EIWUDT IO Rum
Tabe 104. IULI
hUild Cst Tale
(Es '000)
_tth Casts  1 b           )
l.ttit.                                             gm  Cut,                                t.
(hit-                                                                  Cmt. Far.  ress  Snu
Ihit as U     g  6   9      Ttl Cost    a           36       87       U                  0      Total    Rate  ch. Tax Re kcot
=== _ _ =   =  =   m  =. .n                                                                                  _ _   -
1. - C"I
I. ClD   -
1.    *-                                                ---S                             -  7-2-4.-    WH377.4  S,M.0   2.145.5        -  23,512.7   0.1 a.a      0.05     Hl
2. E.tVAs
1bin a h        Cwals 140A)                   -  -  -  -  -  -            -      1417.3  1,0M5.6  2,171.1  I,S5.1  1.017.3   939.0   73W.4   0.1  0.5    0o.5 
3ist,lsa,  Cauls  sa)                                        -          -054.2  3,7.1  1,53.2  4,98.7  3,0M.2 2,31.2  23473.7   0.1 0.40    0.05                         EA
Field Cels (lft.                              -  -  -  -  -  -            -      2074.3  223.4   4,41,   ,12.0o  24074.1 1915.2  15,S60.2   0.1  0.1    0.05             E
*Ahm  (M)                                     -  -  -  -  -  -            -        126.4    136.1     m.2     174.4    126.4   11.6       1 m.o   O.l    0    0.05       1*
01
h-TtI  EatS_s                                                                       6,272.7  607352 13,510*4  750.3   ,27297 597M.2   ,9251.3
3        lis                                     -  -  -  -  -  -            -       557.4    e.l  I,200.6        57.6    557A4   514.    4,2379   O0.   0.5    0.05        r
fbL  I ar    CNls                             -  -  -  -  -  -            -      1,047.9  1,3702  2,0,.7. 1,12.0  1.1421.        6.0   86060.2   0.1 0.33    0.05        ST
Striap  CNIs                                  -  -  -  -  -  -    -              2,4 Id 3,17.0  4,161.7  3740.0  2i.0  1,370.0  1169.3   0.1 0.33    0.05                ST
Field CmIS                                    -  -  -  -  -  -            -        7MJ.7  1, .6  1,55.   1,24.2          0.9   602.1   6,0210   O.1  0.3    0.05         ST
Pilet Am   dificAl                                                                    - -  -  -  -  -  -     -  23.  31.1  47.5  3.s    25.6  1644    0.1  0.3    0.05   ST
Sb-Ttal Sitmn                                                                      4,261.5  e5g,315  1,54.1   6,103.7  4,6.  3,13.7  32,94.S
S. liSn  E1T CI     T COF    FM  iAu             -  -  - --                        1107.2 -2,02547 -2,9ff74 -2903.5  -It30,   -960.3  -10704.7   O.l 0.33    005   FM
-TOtl C&l.                                                                             7g95  I,212.2  26,35.0   614,1  12,2414 3447.6  76342.7
. -. m    AMIIMTIU                                  -  -  -  -  -  -            -       3".7   103.3  15.@1   1236.3    734.5   513.7   5,730.6   0.1    0             0                   U
TOl nII n       Ss                                                                      10,301.4  17,315.5 32.D.1  21,50.7 129975.9 7,14.4  102,123.3
Ttal                                                                                     105311t4  1731S.5 2133.1  21,150.  1295. 7,141.4  102,t23.1
o d



~m LuMu  fLu1M         U UE
T*1  105. 111  TAIE
Uited Ciot T*1l
sh                                        bw Xh W)
== 3m _ = l-t =       t                                                   -              -    . _ .kw           m .._ =
kt5i a061733II101tauiCet    a1                     96        7       U         39        C1     Idta      btaEmh.mlaxtekesAt
1. _r sn
A. cir    -
1.   ASI                                         -  -  -  -  -  -             -    4,W.9  SoMil            -        -         -        -   947.7  Ol  o.S    0.05          W
2. FirtimmAs
bin &a km   Cnls. (MO)1                                      - -,17.6-    -        l1  A .   6,334.5  4957.4  4M4.6  3,9053   27,541.3   0.1  1.S    0*05                 EA
iistrthzitr Cmas (4h)                         -  -  -  -  -   -    -676.6  3,247.5  3112.2  2035.6  2.165.0  1,994.4  13,531.1   0.1  0.33    0.5                        EA
Field CIls Wm)                                -  -  -  -  -  -                    151.0    724.       94.5    543.5    431 s7   30195   0tt  0.1    0.05                  EA
kri29mIA)                                                    -                     364-4-   -  7    3M9.4    311.0    276.5    24.9   1.723.0   0.1    0    0.05          E
RUs  -T--s                                                       -    -           663  1 3,3S44.   3.705.2  2,50.4  2,229.7  1,51.0  13v 6   Is 0.1  0.5    0.05          EA
WTI! EarU  rks                                                                     29"738  146311.3 13743.8 10,756.0  9s640.9   3U145.      7 5.7s.5
3. ba        )                                   -  -  -  -  -  -    -                   t.1  4,296.5  4,117.4   3.3  20U343  2,563  17,01.9  0.1  0.5    0.05    10
4. S
Ibis I |ith Ctmas                             -  -  -  -  -  -    -             1,224#6  612.0  W,12.   5,143.4   2204.3  3,1U40  24,42.2   0.1 036    0.05               ST
istfibrtls                                    -  -  -  -  -  -    -               274.0  136,3  1,479.4   11507    493.1    712.3   5,479.3   0.  0.35    0.05            ST
field [ad                                     -  -  -  -  -  -    -                W1.     613.2    567.7    5113    m.           1.5   2,4m.M   0.1  0.3    0.05         S1
hT.aI Stwmw1"e                                                                     1,622.2  3111.1  1,7.0   60113.3  2.n20.   4,217.3  3244.4
53 LI        1fl COTI FM  F                      -  -  -  -  -  -    - E- 3 -3210.9 -2.42.l -2,79.2 -1534.5 -1,509.0 -1175.0*. 0.1  0.4    0.05   FM
-Tuta CIVl  M53313.7  M,97.  23l91  13,712.5 131.7 13,90,3  107,774.6
o. Mo.t  INN1_T                                     -  -  -  -  -  -                   wool  1.3   1,4W7.5  1,12.7    m.6    314.0   6446.    01    *                    * 0  0    MI
tal       It  elm                                                                        134245 30MO1.7  2536.6 19,.2  14,63.3 14,35.7 114241.1
Totl                                                                                      ,34.1  30U11.7 2f,396.6  17=,2  14p,3   431,74  114,241.1
_ __-=o



SRI LNICA
MJ1  I33ISATION l ILITATION  OECT
Table 106. RVUMA
ktailed Cost Table
PMrtns
&mtitY                                                 list Custs                              F,
--------   U           --*-------------------- ----------------------------  Cent Foer   Gross  3cmrw
Unit 8S C6 87 Be 89 9    Total cost    35 86                    87         8        n         90      Total    Rate Excht Tax Ratu Ackmt
I. JUTlWiT COSTS
A. CIYIL VMS
1 Ibaerks                                           -  -  -    -  -    -                  536.0    750,4    643.2    536.0    750.4            -  3,215.9    O.l  O.S    0.05    IH
2. Eartlmwrks
NIn I  Itrah Canals (11ua                          -   -   -  -  -         -         1.294.9   20751.7  1,237,3   3,237.3  342373   2429.0  161667    0,1   0.5    0.05            EA
Iistribulrv Canlas (6- -- -                                          -     -           438.0    930,3  1.095,0   O0s9O 5,0 10950         321.3  5,47542   0,1   0,4    0.05        EA
rFild Cals 12                                     .    .   .    .   .  -   -           9M2    2M10M3  2M4G0M3  2M4G0M3  2M480,3   1,860,2  M2.4015    0.1  0.1           0.05      EA
rainsi3a)                                        -    .    .   .   .   .    -           6t9.     146.9     1n2,      172.3    I72,o    1296       3M4,0   0,1      0    005       EA A
.. _ - - ._ -..          .. ......   .........   ............ ._ ........._s-o-.......--aBae--------t 
Sth-Total EarUwrks                                                                      2#794,2   5M937,7  6,985.5         ,5  6,985.5   5239.1  34927,5
3. ads-(44- )                                                                 -           102.9    210.7    257.3       257.3    257.3      193.0   12864    0.1   0.5    0.05        RC
4. StruitMm
mal  nd Brah Caals                                    .                     -        2026.9   4307,2   50673   5067.3   5,3206   3547.1  25o336.4   0.1  0,4    0.05               ST
Dlstrlbutair Canls                               -                   -                 344,1    731'"      83601     360.1    903,2    602.1   1300.7    0.1   0.3    0.05         ST
Flield Cals                                      -   -   -    -    -    -123#5  3,75.0   4559,3  4W5W8I  W,736,7   31911  22793,    0,1   0.3    0.05                              ST
Pilot Area Nodlficatlans                         -   -    -    -    -   -                  -      28.4      60,3      71.0      71.0      74.5    305.1    0.1   0.3    0.05       ST
Sub-Total Structum                                                                      4,194,5  M941,6  10.U56    10,557.2 11.0S1.5   7,414,3  52.736.1
5.  IESS: EWRENP   COST FlOM FOE   CCO              -    -  AC--              -          -762,8  -1,584.9  -1943,2  -1.933.6  -1.9075  -12814.7  -9.216,6 0. 1  0,33        0.05   FORC
,^ ElliS ADINISTE-A                                          -        -        -           411,9     551.3    995,4      990,1   1.030.0     693,7   4.977.0    0.1     0       0    PI
Total liPE3TlT C0STS                                                                          7,276,7  15,119,4  17.504,6  17,492.5  13,197.2  122256.0  67,926,2
*nun       .   ..   . .. ... .......  ....... ......... .........
Total I,27T,7  15,T72,4  17,584,6  17,4M2.5  16,197.2  12256.0  87926.2
:  ,-                                                                                .                 J-
I                                                                                                ,~~~~~~~~~~~46  SIM   U   hfs   &I210 48p2#



ItI L, 
MM0  1RRIGATION WI8lTAllOW  FROC1
Table 107. 11A M
bthlled Cost Table
(Rt 1000)
Pat  trs
Quantlit                                             bsi Costs                              p1w,
Unit -----            -------------------------------------  Cont, For.  Itoms   Susarv
Unit 85 86 87      89  0  Total Cost    85            86       87        88       89       90    Total    Rate Exch. Tax Rat ccont
c    22  3333 323 3* 333 #223  3222  32223233  322222222 323322  322221331 3:333221 222Zs ::11:z  :3:.: 3:::a: :222:::= s:31::
la I13sTNw COSTS
A. CIVIL MS
1, Hreorks                                        -  -  -  -  -  -                     537   2793.0    5371              -       -        -  I,923.9   0,1  0.36    0.05       Hl
2. EatUVA?w*
Nein I qtiah Cauls (4Ika)                            .  .  .          .  -         2     7   321   3,691.3  3M215.9  1,295  1044742  16,079.5   0.t  0.5    0.05            EA
Dletrluaru Canls (3)                                                               1 .  .  .  .  .    -40   24263  27902  2,42643 1,55,8  1091.8  12,131.4   O.   0.4    0.05  EA
Field Camls (M                                  .  .  .  .  .  .    -                500,4    625.5    719,3    625.5   375.3   281.5  3M127.3   0.1  0.1    0.05            EA A'
Iains (306                                      .  .  .  .  .  .    -                138.2    172.i     1937    I72.9   103.7    77.8    864.0   0.1         0    0.05      EA
5.Tutal fetthU As                                                                     5,152.4  6,440.5  7M4OM5  6,44,5  3MU4.  2oM,2  32,202.3
3.  ade  ,am)                                      -  -  -  -  -  -    -              1,132.8    461   1628,5  1,41641   ,49.6   637.2  7,090.3   0.1  0.45    0.05  R0
4. 5ttegctu"e
rain Bran,h CanIas                                                                 1,759.9   24386,3  2,891.2  2M31M,3 1,634.1  1MOMb,4  12.570M2   0.1  0.35    0.05       ST
*istrilbu.rw Cals                                         3--4043   5,341    6,474.2  5,340.3  3,6593  3,3773  2M1417    0.1  0.35    0.05                                  ST
Flld Canis                                     -  -                  -              331.2    449#4    544U0    44944   307.5   203.9  2,365.4   O.l  0.3    0.05           ST
14*-Total StrtWes                                                                     6,031,3  3136.0  9,909.4  3,13U60  5,601.0  5,170.1  43,084.3
5s. LENS OUIPHENT COST FM  FW  ACE-                                 - -  -  -  -  -  -2,091.1  -1,183.6  -148i1  -116043 -1103145   -70,6  -90429,1   0.1  0.36    0.05   FOx
b-TOtI CIVIL KW1                                                                        186,197  14,952,0  17,533.3  14,438,3 9,263.4 71,6350  8186431,
to E. I  lMINIRYATI                                   . -                     -          1.129,2  1,0171  1,052.0  8U ,3 n7,0   470,1  51091.7   0.1              0       0    ADR
_ __ _ _ _ ___ _ _  .. .-..................................  . ... .. .......
TOal IrarMaT COS                                                                           19946,9  17,9691  16,585.3  11,304.6 96404  8,305,1  89o953,4
3s22   3ow32222 :  2-    m  32223222-  222222 3m3:2222 3322MM
Total                                                                                       1,946.9  174969.1  13.585,3  15304#6  9,40-4 8330,1  39i,953,4
in232  2233233  3323233  33333332  323233322232  333222332s.



6RI LAI
II     IRRIAIIW  WM3ILITATIWOI POJCT
Table 100, IIMiLUIE
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
ParZtets
uantity                                               slue  Costs                            phq,
--- -                    Unit  -----------------------------------------r----------r-s------- Conte fore  Oros   Su r
Unit 95  86  97  88  89  90  Total Cost    es           86       87       Be       99       90     Total    Rate  Exch. Tax  ate kccomt
1. l1IS14ESlll LOSIS
A. CIVIL  MCtS
...........
1. Hoadwarks                                          -   -    -    -    -    -  -072,0  1072.0  1072.0                   0,2        -        -   3t2161    0.1   0.5       0.00      Hu
2. Eartiworks
Main I Brurch Cals W37k)                           -   -    -    -    -    -            1 ,6  1693    1693.7  1693.7  1270,3   931,S5   8468.6    0.1   0.5              0.05      EA
Distrlbutarv Canals 3Rs1                           -   -    -    -    -    -             315-4    450,6    4506    45046   337.9    247.8   21252.9    0.1  0.45         0.00      EA
Flield Canls (15km)                                .   .   .   .   .         -           573,7   819,6    819.6    819*6   614.7   450.8   4t097,9    0.1  0.1           0,05      EA
Drains (301                                        -   -m-   -   -   -       -           121.0    172.8    172.8    172.9    127,6    95.0    864.0    0,1         0     OO5      ECA
Sub-Total Eart1works                                                                      20195,7  3,136.7  3413607  3 61W7  2,352.5  10725,2  153683.3
3. Rod  (35km)                                                     - -    -    -    -    -   255.1   364,5    34.5   364wS   273,4    200,5   1,822.3    0.1  0.5           0O05      Re
4. Struct.m
Main I Iranch Canls                                -                                     722,0  1,143,1  113,1  1,143,1  1.143,1    722,0   6016,5   01  0.35           0.05      9!
Distributatu Caals                                 --                                    361.0   S71.6   571.6   571,6   571,6   361,0  3I00J,3  01  0.35               0.05      ST
Field Caals                                            - -   -   -   -    -              7999  1P26.6  1.26        1.6 1266.   1266,6   799,9  6,666.1    0.1   0,3    0.05        ST
Pilot Arta Modifications                           -  -    -   -   -    -                     -     25,8     40.9     40.9     40,9    40.9       199,2    01   0,3    0.05        B1
Sub-Total Stturhm                                                                          19882.9  3,007,1  3,022.1  3O022.1  3,022,1  t1923,  15,980.1
5.  LESSI U M IP   COST FROI FMC AE CC                    .   .   .   .         -           -540.6  -758.0  -759S5  -652.3   -564.9   -384.9  -3o60,2    0.1  0,34          0.05    FOFC
....... ..... ...... .._.. ........ ........ ........ .
-Total CIVIL  MC(S                                                                            4,965.1  6.022,2  6,635*7 53971.1  So063.2  3U64.4  32,941,7
3. EIIS  ANINISTRATION                                   .   .   .   .   .         -            291.9    49.3    410,1    352,3    305.0   207.9   1,976.5   01         0        0     AN
Total INlStNW  COSTS                                                                             5,157.0  7.231,5  7,245%8  6.223,4  S3o882  3,672,3 34916.2
291:11111SXa   11111.211 mals"tw   saxwow    xzm aw s r"Sz
Total                                                                                             5o157,0  7231    7t245.9  623.4  5t3,42  3672,3  34,919,2
33333x3a 8s333ta3383 8333333   333a3s3u a3ss31    333333s 3333333
~~~~~~~~.... .                           . . ....................... .... ......                   .          ....



31 LMAU                                      ARM=r 5.1
TaMe 109. MM1. MUT   arCmsT
CuantiL,                                          kms Casts                      ftu.
_____ _____ _____ _____   ____ _____ _____ _____ ____-----          C ant.  For.   Gram   Sumen r,
unit 85 86 37 es By9  Tatia  ountcost   8m               36       87    U   U9  IS  Total    Rate Exch. TagROat kcemt
Z=                                                                          =X=== zz -  3===~  -=M    -w
A. ONISTECTIOK NAOWIE
-   Front En Loaders 12 cu widl    k    10  - ----   10 2 P751.406  27,514.1                   -                 - -279514.l   0.1  0.3           0.1     ED
Crawler Tractors 100 IP       No    3  7  - ---   10 I1.919.536   5P758.8 13.437.1                 -   -   -   -  9.195.9   0.1  0.3         0.1     El
Tractors Trailer 45 HP'       Na   26 14          -         40--      597.204  15,527.3 B,360.1    -   -   -   - 23P83.2   0.1  0.3           0.1     El
Tractor 45 HP 3mmsr           ka    6  4---  -   10   597.254   3.533.2  2.383.8                   -   -   -   -  5.97.0   0.1  0.3           0.1     ER
Hators*ader 125 HP            la    3--                3 3o.00.09   99006.1          -       -   -   -   -  99006.1   0.1  0.1          0.1     ED
Rickbam 1 cu id               No        --  --  --6 3t999.237  23,994.3                    -       -   -   -   - 23.994.B   0.1  0.3          0.1     ED
tuiaatk Camoators             ko   13- - 13   191.939   2s493.3                      -       -   -   -   -  2.493.5   0.1  0.3          0.1     El
concrete fli,ur               No    3  4    - -1    2   191.959   1,535.7   707.8                  -   -   -   -  2.03.5.  0.1  0.3           0.1     El
roare Parts end Tools         m   -          - -    - -     -    - - -22353.8  6.233.7             -   -   -   - 23,592.5   0.1  0.3          0.1     El
SibTotal CUNTRUCIOM HACHIER                                                  1119769.2 31.193.3       -   -   -   - 142P962.5
Farm Tractors Trailer         No    -  - 15  -   -- 15   266.J09                  -        - 3,999.1   -   -   -  3.999.1   0.1  0.3          0.1     go
Larrses CStons)               No    -  -  7  -  -  -         7   426.575          -        - 2P936.0   -   -   -  2.936.0   0.1  0.3          0.1     ED
spar Parts                   sum                                        -    --    - 1,746.3   -   -   -  1,746.3   0.1  0.3          0.1     Ul
Sub-Total VAZIflDNM  NADIDERY                                                        -       - 3,731.4    -   -   -  B.731.4
C. WPERATION KEMIPNEII
Curret Meters                 No    6-----                  6      47.99     2B7.9        -       -   -   -   -    237.9   0.1  0.3          0.1     Ul
Recordingltainage             No    7-    ----               7    238.794     201.6        -       -   -   -   -    201.6   0.1  0.3          0.1     ER
Raingagas                     Na   14----- 14                      6.399      99.6        -       -   -   -            3.6   0.1  0.3        0.1     UR
PicnKuters                    Na    S5---                         MM592    I.69.6         -       -   -   -          IP679.6   0.1  0.3      0l      UR
PhAotacoier                   Na    2-----                  2    74.632      149.3        -       -   - --            149.3   0.1  0.8       0.1     Ul
Office Fadilities            sum      --                  -746.5                       -       -   -   -   -    746.5   0.1  0.3          0.1     E2
Sub-Total 53411K EDUIPIENTf                                                    3,154.5                -   -   -   -  3i154.5
7htowitesNo    7-----                                7    95.979      671.9       -        -   -   -   -    671.9   0.1  0.3         0.1     U
Levels                        Noa  46--- -- 46                     29.36   19373.6        -       - - - -1,3n3.6   0.1  0.3                  0.1     El
Optical Pmattark              Na    1  ---                  1    245.28      245.3        -       - - - -             245.3   0.1  0.3       0.1     ES
Plamrttar                     No    1  ---                  1    10.664       10.7        -       -   -   -   -        10.7   0.1  0.3      0.1      El
BrDrami  Attacirn            sum..   -     -10.7                                       -       -   -   - -          10.7   0.1  0.3       0.1     ER
Drafting NadN.ns              No   25-           ---- 25    10.664            2A66.        -       -   -   - -         266.6   0.1  0.3      0.1      ES
SibTota 52195  a Dam=N  116T3E1                                                26n7.6        -        -   - - -2i578.6
E.  AIXTT CITOL EDUaPIOT
Iaboratory tppliance         sum53. -                                 -   - ---M                    -     -            533.2   0.1  0.3      0.1      ED
Sub-Total EJMil  cam1   EUJIINT                                                  5333.2      -        -   -         -     533.2
F. 9EHI1LES
--   bes                          Na   12  - 11  --- 2,3  23.924   3,453.1                     - 3.167.2   - - - 69622.2   0.1I 0.53    0.35              YIE
Statffcar                     No    I       -1   332.712                    332.7        -       -   -         -     33.    0.1I0.58      0.35      YE
SIb-ota VEHIDE                                                                 3,797.8       - 3,167.2 - - -695.
6. NITROEDO~MM. EUI.
Distributors, (75 mitsl      sum------                       --   959.3                           -   -   -   -    959.3   0.1  0.3         0.1      El
Automatc Oates (4 units)     sum  -         ------   453.6                                         -   -   -   -    438.6   0.1  0.3         0.1      ER
lnstailatio  by Sweisist    sum------                        --   426.6                           -   -   -   -    426.6   0.1  0.3         0.1      El
S3*-Tota HYNnEDIMIIC  EDIPI.                                                         -194.            - - - -1,49
Total IIKEsTENT cWsTs                                                           121.323.4 33,033.2 11,39.6   - - -1669760.2
Tota                                                                             121t323.4 33,033.2 11,398.6   - -         166,760.2



SRI LANKA
NAJOR IRRIGATlON REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 110. SUPPORT IRRIGATION DEPT.
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Paraatrs
Quatity                                                Date Casts                         p1w.
Cant, For.   Gross   Suoarw
unit 85  86  87  88  B?  90  Total  Unit Cost    85         86       87      88      89      90   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Accmt
--:2                                           =:2:2-2U2         223           5        :_2  :-=::: ::: ----_283-s :  3338swgss
1. 111 ETW   COSTS
A. BUILDINS
wuartbrs-6r 4            No     3   4                -      7    290.169    8705 1916007         -        -       -    -  2,031.2   0.1  0,33      0.05       DU
uarters-Or 3             lb     3   3   -   -   -   -      6      322,41    967.2    67.2        -       -        -    -  1,934.5   0.1  0.33      0.05       Du
Quarters-Or 2            No     2   3   -   -   -   -      5      214.94    429.9   64,B         -        -       -    -  1,074.7   0.1  0.33      0.05       NJ
Sub-Total BUILDINGS                                                          2,267.6 2M772.7        -                        510403
3. ERWYS
Boil Surm               so      --                                          754,9        -       -       -        -         754.9  0.1   0.1          0       Su
Enrineerird             suN     -74 -   -   -   -          -                754.9                                           7        04 .   0.1       0       SQ
Sub-Total SURVEYS                                                            1,509.9        -       -       -        -    -  1,509.9
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                                                     a%
Hkdrolodical Studies            --                                        3342.7         -       -       -        -    - 3J342.7   0.1   0.1        0.1       TA
Pilot Proiru                    -   -   -   -   -   -                     11600.9 11609   0.1  0.75                                                 0.1       TA
Swste.  Nt.-                                               -              2-139.7 1,176,8        -       -        -    -  3,316.5   0.1   0.6       0.1       TA
ProJect Akeounting                                         -              1.620.0 1,620,0 1,000.0 1,060.0 1060.0    -  6,480,0 0.1          0      01       TA
Sub-Total TECHNICAl ASSISTANCE                                               8,703,3 2,796.8 1,060.0 1;oa0o0 1,060,0        14,740.1
D. TRAINING
Local                           -       -    -    -    -    -               432.0   4320   432.0   432.0   4)2.0    -  2,160,0  01          0        0       TR
Overseas                        .    .    .    .    .-                    1,285.0 ,2865.0 128MS0 1285.0             -     5,1401   0.1   0,6          0      TR
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                          1717,0 10717#0 10717,0 1,717.0   432.0    -  7M300.1
Total INVESTEW  COSTS                                                          14,197.6 7206.5 2797.0 2,797.0 1.512.0    - 26,590.4                                       I
Total                                                                           4,197.3 7t2.6,5 2797.0 27970 1512.0    - 235904 4
-- - - _ - - -    -----  _ u11 .  -   "
*         ,I                                            l4olffig 748M   2sM,O 2tMoO IP512*0    - 284% .



SRI LAIKA
MMJOR IIRIGAIION REHAS!LITATION PROJECT
Table 111. LAND    IISSIMR VPT
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '00)
Paramtots
@atiti                                                bit Costs                          Phw.
- - ------------- - --------------- -------------------------  Cnt. For#  Gross   Sumuru
uhnit  85 86 87 88 89 90  Total unit Cost  E8             86      87      88      89      90    Total   Rate Exch. Tax Rate Accomt
g8uwa   S  wXN awa m=  NM *a P*M. Eawa=gw    uuiuuuw 2w1uM1 8#aUm uua2ww in1ufl ESw1 m.  I -:-=   m-MUN -3u:u mawaJImu              m
I. IMESTITW COSTS
A. ROAD REHAIILITATION
Road Class I                     silts   - 6,8 6.8 6.8 6.9 6.9   34       77.192        -  524.3  524,8   524.8   524,8  5248  2o624.2   0.1   0.5    0.05            RO
Road Class 2                     miles    -  52  52  52 52 52  260    55.742            - 2,89.6 2M,8.6 2  ,8.6 2Z899.6 2,89.6 14,493,0   0.t   0.5    0.05           RO
A.dlnistration                    sum    -    -  -  -    -    -    -                    -   32.4   64.8   97.2  129.6   162,0   486.0   0.1           0    0.05       RO
Su-lotal ROAD REHILITATION                                                                 - 3,455i9 3M49M.2 3P520#6 3,553.0 3,585.4 17.603M2
3. biularization of Encroehac nts    su     -    -  -  -    -    -    -               432.0  486.0        -       -       -       -   919.0    0.1      0        0      SU
C. Vehicles
Jcn                               No      2   -  -  -    -  -       2   287.924    575.9                                             575,8   0.1  0.58    0.35        YE
Sub-Total Uehiclen                                                                     575.8       -       -       -       -            575,9
_~~~ ....  ......._......_  .._..              .....
Total IMS IENT COSTS                                                                    1,007.9 3,941.8 3M4OM.2 3,520.6 39553t0 3,585.4 19M07,0M
amamar awwa *5u- S5S- ::5___ :-- 5::--5
Total                                                                                    1t007.8 3W941,8 3,488.2 3,520.6 3,553,0 3,585.4 19M0O7M0
"awulw* magmum *gxuau  *EUwuuu UZuu1uu uauS:uu  *w885aw
____ ____ ____   ____    ____ -_ _ _ _ _ ___    ___ .__ _. -_    ____ ----   -  --------__. ._ __ _ __ _ __ _ -  ----  __. __ _ -- - -- - -     -_ _ -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -  ___ -- - - - - - - - ___  --__ _ ___ _ _



SRI LASA
lAJR IRRIGATIOI REHABILITATION PROJCT
Table 112. DEPARTMENT OF A6RICtLTtRE
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Paraeters
Quantity                                             Pase Costs                        Phy.
---------------------  ----                ---------------------------------------------------  Cont. For.   Gross   Sumari
Unit 89  96  97 8B  89  90  Total Unit Cost   95           96       97      9B     99    90   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. IIJE9IINT COSTS
A. INSTRULINTS
Nhtto (5 units)              s       -    -    -    -    -    -  -              106.6   149.3        -       -     -      -   255.9    0.1   0.9      0.1       ED
Stau Recorders (7 units)   su        -    -    -    -    -    -  -               42.7   106.6        -       -     -      -   149.3    0.1   O.9      0.1      EO
Neasurind Flumes             sue     -    -    -    -    -    -  -              213.3   213.3   213,3   213.3      -      -   953.1    0.1   0.8      0.1       EU
Akcusorin and Supplies    sm         -    -    -    -    -    -  -               53.3   266,6        -       -     -      -   319.9    0.1   0.9      0.1       EQ
icrocomputer                 su      -    -    -    -    -    -  -                  -   799,8        -       -     -      -   799.8    0.1   0.9      0.1       EC
Sub-Total INSTRUMSENT                                                              415.9 16535.7   213.3   213.3      -      - 2437842
B. VEHICLES                                                                                                                                                                    a
Jeeps                        No      1   2   -   -   -   -      3    287.924    207.9   575,8        -       -     -     -   963.9    0.1  0.59      0.35       VE
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                 2B7,9   575,9        -       -     -      -   963.9
C. TRAINING                     su      -    -    -    -    -    -  -              129.6   129,6   129.6   129.6 129.6       -   648,0    0.1     0        0       TR
Total IWASTENT CSTS                                                                   933.4 2241,1   342.9   3429 129.6         - 3m.9
11, RECIR T COSTS
A. STAFF I INICRNENTAL COST
Statt                               -    -    -    -   -    -  -               649,0   649.0  649.0   648.0 648.0 649.0 398880    0.1         0        0      SC
Onrating Expenses                                              -                86.4    96,4    96,4    86.4  86.4  86,4   519.4    0.1       0        0      SC
Taul I Subsiste                     .   .   .   .   .          -                43,2   43.2    43,2    43.2  43,2  43P2  259.2   01          0        0       SC
Sub-Total STAFF i ICIIENTAL COST                                                  777.6   777.6  777.6   777.6 777.o6 777,6 4t665o6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                 777.6   777.6   777.6   777.6 777,6 777.6 49665.6
Total                                                                                1,611.0 3,018.7 1,120.5 1120.5 907.2 777s6 9,555,5
3s3333"  33333s S:=Ms33  3333_- .1--1 33333 33313331
___~~~~~~~~~~~-                       __._ --   __ --- --   __ -- --   -  -   ._ ----   -.. -- - -   -  -- -- -   -  -- - -- -   -  --.................. . -  -- -- -   -  ----I   - - - - - - -
: ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T',                                                        }



SRI LANKA
HMJ   IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 113  Departmnt of Agrarian Services
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000}
Paraeters
Ouantitv                                            Base Costs                      PhV6
-     --                                                        --   Cont. For,   Gross   Suari
Unit  85  86  07  88  89  0  Total  Unit Cost    83          86      87     89   89   90  Total    Rate  Excha Tax Rate Acck wit
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Buildinis
35 Fertilizer I Seed Stores    u          -     -    -    -    -                    537,3 29149.4 2149.4    -    -    - 48361    0.1  033            0.05       BU
5 iaraes                       suN                   -            -                          322.4 -   -   -  -   32422                O.l  0.33     0.05       DU
Hurus4uiddai Neu Center        sue      -    -    -                                         483-6             -              483.6    0.1  0.33      0.05       BU
Miscellaneous                  sum      --                                          16.2         -       -    -    -    -   161,2    0.1  0.33       0.05       DU
Sub-Total Buildings                                                                    69896 2M955.4 2P149.4    -    -    - 59803.4
9. Vehicles
DicMcles                        No    42   -    -    -    -    -    42    3.19    134.4          -          -            -   134.4    0.1  0,58      0.35       YE
Notorcicles                     No      5  12   -   -   -   -    17      29,959    149,3   358,3         -    -    -    -   S07.6    0.1  0.58       0.35       YE
Jeeps                           No      2   -    -    -    -    -  2    287.924    575.8         -       -    -          -   575,8    0.1  O058      0,35       YE
Pick UP Ttuck                   No      -   3    -     -   -       3    319.913         -   959,7        -    -          -   959.7    0,1 0.58       0.35       YE
Spare Parts                    sum              -   -              -                    -    53.1             -    -    -   8 53,1    0.1  0.58      0.35       YE
Sub-Total Yehicles                                                                     859.5 2P171.2        -     -    -    - 3030.7                                        1
----    ---- -   ------ -  - -- - -  -          - -- -- -- - .- - ----
Total II0YSTIENT COSTS                                                                 15591 5M126.6 2W149.4    -    -    - 8M834#0
"B nu:e ;xcza  ZM       :s   - z= .=- = ::   :-:
Total                                                                                    I,558.1 5r126,6 2M149.4        - -    - 8-934,0
_ZZ2  __ _.  ...n mass. , .... ....=_



5I LUAW
1MJO ItIlATIOI RMILITAION PROJECT
Table 114. tIWYIITY OF MEAIYA
htailed Cost Table
Ri '0O0)
Paruters
omUtitY                                        Bias Costs                   Phv.
- --- -- ---------------------------         Cont. For.  Gross  Sumai
Unit 95 96   7 1# 99 90  Total Uit Cost  05  96   97   88    99    90   Total   Rate Exch. Tax Rate AccuIt
ma21 mm Wo a mum am   mum ma       smazama  aut osammam  smaumms mamma ammama a=8snma amma wmams maasssam  *_amaa
I. IWNESTNhNT COSTS
A. WICLES
Jip                                          -1    ----            1   277.924        27.9                             287.9   0.1  0.58    0.35       YE
Sub,-Toal MHICES                                                                      -287.9    -       -    -        -  287.9
I. EOUIPINI
Photocopisr                              -  1  -  -  -  -    1    74.651    - 74.7                                      747    0ol  O.       O.l      ED
S-Total EWIPIENT                                                                         74,7                              ;                                            T74,
C. 1INTORIRC I EYALtIATION WSUREY
1. KU  Participation
st.ff I Allwances             sg       -        -                              - 25.9 25,9   64.8  25.9   64.8  207M4    0.1       0        0      SU
Wwratird Costs                 s      -  -  -  -  -  -    -                     -    -   -  183.6  54,0  183.6  421.2  01    0              0      Su
Sub-Tol MLU Participation                                                          - 25.9 25,9  249,4  79.9  248,4  628.6
2. IUivsrsith PFrticipation
Coordination I Csltmnts        V-A -                          -      -  -   -   -             2fl.2    -  272.2  544.3   0.1       0        0       u
Enarators                      so     -  -  -  -  -  -          -               -    -   -  293.9       -  293.9  587,5   0.1    0           0      Su
Tralliri Alloans               so                          -   -   - -  -  -                   162.0    -  162.0  324.0   0.1       0        0      SU
Data Praossini                 sU   -       -  -   .-                           -          -  129.6     -  129.6  259.2   0.1       0        0      I
Otratird Costs                 S      -  -  -  -  -  -    -                     -    -   -   54.0    -   54.0  108.0   0.1    0              0      Su
Printin    is                  su     ---  -  -  -  -    -                      -    -   -  118.8    -  118.8  237,6   0.1          0        0      SU
Ovew     I Ad                 Suam    -  -  -  -  -  -    -                     -    - 540   540 540    540  216.0  01             0        0      SU
9tu-Total tUiversits Particiration                                                 -    - 54.0 1#084.3 54.0 19004.3 24276,6
5th-Total HOIITORINB I EYLATIIN SErY                                                  - 25.9 79.9  332.7 133.9 1332,7 2M905.2
Total INESTH      CT C3S                                                                 - 389,5 79.9 1,332,7 133.9 1,332,7 3t267.8
umam   am am v-z-    - mamama  aanaa   usm
Total                                                                                     - 38805 79.9 19332,7 133.9 1,332.7 3,267.8
ama  amam  mamats _mam _am    maaaaa



SRI LAM
IJOR IRRIGATION RAILITATION MROICT
Table 115. IWNERNtAIIAl IRRIGATION SOT INSTITUTE
Detailed Cast Table
(Rs '000)
Paraters
oantit,                                     Base Costs                    Phs.
---------- Unit ------------------------                                            Cont. For.   Gross  Suary
Unit 85  86  8   88  89  90  Total Cost   85          86     87  98  89   90   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate  cumt
XSW X_ W-- Sam XX: :X: MISS :Ssam: r---::92w  ::::82  BUZ2V      X::: *J:=  *83 2111131 211:22 SUZ  xz8-::_ ::s =2:::
L. IINESTNT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS
1. Kv NO Renovatim     I Extmnsion
Principal Failities                     sU      -   -    -  -    -   -     -        69448.2  6P449.2    -    -    -    - 129896,4   0.1  0.33      0.05      NJ
Auxilliars Failities                    su      -    -    -    -    -    -  -         537.3  1,074.7    -    -    -    -  1,612.0   0.1  0,33      0.05      Du
Parktir  Area                           sum     -    -    -    -    -   -  -          268.7    537.3    -   -    -    -    906.0    0.1  0.33      0.05      Du
Sub-Total KIndv HO Renovation I Extension                                              7254.2  8,060.2    -    -    -    - 11,314.5
2. Field Site Fwilitie  (2 locatim)
Offices, Workshops, Lab                  A- -    -    -               -           - -        1,7195 -   -   -    - -  -- 3439.0    0.   0.133      0.05      a1
Aiaditianing I Auxilierv Eui.           SU      -    -    -   -    -    -  -          564.2   564.2    -   -    -    -  1W129,4    0.1  0.33       0.05      NJ
Parking Area                            Su      -    -    -  -    -    -   -          214.9    214.9    -   -    -    -    429,9   0.1  0.33       0.05      DU
Sub-Total Field Sito Facilities (2 location)                                           2,499,7  2,498J7    -   -    -    - 4,97.4
Sub-Total UQILJIUBS                                                                       9,752.9 10,559,     -    -    -    - 20,311.8
Total INVESMNT COSTS                                                                         9,752.9 10,558.9    -    ;    -    - 20.311.9
Total                                                                                         9,752.9 10,558.9    -    -    -    - 20,311.8
333I_33     _    10:33     _2Z _3 __33 __._113_33__



SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cosponents by Year
(Rs '000)
Base Costs                                      Tot.al
85        86         87         88         89        90           Rs       (US$ '000)
-X-22=X=X~~~~~~~~ -X=--                              =   =          - -- -222X   uazn   =222     zxzxz _-x_zn=
A, MLLD DIVISION OF IRRIGATION MGT               10.273.0   7,504.2   6,892.5   3.410.5   2,602,8   2.602.8          33,285,8    1,262.3
B. IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
1. REHABILITATION SCHEMES
KANTALAI                                    4.718,4  11,748.7  12,170.3  10,653.2  10,117.6   8,951.7         59,359.9    2,213.1
MORAWEWA                                    1,887,3   5,620,7   5,573.8   2,229.5   1,799.2             -      17,110.5      648.9
IRANAMADU                                  10,581.4  19,315.5  28,233.1  21,850.9  12,975.9   9,166.4    102,123.3    3,872.7
GIANT TANK                                  9,342.5  30,631.7  25,396,6  19,835.2  14,639.3  14,395.7    114,241.1    4,332.2
RAJANGANA                                   7,276,7  15t119,4  17,584,6  17t492.5  18.197.2  12,256.0         87,926.2    30334.3
NACHCHADUWA                                l9t948,9  17,969.1  18,585.3  15,304.6   9#840,4   8,305.1         89,953.4    3,411,2
HURULUWEWA                                  5,157.0   7,231.5   7,245.8   6p223,4   5,388,2   3,672,3         34P918,2    1,324.2
Sub-Total REHABILITATION SCHEMES              58,912.2 107,636.5 114,78?,5  93,589Y3  72.957,6  56,747.2    504,632.5   19,136.6
2. PROJECT SUPPORT                           136,021.2  40,324.8  14,695.6   2,797.0   1,512.0             -    195,350.6    7s408,1
Sub-Total IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT                14,933.4 147,961,3 129,485.2  96,386.4  74.469,6  56,747.2    699,983.1   26,54407
C. LAND COMMISSIONER DEPT                         1,007.8   3,941.8   3o488,2   3,520.6   3.553,0   3,585.4          19,097.0       724,2
B, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                      2,186.1   2,442.1   1,119.8   1,119.8        906.5      777.6       8,551.9       324,3
E. DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN SERVICES                1,558.1   5,126.6   2,149.4            -          -          -      8,834,0       335,0
F. UNIVERSITY OF PERADENIYA                         287.9      100.6       79.9   1,332.7      133.    1,332.7        3,267.8       123t9
G. INTERNATIONAL IRRIGATION MGT INSTITUTE         9,752.9  10,558.9           -          -          -         -      20,311.8       770,3
Total BASELINE COSTS                              219,999.3 1779635.5 143,215.0 105,770.0  81,665.9  65.045,8    793,331.5   30,084.6
Phssical Contingencies                          21,999,9  170763,5  14,321.5  10,577.0   8,166.6   6,504.6          79,333.1    3,008.5
Price Contingencies                             34,582.9  53,957.5  64,793.5  63.522*9  60,471.3  56.197,9    333,526,1   10.172,8
Total PROJECT COSTS                               276,582.2 249,356.6 222,330,0 179,869.9 150,303.8 127.748.2  1,206P190,7   43,265.9
:=a=:=== ======= ======a  a======= ===::== =:=a====Xw   ==:=:_===== m=z=XX====: 
Taxes                                           25,079.1  15,039.1  12,333,7   8.013.5   68448.8   5596.1           72,910.3    29623.5            pi
Foreign Exchange                               163,912,8 108,057,3  82,200,9  59,419#0  49,361.1  42,250,1    505,201#3   18,170.2
w   t                                                                 '~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~,  :



SRI LAWA
HAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROXCT
ProJejt Coaponents by Year
Totals Includinr  Contingencies                                   rotals Including Continrnceis
(Ri '000)                                                        (US$ '000)
95        86        87        9s        89        90       Total         95      86      87      88      89      90    Total
*:gg:a-a  :-ast*=u     -u-s-: *:::..uu8 *_s:s::_ m:w:::::a ::_=::-- in                2in    in-s-s         gu::r:am: az=ua-_,
At ItD IRRIGATION NOT DIVISION                12,953.3  10,640.0  10i796.6   584.6  4,970#5  5P197*9   50s34310    473,6  392.0  384.1   209.3  173.3  194.9  1,907,3
B. IRRIGATION DEPARINiT
1. REHABILITATION SCEJS
KAhTALAI                                 5,986.3  16,570.2  18M934.5  18.114,1  18,6404.2  17,521.9   95,731.1    218,9   595.0  673.6  644.4   661.8  623.3  3.417,0
NGRmbEm                                  2,394.1   7t921,9  8W666,4   3,789,1   3300             -    26.080,4      97.5  284.4  308.3   134,8   117,7         -    932.8
IRAjIWIAU                               13M438.6  279222,5  43423.3  37,151.6  23,98.85  18M024.9   163649.4        491,4   977,5 1,562,6 1,321.7  849.8   641.2  5&8441
BIMbT TANK                              111819.9  43Q067U2  39.404,5  33,631,6  26,841.2  28,192.7   182,947,0    432,2 1,546*4 1,401.8 1,196,4   954.9 1,002,6  69534.2
RAJNWGMA                                 9,236.1  21,331.3  27,372.2  29,766,9  33,507.9  24,093,3   145,307.7    337,7  7659   973,8 1058.9 1f192.0   857*1  5M185.5
NACNHADWA                               25,307.1  25,325.5  29,991.6  26,002.6  18074.9  16,301.5  139o923.1    925,3   909.4 1.027.8  925,0  643.7   59,9  5,011.1
HRULUIELW                               6,539.5  10,192,9  110265.9  10,587.7  9,921.8   7,216.2    550723.8       239,1   366.0   400.8   376,7   353,0  256.7  1M9.2
Sub-Total REHABILIAIION SCHEINES           740721*5 151631.3 1768456.3 159,043.6 134,167.4 111,340,4   8094.62.5  2.732#0 S544.6 6,348,6 5,657,9 4,772,9 3t960,9 28W9169
2. PROJECT lSPPOT                         170,173.9  55,923.6  22p459#4   40775#3  2,8293            -  256.161,6  6,222,1 2,008,0  799,0  169.9   100.7              9299.6
----------  -------- ---------------------------                    -    -- -          ----------- - --
Su-Total IRRIAT0IN DEPARlEKNT                2448,95.4 207,554,9 2000917.7 1634819,9 136,996.8 111,340.4 1.065,524.1   89954.1 7,452,6 7,147.4 59827,8 4t873,6 3.960,9 38,216,5
Co LAND COMISSIOIER DEPT                       1#273.2  5,538.5  5,390.9   5t944,9  6,494.1  6,995.4    31,637 0          46,6   198.9   191.8  211.5   231.0  248.9  1.128,6
D  IEPARTIENT WF A6RICULIUR                    2,758.8   3P414.8  19752.7  1,917,0   1.6918   1,552.9   13,098.0          1 100.9   122.6   62,4   68.2   60.2   55.2    469.5
Es EPARTNEHN OF MRARIAN SERVICES               19960M2   79169,2  3,345.9          -          -         -    120475.3     717   257.4   119,0         -       -       -    448*1
F. tIIVERSITY OF PERADENITA                      359.6     140,2     126,2  2,304.5    250.6   2,661.5        5,942.6      13.1    5.0      4.5   82,0    9.9    94.7    208.2
Be INTERNATIOIAL IRRIGATION NOT INSTITUTE     12,381,7  14899.0          -         -          -             27Y280,7    452,7  535,0                  -       -       -   987.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                            276,582.2 249356.6 22293300 179t869.9 150,303.9 127,748.2 1,206W190.7 109112,7 89953.6 79909.3 6.398,8 5.347,0 454446 43,265.9   ' 4
r_=-Zzzs:z :::222=== =:=:::::s ::::::=== ===ZXZ:s ===:sr:as =:czszz -zx    m:_rjj  *1,1o   as--   2*X*  f1z=w___v 2=22:=:==x    _
.  .gmuumz   uaguau   uua.u:n  muina inum.ua aauauu nua,aUl



-74-
ANNEX 5.3
Sri Lanka
Maior Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Staff ADpraisal Report
PhasinR of Equipment Purchase and Fundinu, by Donors
EguiTment                            Total              Delivery in
No.      1985       1986        1987
A. Items financed by CIDA:
Front End Loader 2 cyd                   10         10          -           -
Farm Tractor 45 hp & 2.8 cyd trailer    26          26          -           -
Motor grader                              3          3          -           -
Backhoe 1 cyd                             6          6          -           -
B. Items financed by IDA:
Farm Tractor 45 hp & 28 cyd Trailer      29          -         14          15
Farm Tractor 45 hp & 500 gal bowser      10          6          4           -
Crawler Tractor 100 H.P.                 10          3          7           -
Pneumatic Compactor                      13         13          -           -
Concrete mizers                          12          8          4           -
Lorries 5 ton                             7          -          -           7
Van 12 seats                              1          1          -           -
Pick up Trucks                            3          -          3           -
Jeeps                                    41         30          -          11
Staff cars                                3          3          -           -
Notorcycles                              17          5         12           -
Bicycles                                 42         42          -           -
Operation, Survey, & Lab Equipment       all in first year
Hydromechanical Equip. for Pilot areas  all in second year
The cost of equipment to be supplied by CIDA, IDA, iucluding spare parts, physical
and price contingencies is:
Local Cost      Foreign Cost    Total
CIDA Financed Equip.    0.9               3.8           4.7
IDA  Financed Equip.    0.9               2.8           3.7
Total                    1.8               6.6          8.4



Sri Lanka
l4aioT Irrigation Rehabilitation Proiect
Staff ApDraisal Report
Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year/Half Year                 IDA Credit                        CIDA Contribution                       SDC Contribution
Disbursement  Cumulative  Percent   Disbursement  Cumulative  Percent   Disbursement  Cumulative  Percent
1985   Second               0.4           0.4          2           0.0           0.0          0           0.1             0.1         1
1986   First                1.0           1.4          8           0.1           0.1          3           0.5             0.6         8
Second              1.4            2.8         16           0.1           0.2          6           0.6            1.2        16
1987   First                2.1           4.9         29           0.3           0.5          17           0.8            2.0        26
Second              2.1            7.0         41           0.3           0.8         27           0.8            2.8        37
1988   First                1.6           8.6         50           0.3            1.1         37           0.8            3.6        47 1
Second              1.6           10.2         60           0.4           1.5         50           0.8            4.4        58
1989   First                1.3          11.5         65           0.3            1.8        60            0.7            5.1        67
Second              1.3           12.8         75           0.3           2.1         70           0.7            5.8        76
1990   First                1.1          13.9         82           0.3            2.4        80            0.5            6.3        83
Second              1.1           15.0         88           0.2           2.6         87           0.5            6.8        89
1991   First                1.0          16.0         94           0.2            2.8        94           0.4             7.2        95
Second              1.0           17.0       100            0.2           3.0        100           0.4            7.6       100
I



Sri Lanka
Maior Irriaation Rehabilitation Project
Staff ADDraisal ReDort
Cropoina Intensities
Kantalai   Morawewa   Iranamadu   Giants Tank   Raiantana   Nachchudwa   Huruluyewa
Maha: Paddy
Present           0.95         0.85      0.95           0.85         0.975         0.95         0.95
Without           0.95         0.95      0.95           0.85         0.975         0.95         0.95
With              1.00         1.00      0.975          0.90         1.00          1.00         1.00
Yala: Paddy
Present           0.40         0.05      0.30           0.025        0.65          0.25         0.05
Without           0.40         0.20      0.30            0.025       0.65          0.25         0.05
With              0.50         0.25      0.30            0.05        0.675         0.30         0.15
Yala: Soya
Present            -            -         -                -          -             -           0.25
Without            -           0.15      0.05              -         0.10          0.05         0.30
With               -           0.25      0.15              -         0.20          0.20         0.35
Haha: Total
Present           0.95         0.85      0.95           0.85         0.975         0.95         0.95
Without           0.95         0.95      0.95            0.85        0.975         0.95         0.95
With              1.00         1.00      0.97            0.90        1.00          1.00         1.00
Yala: Total
Present           0.40         0.05      0.30           0.025        0.65          0.25         0.25
Without           0.40         0.35      0.35           0.025        0.75          0.30         0.25
With              0.50         0.50      0.45           0.05         0.875         0.50         0.50
Grand Total
Present           1.35         0.90      1.25           0.875        1.625         1.20         1,25
Without           1.35         1.30       1.30           0.875       1.725         1.25         1.30
With              1.50         1.50       1.425          0.95        1.875         1.50         1.50
-.
sources:  Farm survey, UOP
Mission estimates.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



-7,7-
AMNEX 7.2
Sri Lanka
Major Irriatcion Rehabilitation Project
Staff Aowraieal gescrt
Sua_rv of Crooned Area (ha). Productios (tons). and Yield (tonha)
Future     Future
Present      Witbout       With    Incremmutal
(i)           tii)         -1i)    (iii)-mii),
XZJrALA
Area:
Paddy                           9.437          9,437     10.485      1.048
Production:
Paddy                          33.028         33,028     46.134    13,106
Yield:
Paddy                             3.5           3.5         4.4        0.9
MORAHEVA
Area:
Paddy                           1.764          2,254      2.450        196
Soyabean                          -              294        490        196
Production:
Paddy                           3,704          6,762      9.555      2.793
Soyabean                          -              368         858       490
Yield:
Paddy                             2.1            3          3.9        0.9
Soyabean                          -              1.2        1.7        0.5
IRANAK.ADU
Area:
Paddy                          zl.788        11,788      12.023        225
Soyabeas                          -             472       1,415        943
Production:
Paddy                          35,363        35,363      51,700    16,337
Soyabea-                          -             589       2,475      1.886
Yield:
Paddy                             3             3           4.3        1.3
Soyabean                          -             1.2         1.7        0.5
GUSAS TMU
Area:
Paddy                          10,903        10,903      11,837        934
Production                      21,805        21.805      39.062    17.257
Yield                             2.0          2.0           3.3        1.3
AMJANGAA
Area:
Paddy                           9,604          9,604      9.8e9        295
Soyabean                          -              591      1,182        591
Production:
Paddy                          33,613         33.613     42,567      8,954
Soyabean                          -              739      2,069      1,330
Yield:
Paddy                            3.5             3.5       4.3         0.8
Soyabean                          -              1.2        1.7        0.5
re~a
Paddy                           6,4SC          6,480      7,020        540
Soyabean                          -              270       1,090       810
Production:
Paddy                          19,440         19,440     27.378      7,938
Soyabeen                                         338      1.890      1,553
Yield:
Paddy                            3.0             3         3.9         0.9
Soyabean                          -              1.2       1.7         0.5
EURULW
_ *                                Area:
Paddy                           4,090         4,090       4,704        614
Soyabean                        1,023         1,227       1.432        205
Production:
Paddy                           8,589         8,589      15,992      7,403
._                                   Soyabean                        1,278         1,534        2,505       971
Yield:
Paddy                             2.1           2.1         3.4        1.3
Soyabean                          1.2           1.2         1.7        0.5
TOTAL PROJZCT
Area:
Paddy                          54.066         54,556     58,418      3,862
Soyabean                        1,023          2,854      5,59"    2,744
Production:
Paddy                         155.542        158,600    232,388    73,788
Soyabean                        1.278          3.568      9,797      6,230
Yield:
Pnddy                            2.88           2.91       3.98        1.07
Soyabean                         1.2            1.25       1.75        0.50
TOTAL INTIPsm                      119            124         138         14
Srce: Mission Estimates



Sri Lanka
Haior Irriaation Rehabilitation Pro;ect
Crop Iluut Requirements
(Per Ha)
Fertilize                                                      Labor
Yield     Seed    N    P    K   Pesticide  Weedicide  Buffalo   Tractor  Family  Hired
(tons)    (kg)        (kg)           (RB)       (Rs)      (Rs)       (Rs)       (man-days)
PADDY
Present         2.88     115      72   72   26    107          215       460        1170       32      58
Without.        2.91     115      74   76   26    115          235       460        1170       34      63
With            3.98     104      99  103   34    140          320       460        1170       54      99
SOYABIen
Present         1.25      50      25   50    0      25           0          0        750       40      40
Without         1.25      50      25   50    0      25           0          0        750       40      40
With            1.75      50      50  100    0    100            0          0       1000       50      50
Sources: Farm Survey, UOP
Mission estimates.
I 
S                                                               I



-79-
SRI LAWA                                                AM       7.4
Table 1
HAAOR IRRIrATION REHILITAIE PRO.ECI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIANTS TAH; ILLUSRATIVE 3-HA FARM r1ODEL AND ESTIMATE OF PRODUCER RENT
RUPEES
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    19O    1991    1992    1993    1994 195-2009
-    IIUTHOUT PRnjCT
CROP PRODTN                       17719.00 1800.00 20060.00 21320.00 22580.00 23846.00 23683.00 23520.00 23357.00 3195.00 23032.00
CASH PRODUCTION COST              15170.00 15478.00 1570,2.00 15960.00 16244.00 16520.00 16541.00 16525.00 1654.00 165.00  16591.00
4ATER CHAR5ES                       375.00  375.00  450.00  525.00  600.00  675.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00   750.00
TOTAL OUTFLIDS                    15545.00 15853.00 16152.00 16485.00 16844.00 17195.00 17291.00 17275.00 17296.00 17317.00  17341.00
MET CASH FARN INCOME               2174.00 2947,00 3908.00 4835.00 5136.00 6651.00  6392.00 6245.00 6061.00 5978.00  5691.00
PER CAPITA                          401.85  544.73  722.37  893.72 1060.26 1229.39 1181.52 1154.34 1120.33  1096.51  1051.94
RENT
NET FARN INCOtl BEFORE RECOVERY    2549.00 3322.00 4358.00 5360.00 6336.00 7326.00 7142.00 6995.00 6811.00 6628.00  6441.00
LESS FAMILY LABJR                   650.00  650.00  650.00  650.0   650.00  650.00  650.00  650.00  650.00  650.00   650.00
MAHAG'6ENT                          326.10  442.05  586.20  725.25  860.40  997.65  958.80  936.75  909.15  881.70   853.65
IMPalCIT RENT                      1572.90 2229.95 3121.80 3984.75 4925.60 5678.35 5o53.20 5408.Z5 5251.85 5096.30  4937.35
PERCENT RENT RECDUERED                0.24    0.17    0.14    0.13    0.12    0.12    0.14    0.14    0.14    0.15         0.15
WITH PROJECT
IWL=N=S
cROP PRODUTION                    17719.O  23525.00 3027.00 37791.00 40304.00 42710.00 42419.00 42127.00 41836.00 41544.00 41253.00
OUTFLUIS
cASH PROUTIN COST                 15170.00 18117.00 21077.00 24168.00 24637.00 25036.00 25064.00 25057.00 25086.00 25114.00 25146.00
LATER CJARGES                       375.00  750.00  900.00  1050.00 1200.00 1350.00  1500.00 1500.00  1500.00 1500.00  150000
TOTAL OUTFLO                      15545.00 18867.00 21?77.00 25218.00 25837.00 26386.00 26564.00 26557.00 2656.00 26614.00 26646.00
NET CASH FARM INME                 2174.00 4658.00 829O.00 12573.00 14467.00 16324.00 15855.00 15570.00 152.00 14930.00 14607.00
PER CAPITA                          401.85  861.00  1532.35  2324.03 2674.12 3027.38  2930.68 2878.00 2818.85 2759.70  2700.00
REIT
NET FAiN INCOM BEFORE RECOVERY     2549.00 5408.00 9190.00 13623.00 15667.00 17674.00 17355.00 17070.00 16750.00 16430.00 16107.00
LESS FAMILY LABO                    650.00 1900.00 3125.00 3125.00 3125.00 3125.00 3125.00 3125.00 3125.00 3125.00  325.00
MANAGEMET                           326;10  698,70  1243.50  185.95 2170.05 2441.60 2378.25 2335.50 2287,50  223.50  2191.05
IMPLICIT RENT                      15W .90 2809.30 4821.50 S82.05 10371.95 12100.40 11851.75 11609.50 11337.50 11065.50 10790.95
PERCENT RENT RECWERD                  0.24    0.27    0.19    0.12    0.12    0.11    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.14         0.14
INCREMENTS
INCREMENTAL NET FARM IICOIE              - 1711.00 4382.00 7738.00 8731.00 96n.00 9463.00 9325.00 9199.00 9052.00  9916.00
PER CAPITA  1JA                          -  316.27  809.98 1430.31  1611,86 1787.99  1749.17 1723.66 1698.52 1673.20  1648.06
PERCENTAGE INCRIEASE ET CASH INCOME   1.00    1.58    2.12    2.60    2.52    2.45    2.48    2.49    2.52    2.54         2.57
PROJECT RENT                             -  579.35 1699.70 4627.30 5546.35  6422.05 6318.55 6201.25 6085.65  5969.20  5853,60



-80-
SRI LAW11A                                        ANN     7.4
- -           T CCable 2
MMJOR IRRATION RDILITAIWN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IRLMA  ILLUTRATIVE 2-HA FARM ML AD ESTIMATE OF POE KT
RUPEES
195    1986    197    1998    199    1990    1991    192    1993    1994 1995-2009
IMI T PROECT
INFLOIIS
CROP PRODITION                    25313.00 27020.00 287B9.00 30932.00 32882.00 34835.00 34600.00 34365.00 34130.00 33895.00 33660.00
OUIFLOIIS
CASH PRODICTIOI COST              14868.00 1522.00 15507.00 15820.00 16161.00 16494.00 16514.00 16497.00 16517.00 16537.00 16560.00
VATER CHARGES                       250.00  250.00  300.00  350.00  400.00  450.00  500.00  500.00  500.00  500.00   500.00
TOTAL OUITFOMS                    15118.00 15478.00 15807.00 16170.00 16561.00 16944.00 17014.00 16?97.00 17017.00 17037.00  17060.00
NET CASH FARM INCOE               10195.00 11542.00 13171.00 14762.00 16321.00 17891.00 17586.00 17368.00 17113.00 1685.00 16600.00
PER CAPITA                          1830.34 2072.17 2364.63 2650.27 2930.16 3212.03 3157.27 311B.13 3072.35 3026.57  2980.25
REr
NET FARM INCOIE BEFCRE kECOVERT   10445.00 117M2.00 13471.00 15112.00 16721.00 15341.00 18086.00 17868.00 17613.00 17358.00 17100.00
LESS FAMILY LABWR                   625.00  650.00  675.00  675.00  700.00  725.00  725.00  725.00  725.00  725.00   725.00
NMNGE1ENT                          1529.25 1731.30 1975.65 2214.30 2448.15 2683.65 2637.90 2605.20 2566.95 2528.70  2490.00
IMPLICIT RENT                      8290.75  410.70 10820.35 12222.70 13572.85 14932.35 14723.10 14537.80 14321.05 14104.30 13995.00
PERCENT REKT RCOUERED                0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.04          0.04
-ITH PROJECT
IWLOMS
CROP PRODUTION                    25313.00 31861.00 39321.00 47440.00 5026.00 53029.00 526W.00 52329.00 51979.00 51629.00 51290.00
OUTFLOEI
CAMS PRUCTION COST                14868.00 17256.00 19635.00 22120.00 22543.00 22913.00 22940.00 22936.00 22963.00 229.00 23019.00
VATER CHARGES                       250.00  500.00  600.00  700.00  800.00  900.00 10O.00  1000.00 1000.00 1000.00  1000.00
TOTAL  OLO                        15118.00 17756.00 20235.00 22820.00 23343.00 23813.00 23940.00 23936.00 23963.00 2399000 24019.00
NET CASH FAM INCIE                10195.00 14105.00 19086.00 24620.00 26953.00 29216.00 29739.00 28393.00 28016.00 2763.00 27261.00
PER CAPITA                         1830.34  25.32  3426.57 4420.11 4838.96 5245.24 5159.61 5097.49 59.80  4962.12  4894.25
RENT
NET FARN  ME  BEFORE RECOVR       10445.00 14605.00 19686.00 2520.00 27753.00 30116.00 29M.00 29393.00 29016.00 28.00 28261.00
LESS FAMILY LABO                    625.00  1150.00 1650.00  1650.00 1650.00 1650.00  1650.00 1650.0D  1650.00 1650.00  1650.00  _
WiAENT                             1529.25 2115.75 2B62.90  3693.00 4042.95 4382.40 4310.85 4258.95 4202.40 4145.85  4089.15
IIPLICIT RENT                      8290.75 11339.25 15173.10 1977.> 22060.05 24083.60 23778.15 23484.05 23163.60 22843.15 22521.85
PERCBENT RENT REOD  -                 0.03    0.04    0.04    0.;,   0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04           0.04
DCREIITS
NCREMTM  RET FARM INCOE,  2563.00 5915.00 9858.00 10632.00 11325.00 11153.00 11025.00 1C3.00 10781.00 10661.00
Pg CAPITA INCREASE                       -  460.14  1061.94  1769.84  1909.80 2033*21 2002.33 1979.35 1957.45 1935,55  1914.00
PERCENTAGE DNCA NSET CASP. INCOME     1.00    1.22    1.45    1.67    1.65    1.63    1.63    1.63    1.64    1.64          1.64
PROJEWT RENT                             - 1928.55 4352.75  7754.30 8487.20 9151.25  955.05  9946.25 9942.55  73S.95  8636.85



-81-
SRI LAA                                                      7.4
Table 3
rAJOR IRRIGATION REHADILITAIOH PROJECT
STAFF  RASAL RORT
RAJ4NJRNA ILLUSTRATIVE I-HA FAIW EEL NO ESTINATE OF PRU      RENT
EFEES
1995    199     1987    1988    1989    IW      1"91    1M       1M        4 195-20
*      ITHOUT PROLJECT
INFLOMS
CRP PROUTIOR                     1919.00 20534.00 22057.00 23576.00 25090.00 26606.o 26428900 26249.00 26070.00 25991.00 25713.00
OUTFLOWS
CASH PROZICTION COST              8032.00 8241.00 8409.00 8596.00 8796.00 8994.00 94.00 894.00 9004.00 9014.00  S025.00
VATER CHARES                       125.00  125.00  150.00  175.00  200.00  225.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00   250.00
TOTAL OJTFLH                      0157.00 8366.00 8559.00 BM.00 9996.00 9219.00  25.00 9244.oD 9254.00 9264.00   M5.00
MET CASH FAMI INEK               11042.00 12168.00 13498.0D 1405.00 16094.00 17387.00 17174.00 17005.00 16816.00 16627.00 1643.00
PER CAPITA                        2063.93 2274.39 2522.99 2767.29 300.22 3249.91 3210.09 3178.50 3143.18 3107.85  3072.52
RENT
NET FARI IOE BEFO  REaCOVRY      11167.00 12293.00 13648.00 14990.00 16294.00 17612.00 17424.00 17255.00 17066.00 16877.00 16688.00
LBS FAMILY LABOR                  3300.00 3325.00 3350.00 3350.00 3375.00 3400.C0  3400.00 3400.00 3400.00 3400,00  3400.00
HANAGEENT                         1656.30 1825.20 2024.70 2220.75 2414.10 2608.05 2576.10 2550.75 2522.40 2494.05  2465.70
IILICIT RENT                      6210.70 7142.80 8273.30 9409.25 10504.90 11603.95 11447.90 11304.25 11143.60 10992.95 1082230
PERCENT RENT RECOJE3D                0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02      0.02
WITH PROJECT
INFLOIIS
CMOP PRCDUTIIN                   19199.00 22759.00 26822.00 31195.00 33070.00 34864.00 34634.00 34404.00 34174.00 33944.00 33715.00
8ilTFLOlS
CASH PRODUCTION COST              8032.00 80.00 9538.00 10367.00 1060B.00 10818.00 1093300 10826.00 10840.00 1OOS.00 lO71.00
HATER OC S                         125.00  250.00  30D.00  350.00  400.00  450.00  500.00  500.00  500.00  500.00   500.00
TOTAL !JrFLONS                    8157.00 9030.00 9838.00 10717.00 11008.00 11268.00 11333.00 11326.00 11340.00 11355.00 11371.00
IET CASH FAM  rINlcoE           11042.00 13729.00 16984.00 20478.00 22062.00 235960OD 2330100 23078.00 22834.002589.00  22344.0
PER CAPTA                         2063.93 2566.17 3174.58 3827.66 4123.74 4410.47 4355.33 4313.64 4268.04 4222.24  4176.45
RENT
NET FA  ZIOHE BEFORE RECMUERY    1116.00 13979.00 17294.00 20029.00 22462.00 24046.00 23801.00 23578.00 23334.00 23069.0  22144.00
LESS FAMLY LABOR                  3300.00 3575.00 3850.00 3850.00 3850, 30.00 395.00 3950.00 3950.00 3050.0D  3950.00
IAIBIENT                          1656.30 2059.35 2547.60 3071.70 3309.3D 3539.40 3495.15 3461.70 3425.10 3398.35  3351.60
IFPUCIT RENT                      6210.70 8344.65 1086.40 13906.30 15302.70 16656.60 16455.85 16266.30 16059.90 1*550.65 1562.40
PERCENTAGE RENT RECUERED             0.02    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03      0.03
ICRERs
INCREIENTAL NET FAR INCONE             - 1561.00 3486.00 5673.00 5968.00 6209.00 6127.00 6073.00 6018.00 5962.00  5906.00
PER CAPITA INCREASE                    -  291.79  651.59  1060.37 1115.51 1160.56 1145.23 1135.14 1124.86 1114.39  1103.93
PERCENTASE INCREASE NET CA6N INCONE  1.00    1.13    1.26    1.38    1.37    1.36    1.36    1.36    1.36    1.36      1.36
PROJECT RENT                           - 1201.85 2613.10 4497.05 4797.80 5052.65 5007.95 4962.05 4915.30 4867.70  4820.10



-82-:
SRI A                                                            8.1
NJR IUIATIN RENIILITrATION PRO.ECT
STAFF WPRAISAL EIPRT
TOTAL COST AND BET STr    FOR   NIC MANLYSIS
RW        000
1985      1986     1997     19       1M       199O     1        1M       1M       1994 195-2009   -
INCEIENTAL AGRICILTURIL IEIEFIT
GUIlTS TAl                                        -    736.0   4660.0  14364.0  31212.0  49432.0 63.0  71066.0 75063.0 74313.0  526.0
-RLL                                              -    1095.0   4246.0  9386.0  1669.0 2413.0  31497.0  353.0 3e 5.   36812.0   27115.0
IRANIANAU                                         -    161.0    540.0  13977.0  2662.0  44068.0  62101.0 74346.0 90Z6.0 3O02.0  S590.0
KANTALA                                           -    645.0    438.0  12963.0  2655.0  400.0 50om.0  552.0 5705.0 56347.0  39656.0
NEN                                               -    651.0   2499.0  6121.0  9681.0  11776.0  13B94.0 14590.0 14579.0  1406.0   10126.0
0                                                 -    521.0   4154.0  114S3.0 2157.0  31172.0  37496.0  41263.0 42094.0  4199.0  31545.0
RASG                                              -    1440.0   156.0  12091.0 21210.0 3096.0 39039.0  43493.0 45423.0 4525B.0  33500.0
TOTAL INCEJENrTL  ENIEFIT                         -   6696.0  31193.0 93.0 15312.0 232507.0 2996060 35473.0 351339.0  029.0   3O4.0
ucEENTAL PRODUCTwi COST
GIANTS TA                                         -    419.0   2533.0  7473.0  1594.0 23694.0  30697.0  34254.0 36290.0 36293.0  36300.0
HALILEVA                                                691.0   2629.0  5657.0  9793O  14040.0  1W020.0 20245.0 21156.0 211SB.0  21070.0
iMMDU                                             -    816.0   2744.0  6576.0  M33.0  19400.0 27503.0  33115.0 356.0 3553.0   36264.0
KANAT                                             -    413.0   2990.0  7694.0  15140.0  22181.0 27893.0  305.0  31635.0 31613.0   3164.0
NORAIIENA                                         -    399.0   1443.0  3401.0  5131.0    14.0   75.0  7409.0  7416.0  7385a1   73B3.0
ACM                                               -    242.0    IM55.0  514.0 l4130  1Z4.0  16387.0  803.0  183.0  1848.0  1837.0
RAJANOSA                                          -    5S5.0   1963.0   455.0   7873.0  11262.0  14306.0  15M.0  16739.0 1146.    16532.0
TOTAL INDT AL PFOUCJOI COST                       -    35.0  16197.0  40495.0  75087.0 109945.0 141926.0 159687.0 16613.0 167500.0  167474.0
DNJESTW C11M1
GIANTS TAM                                  16534.2  39780.2  31259.0 2477.2  18367.9 15m.1               -       -        -        -         -
HIALLUE                                      7627.0  m95.    905M4.   77o5.4  6577.2  3959.2              -       -        -        -         -
LRAwiMDU                                    16174.5  25911.3  33016.4  25375.9  15M5.3  9611.9            -        -       -        -         -
KANTALAI                                     8603.9  16310.8   15164.6  13262.3  12211.1   934.6          -       -        -        -         -
mmE"                                         23.5    6983.2   6506.6   295.5  2305.3             -        -       -        -        -         -
IDIDW                                       23946.2  2213.3  21507.7  17797.5  11612.3  8763.9
RA.IANA                                     10553.6  1900.5   20350.1  20000.7 20337.4  12959.8           -       -        -        -         -
TOTAL INE;ITINIT COSTS                      897.   140146.9  136859.2 112376.5  87194.5  9963.5          -       -        -        -         -
IEJIT^AL OERTIE I AMINTEICE
GIANTS TM                                         -      81.0    397.0   9000.  1512.0  1767.0   2118.0  2118.0  2113.0  2118.0   211.O0
HIRLUMEA                                          -      79.0    209.0   309.0   485.0   612.0   695.0   695.0   695.0   695.0    695.0
-W                                                -    119.0      m.0   527.0   867.0  1241.0  1603.0  1603.0  1603.0  1603.0   1603.0
ruiTALA                                           -      52.0    314.0   551.0   m.0  1076.0  1183.0  1139.0  113B.0   1183.0   1198.0
m                                                 -      45.0     124.0   24.0   303.0   333.0   333.0   333.0    333.0    333.0          333.0
NKIAMI                                            -      42.0    23o.0   518.0   678.0    65.0          .o    9130    91n8.0    918.0     918.0
mUJLe.                                            -    116.0    277.0   483.0   593.0   727.0   1005.0  1005.0  1005.0  1005.0   1005.0
TOTAL   IENOTAL 0 1 N                                   534.0   1873.0  3533.0  536.0   6621.0  7960.0  7960.0  790.0  7960.0   7860.0
TOTAL INCEENTAL COSTS                       B6397.918 4420    15492.2 1563V4.5 16761.  176529.5 1496U6;0 i67547.0 175473.0 17560*0 V 74.b
IET INCMETAL IDWIS WF   MILErATION  8637.8 -13754.8 -123736.2 -76039.5 -14405.5 s9m.5 14892.0 167926.0 175866.0 17495.0  79104.0
u       =        ~~-ZZZ=   -        -        -       -                 m        m  



-83-
ANNU 8.2
Sri Lanka
Naior Irrixation Rehabilitation Proiect _
Staff Apyraisal ReDort
Financial and Economic Prices /
(IN RUPEES)
F Financial                             Economic
Unit     1985      1990        1995          1985       1990       1995
*   Paddy                Ton     3,300 Z/  4,467 ?J   4,312 a/      3,226 tJ   4,367 lJ   2,932 2|
Paddy Straw         Ton         S0        50         50            64 if      64         64
Soyabean            Ton     6,755 2/  6,156 2/   6.063 5/       5,405 /   4,926 fJ  4,851 i
INPUTS
Paddy Seed          Kg           4.3       5t9        5.8         3.8 Z7     5.2 71     3.5 2/
Soyabean Seed       Kg          12.4      11.4       11.4         6.4        5.9        5.8
Fertilizer N        Kg(AS)  J   7.9       10.6       11.11       12.9       17.7       18.2
Fertilizer P        Kg(AS) !/   6.9        8.1        8.1         9.8       11.7       11.7
Fertilizer K        Kg(AS) /   5.1         5.7        5.7         7.6        8.7        8.7
1ABOR
Labor             Manday        25 O2     25         25            21 101     21          21
Ij  Expressed in constant 1984 prices.  Economic prices for internationally traded cozmodities
based on Bank's Revised Commodity Price forecasts of July 1984.
3j  Based on domestic price in 1984 projected in line vith international price of paddy.
3/  Import and export parity prices adjusted for lower quality by 301.
Export-parity price applied starting in 1995.
5/ Based on opportunity cost - (Rs.75/ton), adjusted by SCF-.85.
5/ Based on domestic price in 1984 projected in line with international price of anyabean.
if  Export parity price.
2/ 201 margin added over economic price of paddy.
g/ AS: Active Substance. Urea (461) for N; TSP (46Z) for P; NOP (601) for K.
Financisl prices of N, P, and K based on Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation prices increased
in reu. ternms in accordance with international price forecasts.
2/ Repres-ats veighted average of peak (80Z) wage of Rs. 26 and off peak (20Z) of Rs 20.
jQO  Seasonal wage rates as (9) above adjusted by SCF and off peak wages
further adjusted by .80.



CHART I-A
SRI LANKA
tIAJOR IkRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PLOT OF PRESENT VALUES OF INCREMENTAL BENEFITS AND COSTS AGAINST DISCOUNT RATES
P  114841",O +                  I
A             I                 I
S             I                 I
I  179460,  9   68              I
t             I      8il8       I
V             I             3828l
A             I                 I38
L  1410731,6 t                  I f61 8
U             I             t           0886
I             I                 t           t#t
A             I                 I                883
F  1492002,5 t 63886            I                        461
S             I           460081                                  mt8
T             I                                                                      148 ntn
3I                       I    688066                                nn8
*           E  1373272,3 4                   I          00886                               88888
A ^           I                 I                06888                              3tll
N             I                 t                      08060                             83888                                                      , 
S             I                 t                  '         860                              88688ll$t'
I                 I                                               #83001               Ullt       0'
14.1   +   I                                         ||||                         tllle141
I                 I                                                      061810                       838886
I                 I                                                           . 66181 0               l$8886
I     .           I                                                                     8168|18                  88888l
1135115.0 t                                                                                                                        lolo 188888
I                 I                                                                                     114611111             tlll
I                 t                                                                                            68888;.8             886886
I                 I                                                                                                     8881111111         8688
I                 I                                                     t0lE101118                                                              8388888ll
101725.1                    I                                                                                                                       MI11811       SHOW
I                 I                                                                                                                                880001810   88888*8
Hlfilif lolttilo
O  I                                                                                                                         666~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|16866. .68886
I    !            I
91356.6 9                   I                                                                                                                                                                         68.....       R         I
I       .        .... I                                                                                                                                                                                . .     ..... .    ..11 .
I         UI I
I                                                                                    a
779127.5 4                  t
+            -t .-----1-----*----.----.----*--- t--t.t                         t- t--t                         t         t - -t-         tt                        t       --t-----------
9.4       9.7       10.1      10.5       10,9       21.3      11.6       12.0       12.4      12,1       13.2      13.5       23.9       14.3      14.7       15.0       15.4      13.1       16.2       26.6      16.
D150UIT RATE 12 1
I * CPFThIll T   COFT CAfIM
8 * 1MM. INCRICTAI #F10E
*~~~~~~  t0TGYM.1KRIbENTM.ViaT9 



s-65
T--   ---------I ;i    .1             t----I   -
51          i    +  ~~~~~- T-~  -s-              ----T----T-- --Ii
1 _ __ _ 1_ _ __  __ _ ' I _            I                I  ____I_ _    K
j               E  l                                        t f 
+-.-+- ii-T--t-----T----T-----  I                    E 1..4. 
T  T    T   ET*~    T  j T                  |      T ig
--+ -          -+--I-T-Si    -----+----T-----  I I-
I  I     I    II T--|:-T--                l --I---+
*--T--i-- -------------F-
[----T----I----' f----I -  5 ------   -I.-E 
ei~  "L   _                                         i:t. 
If                1   1   1        
-   -     -    -~~~~~~



SRI LANKA                                                                                    TABLE X-C
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJEC-T
LOCIUS OF BENEFIT COST SWILTCHING VALUES AT OCC-10
2       26.3 4
o             1
v             I---------------------------------------------                                                      --------   --- - --------     ------------------ ------- -----------
*       23,3*t
N             I
C             I
T             I
14.6 ill
lit   15511                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
I.        911
mis~~~~~ls
548 f~~~~~~~SN
5,9*                         5*151 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2MTALINKIT
I                                                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SKFTSICIGPIT  1il1l 9
2.9 *                                                                              5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT  UTHNGPIT15* I1.7



GIANTS TANK IRRIGATION VSEM
TEIOAM ANICUT
(56 km rorn Apura)
GIANTS TAW          NKAN
44._7E uzz3'                                              4
-M.7         25~~ km fRMcosT 35b   RMTS                                       Wt  n-5
S~~~'S1EM   IL*:   ~~~~~~~~~~~ i~~~~i  wacs  -a = 4.LInft
Natural Stream or Riw
lMgaMd Amos
7 km  FROM GPMN~ TAW'I  35 km FROM TBOAM                        Vdd bankc-26845



-88-
NACHCHADUWA IRRIGAlON SYSTEM                                                               4              M
3250 E . o 
LevS   FEE         SEA                                             F.. 3
t ICchmeBl/E31ET mo                                                   31B s
(WedIh5         ) dePd fai n)WA
fV  Cat&chnen? Disc Tis. km
(No dratd Mtean Lpstleom)                                                                           FR
Tank wh Live Capocity 'A: m-iAon in 3                                           7h 
D uF=SL .     L =eveIolul ice
$  Anlcut
- i NOhuIO StrecrWiRiw
_  *C=nd  r: F.5L                           ~~~~~~~EW TANIS 
Canal y, r F.SL
3    Rodial Gale                                                               850 ha
ulled AANs EL
AMPADHARPRA        ~     '~
28.75  'AS           T 6>   Y    3N
263                                                      BA5 266a1
I MADAWALLJ4AMU WEWA
2 KALEWLA Jva 'A
3 MAHEELUBEV.A
4 PAWiA  EJWMA
MAHAKANADARAWA                                                    S DrYAJLWEWJA
G1ANrSTANK                        TAKtl ANCU1T 
SEA
ABOUT 70 km FROM NACHCHAOWA
PJa' Bane-2S64t



-89-
HJRULUWWEWA IRRIGA71ON SYSTEM
t   In F8k-So
TANK             SAMICSWA                                          D 78  ST NN0I
C7atchm.ntsAn 1 .% krm                                                      2&k
CW.dlnl llrs_-mm
C (chmo elAnndm    kms)
C CNodMedid np*aWn)
11 =    Tor* wvId Lim Cacpty W millonm ni30
P   a-FSaL    -Ie d SkLice                                      T|
. An*1. km                                    l                                     TANK
NduolSteanrvRk
L.....Ngotlo nCand  r- F.S.L                            H;7 7N7N
KAAV&WA
GDh47 < 4;a7 HURULLASeW
S~~~~~~~~8 1M R5O I3JAU.IlAi e
(27J Icm)   y            .TR  S           ,
MORALE 51h   
L   D ~~~~WAAKD RESERBO
7   ,    Y~~AN OVA RESERVI
S o KSFROMA HURULU4EWA
30 km FROM VAN OVA RESERVOIR
Wodd Sar*-258d7



F               BC1'W# 
a / ~~~~~~~~---5----- 
11               #                    9                                           g                 0t- 
1  5                                                   ff                 f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  gj~~



t  ^                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  d  N
W~~I I



IRANAMADU IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Legnd.
Cotchment hca o'l sq. km
-*,KNARY~AN RESERVIR (Poposed)                                         (Woll defined stream)
\ `135 7   /   (Systern-K-undei Mahawel;
D&veloprnent Schene)                                                   Tank with Lve Coapcitv 'A' rnillion M3
t8km)                                                                              a -F.SL In'h#   p-A- t d Mtule ln M
vi  Natural Straomn/Riv
\  50S       Q 0   0-Name o Canal
_     P          P-Conol Dischorge In cumec.
30.8 IRANAMAAD JTUNK                                             i         up
\        ~~134           2.4                                                            If      Propod Anicut
11.3 km           P-B M/NNCHM  NL                        _
20 km FROM RW'IA NADU6mA    TANK
052                                   PEAA  C                                              Bonk-
NMS     = A    '                                                                                                             ML 25  ha         iAk



-93-
KANMALAI IRRIGA71ON SYSrEM
EAHRA~~        ~MA L                  i3 E3f        22vi A ED                 sveGSATW
.   &7   Z wx@=rrAh              @              K*EtAM M
Z                                              |    KN<>WXOWN   . &        .         w5
:                E                                               TOe In FFmI
t )                             S///  g g   E  '  ffi~~~~~~~~~pff
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  = FSL  
S1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                     17% ha8
\~7  CotchmentAiea 1F sqs krm.
(Wa deined 3tron)
(No dedrmed are= uscm)                          OR
Tol Tawith Lhve CapacIty -M million n3                   c
AeF.SL A=:Le,,,IcgueSUc
- Ntumi SIlm=/Rhwe
*PWI;25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~015
BAY
WoW I-2



-94-
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGAION RBAILIAuON PROJECf
Mohowel Suppls - Una DLhe
so I    r 
HSsSpS  __                                                           1harCSv 
-C     A Car Ic~uhT9s Pagm                                                                                    \
if A O~o Tun &/ Im/v   \              .rg
m"                                                                      ft OM0fid-
AO-                                ttP I  r
c~~   )1
Aho".~,S,Z  \1
r     
sm-                            NohOM. 0       H1 .V                                     () >
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WM
Aq>Xv|-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ouuop Pmo ttt
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Thobl    |
s  >_Dbtft                                                             Ltt-2>Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a=l



SRI IANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization Chad
Mlnlstr of Larnd & Land DeleIopment    iWflgoatn Management Dion
l         ~~(MULD)                           (I)
|iffgotlonD  zatxtrent|
D"cta (ID)
annlng          Water Maragemnt &
_  Ernch             Molor Rehc bIIIatlon
Senior Deputy Director
_____                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Add Wonal
Research &             |  ProJect omce                                                          Prolect DiDctor         ir_ctr
Tralning Brancrh                MIRP                                                                                       Drc-_____--MIRP  q ----_  My
Deputy Director                                                                            NEng=-
Design                 Tflncomalee Ronnoge                           Kantail         Poetloo                         De"t Directof
Bfronch    ||Do ptu    I    nflonee    |                             S| heme             Kantalbl                        maw6b   tb 
Branchi                  Deputy DirectoctMoogrDpuy keto
Sevles                                            I| |gltin    l      Scen                oaw w                          w   w
Engirew                                            hftlnte~~~~-   Draneo
iRnance   |            Klnochchl Range       Lgnr;*                 I                                                DeyDrctor D
DIv1sion                Deputy Director         Irangamodu          Srah,m             Ifromoct Manage
__________                 Engineer            Scheme            IranEmglu                          Control
Contrcs &                                         Giant's Tank
DMuipmnt                 Deputy Director                              Scheme            Glant's Tarnk                    Pinance
OMlvon                                            Enginee
_ l~~~~~Raanga nla                 t    n- raongcanu f f ProJect Manager           _ualn
Kekiraw Dorae RoRUtY DirectoY
Deputy Director          EngitlneerN)W                       Prje MRaJ   w                    diatcn 
iuruigmati        HuruIlMO          Project Manager                 Adrniurath
Range ~ ~ ~ ngrw__                   C1urlmw
Deputy Director           niee                cw                                                *Wod Bonk-26291



SRI LANKA
K IlI NO CHCHI                                           MAJOR IRRIGATION
Kilinochch .'                            REHABILITATION  PROJECT
____, /-g                                   0i   Location of Subprojects
\ k       MU  L  L A  I r T I. V U
9      19    20      30     40
y                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
r  \,.'* ~~~~~~~~~         \   9  ~~~~~~  19   Is   20   25
'1 ),  1 vR \  ,,Y,'                 MILES
oMnncar  jZ                                                                  v
4.~~ ~ ~                             . -...t~
M MA  N I    R 
4        N ~~~~~VA  VUNIYA
'N   Vavuniya  /     ~    ~     ~    ~      TRINCOMLE
C                   A~~~~~~~~~nurodhopura.                                 ZI'*
C.
-1 ~      '~a~'v



Ionh r,\,                 jZ"PR                                                        W  A        '1
t1~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hbrn 5i~u g adwA(  
Thisamp has been prepatedj by
rho Word eank' st aN excirsi      /lgcaCt
e        x the c/1rrenwen. of the
readers and is excskisflovto Mhe                                                                                                     T
inltenal use of The World Bark
ard tle hntemnat.rut Farnc/ aoln
Coeato r heT rna--on   K U R U  N  f 3 A L       A Li  N  E   O A
used and the bourdaries shawn\
on thes rap do not im*, on the
part of rhe WbIdo Bank and the
hIt erntwainak"F%nce Corporation.
anv jtlpnent onthe ikedat status
of any tenitory of any
endsoesmenl or acceptance of
such bwdttaes                   rs Q                                              LET  |V3t    
SRI LANKA                      ELEVAION IN FEET 
500 - 3000     POWATEN                                      QM~~~~~EISTNG FEATURES
100 - 500                          DVRI
I   0   t   100  500    | | r 02  } )( /   3DAM    I                            RESERVOIRS & TANKS
.90                                                                           M A 'r  j  >                 et90^A AL E  .        -RIVERS
'> . )4, \ ~~REA OF MAP                                                                                      PO E  HOU.}  CAASE
$ 0 y. t9 .t j:t Alilrvial i { > ... <1 * ~~~INTAKES
[ tt    0     k  Bonpa,'   1 1S  S02  ~~~~~~~~~~K A N D Y g4S=~TUNNELS
y  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~ ~~~IRRIGATED    AREAS
ie                                                                                                               - - D> VLs1  oSeSctMor  \j72)=RAILROADS
70          ;       t         M        O                 0.-3W)                                                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES 
\<  ;   ts-Xr                   // /~  S~efio8,  t UW A R A               \BADULLA                                   C
60                                                     66~  ,c r                        E L I Y A          \                                      0 
IIPC                                                                                                                                        0 1  2ar  UHOOEjav5
*~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ k                                         ro Nu wor .~                                                                    I _  ..



S0'20'                                Ter   ia Ps         80 25'*~;
Io(/no ogoon
o lr              ' 4t11X'2'' F   d  f 1% : : 0 : '  gF o r 
XJ    y       )  ~Scrub and  Jungle                             d          \    
Kula
W~~~~      V             )            ll~~~~~~~Ionomadu    E=;               .c 
*9 0
IT14 IV  p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I
9C-0'        a X
Killnochch                       ,, -,   Jungle



~KuIam
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \B   NlA  /  l
Pu-umurripy                                     70 \  
C11
|  X   <                     | t         V    A      V| | U0; .N99 I    Y           A   eimn    se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il bI~SaA  sE ac.|~
Iranoma   Subpronjectu
9020RPOE  AALRHelLTTO' 9020,b5eULU RAN1-l   
fod Mi. bovwwneoe ofuee
V                  I              ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ow wweofac   The WeowrAubd*
used ard Die b&w*saiee shim
on Mu map do not PM*. O" Du
pai of The r ~lBe4k mnd Mw
ro Anu,adhapu,a                                     *vwbm Flwv Co II. o
SRI LANKA                                     OTHER RA or .aptance a
euh bolloeiead
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT    T W
Iranamadu Subproject
KILOMETERS  0       2?     3 i          5                                                           n
MILES of                                            I       -.
PROPOSED CANAL REH-ABILITATION'             BUILT -UP AREA               ''N 
MAIN CANALS                                 PRINCIPAL ROADS
BRANCHES & DISTRIBUTARY CANALS         -    OTHER ROADSI
LANKA2
PROPOSED DIVERSION STRUCTURE    -.--  RAILROADS
2-TANKS & RESERVOIRS
WM   AREA UNDER PADDY CULTIVATION         c-                                                                      CLOB
AREA OF TRADITIONL CULTIVATION  ~T RIVERS  BONAR 
*    EXISTING PUMP HOUSEDITCTBU AR
8020                                      8025*    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Field canols not sl wn.



