Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14742
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1537-CE)
JUNE 29, 1995
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency (abbreviation) = Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year (1984)                            US$1.00 = Rs 25.4
Intervening Years' (1985-92) Average             US$ 1.00 = Rs 34.7
Completion Year (1993)                           US$1.00 = Rs 48.3
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =  3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.6214 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha)         =  2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)        =  2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)     =   1.0161 long tons (ton)
I m3/sec               =  35.3357 cubic ft/sec (cusec)
1 bushel of paddy      =  20.8655 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ARTI               Agrarian Research and Training Institute
CIDA               Canadian International Development Agency
DA                 Department of Agriculture
DAS                Department of Agrarian Services
DCO                Distributary Channel Organization
FO                 Farmer Organization
GOSL               Government of Sri Lanka
ID                 Irrigation Department
IIMI               International Irrigation Management Institute
IMD                Irrigation Management Division
INMAS              Program for Integrated Management of Major Irrigation Systems
10                 Institutional Officer
LCD                Land Commissioner's Department
MASL               Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka
MCM                Million cubic meters
MLLD               Ministry of Lands and Land Development
NIRP               National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2260-CE)
PAR                Performance Audit Report
PM                 Project Manager
SDC                Swiss Development Cooperation (Federal Department
of Foreign Affairs)
USAID              United States Agency for International Development



FlOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                              June 29, 1995
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka
Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1537-CE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Sri Lanka-Major Irrigation
Rehabilitation project (Credit 1537-CE, approved in FY85) prepared by the South Asia Regional
Office. The Borrower prepared Part II.
The project sought to improve irrigation supplies and water use at seven tank schemes in
the dryer areas of the country, building upon the experience of a recently completed Bank-
supported project. It gave special emphasis to solving recurring problems with operations and
maintenance (O&M), by strengthening a new ministerial division responsible for integrated
scheme management, and by toughening the rules on cost recovery. Early in project
implementation, civil strife necessitated the suspension of work in the three most northerly
schemes. The project was cofinanced by the Canadian International Development Agency and
the Swiss Development Cooperation.
The engineering works were successfully completed, including three additional investment
operations not explicitly provided for at appraisal. The record of cost recoveries was dismal, as
with the previous project, prompting government to shift its strategy from farmer repayments to
farmer participation in O&M of the canal infrastructure. Progress in this new direction is uneven
but improving. The PCR presents a substantial annex on re-estimated rates of return, showing
that the economic impact is higher than as appraised. However, the data base available to the
PCR team was weak, the anticipated contribution from the agricultural extension service failed to
materialize, and there is evidence on all four remaining schemes that farmers have not yet shifted
appreciably to the better cropping patterns and practices anticipated at appraisal. Project
outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory. The institutional developments-aiming at integrated
management and depending on inter-institutional coordination-are rated as modest. The PCR
implies the rehabilitation works are sustainable. The Swiss Development Cooperation, which was
responsible for the technical assistance component including monitoring and evaluation, comments
in an annex that the PCR is too optimistic about farmer O&M, long-term production impact, and
quality of construction. Sustainability must, therefore, be rated as uncertain.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1537-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE . ............................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...
PARTI  ................I
1. Project Identity ............................................... 1
2. Background ............................................... 1
3. Project Objectives and Description ........................................ 1
4. Project Design and Organization  .......................................   3
5. Project Implementation ..............................................  3
6. Project Results ............................................... 8
7. Project Sustainability  ..............................................   9
8. Bank Performance   ..............................................   11
9. Borrower Performance .............................................. 11
10.   Project Relationship  ............................................... 12
11. Consulting Services and Contracts .          ...................................... 12
12. Project Documentation and Data ......................................... 13
PART II ...............................................                                                        15
I. Observations on Part I of the Project Completion Report .........            ..       .............. 15
Performance of Implementing Agencies           ................            ................... 15
A. Irrigation Management Division  ..................................... 15
B. Irrigation Department ............................................ 16
C. Land Commissioner's Department ...........                     ......................... 17
D. Agriculture Department  . ......................................... 18
E. Agrarian Services Department ........................................ 19
F. International Irrigation Management Institute .............................. 19
II. Changes in Project Composition          ........................................  19
III. Training                      ............................... 20
IV. Bank Performance  .............................................. 20
V. Borrower Performance   ............................................. 21
VI. Performance of Co-financiers  ......................................... 22
VII. Observations on Part III of the Project Completion Report ......... ..                  ............. 22
Annex   I - Project Achievements
Annex  2 - Prorata Costs
This doctument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III                                          ...... . 45
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits       ....................................... 45
2. Project Timetable ........................... ...                                                  46
3. Credit Disbursements  .............................................  46
A. Estimated and Actual IDA Disbursements  ...........  .           ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..  .   . 46
B. Cofinanciers' Estimated and Actual Disbursements  ........ .        .  .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 47
4. Project Implementation  ............................................. 48
A. Physical Achievements ..................................  ......                            . 48
B. Farmer Organizations .........................................                              . 49
C. Training.   ............................................   49
5. Project Cost and Financing .o........................................... 50
A. Project Cost  .............................................  50
B. Project Financing  ........................................... . 51
6. Project Results .............................................                                      52
A. Direct Benefits ............................................. 52
B. Economic Impact ............................................. 52
C. Financial Impact ............................................. 52
D. Studies .............................................                                      53
7. Status of Covenants .......................... .. .                                                55
8. Use of Bank Resources ............................................. 56
A. Staff Inputs .............................................   56
B. Missions .................................................                                   . 57
ANNEXES
Annex 1:       Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
Annex 2:       Equipment Procured Under the Project
Annex 3:       O&M  Fund Allocation
Annex 4:       Comments from Switzerland (Federal Department of
Foreign Affairs, Swiss Development Cooperation)
MAP: IBRD 18021



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1537-CE)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Major Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project for which Credit 1537-CE in the amount of SDR 17.0 million (US$17.0 million equivalent)
was approved in December 1984. Co-financing was provided by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) in the amnount of US$6.8 million equivalent " and by the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) in the amount of US$7.6 million equivalent.2' After two one-year
extensions, the final IDA credit closing date was June 30, 1993. The credit account was kept open
until October 31, 1993, to allow submnission of final withdrawal applications. Total disbursements
amounted to SDR 11.09 million (65% of the credit). The remaining credit balance of SDR 5.91
million was cancelled effective May 6, 1994 (the date when unused funds in the Special Account
were returned to IDA). Disbursement of the SDC contribution amounted to US$7.92 million
equivalent (104%), and of the CIDA joint contribution to US$2.61 million equivalent (87%).
2.         The PCR, except Part II, was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
mission 3/ which visited Sri Lanka in January/February 1994, and reviewed by the Agriculture
Operations Division, Country Departmnent III, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on the
Staff Appraisal Report and legal documents; IDA supervision reports and project files; field visits;
and discussions with Government officials, beneficiaries and IDA staff associated with the project.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower.4'
" The Canadian contribution was provided through parallel financing (US$3.8 milion equivalent)
and a joint contribution managed by IDA (US$3.0 million equivalent).
2/ Comments on the PCR from SDC are included as Annex 4.
3/ Mr. S. Rajagopal (irrigation engineer, mission leader), Ms. Suzanne Raswant (economist, consultant) and
Dr. S. Amarasiri (agronomist, consultant).
4' Irrigation Management Division, Ministry of Irrigation, Power & Energy, October 25, 1994.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1537-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.         The project's objectives were to increase agricultural production under seven major irrigation
systems located in the dry zone of Sri Lanka and to introduce an effective program for their integrated
management. These objectives were to be achieved through: (a) physical rehabilitation of existing systems
for optimum utilization of available water; and (b) support for the Program for Integrated Management of
Major Irrigation Systems (INMAS), to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems
and complementary programming of agricultural activities and inputs. The seven systems originally to be
rehabilitated covered a total of 46,000 ha, but the actual project area was 23,800 ha", as explained
below.
Implementation Experience
2.         Early in project implementation, civil strife necessitated the suspension of rehabilitation work
in three schemes (Giant's Tank, Morawewa and Iranamadu). The situation did not improve and the
suspension became permanent. However, an unexpected breach of the dam at Kantalai required immediate
repair to put the Kantalai system back into operation. Two other items were implemented in fulfillment
of Government commitments under the IDA credit: provision of proper outlets in the Huruluwewa Feeder
Canal (carrying Mahaweli supplies) to regularize illegal tapping; and provision of pumping equipment and
civil works rehabilitation for the Lift Irrigation System of the Rajangana scheme. The actual area covered
by the project was reduced to that commanded by the remaining four schemes (Nachchaduwa,
Huruluwewa, Rajangana and Kantalai) and by the Huruluwewa Feeder Canal and Rajangana Lift Scheme,
totalling about 23,800 ha. Due to the civil unrest throughout the first half of the implementation period
affecting the remaining four schemes as well, the project could not be completed as scheduled. In order
to complete project works, the IDA credit closing date was extended by two years to June 30, 1993.
Project costs are now estimated to be Rs 1,329 million (US$38.7 million) against the SAR estimate of Rs
1,206 million (US$43.2 million). Expenditure is higher in Rupee terms but lower in US dollar terms due
to the depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar.
3.         As a newly established division, the Irrigation Management Division (IMD) experienced
difficulties in coordinating project activities, particularly with respect to the Irrigation Department (ID).
The situation improved during the course of implementation, with ID officials realizing the importance of
working with farmers in the management of irrigation systems. In accordance with the INMAS concept,
IMD Project Managers successfully established Farmer Organizations with the assistance of Institutional
1  Figure based on recent surveys (see Annex 1, para 6).



iv
Officers. The services of these officers have been greatly appreciated by farmers and it appears that
farmers would have liked to have their support for some more time. However, the farmers interviewed
by the PCR mission were unwilling to pay for the services, which are to end two years after project
completion. It is likely that many farmer organizations are not yet ready to be fully autonomous and
responsible for water management.
4.         The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) agreed to collect water charges to pay for scheme
operation and maintenance (O&M) after extensive dialogue with the Bank. About 50% of assessed charges
were collected in 1984, but the collection rate deteriorated to less than 5% by 1987 due to: (i) civil
strife;" (ii) difficulties in taking legal action against defaulters; and (iii) lack of political will. The study
on procedures for collection of O&M fees concluded that rather than collecting fees, O&M should be
carried out through joint management of irrigation systems. With the agreement of IDA, GOSL adopted
a policy of participatory management, in line with the INMAS concept, with farmers officially taking over
responsibility for O&M of distributaries in addition to field channels. However, this arrangement is not
yet working well due to technical difficulties encountered by the farrners.
5.         Construction equipment was procured to allow simultaneous work on all seven schemes.
Procurement took place in the first two project years when work was under way in all seven schemes. The
equipment has been put to good use. Maintenance has also been good, as evidenced by the remaining
useful life. Other equipment and vehicles were also provided. Technical assistance was provided to
develop a computerized hydrological model to assist in the operation of the irrigation systems, set up a pilot
programn for technological improvements in control of irrigation supplies, guide the rehabilitation process
in general, and improve the management information and project accounting system.
6.         Rehabilitation works were carried out by ID as envisaged in the SAR. Construction was by
force account, private contractors and farmer organizations. Construction quality is good. The use of
farmer organizations was an innovative concept in Sri Lanka and the construction contracts provided
substantial income to these organizations.
7.         The targets for both gravel-topped and unpaved roads in the four remaining schemes were
achieved, with some modifications. More unpaved roads were rehabilitated in Huruluwewa and Rajangana,
and fewer in Nachchaduwa and Kantalai. These roads have facilitated the quicker movement of produce
to markets. Significant progress was made on regularization of encroachments, with over 14,700 lots
regularized in the course of the project, almost 60% of which in Rajangana.
8.         Studies on both catchment management and on-farm water management were carried out in
the Huruluwewa and Nachchaduwa schemes and are continued under the National Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (NIRP, Cr. 2260-CE). The pilot area program using technological improvements in water control
was carried out at two systems and is being continued at one, also under NIRP.
9.         Under the project, two Agricultural Service Centers have been rehabilitated, and five garages,
fifteen fertilizer stores and three wells have been constructed. The fertilizer stores have been taken over
by farmer organizations, in line with GOSL's policy of privatizing fertilizer supply. The Department of
"  Farmers' lives were threatened if they paid any charges to GOSL.



V
Agrarian Services has also undertaken the registration of farmer organizations under Sections 56A and 56B
of the Agrarian Services Act."
10.         The project contributed towards the purchase of the headquarters building for the International
Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) in Colombo. Cost overruns were significant. There was no direct
contribution from IIMI to the project as the expected IIMI field site was not established because of the
security situation.
11.        Intensive training was carried out locally by IMD to familiarize officials with INMAS and
participatory management.  A large number of farmers and farmer representatives were trained in
participatory management, use of irrigation structures, financial and contract management and O&M of
irrigation systems. IMD and ID staff received training, both locally and overseas, to enhance their
technical and managerial capabilities. While engineers who obtained post-graduate degrees were actually
employed in the rehabilitation schemes and contributed to their success, considerable exposure of other ID
staff to water management has not resulted in any significant water savings. Hydrological and operational
models developed under the project have not been put to use, except at Kantalai.
Project Results
12.         The project objectives have been partially achieved. Rehabilitation works have been carried
out as planned in four schemes and the INMAS concept has been made operational. On the basis of
available information and the assumptions detailed in Annex 1, incremental paddy production at full
development is estimated to be about 32,400 tons, against 37,300 tons expected at appraisal. In addition,
considerable quantities of eggplant, soybean, chillies, cowpeas and mungbean would be produced, whereas
the SAR assumed only soybean. Many farmers persist in cultivating paddy in spite of the better
remuneration offered by other field crops. Part of the problem is lack of extension services to provide the
necessary techniques and shortage of credit. The project's ERR is re-estimated to be 19%, a slight
improvement over the SAR estimate of 16% for the original project.
Sustainability
13.         Proper O&M is the key to project sustainability. Water for paddy cultivation in the maha
season (October to March) is provided by rainfall and irrigation supplies. Continuous computer simulation
studies are required to enhance the conjunctive use of these two sources of supply. In the yala season
(April to September), irrigation supplies need to be provided for both paddy and other field crops'.
Operation of the irrigation system has to be established through computer simulation in order to optimize
water use. O&M cannot be carried out by farmers alone but requires technical input from trained ID staff.
While participatory management is the only way to sustained O&M, in order to assure proper technical
and other inputs from ID, both farmers and GOSL need to contribute funds. Substantial increase in funds
allocated for O&M is necessary. Farmers' incomes have to rise to enable them to pay for O&M. This
can only be achieved through crop diversification, which requires good extension services and marketing
arrangements. Sustained operation of the project would depend on the extent to which these measures are
carried out in the future.
" Registration under 56A enables the organizations to enter contracts, registration under 56B gives them legal
status and enables them to borrow.
2/ Eggplant, chillies, soybean, cowpeas and mungbean.



vi
Lessons Learned
14.         The project has adopted an innovative concept of integrated management of irrigation systems.
Farmer organizations have been established and registered. Farmers are beginning to understand the
operation of the irrigation system and are enthusiastic about the activities undertaken so far by their
organizations. The main lessons of experience are: (i) making farmer organizations operational on a
sustained basis is a slow process and, therefore, adequate long-term measures, both institutional and
financial, should be built into the design of projects; (ii) more attention needs to be given to raising both
general awareness and technical capability of lower-level technicians (who work closely with farmers) in
the area of water management; (iii) in projects whose aim is to improve agricultural production, more
attention should be given to agricultural extension services and marketing; (iv) O&M of irrigation systems
cannot be carried out by farmers alone; it requires skilled inputs from technical personnel as well as
adequate funding; (v) in order to generate sufficient funds to cover O&M expenses, it is necessary to
improve farmers' incomes through crop diversification in the yala season where possible; and (vi) farmer
organizations undertaking construction activities is a good concept, but they should be protected against
major price fluctuations in materials such as cement (price escalation clause) to enable them to carry out
the work without delay.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1537-CE)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (MIRP)
Credit No.        :     1537-CE
RVP Unit                South Asia
Country                 Sri Lanka
Sector            :     Agriculture
Subsector               Irrigation
2. Background
2.1        The rapid expansion of irrigation in the sparsely populated dry zone following independence
was accompanied by a growing awareness that benefits from the existing irrigation systems had not
achieved their full potential. Attemnpts to improve performance were limited by the physical characteristics
of the schemes, their deterioration due to inadequate maintenance, and the perpetuation of out-of-date
management. The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) initiated action to address the issues of rehabilitation,
modernization and improved management of existing systems through a range of pilot projects and
institutional changes. Donors, particularly the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) and IDA, subsequently became involved, with the IDA-supported Tank Irrigation Modernization
Project (TIMP, Cr. 666-CE) becoming the first attempt to address the problems of major existing irrigation
systems. In a parallel fashion, the Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (VIRP, Cr. 1160-CE) was
concerned with the problems of minor systems. GOSL gave priority to rehabilitation projects that would
maximize returns from past investments.
2.2        MIRP represented a continuation of the prograin started under TIMP to rehabilitate all major
irrigation systems. Lessons learnt from TIMP guided the planning of MIRP. These related to the need
for: (i) advance planning of works; (ii) alowing sufficiently long construction periods; (iii) prevention of
indiscriminate use of catchment areas; and (iv) organization of an efficient system of water management.
Continued Bank Group support for irrigation projects was considered necessary to ensure that these lessons
were incorporated in system design, operation and management, and that the institutional and policy
changes proposed by GOSL to improve water management were implemented.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        Project objectives were to increase agricultural production under seven major irrigation
systems and to introduce an effective program for their integrated management through: (i) rehabilitation
of the systems for optimum utilization of available water; and (ii) support for the Program for Integrated



2
Management of Major Irrigation Systems (INMAS) to ensure proper operation and maintenance (O&M)
and distribution of irrigation supplies and the complementary programming of agricultural activities and
inputs.
3.2         Project components, broken down by imnplementing agency, consisted of:
(i)     Ministry of Lands and Land Development, essentially the Irrigation Management
Division (IMD) of the Ministry, responsible for project implementation including administration of INMAS
in the seven systems. Investment costs for setting up this new Division were covered as well as recurrent
costs for the duration of the project, and training for staff and farmers in aspects of farmer organization
and water management.
(ii)    Irrigation Department (ID), responsible for rehabilitation of the seven selected
systems: Huruluwewa, Giant's Tank, Iranamadu, Kantalai, Morawewa, Nachchaduwa and Rajangana.
In addition to the main works, a pilot program was included to ascertain the impact of technological
improvements in control of irrigation supplies in one distributary (150-200 ha) in each of four selected
systems. Funding was provided for facilities needed to rehabilitate and maintain the systems, including:
equipment and vehicles; buildings to supplement available residential accommodation for O&M; aerial and
soil surveys; technical assistance for developing hydrological models, establishing the pilot program,
providing technical guidance for rehabilitation, and improving management information and project
accounting; and local and overseas training of ID staff.
(iii)    Land Commissioner's Department (LCD), responsible for regularizing farmers'
encroachment on adjacent lands, and major repairs to LCD roads in the project area. The project
supported incremental costs of LCD's operations to regularize landholdings under the project; purchase of
vehicles; and repair of 35 miles of gravel-topped and 255 miles of unpaved LCD roads.
(iv)    Department of Agriculture (DA), responsible for conducting studies on catchment
management and on-farm water management. Funding was provided for incremental staff and other costs;
equipment for data collection and processing; vehicles; and training of a few staff in foreign centers
involved in similar studies.
(v)     Department of Agrarian Services (DAS). The project provided financing for
additional agrarian service centers, fertilizer stores and garages, as well as vehicles to improve mobility
of DAS staff and emergency supplies to enhance availability of agricultural inputs.
(vi)    University of Peradeniya (UP). Resources were provided to enable the university
to follow up on its initial baseline socio-economic survey with mid-term and completion evaluation studies.
(vii)   International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI). As it was considered that
the establishment of HIMI in Sri Lanka was in the country's interest and that INMAS could benefit from
IIMI advice, funding was provided to cover GOSL's contribution to the cost of office and residential
facilities for IIMI.
3.3         At appraisal in 1984, total cost of the six-year project was estimated to be Rs 1,206.2 million
(US$43.2 million). Financing was to be shared by GOSL - 27%, IDA - 39%, CIDA - 16%, and SDC -
18%. The IDA credit was approved in December 1984 and the project was scheduled to be completed by
the end of 1990 with a credit closing date of June 30, 1991.



3
3.4        The newly established IMD was responsible for implementing the project and coordinating
activities of the various participating departments and agencies. ID was responsible for design and
implementation of rehabilitation works and for O&M of the irrigation systems in collaboration with IMD.
As part of INMAS, each irrigation system was to have a hierarchy of committees, mainly comprising of
farmer representatives, which would meet regularly to resolve problems in implementing the rehabilitation
and integrated management programs.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project was prepared by FAO/CP with the assistance of a national engineering consulting
company, which prepared reports on cropping potential, and the University of Peradeniya, which provided
the socio-economic data. Appraisal was done by a joint IDA/CIDA mission. The project was generally
well prepared and agreed with GOSL's priority for rehabilitation projects that would maximize returns from
past investments.
4.2         The conceptual foundation for the project was clear and shared by all concerned. The
selection of the seven systems, as well as others in GOSL's phased rehabilitation program, based on their
potential for increased paddy production was considered to be in line with GOSL's policy of crop
diversification, since the increase in paddy production on the selected systems would allow land marginally
suited for paddy under other systems to be used for non paddy crops. However, the emphasis on paddy
production has not encouraged efficient water management in the project.
4.3        Although the introduction of the INMAS program had already begun on major irrigation
systems in the country, the project was instrumental in ensuring its implementation on the seven (later four)
systems and in raising awareness of the importance of farmer involvement in irrigation management. The
project concept was innovative in so far as water management was made a major concern. To ensure that
adequate attention was given to water management, appointment of IMD as the implementing agency was
probably necessary. However, working relationships between IMD and ID were strained during part of
the project period, but without visible effect on implementation.
4.4        Components were appropriate in scope and scale in light of project objectives. Some
provision was made for improvement of input supply to farmers through the DAS component. Support
for extension services was not considered necessary because of on-going activities, including the
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 931-CE; PCR issued March 1989, PAR issued
May 1992).
5. Project Implementation
5.1        General. Project implementation was seriously affected by the difficult security situation in
Sri Lanka. In June 1986, work had to be suspended at Giant's Tank, Iranamadu and Morawewa, situated
furthest to the north. Although activities continued under the other schemes, the security situation
intermittently made it difficult for officials to work on site and contributed to implementation delays. In
order to complete the rehabilitation works, the credit closing date had to be extended twice, first to June
1992 and then to June 1993.
5.2        An unexpected event was the breaching of Kantalai dam in April 1986. GOSL approached
IDA and the other co-financiers, CIDA and SDC, for support in the restoration of the dam. IDA and SDC
agreed to reallocate funds (about US$2.08 million and US$0.93 million, respectively) from the three



4
northern schemes where work had been suspended, and CIDA agreed to provide an additional contribution
of US$0.46 million. The original cost estimate was US$4.63 million equivalent (Rs 125 million), but
actual costs amounted to over US$7.5 million, a substantial cost overrun.
5.3         There were two other developments. As a commitment under the project, GOSL submitted
(and later implemented) a program for the use of the Rajangana lift irrigation system, as well as remedial
measures for improving the efficiency of Mahaweli feeders to the project area. GOSL reached agreement
with the farmers who would assume responsibility for O&M, provided new pumps were installed and civil
works rehabilitated.  The project supplied replacement pumps and construction materials for the
rehabilitation of the civil works, to irrigate about 1,700 ha. To solve the problem of the unauthorized
tapping of water from the Huruluwewa feeder canal, agreement on water sharing was reached between the
illegal irrigators on the feeder canal and the Huruluwewa farmers. The illegal tappings were replaced by
proper outlets in the feeder for which the project provided financing.
5.4         The project started slowly and IDA credit disbursements lagged behind appraisal estimates
throughout implementation. Despite the two closing date extensions, only 65 % (83 % in US$ terms) of the
credit was disbursed. Disbursement of co-financiers' funds (in US$ terms) was significantly better, with
over 100% for the Swiss contribution and 93% for the CIDA contribution (see Part III/SB).
5.5         Total re-estimated project costs are Rs 1,329 million (US$38.7 million) against the SAR
estimate of Rs 1,206 million (US$43.2 million). The fact that the SAR estimate has been exceeded in
Rupee terms but not in US dollar terms is due to the depreciation of the Rupee against the dollar.
Expenditure on rehabilitation works for two of the schemes exceeded appraisal estimates (in Rupee and
US$ terms), as did the cost of the building for IIMI, while expenditure by implementing agencies other
than ID and IMD was substantially below.
5.6         Irrigation Management Division. As a newly established, rather small division, IMD
experienced difficulties in coordinating project activities, particularly with respect to ID. Especially in the
early years, IMD field staff suffered from lack of authority and working relationships were strained. In
accordance with the INMAS concept, IMD Project Managers focused on establishment of Farmer
Organizations (FOs). The envisaged committee structure was established and Project Committees provided
fora for communication of farmers' problems to the relevant implementing agencies. However, farmers
expressed disappointment at the lack of response, partly a result of other agencies' inadequate participation
in INMAS. The situation improved in the course of the project, with ID staff in particular realizing the
importance of working with farmers in management of the irrigation systems. Other line agencies
participated much less. In spite of repeated attempts by IMD to involve the Department of Agriculture in
providing extension services to farmers in the project, little extension has been made available. In fact,
the situation was complicated by GOSL's withdrawal of all village-level extension agents to perform
administrative duties in villages.
5.7         Institutional Officers (1Os) have been instrumental in establishing farmer organizations and
were much appreciated by farmers, to the extent that many FOs did not wish to lose the services of the
1Os, which are due to cease two years after project completion. On the other hand, farmers were not
prepared, and possibly not in a position, to take over the remuneration of IOs and employ them directly.
In fact, it is likely that many FOs still need institutional support and are not ready to be fully autonomous
and responsible for water management.



5
5.8         One of the tasks of IMD was to propose to GOSL water charges to be levied and to ensure
their timely payment by farmers. The Bank had an extensive dialogue with GOSL since the early 1980s
on water charges and, in 1983, nationwide water charges were approved, which were to increase
progressively to fully cover O&M costs by 1991. The project required provision of detailed annual reports
on progress made in water charge collection, a review of the program by mid-1986 and a commitment from
GOSL to provide adequate funds for O&M until full cost recovery was achieved. While about 50% of
assessed charges were collected in 1984, the collection rate deteriorated to less than 5 % by 1987 due to:
(i) civil unrest, with farmers' lives being threatened if they paid water charges; (ii) difficulties in taking
legal action against defaulters; and (iii) political reasons. Government's allocation for O&M of major
irrigation systems was well below requirements. The study financed by the project on procedures for
collection of O&M fees, completed in October 1989, emphasized mobilizing user support for joint
management of irrigation systems, rather than collecting fees. As a result, GOSL adopted a policy of
participatory management in irrigation schemes. This was in line with the INMAS concept and a major
force behind fanners officially taking over responsibility for O&M of distributaries and field channels of
rehabilitated schemes.
5.9         Although FOs in the project area are now responsible for O&M of distributary and field
channels, they continue to rely on GOSL. ID continues to allocate 30% of the amount it receives for O&M
to the FOs (about Rs 55/ac in 1993). Some FOs impose a charge of half a bushel of paddy (about Rs 80
at the 1993 price) per season for system O&M but, as they have no means of enforcing payment, in many
cases little is collected. The only assured contribution towards maintenance is usually through shramadana
(voluntary labor), and this tends to be more effective with respect to field channels than distributaries. As
a result, O&M continues to be inadequate.
5.10        Irrigation Department.  Rehabilitation works were carried out as envisaged in the SAR.
Three types of arrangements were used: force account, private contractors and, in the latter stage of
implementation, FOs undertaking contract work (on distributaries and field channels). Private contractors
registered with ID were selected on the basis of rates for different work items established by ID. All three
types of work execution have worked well. The quality of construction varies from scheme to scheme,
but is good, in general. The use of FOs has been an innovative concept. The contracts have enabled FOs
to obtain substantial income as compared to their other sources such as membership fees, fertilizer sales,
etc.
5.11        Canals have been resectioned to ensure the carrying capacity required for regulation of
supplies. In addition, retaining walls have been built along main and distributary canals where required.
Additional regulation structures have been built in some places. A number of farm turnouts and drop
structures have been constructed in various canals. These structures have improved water distribution to
the various lower-level channels.
5.12        Equipment provided through CIDA and IDA financing has been put to good use. There has
been good continuity of operating staff on the heavy equipment, and the machinery has been well looked
after. At the end of the implementation period, residual life is quite substantial. Computers were
purchased under the project, but only at Kantalai operational programs are being used to set water delivery
rates for crops actually grown.
5.13        As mentioned above, adequate O&M  funds have not been available so far. Estimated
requirements for 1993 and actual allocation are given in Annex 3. Substantial increase in funding is
necessary which requires that appropriate water charges are collected. GOSL agreed to levy water charges,



6
but in 1991 this covenant was amended and the responsibility for maintenance of distributaries and field
channels transferred to FOs. However, ID still contributes funds to FOs to maintain the distributaries,
while field channels are maintained by the farmers. Problem-free operation of the systems in a sustained
manner is yet to be achieved.
5.14        Farmer organizations taking over responsibility for part of the irrigation system is an
innovative concept that must be supported. The process is bound to be slow, but without farmer
participation sustained successful operation of the schemes would be in jeopardy. The PCR mission met
with farmer representatives in the four schemes and they were enthusiastic about the concept.
5.15        Field channels are operated by irrigators employed by FOs. They are responsible for rotating
the water supply to individual fields. At the inlets to the fields, simple wood boards have been provided
to be used as on/off vertical gates, but the PCR mission noted that these boards were not being used in the
areas visited. The traditional way of digging up some earth from the channel and blocking the entrance
to the field channel, and thus destroying the hydraulic regime condition of the parent channel, was being
used. The removal of earth near the turnout has resulted in some undercutting of the embankment and
water was seen flowing around the turnouts as well. This must be avoided. The pilot program for
technological improvements in irrigation water control has not proved effective, largely due to lack of
farmer cooperation. The PCR mission saw large stones placed on downstream control mechanisms, which
then released more water than intended to the field channels. The FO representative was unable to explain
why such vandalism was taking place.
5.16        Land Commissioner's Department. Physical targets for both gravel-topped and unpaved
roads in the four remaining schemes were achieved, although there were some modifications to the planned
distribution of roads, with a greater number of unpaved roads being rehabilitated in Huruluwewa and
Rajangana and fewer in Nachchaduwa and Kantalai. Much of the rehabilitation work was contracted out
to FOs who worked under the supervision of departmental technical officers. The roads were very much
appreciated by farmers as they have facilitated access to markets.
5.17        Significant progress was made on regularization of encroachment with over 14,700 lots
regularized in the course of the project, almost 60% of which were in Rajangana. These regularizations
covered both holdings already in the Block Out Plan (BOP), where farmers required Government
permission to transfer their holdings, and actual encroachment on areas of land both in the Highlands and
in irrigated areas which had not been part of the BOP.
5.18        Department of Agriculture. Studies on both catchment management and on-farm water
management were carried out in Hurluwewa and Nachchaduwa schemes and are continuing under NIRP.
Both regression and simulation models were developed to predict run-off in micro-catchments. Although
the simulation model appeared to give better results, further studies were recommended to improve
accuracy. Some interim findings, such as that the capacity of minor tanks situated within the catchment
area of major tanks should not be increased, were self-evident. Field work for the on-farm water
management study was curtailed due to the security situation and results are of limited use.
5.19        Although the SAR (para 6.09) envisaged that the assessment of agro-economic impact would
be the responsibility of DA, assisted by the University of Peradeniya, neither undertook this job. The mid-
term socio-economic evaluation survey to be carried out by the University was cancelled since sufficient
information had been gathered under a continuing project monitoring program separately funded by SDC,
and the two studies of INMAS impact and collection of O&M fees.



7
5.20        Two unexpected events that took place during implementation which adversely affected
project outputs were the removal of the village-level extension officers and the phased withdrawal of the
fertilizer subsidy. At present, one Agricultural Officer (diploma holder) has to serve more than 4,000 farm
families. The fertilizer price has more than doubled, leading to lower rates of application. Owing to poor
extension services and very limited association of DA with the project: (i) diversification from paddy to
other field crops (OFCs) in yala (April to September) did not take place to the desired extent; (ii)
cultivation of high value crops (bananas, for example) was rare; and (iii) seed production by farmers and
lateral spread was at very low levels.
5.21        Department of Agrarian Services. Under the project, two Agricultural Service Centers
were rehabilitated, and five garages, 15 fertilizer stores and three wells constructed. Nine of the fertilizer
stores have been leased to FOs, who have also taken over other fertilizer stores in line with GOSL policy
of privatizing fertilizer supply (now handled by the private sector). Many of the FOs under the project
have taken up fertilizer distribution as a service to members and earn a small margin on sales. Another
important activity of DAS under the project has been the registration of FOs. Registration under Section
56A of the Agrarian Services Act enables FOs to enter contracts, while registration under Section 56B
gives them legal status and permits them to borrow. By the end of the implementation period, 129 of the
146 Distributary Channel Organizations (DCOs) had been registered under Section 56A and 51 also under
56B.
5.22        University of Peradeniya. The planned mid-term review was not considered necessary. At
the request of IMD, the final evaluation was carried out in 1992 by a private consultancy firm rather than
the university. The comprehensive report indicated a positive project impact with respect to technical and
institutional aspects but highlighted weaknesses in the impact on agricultural production and income. The
report was generally well received but its timing was felt to be premature as implementation was barely
completed.
5.23        International Irrigation Management Institute. The contract for construction of the IIMI
headquarters building at Kandy was not awarded until May 1988, and the contractor abandoned work at
an early stage due to the security situation. IIMI subsequently decided to move to Colombo and, with the
approval of GOSL, purchased a recently completed building. The project supported the acquisition, valued
at about Rs 73 million, with funding from CIDA (10%) and SDC (65%). Cost overruns were significant.
There was no direct contribution from IIMI to the project as the expected IIMI field site was not established
for security reasons.
5.24        Training. Intensive training was carried out locally by IMD to familiarize officials with
INMAS and participatory management. The Galgamuwa Irrigation Training Institute developed modules
for training of officials in participatory management and farmers in the use of irrigation structures, financial
management, contract management and O&M of irrigation systems. A large number of farmers and farmer
representatives were trained in these subjects as well as general agriculture. Thirty-two farmers went on
study tours to Thailand - large scale commnercial agriculture and different irrigation techniques - and
twenty-three IMD staff attended overseas courses on water management, M&E and training methods. ID
staff received training both locally and overseas to enhance their technical capabilities and improve
management, especially participatory management. Details are in Part 111/4. The PCR mission was
pleased to note that the engineers who had obtained their M.Sc degree under the project were actually
working on project schemes contributing their knowledge. However, there were shortcomings in other
areas of training as noted below.



8
5.25        Although the concept of participatory management is now better understood, successful
application is likely to require further training. The considerable exposure of ID staff to water management
training has not resulted in any significant water savings. In spite of training in the application of the
hydrological models developed under the project, the models are not used, except at Kantalai. Farmers
will continue to require training in O&M of irrigation systems, particularly in the role they are expected
to play. The value of the overseas study tours for farmers is limited, as farmers were generally not in a
position to apply any of the techniques seen.
6. Project Results
6.1         The project's objectives have been partially achieved. Rehabilitation works were carried out
in the four schemes remaining in the project. Water is now being delivered to tail-end farmers more
quickly and on time. However, utilization of available water is by no means optimum. Integrated
management of the major schemes has been accepted in principle and Project Management Committees
(PMCs) have been established and are operational. While the irrigation schemes are operating more
effectively and there is greater equity in water distribution, maintenance remains inadequate. A major
problem is inadequate funding of O&M. The PMCs have been instrumental in improving the programming
of agricultural activities, and major decisions are made at the PMC prior to the official pre-season
cultivation (kanna) meeting.
6.2         Agricultural Production. It is difficult to estimate the impact of the project on agricultural
production from the data on yields and cropping intensities recorded by various agencies. There are widely
varying estimates for paddy yields, and even areas, cultivated under the same scheme. Data for other field
crops (OFCs) are practically non-existent, but the PCR mission found that a number of OFCs are
cultivated, rather than only soybean considered at appraisal.
6.3         On the basis of available information and the assumptions detailed in Annex 1, incremental
paddy production at full development is estimated to be 32,400 tons compared to 37,300 tons estimated
for the four schemes in the SAR. Incremental OFC production has been estimated to be about 13,700 tons
against about 6,200 tons of soybean assumed for the four schemes at appraisal. Cropped areas for OFCs
are actually lower than assumed at appraisal, except for Kantalai. The higher production estimate is mainly
a result of the mix of crops assumed, which includes eggplant, mungbean, cowpeas and chillies as well as
soybean.
6.4         Although the SAR was conservative about development of OFCs, cultivation has lagged
behind SAR projections in terms of overall area. Many farmers persist in cultivating paddy whenever there
is water in spite of the better income offered by other crops. Part of the problem is lack of extension to
provide the necessary techniques to successfully cultivate new crops; other factors are marketing difficulties
and inadequate availability of credit.
6.5         Water is now being delivered in an equitable and timely manner enabling farmers to start
cultivation at the proper time. Cultivation was often delayed prior to rehabilitation leading to high pest
attack, poor growth and lower yields. Social tensions have been significantly reduced with the equitable
distribution of water.
6.6         Institutional Development.  An important achievement of the project has been the
establishment of FOs. Training in water management and aspects of group development has been provided
to farmers' representatives, and FOs have taken over O&M of distributary and field channels under a



9
system of participatory management. Farmers, through the FOs, significantly influence decision making
on water issues and cultivation calendar. Local institutions have learnt the importance of participatory
management and are seeing farmers as equal partners in maintaining systems, organizational activities and
agricultural development. FOs have also become involved in fertilizer distribution and have achieved
recognition as representative bodies at the grass-roots level. Unfortunately, in spite of considerable
progress, farmers continue to rely on GOSL for O&M funding. FOs have not yet become financially
viable, independent organizations and are not able to collect necessary funds. In most cases little attempt
is made to enact such collection as farmers expect, and ID provides, government resources for O&M.
6.7         Benefits. Project impact on farm income is positive, with a clear advantage for those farmers
who cultivate some OFCs in the yala season. Models developed to re-estimate the financial impact of the
project (Annex 1) are not directly comparable with those used in the SAR as two of the SAR models were
for areas subsequently dropped from the project. In proportional terms, the increases in net farm incomes
estimated in the PCR (between 13% and 76%), are lower than those estimated in the SAR (from 36% to
157%). This is due to relatively lower paddy prices and higher prices for inputs such as fertilizers where
the subsidy has been removed.  Incremental employment generated by the project, at 1 million
workdays/year also appears to be significantly lower than the SAR figure of 4.1 million, but no scheme-
wise breakdown is available for the latter figure, which includes the schemes dropped from the project.
Rural roads have been repaired allowing farm produce to be transported to markets by tractors and lorries.
6.8         Economic Impact. Assumptions for the economic re-evaluation of the project are detailed
in Annex 1. The recalculated economic rate of return (ERR) is 19%, compared with 16% estimated at
appraisal. Individual scheme ERRs are higher than in the SAR for Nachchaduwa and Rajangana and lower
for Huruluwewa and Kantalai. The ERR for the Huruluwewa Feeder Canal is 10%. Lift irrigation is
included in the analysis of the Rajangana scheme as separate investment figures for lift irrigation were not
available. The resulting ERR is 21 % compared with 18.4% for the gravity scheme in the SAR.
6.9         Sensitivity tests of the re-calculated ERR show that it is fairly robust. A 20% decrease in
future benefits would bring about a 3 % drop in the ERR. The base case assumes realistic levels of O&M
funding (Annex 1), which are far below desirable levels and would probably prove to be inadequate to
maintain the schemes for a full 25-year life at current levels of efficiency in water delivery. With a
reduced project life of 15 years (reflecting poor maintenance) the ERR is 15%, still well above the
opportunity cost of capital, assumed to be 10% for Sri Lanka.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1         The major issue affecting project sustainability is the adequacy of scheme O&M. This is
closely linked to the strength of FOs and the application of participatory management.
7.2         Government allocations for O&M of major irrigation schemes have been inadequate in the
past (Annex 3) and are likely to become more so in the future. GOSL has renounced the attempt to
recover O&M costs through water charges in favor of participatory management in which FOs are
responsible - financially and operationally - for O&M of distributary and field channels, with ID engineers
providing technical advice as required. Eventually, farmers would also be expected to make a contribution
to the cost of O&M of main channels and headworks.
7.3         Although a significant start has been made in transferring to farmers the responsibility for
the irrigation networks they use, the transition from recipients of a service provided by Government to



10
owner/operators of the system is in its preliminary stages. Farmers, with some justification, believe they
cannot afford to finance O&M of the irrigation schemes they use. Where double cropping of paddy
prevails, this is likely to continue to be the case. Substantial efforts are required to bring about crop
diversification, to improve both farmers' income and use of water, which remains a scarce resource. High
value crops must be grown where feasible. With appropriate agricultural extension advice and credit,
farmers can be expected to respond to market conditions and grow cash crops other than paddy in the yala
season in well-drained and medium-drained lands. Once farmers have more cash at their disposal, they
will be in a better position to contribute towards O&M. At this stage, additional legal authority for FOs
to exact contributions, envisaged in proposed legislation, will be helpful.
7.4         Farmer organizations themselves require further strengthening in order to become financially
viable and autonomous. While IOs (para 5.7) may be of help, their services should not become permanent;
rather, assistance should be provided to FOs for specific purposes on a limited basis.  Once the
organizations are established, monitoring and control become important. Although such a role is envisaged
for the Commissioner of Agrarian Services, who has powers to audit and supervise FOs registered under
the Agrarian Services Act, the mushrooming of FOs, together with the very limited resources at the
disposal of DAS, cast serious doubt on its capacity to carry out such regulation.
7.5         In the context of participatory management, it is necessary to ensure continuity of cooperation
and bring about further changes in the attitudes of all parties, especially farmers and ID staff. The farmers
have to realize that GOSL can neither continue to contribute to O&M of farmer-managed channels nor
carry out O&M of dam and main canals unless it fully recovers these charges from farmers. ID staff have
to work more closely with farmers in planning the areas under different crops (commensurate with expected
water availability) and to achieve optimum water use, as well as to provide the technical advice for good
maintenance.
7.6         System maintenance requires both technical inputs from ID and labor and cash inputs from
beneficiary farmers. Maintenance of small canals should be carried out with due regard to the hydraulic
regime conditions. Field channels carry very small discharges. If appropriate cross-section and bed slope
are not maintained, the energy gradient reduces and the water level drops, as was noted by the PCR
mission in one field channel at Nachchaduwa. In this case, the farmer at the tail-end was complaining that
water was not entering his field. At the request of the PCR mission, ID staff surveyed the field channel,
cleared it properly with the assistance of the farmer, and restored it to design slope; and water entered the
farmer's field. If this type of technical input is neglected, problems, complaints and eventually mistrust
of system performance by farmers result. While the actual clearing of waterways can and should be carried
out by farmers, sufficient technical inputs such as levels at key points, bed slope maintenance, should be
provided to keep the system operational. In order to do this, GOSL needs to obtain and allocate sufficient
O&M funds.
7.7           The irrigation schemes would have to be operated efficiently to maximize water use and
achieve water savings. In the maha season (October to March), paddy is grown and the water input is
through both rainfall and irrigation supplies from the tanks. Flexibility in the operation of the canal system
is required to use the rainfall in the most effective manner. In the yala season, the canal system will have
to be operated to cater to the needs of paddy as well as OFCs whose irrigation regime is quite different.
Computer-aided models such as the one being used in Kantalai are essential to determine the irrigation
releases and to operate the canal network. ID staff responsible for the operation of the system need to be
trained further in such operation patterns. With optimal use of available water, area under cash crops in
yala can be expanded.



11
7.8         Another sustainability problem arises in the context of the roads rehabilitated by LCD. The
Department does not have the facilities to maintain roads. It appears possible that the local Highways
Commission will maintain the paved Grade 1 roads, but the issue of maintenance of the over 200 km of
unpaved roads remains unresolved. Maintenance of rehabilitated roads is a must so that perishable high-
value crops can be transported to market.
7.9         Encroachments must not be permitted on drainage reservations; problems of salinity will
develop if drainage is impeded, particularly with increased irrigation intensities.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory. Fifteen supervision missions were
fielded with a remarkable degree of staff continuity. Due to the fact that the same engineer appraised the
project and provided the bulk of supervision input, supervision of engineering works was particularly
effective. It would have been desirable, however, for an agronomist to have participated in some of the
supervision missions to further emphasize agricultural development aspects.
8.2         Lessons of experience that may be relevant to other Bank-financed projects are:
-       in a project whose aim is to improve agricultural production, more attention should
be given to this aspect;
-       in order to enhance farm income, more attention should be paid to optimum use of
water and O&M of irrigation systems;
-       establishment of farmer organizations should take account of the need for continuing
supervision and regulation beyond the implementation period;
-      adequate O&M is necessary for sustained project performance; a functioning system
based on participatory management providing the necessary means is essential to achieve this goal, and
covenants in this regard should be strictly adhered to.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1         Despite the difficult circumstances of civil strife which affected implementation, the Borrower
performed well. Although the relationships between the two major implementing agencies, IMD and ID,
were somewhat strained particularly in the early years, coordination was effective and the project helped
to establish the concept of participatory management of major irrigation schemes. Continuity of senior staff
was good with only two Project Directors. There were some delays in submission of audit reports, but
project accounts were generally well kept and the system established by project consultants proved to be
efficient. Project monitoring benefited substantially from the program funded outside the project by SDC.
9.2         A major shortcoming in Borrower performance was the inability to improve collection of
water charges. Eventually GOSL chose to promote farmer organizations and participatory management
as a means of ensuring adequate O&M of the irrigation systems. Another weakness was the inability of
ID to introduce improved computer aided water management.



12
9.3         Lessons of experience for the Borrower are:
-       promotion of farmer organizations and participatory management of irrigation
systems are only first steps in the process of bringing about adequate O&M;
-       in order to enable farmers to contribute to O&M, attention needs to be given to
improving their income through crop diversification;
-       increased attention needs to be given to raising awareness of the importance of water
management at all levels, particularly amongst staff who work closely with farmers;
-       O&M of irrigation systems cannot be carried out by FOs alone; it requires technical
input and advice from ID;
-       farmer organizations undertaking construction activities should be protected against
major price fluctuations in materials such as cement (price escalation clause) to enable them to carry out
the work without delay.
10. Project Relationship
10.1        The relationship between the Borrower, IDA and the co-financiers, CIDA and SDC, was
satisfactory throughout. The Borrower particularly appreciated the funding agencies' responsiveness to
requests for reallocation of resources and even additional funding.  SDC regularly participated in
supervision missions and supported a complementary project which provided continuous monitoring input
to this project. CIDA representatives participated in several supervision missions and regularly attended
wrap-up meetings where supervision missions' findings were discussed with Government.
11. Consulting Services and Contracts
11.1        A system management consultant advised the project on rehabilitation designs and irrigation
scheduling in the early years of implementation. Designs were adequate, but the consultant did not manage
to instill an appreciation of the critical importance of water management in ID engineers. Local consultants
established and initially operated the project's accounting system. The system has functioned well but,
owing to turnover of project officers, problems were experienced in training counterparts, and the
consultancy had to be extended by two years. Another local consultancy firm carried out hydrological
surveys and developed computer models for monitoring water supply. Unfortunately, the models have not
been calibrated with actual data and are not used, except at Kantalai. An expatriate consultant provided
technical input for the pilot program in the rehabilitated areas including specifications for water control
equipment. Studies by local consultants on INMAS, O&M procedures, project impact, and agricultural
credit were generally well received (Part III/6D).
11.2        A substantial number of contracts for earth works (both rehabilitation of irrigation structures
and roads) were awarded to FOs and were an important source of income for the fledgling organizations.
Work was generally satisfactory.



13
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1        The SAR and DCA provided the initial framework for project implementation but significant
modifications to the project reduced the usefulness of targets. The initial socio-economic survey carried
out by the University of Peradeniya did not prove replicable as the sample farmers could not be located.
Since sufficient information had been collected through other efforts, it was decided to forgo the mid-term
evaluation. Although the final evaluation carried out by local consultants was too early to assess project
impact, it did provide a significant amount of information which was useful in PCR preparation. Both the
evaluation consultants and the PCR mission suffered from the lack of reliable agronomic data. Other
project data, particularly accounts and information on scheme rehabilitation, are good.






15
PART II
I. Observations on Part I of the Project Completion Report
1.1  Part II of the Report was prepared by the Borrower in Sept./Oct. 1994, after an FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Programme Mission prepared Parts I & III and made them available to the Borrower
in August 1994. Borrower's observations and comments in Part II are based on and relate to the
findings of the above Mission as given in Parts I & HI.
Performance of Implementing Agencies
A. Irrigation Management Division
1.2  The responsibility of implementing the Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project was assigned to
the Irrigation Management Division formed under the ministry of Lands & Land Development to
implement the program for Integrated Management of Agricultural Settlements (INMAS). The location
of the division in the ministry rendered the coordination of the implementation activities through the
line departments much easier. A few setbacks were initially experienced, due to insufficient
comprehension of the concepts both by officials of line agencies and farmers; the latter were very
conservative in their responses especially in view of collecting funds for O&M. However, changes in
the attitudes of all concerned were effected through discussions, seminars, workshops and
demonstrations. The few remaining issues could be resolved through close monitoring of INMAS
activities by an inter-ministerial coordination committee and further improving the relations between
beneficiaries and field officers of line agencies.
1.3  The catalytic role of the institutional organizer (IO) had been recognised by the beneficiaries.
Some of the beneficiaries have responded positively to the changes introduced through 1Os; the
responses of some were minimal and yet of a few negative. The attitudinal changes in rural farmers,
who are traditionally conservative, is a time-consuming task which requires dedication and
commitment. As the benefits from institutional development are being realised gradually and
increasingly the farmers appreciate the services of 1Os. However, payment for continued employment
of IOs by the Farmer Organisations will be a strain on their present low incomes. Hence continued
engagement of a few IOs is needed to further stabilise FOs.
1.4  The collection of O&M fees proved to be a failure due to socio-political and legal issues
experienced in the past as well as due to the low income level of the farmers. The policy of
participatory management may prove to be a successful alternative for the collection of fees from the
farmers. However, this has to be tested over time beyond the project period.
1.5  Suggestions for Future Rehabilitation Projects -
(i)   The development of farmer organisations for self-management is a time-consuming
process that should be pursued with dedication to achieve the ultimate goals as a long-term strategy.
The institutional development component should therefore be initiated at least six months prior to
commencement of the civil works or infrastructure components of those parts of the system that affect
or impact on farmers directly.
(ii) The period of above development depends on the commitment and dedication of the
implementors, size of the system, socio-economic complexities and political environment.



16
(iii)  The strength of a farmer organisation depends on the degree of participation of the
beneficiaries, building of confidence on self-management and financial status of the organisation. Any
activity that hampers the above could generate negative effects.
(iv)  Programmes for strengthening the finances of farmer organisations should be pursued
vigorously, especially in activities involving project implementation, with emphasis on transparency
in the implementation of those activities involving investment both by agencies and farmers.
(v)  Consultation and education of the beneficiaries on new concepts, especially if financial
commitments are involved, before implementation is necessary.
(vi) Improvement of information and communication links within the project area and opening-
up of new links for market oriented agriculture are extremely important.
B. Irrigation Department
1.6 Method of Implementation -
(i)   The rehabilitation works in the four sub-projects, namely, Rajangana, Nachchaduwa,
Huruluwewa and Kantale, were implemented through the Divisional Irrigation Engineers, under the
supervision of the Range Deputy Directors in Anuradhapura and Trincomalee. The rehabilitation
designs for irrigation systems emphasised (a) maintaining safety standards for the earthworks and
structures, (b) ensuring adequate conveyance capacities in canals and turnout structures, (c) providing
sufficient regulation for water releases and conveyance in the distribution system, and (d) provision
of flow measurement devices at critical locations. The technical guidelines, type plans of standard
structures and basic instructions for rehabilitation works were issued by the Head Office of Irrigation
Department.
(ii)  The construction works were executed on (a) force account, (b) contracts awarded after
following tender procedures, and (c) contracts awarded to approved societies after negotiations. In the
initial stages of the Project, from 1985 to 1990, most of the construction work was done on small scale
contracts awarded after calling for rate quotations. A smaller percentage of work was done on force
account using departmental machinery. After farmer organisations were well established and
registered, some of the works, especially those in field canals, were awarded to them on negotiated
terms.
(iii) The scheduled programmes of rehabilitation work in Rajangana, Nachchaduwa and
Huruluwewa were completed by date of closure of the Project. In Kantale, rehabilitation works in the
channel systems covering 83% of the command area were completed within the project period; the
balance was the part of the work in Thampalagamum area where normalcy had not returned.
1.7 Problems and Constraints Encountered during Implementation -
(i)   The staff deployed in the divisional offices for rehabilitation works were inadequate and
attention was focussed mainly on construction activities to achieve scheduled Project construction
targets. Attention to operations was inadequate, especially the deployment of staff with computer
aptitude and ability. The use of the computer models developed for water management was restricted
to locations with interested personnel.
(ii)  The concept of controlling the farm turnout by wooden gates did not meet with much
success in some locations due to actions of mischief makers, but the alternative of providing lockable
metal gates would be rather expensive. The only other possibility appears to be to instil a sense of
responsability on the importance of water management in all beneficiaries.
(iii)  Initial disagreement of farmers on the design of a few of the structures was subsequently
resolved by consensus; the farmers disliked the rectangular farm turnouts and weir box measurement
devices, which were replaced by smaller diameter outlets and gauge posts. Farmer-Officer dialogue
and understanding are required in all similar issues.



17
(iv)  Shortages of cement experienced during working seasons resulted in a considerable
amount of delay.
1.8  Suggestions for Future Rehabilitation Projects -
(i)   Consulting the farmers at the design stage and finalising the proposals with their
concurrence. The irrigation officials to initiate education of farmers on less favoured technical
solutions.
(ii)  Attention on the development of on-farm water management to complement irrigation
system improvements to optimise water use.
(iii) The irrigation infrastructure in most major and medium schemes in Sri Lanka includes
main, distributary and field canals. Attention to imnprovement of field canals and the respective roads,
for better water management and transport of produce.
(iv) The limited experience gathered in the use of computer models and automatic downstream
control gates, introduced under the Project, has aroused the interest of many who were used to
traditional operational practices. Currently many computer models are under development or in stages
of testing. Introduction of similar innovative water conservation and management techniques to
enhance the efforts of ID for optimising distribution and use of available water.
(v)  The approach of the Project for integrated rehabilitation of irrigation systems afforded an
opportunity for the beneficiaries and the officials of implementing agencies to practice and test
participatory management approaches successfully. The Project Impact Evaluation Study (1992)
reported positive trends in the participation of the beneficiaries in the management of the schemes, and
greater understanding between farmers and officials undertaking construction work and the
implementation of operations and maintenance programmes. This approach could be replicated in
future projects with emphasis on close links between farmers and officials of the line agencies.
(vi) Monitoring water distribution and on-farm water usage in the irrigation schemes,
especially at farm level, had been relatively weak. Project focus on educational programmes to
overcome this weakness is necessary.
(vii) The Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project could be considered a landmark in improving
the performance in some of the older and larger irrigation schemes in the Island. Need for having
consistent approach in project monitoring from the very inception itself has been well demonstrated
from this project.
C. Land Commissioner's Department
1.9  The work components implemented were regularising encroachments of irrigable land within
the command area and rehabilitation of settlement roads.
1.1O Encroachment of vacant land within the command area of all schemes is a national problem
arising from the increasing unemployment and landlessness among the second and third generations
of the settlers. This imposes considerable hardships on system management, especially the water
distribution, due to lack of knowledge of the extent of the cultivated area, overuse of irrigation water
in the head reaches of the distributary system, depriving legitimate cultivators of their fair share of
water, and inadequate cooperation for operation and maintenance of the irrigation system.
Regularisation of encroachments had proved to be effective in resolving most of the above problems
and in addition has enhanced participatory management. Three categories of encroachment had been
identified, namely, (a) encroachment of adjoining reservation by permit holders, (b) encroachment of
land reserved for common purposes, (c) encroachment of unalienated lands either abandoned or
illegally disposed of by the permit holders.



18
1. 11 Improvements to class I and class II agricultural roads in the schemes selected for rehabilitation
were undertaken to improve access for agricultural inputs and markets for agricultural produce. In
addition this facilitated improved communications. Initially the construction works were executed
through small scale contracts awarded after adopting of tender procedures. Towards mid Project
implementation period, when the farmer organisations were more stabilised, work was executed on
negotiated contracts with the above organisations. This afforded a source of income to the
organisations and development of skills of farmers in construction and management. Farmers were thus
directly involved in quality control of work in their areas.
1.12 Suggestions for Future Rehabilitation Projects -
(i)   Promote development of industries in rural areas with focus on use of available resources
in the locality to absorb excess labour and generate additional income to uplift the living standards.
(ii)  Handing over the rehabilitated roads to local authorities and encouraging them to
undertake maintenance arrangements.
D. Agriculture Department
1.13 The Project identified the inputs from DOA to be a research study on catchment management
by the Land Use Division, and agriculture extension services through the "Training & Visit"
programme that provided coverage of the whole island, during the initial period of the Project and
funded by IDA. Thus Project support was primarily to the research study only.
1.14 The research study on watershed management in two catchments, namely, Nachchaduwa and
Huruluwewa commenced in 1986. The research study has diagnosed some of the problems with
respect to water management in the watershed and command areas. The fmdings of the command area
study had limited results through communication with farmer organisations; however, a greater impact
could have been achieved if incorporated and linked with extension programmes. The findings of the
catchment management study have proved to be useful in planning catchment programmes in the
future, and the simulation model developed could be a useful tool in further developments for
predicting runoff in micro and macro catchments.
1. 15 The importance of direct involvement of DOA in agriculture extension in the Project was felt
from the initial stages and limited financial resources were provided from Yala season in 1986 to
conduct agriculture demonstrations and residential training courses for the farmers in Nachchaduwa,
Rajangana and Huruluwewa schemes. The assistance of the Agriculture Department was extended to
IMD to conduct training programmes and demonstration to farmers on use of agro-chemicals and crop
diversification programmes. But this proved to be not of much effect as there was no follow-up due
to the disruption of the extension services of the DOA.
1.16 The regular agriculture extension programme of DOA was adversely affected by the following
unfavourable circumstances:
(i)   Withdrawal of Krushi Viyaptha Seva Niladhari (field extension officer) from the extension
service.
(ii)  As a consequence of (a) above, the next higher field officer, Al, was burdened with
providing services to more than 4000 farm families while attending to his other departmental
obligations.
(iii) The devolution of extension functions to provinces relieved DOA of Als who were
directly attached to Divisional Secretaries and the District Training Centres.
(vi)  Civil disturbances which prevailed in the country from 1987 to 1991.



19
(v)  Inaccessability of Kantale, Morawewa, Giants Tank, and Iranamadu due to subversive
activities.
1.17 Suggestions for Future Projects - The ultimate expectation of an irrigated agriculture project
will be increased production with crop diversification for better economic returns. All such projects
should embody a component for a concentrated effort to achieve the production targets independent
of other ongoing programmes and complementary studies for further improvements.
E. Agrarian Services Department
1.18 A major portion of the agriculture input services in the country were provided by DAS. A
special effort was made under the Project to strengthen the input facilities in the sub-project areas, for
timely supply of requirements, by providing financial assistance to rehabilitate two Agrarian Services
Centres and construct five garages, fifteen fertiliser stores and three wells. Nine of the above fertiliser
stores have been leased to FOs in line with GOSL policy of encouraging self-managed sustainable
FOs. Many of the LOs, especially those with stores, provide inputs of agro-chemicals, fertiliser and
seed on a small marginal profit to their members. The under-expenditure of Rs. 6.5 M of the total
provision corresponds to the work items in Morawewa, Giants Tank and Iranamadu which were
suspended due to the adverse security situation in these areas.
1.19 DAS supported the legal recognition of FOs with the objective of promoting self-management.
All formal farmer organisations in the four sub-projects were registered, initially, under Section 56A
of the Agrarian Services Act, enabling them to undertake contracts, and subsequently under Section
56B giving them the body corporate status for financial transactions.
1.20 Proposals for Future Projects - Provide concentrated effort to improve input services and
facilities at competitive prices to regulate fair prices in the open market.
F. International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) - Para 5.23 of Part I
1.21 The cost overruns in the procurement of the building were mainly due to location in the capital
and much greater floor area than that originally planned. IIMI on its own has provided the services
of a French engineer to install automatic control gates in Rajangana and Huruluwewa. Other attempts
to procure services of IIMI proved to be very expensive and far beyond the rates in the open market.
II. Changes in Project Composition
2.1   Deletion of some Sub-projects - Project implementation commenced in August 1985 and the
closing date was extended from 30 June 1991 to 30 June 1993 on the recommendations of the Review
Missions of the donors, with due consideration to the setbacks experienced from 1986 to 1990
resulting from the breach of Kantale dam, civil disturbances (1988), and the additional work
undertaken, namely, the improvement of Lift Irrigation System in Rajangana, and regularising the
encroachments along Huruluwewa feeder to control illicit water extraction. The works in Morawewa,
Giants Tank and Iranamadu were suspended in 1986 and subsequently deleted from the Project in
January 1991 due to deteriorated security conditions in these sub-project areas. The implementation
programmes in Rajangana, Nachchaduwa, Huruluwewa and Kantale were completed on 30th June
1993.



20
2.2 Additional Works -
(i)   Repairs to breach in Kantale Tank bund - This was a significant addition involving
breach closure and downstream flood damage repairs. Considerable cost overruns were experienced
due to increase in scope of work to ensure safety of head works, which included additionally closure
of abandoned old LB sluice, providing additional rip-rap protection, and desilting and repairs to the
irrigation system after the floods.
(ii)  Rehabilitation of Rajangana lift irrigation scheme - Compliance with the covenant in para
2, Schedule 4, DCA was delayed due to poor status of the physical system and legal constraints. The
Project supported the supply of 72 pumps, under CIDA grant component, and cost of construction
materials and transport for civil works. The farmer organisations undertook the rehabilitation work
and contributed 35 % of the value of work as voluntary labour. The system was handed over to farmer
organisations for custodianship and O&M under an Agreement between the organisations and ID.
(iii) Regularising the unauthorised extraction of water from Huruluwewa feeder canal - 39
outlets, from feeder canal, and an independent canal system were constructed to restrict the
uncontrollable conveyance loss and expansion of illegal agriculture land.
2.3  Financial Adjustments - At the close of the Project the expenditure incurred was Rs. 1329
M (US$38.7 M). The excess in local currency (Rs. 123 M) and saving in foreign currency (US$4.5
M) are due to wide variations in the US Dollar parity rate (Rs. 25.5 per US$1.0 at appraisal to Rs.
48.9 per US$1.0 at Project closure). The saving from the deleted sub-projects was utilised in
additional works (para 2.2 above) and for changes in parity rates.
III. Training (Para 5.24 of Part 1)
3.1  The achievements of farmer organisations in self-management and the appreciable degree of
success in participatory management reflect undoubtably the effects of training. However, it is agreed
that training should be continued to improve the effort to achieve optimum water use and agricultural
production which would enable the successful application of participatory management on a sustainable
basis.
3.2   With the disruption of the agricultural extension services, there was no follow-up guidance for
farmers with overseas training to apply what they learned and saw abroad. It is hoped to remedy this
situation in the future.
IV. Bank Performance
4.1  The guidance provided by the Bank through continued services of a project officer,
knowledgeable in irrigation sector, enhanced the efforts of the management in directing the Project
to achieve the targets. Bi-annual review missions reinforced the efforts in monitoring, evaluating and
initiating corrective measures to maintain the scheduled progress. The benefits in achieving the project
objectives could have been increased by including an agronomist in the regular review missions and
an economist intermittently. The services provided from appraisal stage to project closure were very
good and consensus was reached on many field issues through discussions. The Borrower recommends
that the following need consideration in future Bank-financed projects.
(i)  In irrigation-cum-agricultural projects rehabilitation should be conceived of as a comprehensive
package with institutional building included as a mutually supportive complementary, or supplementary
programme to the physical rehabilitation effort. Institutional building has to be treated as a long-term
strategy with continuous training, supervision and regulation beyond the project implementation period.



21
(ii)  Farmer Organisations should be helped by way of investment capital on a loan basis or through
a revolving fund for them to invest on income-generating activities and programmes for the benefit
of farmer-members including even off-farm economic activities.
(iii)  Particularly in agricultural projects there should be adequate emphasis on agricultural extension
and improving agricultural production and farm incomes.
(iv)  Full awareness of the political realities and the income levels of farmers in imposing cost-
recovery O&M charges is a prerequisite for designing projects of this nature.
V. Borrower Performance (Paras 5.6 and 9.1 of Part I)
5.1  In regard to projects needing consultation, collaboration and coordination among different
disciplines (or professions) and agencies, such coordination mechanisms are vitally significant for the
smooth implementation as well as performance achievement. When the implementing agencies are
Departments it is always appropriate that the coordinating agency should be a ministerial arm to
facilitate inter-ministerial and inter-departmental coordination. Assigning this responsibility to one
single agency or department with equal administrative status with other implementing agencies is likely
to hamper project performance and achievements.
5.2  The advantages of better communication facilities enjoyed by IMD, by virtue of its location in
the ministry, were used to coordinate the project activities of all implementing agencies. This
arrangement reduced the bureaucratic delays and enhanced communication and decision making
process and would be an example for similar projects in the future. The situation is likely to improve
with the strengthening and legalising of the Project Management Committees.
5.3  The delays experienced in furnishing audited statements of accounts were due to inadequate
experienced staff and turnover of staff deployed for accounting in implementing agencies.
5.4  The inability to improve collection of water charges was due to the political realities of the civil
disturbances and certain legal snags inherent in the law as well as the low income levels of the
farmers.
5.5  Lessons of Experience for the Borrower -
(i)   Project Management Committees to be strengthened and linked up to higher authority levels for
their decisions to be implemented effectively and promptly.
(ii)  Farmer Organisations must be helped by way of investment capital to undertake activities and
programmes to improve income levels of farmers to encourage them to contribute to O&M.
(iii)  Establish and develop farmer organisations in the early stages or well before the project to
enhance participatory management and build confidence of self-management among the beneficiaries.
(iv)  Legislative support to farmer organisations to resolve irrigation related matters quickly.
(v)  Farmer participation alone by itself would not result in improved O&M  and system
performance. It should be accompanied by technical input and advice from Technical Staff.
(vi)  Design and establish the systems for Project accounting and performance monitoring at the
inception.
(vii) Annual reconciliation of disbursements and the balances in the accounts with the donors must
be strictly adhered to.



22
VI. Performance of Co-financiers
6.1  Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) supported the civil works and training components in
the Project. The interest shown on institutional development, training, and monitoring, evaluating &
feedback of project performance enabled the Project management and IMD to promote vigorously the
programme for self-management of farmer organisations. The assistance by SDC for construction of
17 fertiliser stores-cum-offices for DCOs increased the beneficiaries' confidence on self-managed
farmer organisations. The representation of SDC in periodic review missions was regular. The officials
of SDC were very helpful and cooperative during Project implementation. The relations with SDC-
project officials were very cordial.
6.2  Continuous monitoring of the Project was conducted, independently, by AgriSwiss Rural
Development Consultants for SDC. At the inception in 1987, the findings reported through SDC were
much delayed for any effective corrective measures. This procedure was changed subsequently, to
furnish copies of reports to management for reference, and finally in the last stages of the Project, to
conduct monitoring, evaluation & feedback with the participation of the beneficiaries. In the final year
of Project implementation, the role of the consultant transformed into assisting FOs in self-management
activities, which duplicated some of the legitimate activities of IMD. The findings of the consultant,
when availed timely, for adopting corrective action were complementary to participatory management
and were appreciated. Independent changes in the mandate of the consultant and duplication of
legitimate work of implementing agency may not, at times, produce the anticipated results.
6.3   Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) supported the civil works construction,
procurement of construction equipment & machinery, and training. The construction equipment was
procured and supplied by CIDA in the initial stages of Project implementation, which enabled the ID
to expedite completion of the quantum of rehabilitation work in spite of the setbacks experienced. The
supply of 72 pumps for rehabilitation of Rajangana lift irrigation system is very much appreciated.
This enabled the government to fulfil an outstanding Project covenant. The officials of CIDA were
very helpful and cooperative during Project implementation. The relations with CIDA-project officials
were very cordial.
VII. Observations on Part III of the Project Completion Report
7.1  The assistance provided by International Development Association in the development of the
irrigated agriculture sector and the implementation of the Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project are
very much appreciated. Reported disbursements, physical achievements, and financial status are
acceptable.
7.2   Mid-term evaluation of Project performance was deleted as the reports of continuous monitoring
by AgriSwiss Rural Development Consultants were available for review and corrective action. The
findings of other studies which were completed too were used for corrective actions.
7.3  Implementation of the amended covenant 4.03 (c), DCA could be difficult due to socio-
economic and political reasons. However, efforts to achieve this target by expanding the scope of
participatory management over a period of time could be successful.
7.4  The details of Project achievements and pro-rata costs are given in annexes 1 and 2 respectively.



.....  ... ..    ..                                                                                                     .    ............    .  .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ........  ............................ ............... -m    .  .
....................................................................................................
....................................................... .......... ...... S ; .............................................
............................................................. .............................. g ; g  .-H -: ::: :: - .........................................
.........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... .......................  ............    ..... , .....g   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....,,................. ....... ,,
............ .  -"'''    ':''    '':':P      '''                                                         "'                                  ''''..........................  .... .. ...   .......  ...  ......
.........................                                                                                  ......   ..........  .................. ..........  .......F;k:R
..........     ................................ ...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .   ..  ........
............................,--.,,--. .....,,----......................
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................... .....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....  ...............................  ,,,..,.,,,,,,,,,,
............    .. ... .... .       ..      ......         ...       ...    ......          ......      ..............                                                                                                                      .....                                         ..........                                                                                            ....                .       .... 
.......................................                                                                                                                ......  .................                                                                                   ....................    ..............................
.........................                                                                                                                                       ..                      .............................. ........................................ -  ..  .......... .......                         .....................                                                                                  ...................................................
............. ..   .................... ...... .......    . ...  ... .....a.
............... ...... ......
a                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........I
..................N....
.......................H.
..........                                                                                                             ..       .....     ..              ..0....                       ...            ... ..............                                    .............                              ...............                               .
U                                                                                                                                                                                         U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ......  . . .. .. ...... .
.............                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...... ....
...................                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....................  ........P
..   ... . ...................    ............  .................................
:..................
........ .....  ...                .     ..  .. ..........                                                                                                                             ................
. ............. ................
............                                                           .. ................ ...... . ....
. .   .   .   .. . . . . .. . . .   . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . .   . .   . .   . . .                                                                      P     . .    . .      . .  .   .  .   .






25
MINISTRY OF LANDS, IRRIGATION AND MAHAUELI DEVELOPMEN'
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WITH PLANNED
Sub-project :- RAJANGANA
ITEM OF WORK| UNITS   INITIAL ESTIMATED, ACTUAL CJANTITY |   REhARS FOR VARIATION
QUANTITY, SAR   f   IMPLEMENTED           (if Significant)
OR LATER
,A) IRRIGATION SYSTEM REHABILITATION
|DA and Appurtenances                Rs.   |        5,314,000         5,470,790
a                                     i         I                 I                  I                              a
Earth Uorks Etc.                  'Th. a 3             40.145            37.725
Repairs to Structures                Number |               1
Rip-Rap Protection                 Th. H 3             10.520             7.965
Hetalling and Taring Road         :Th. H 2             51.200            38.700
a..a....... ...... _....... _  _   _  _  _  _  _                          ____  _  ____  _ _ ...  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I
Newi Structures                     Number                .10 a              10                                 |
' ~    ~~ ~~~~~~~                             ~        ~         ~ ~~~~~~~ --  a---  a                    I
Feeder Canal                      a        a                  |
I                                                 ______________ I   -______ ___ ___  a _.____________________________________ __a
Earth Work                        a         a                 a                 a                               a
,   .   _ _ _     _      _ _  , _ _   _ l~~~~~~~~~~~I    I                 a                               I
Lining                            a         a
a      _ ____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ ,    _     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
-Repairs to Structure              : Number
-        -   -                  .        a   .       ;                               _I- _ 
|  New Structures                      Nuiber
_    ~        ~ ~~~              ~        ~~     ~     ~~ I  a,I  I                          a
Main and Branch Canals               Rs.          68,621,000         23,771,030 :SAR-59KM; ACTUAL-58.9K11
I ~ ~ ~~~                   ~ ~~~             ~        ~~~ ~~~~~ .  _      I -II. 
Earth Uork                        ITh. n 3 :         218.125            171.380
Lining / Retaining Walls          :Th. N 2                                                                      a
a                                     I        a I                I                                                 U
Repairs to Structures             |Number                 29                 29                                 a
l                           l _ _   _ l              _a _ _  a           _                               a 
New Structures                      Number               243                213                                 a
a          ._______             __.... _ ________ ........ _......___________  a                        
Distributory Canals                  Rs.          16,156,000 |       19,791,090  SAR-69Kh; ACTUAL-51.4Kh
Earth Work                        :Th. N 3 :          99.797            116.602
Lining/Rertaining WalLs           :Th. M 2 :                                                                    I
a  _.        -__       _   _    _   _   a_  _                     a _ _ _            ________________________  - - - - a
Repairs to Structures               Number                30                 30                                 a
I                                 I - a---a - -------a 
New Structures                    I Number               719                493 I
a _                                            a__  a_                              a -___.t__



26
MINISTRY OF LANDS, IRRIGATION AND MAHAWELI DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION wITH PLANNED
Sub-project :- RAJANGANA
ITEM OF UORK           | UNITS   INITIAL ESTIMATEDO ACTUAL QUANTITY        REMARKS FOR VARIATION
a                                      |        | WUANTITY, SAR        IMPLEMENTED            (if Significant)
l                         l        |  ~~~~~~~~~OR LATER                  O
I                      .   ~     ~ ~           ~        ~~                 ~~~~~~~~~~I  I  a  a             a
FieLd Canals                             Rs.           58,164,000        68,143,880 'SAR-260K; ACTUAL-302KX
|E rth Work                         |'Th. N 3 |468.237 |355.350 |                                                   @
|Lining/UaLts            |Th.  h 2 |*.......  
Repairs to Structures         t       Nuabe |                                   S  ....... 55| 
I         a          '      I      '~-I           a     '..... a 
|New Structures                      |Number              12,360             8,973|
| Drains                             |Rs.             1 ,428,000 |658,400 |SAR-30Kn; ACTUAL-   KM
a __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _        _ a _ _ __ a   ___ _ __ _ __   I    ___ _ _  ___ __  _I   ___ _ _ __ _ _ _  _ ___ _   a
Earth Uork                          |Th- H 3 |           38.150 |21.150| 
Repairs to Structures               I Number I                              
a                                      a         a _               I                  I                               a
New Structures                      |Number I                                 
|                           ~    ~ ~           ~        ~~~          ~     ~~~~~~I  |  IL 'T  _             a 
|Canat Roads                         |Rs.   |        10,096,200         10t,155,B40 ISAR-44KN; ACTUAL-    KM 
Earth Uork                            'Th.   3- ,   ,
Gravet  Surfacing                     |Th. H 3                                       a                               a
a  Repsirs to Structures               | Number |
New Structures                       Number
aPiot Area                             a Rs.   |          soo,coo |                  I
|   Effte Control                      Number :1                 |               9|
I                                      I             .             I                 I        .-
| Proportional Turnouts              |Number |,                 11              10| 
I                                      O        a  '-                               -                 Ia
|Lift Irrigation                     |Rs.   |        16,892 ,C000          683,330 'Not envisaged in SAR
|Pumps RepLaced          -             ubr,72 17                                         
Earth Uork in Rehabilitation        Th.   31                                   1
O                          ------____:_ h.  - _                    a       -      --      _________
2   iigRepairs toh Stutue            a        0ud   : 
I-~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ r                                   a- -  aI         --



27
MINISTRY OF LANDS, IRRIGATION AND MAHAWELI DEVELOPMENJT
IRRIGATION MALNAGEMENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WITH PLANNED
Sub-project :- RAJANGANA
ITEM  OF WORK                 UNITS  'INITIAL ESTIMATED, ACTUAL QUANTITY                REMARKS FOR VARIATION
*          t QUANTITY, SAR   | IPLEIENTED                       (if Significant)
OR LATER         '                     a                                    t
a~                                    a_         I                     I                   ,a 
I                                             I          a                     I.                   I          .I
|B) OTHER WORKS
I   .~~~~~                                             ~          ~           ~ ~~~~~~ I-I  I  I                              I
B|JILDING                                a          a                     a                     a                                .
I                                             t          I                     a                     a                                    I
IND                                      :Nuffber |                    3 t                   3 |Const.of PH & IDO Quarters           a
a                       __                   a,                                I                   -I                                     I
9   ID                                     Numer                          a                     a                                    I
LCD                                      :Number                          a
DAS                                      :Number                      5S                     5   I Inadditon repairs ASD Centres.a|
I                                          _ _          _   a         __________  .      _______________________ _               .  .a
a   REHABILITATION ROADS                      a  Rs.                           4                    |
CLass I                                     KM.    :                  10 t                  1 1
a         __  _.______                    _____    _ ______              _  _ a  ___________________ - a__________________________________  I 
CLass  I I                                  KM.                       88                    95
ReguLarisatiorn of Encroachments   :Hectares:                      1,603                         a
Sl_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a 
a..                        -....                          ...                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  



28
MINISTRY OF LANDS, IRRIGATION AND MAUELI DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION UITH PLANNED
Sub-project :- NACNCHAUMVA
t              ITEM OF WORK           I UNITS  IINITIAL ESTIMATED|I ACTUAL CUURTITY      ENARKS FOR VARIATION
QUANTITY, SAR   |  IMPLEMENTED            (if Significant)
|                        :        |  ~~~~~~~         ~~OR LATER|
|~~                             ~ ~~ I :                I                 I
'A) IRRIGATION SYSTEM REHABILITATI ON  I                          a                                                a
a                                     I        I                 I                  a                              I
a  DAM *nd Appurtewances              a Rs.   |       18,547,6C0 a       7,944,000 a                               a
Earth Works Etc.                  ITh. * 3                                      a                              a
*  Repairs to Structures                Nuber                 20 |              20 I                               a
Rip-rap Protection                ITh. N 2 |                  a           1360
Metalling g Taring Roads          'Th. n 2
|New Structures                   -    Number                                     |      
Feeder CanaL                          Rs.           5 ,244,0W0        3,381,000 tLength 9.6 K.M.        
a                                     as       a                  a                 a   -          - 
Earth Work                        'Th. M 3             39,800 J          37,0W  | 
Lining                             XTh. H 2                           
"  2pirs to Structure                 Nul  ber*||
Neu Structures                    a Nuber                     a                 a 
Main and Branch Canas                Rs.          4,565,000 |       33,271,000 ISAR 41 K9 -Actu6 t 67 Ka
Earth Uork( 41 ka) 'Th. H 3 |                        249,030           279,730 
Lining J Retaining UattS          |Th. H 2                    at
a  Repairs to Structures                 mber 
New Structures                      Number               239               241 
MaDistriabutory Canals          .   Rs.           62,656,2C0        30,267,000 ISAR 39 Km -Actuat 64.62 
Earth Uork                        ITh. N 3 1         180.361        18 7441.O0 
Linirv/Rertaining UtLLs           'Th. N 2 1                 a
a __________________  ____... __________ a ________ __ a                                    _______________ 
Repairs to Structures               Number                                       
New Structures                    a Number a           1,113 1a          1,156
1-~~ ~ ~                                   ~      ~~~~~~~~ a  a          a_                              a _   



29
rt7lSTRT CF  LA%DS,   IRRIGATION  AND  MAUELI  DEVELOPMENT
!RRIGATION NtANAGEMENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CRED'r 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WLITH PLANNED
Sub-project    NACHCKADUWA
ITEM OF UORK                           UNITS  fINITIAL ESTIMATED: ACTUAL QUANTITY                                   REMARKS FOR VARIATION
t                                                                         : | QUANTITY, SAR                   IMPLEMENTED                       (if Significant)
a                                                                         :     OR LATER
a                           ______________________________     _ _____ _   X      _ _ ___________  I.. _     _  ___________  I _        _________  -
Fietd Canals                                              Rs.    *               8,544,000                  62,247,000 ISAR 66 Km; ActuaL  IKM
I                                            |           -l                           _ |                            I                      .                        I~~~ I 
Earth Uork                                            ,Th. M 3                      358.704 :                    359,154
I                                                        _                I                                                                   I                                        .
Lining/UalLs                                          -Th. M 2
I                                                           I           -                                                                     ._                    _        _
Repairs to Structures                                 I Number
__________________              _________                                    ____    _   __             _  ____________        _                               ________________ 
New Structures                                        I Number                          5,449                       7,354
_________________________ _ ________                                     ___________                             _ _______________                             ___________ 
Drains                                                ,  Rs.    I                1,343,000 I                  1,407,000  SAR-301M0
Earth Uork                                            ,Th -   3M                      23,700                      17,900
aa__   _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _.a..._ .. _           _...~ _               _  _  ________   _ _ _        a     _ _______ _            ____________ 
Repairs to Structures                                   Number
,~~~~~                                 ~         ~      ~      ~~~    ~        ~       ~ _ ________ _  _________   a  _ _ _______ __ ,    _ _.....  a.._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
New Structures                                          Number                                    a
I  ______    ___                          _______ _ ............a............ ____ _______             a                            I_ _ _  _a  _              _     _ 
I   Canal Roads                                                 Rs.                  11,013,000                    3,942,000
|   _ _  _  _                   _    _   ~ ~ ~~~~~_ ___ __ __ __ _  __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _                         __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ______ ___ __
r r Earth Uork                                              :Th. M 3                      '36.020,                        9,800:                                                     a
- ; -                                       _ _                                                                                                                                  I    
Gravel Surfacing                                      :Th. M 3                          5 5,600                   23,020
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    a  __ _ __ _ _     ...    ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __    a.............   __  _ _ _ _ __    _...........-
Repair to Structure                                     Number                                1
I                                   _______________-_         _ ________ _   -  _  _      _   _.._ ..._._                       _   _,a_  _                               -  
New Structure                                         I Number                                6 :                         6
a                                             .____________  _______________________  -. a_                           _  ________  _ a                      
Pitot  Area                                           I             a                            a
I                          _____ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I _      -I -                                                         I                       
Lorg  Crest  FalLs                                    | Number                                   a
Baffle  Controt                                       I Number                                   a
I _________       ___                   _________ __ ...............   a_                              a ,                                                                         a
Proportional Turnouts                                   Number a
a                          ____     _  _   _  _   ________        _________           _________                _a_a  a             a     _-
Lift  Irrigatior.n                                          Rs.                                              
,                                   _    _   _~    ~      ~   ~   ~~~~~       ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~a  I  _         a   _         a        
Pumps Replaced                                          Number 
Earth  Work  in  Rehabilitation                       I,h.  n  3                                 a ,
Lining  Repair                                       :Th.  M  2                                  a
I                               _      _      _      _          _    _      _  _     _     _     _ .a ............_                      _ _ _ _ _ _ __._              _  _   _  _   a



30
MifNISTRY OF LANiDS, IRRIGATiOaN At.D rMa6EL; DEVELOPM1-NT
IRR;GATION MAfAGEt1ENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CRED11 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WITH PLANNED
Sub-project :- NACHCHADUUA
ITEM OF WORK                UNITS   INITIAL ESTIMATED: ACTUAL QUANTITY            REMARKS FOR VARIATION
QUANTITY, SAR   I   IMPLEMENTED                 (if Significant)
a  ,                                                 |   OR LATER
:B) OTHER  OCRKS
BUILDING
r~~~~                                              ~        ~       ~       ~ ~~~~~ I  O   I  '               ,-
DID                                     Number :                   3                   3  repairs 3 buiLd. and Const. 1
a   ID                                ,Number                                          6
LCD                                      Number
|   DAS                                rl Numrber                  5 S
I  _____          --- ---- --j--O- --- --_---                                            -............-..----i.
REHABILITATION ROADS                   I         r                   I                    r
a                            ___ _ _____ _ __ __ - - a    ___ ___________ ___ __  _      _ _    _ _ _  _ _   _..a
CLass I                                a   KM
CLass I I                                  KM                     36a                 20                                     a
Regutarisation of Encroachments   lHectaresr                  1,038
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~________  - -            r_________    -........r-...            -                                   O...
I  a                                       a                                  a~~~~~~



31
MINISTRY OF LANDS, IRRIGATION AND MAHAUELI DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION VITH PLANNED
Sub-project :- HURULUW EWA
|                        ITEM OF UORK                            I UNITS   INITIAL ESTIMATED: ACTUAL QUANTITY                                                  REMARKS FOR VARIATION
:               : | QUANTITY, SAR                     IMPLEKENTED                                 (if Significant)
I                                                                a               |   OR LATER
I                                               -                                ta                               I a                                                                                            I
,A) IRRIGATION SYSTEM REHABILITATION
I                                                                I                I                               I                              Ia
DAN and Appurtenances                                           Rs.                      5,132,000                      1,838,000
Earth Works Etc.                                            Th. c 3 1                           8.000                          8.000
Repairs to Structures (New)                                   Number                                   5                              5 a
_ -          _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _           I                                        ,__ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ a....... _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _   _   _  _   _
Rip-rap Protection                                         ,Th. a 3
, _ ____.                  _ Roads._                                                                _ .   _ 2_:                        a
Metalling 9 Taring Roads.                                  'Th. o 2
a_                        _................     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _            _  a  _ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ _,__ _ __ ...............                                            
*   New Structures                                                  Number | 
a _________                                  ..................a_________        a     _______    __             ,                       _         ____, ____              ________________ 
Feeder Canal                                                    Rs.    :                8,257,000                       8,257,000
__         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _           _ _ _ _ _       __ _ _ __ _ _   a              _______________
Earth Work                                                 ,Th. M 3 :                         23.580                          23.558
I                _____  ______                                   a_________      a ______________ ...........                                      ________  ______________
Lining                                                     ,Th. n 2 :                         10.000                           9.000
a.  __ ___   _ _ __ _ __                  .__ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __  ________     __ ___ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _.._                                          _........_ -..a-
Repairs to Structure                                          Number                                       a
:   New Structures                                                  Number :                        -            a                                                                                           - 
Main and Branch Canals                                          Rs.   :               23,116,000 |                    12,143,000 :SAR-37Km. Actual 33.5 Ku
a..-                                            .................... _________ a_ ________ ................_.......   _____________ a                                                      ___________
Earth Uork                                                |Th. " 3 1                          94.031                         92.876                                                                       a
I         .         _____ _               _   ______   a ________   al  ____________              _  _. ...                                                                                           a
Lining / Retaining Ualys                                  gTh. N 2                                         *   ,
a                                               I                |                            _ |    _                          |                              _-~~~ a 
Repairs to Structures                                        k tubert                               90 |o90
New Structures                                             I Number                                 67                              67:
Distributory Canals                                            Rs.                      8,396,000                      9,344,000 'SAR-36Km. Actual 30.8Km
_____________            _         ____ _                   a _________    a   _______   _................                     ...    _  _ .._           _   _    _   _       . ..
Earth Work                                                ,Th.    3 :                        35.000                          36.473:
a                ___________________       _ .......................                _    _     _    _          .                          ....... ________________________________  . 
Lining/Rertaining Ualls                                   'Th. N 2
Repairs to Structures                                     I Number                                130                             135
I __             __        _      __        _      _                                                            a. __                                                 ___ ______    _______   _ __ _          a
New Structures                                            * Number a                              250                             302 a 
a- .________                                                    a  ____________    a    _________ _  .................                       _                                                                 a        



32
MINISTRY  OF LANDS,  IRRIGATION  AND  MAHAIJELI DEVELOPMENW
IRRIGATION  MANAGEMENT  DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WITH PLANNED
Sub-project :- HURULUWEWA
ITEM OF WORK                     I UNITS     INITIAL  ESTIMATED:  ACTUAL QUANTITY                          REMARKS FOR  VARIATION
a t         I QUANTITY, SAR M              IMPLEMENTED                         (if Significant)
0           : '    OR LATER                                                                                        t
FieLd Canals                                         Rs.               17,177,000  |             28,515,000  ,SAR  155 Km  . Actuat 169.2  km
Earth  Work                                      'Th. N 3                  183.356                   187.237t
LiningfeaLLs                                     'Th. n 2                                                       a
t                                                     t__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   t  -_ _   - -  t    _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _
Repairs to Structures                              Number                        704  t                   704  t                                                    a
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~  ~   ~   ~   ~    _ ___________________       _ _________________   . ___________________ _  _-                   _  _     _ _ 
Nev  Structures                                    Number                     1,513  :                  2,833
_______________________                _                     _      _________  -  _ ________  a  _____________ _ -    a                                       _________ 
a    Drains                                           '  Rs.                  1,378,800                1,418,000  :SAR 32.8KM
 -    -    -    -    -    -    - - -              __ - - II___      _ _- -      _ _  _  _ _ -    -    -  _ _  _ _- _-_               _  _ _
Earth  Work                                      ITh. M 3  :                21.646                    17.500
a - _____________                      ___________   _- a   ____________                      ______________           _             -________         __
Repairs to  Structures                           : Nuber  a 
New  Structures                                    Number a                            a
t________________ --        -     -     --       - a         -           __ .......___..........___................I
CanaL  Roads  (22.2  km)                            Rs.                 2,660,000                 1,931,000:
a                     -......................... _   _     ______   a ________   _  _ ..........                      I. ..   _ ____________                _________ _  I
-   Earth  Work                                         ' ,Th. r 3                  25.7S4                   16.500
_ a                                                      a..,~-_________  I _________                                                         ________
a    GraveL Surfacing                                 amTh. n 3  a                 40.00                     23.03 a 
a                                                     a            a.                      ,I                                                                       _
Repairs to Structures                            I Number
t _________________________________________________ a................a _______________...............a           ...- - - ------         -                          - -
New  Structures                                  I Number :                            a
I           t ......a... ___________ a................  ..a  _ -   - -- -              -______-            _ _---
Pilot Area                                      t  Rs.    t                302,000  t             3,867,000
Long Crest Falls                                : Number It _                                                 11:
BaffLe ControL                                     Number                         12                       12  :                                                    a
t~~ ~~~                                                           ~        ~       ~ ________  -   .....I   - t...
Proportional Turnouts                           : Number t                                                 ii                                                      a
t                                                     a           a                         ta 
Lift  Irrigation                                    Rs.    t                          a
aI - ________________________________________________        -  -_____________ t            t_____________  --__-_-                - -_-_-_-_-_-_-
Pumps RepLaced                                  : Number :                            a
Earth  Work in  RehabiLitation                  aTh. K 3  a
Lining  Repair                                  :Th. N 2
a..............t..............t    :.a............a.....     ______aI... ............



33
;:0i.-STRY cF LANDS,     ATi)r AND MAHAWELI DEVELOPME.-T
'R  :IO'i rANAGEMENT DIVIS!ON
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATIOJ PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION UITH PLANNED
Sub-project :- HURULWEIA
|              ITEM OF UORK              UNITS  ',INITIAL ESTIMATED: ACTUAL QANTITY :           REMARKS FOR VARIATION
WAkNTITY, SAR   |   IMPLEMENTED                 (if Significant)
a                                      |         |  OR LATER
|B) OTHER IJORKS                       I         a                   It
BUILDING  *                                     a                  a                                                          a
Iber t                  30                 3  Repmir P  Office SIDO Qart. 9 Const|
a                                                I    -              I                 a                                       I
1 0                  4                  1   1 
LCD                                | Nuaber |
,                            ~    ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~                     ~       ~~~~~~~~I ,__I|  I               _ 
OAS                                   Nuwer                  10 |               10 12 Fert.stores +2 Garages in additon
a   _     _     _       _____ ____ _ I..................... ____.....                 a ______________I___ ___ r,  __ _______________  a
REI8ILITATION ROADS                a                                                                                       a
Ctass I                                Km   |              3.75               3.75
CLess I I                               Km  1,             38.28              61.50 
a,                                     a49. OD                                                                                 a
rjRegutlarisation of Encroacehments  |Heeteres:           89.00|                       
I__~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a --I-      



34
MINISTRY OF LAN3S, IPRIGATION AND MAHALW_-LI DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION MANAGEmENT  DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT  1537 - CE
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION UITH PLANNED
Sub-project         KANTALE
ITEM  OF UORK                      tlNITS    INITIAL ESTIMATED, ACTUAL QUANTITY  :                               REMARKS FOR VARIATION
QUANTITY, SAR               IMPLEMENTED    :                          (if Significant)
|           *    OR LATER
A) IRRIGATION SYSTEM REHABILITATION   0                         *                         1                        0                                                                a
*~~~~~~~ ___________ -   _                  _.      I        ________________ I _______________  -........                                        -O
*    DAn and Appurtenances                           a  Rs.                                         25,106,000  'Rip-rap bouLder 8.66 th.m, metal 1.76 th.u
Earth Uorks Etc.                                |Th. a3 3                  62.170                    59.120
.fpairs  to Structures  (New)                   humber                           1                        1
_         _  _  _                _    ,       _,    _~~-   _________     ____ _     _    _         _-    - _- _  _  _  _        ____
Rip-rap Protection                              ITh. m 3  1                           0
MetalLing & Taring Roads.                       |Th. m 2
_~~           ~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ _ _    _ _ _                                                          a.... _ _  ___ _     _ __ _ _ ___   _ _   ___ ______  ___________
New Structures                                    Nurber
_ _              _ _  ____           ....,....a...__.................. _________      ________                                          ______   __   __ ______________
Feeder Canal                                       Rs.                               I             946,000
        -._._ _._.._._...._._.._._._._._.__._._._ _..                           _a_._   __                                       _- _               _  ______________     a
Earth Uork                                      'Th. M 3                   44.990                   44.990
_ _   _ ______________  _           _          ., .. _...... _._._.._                 _  -_      _    - -  -   _        _ ___________________ _    _ __________________________
- Lining                                          |Th. n2                 - 2
____t_____'____1_                                  t-.  ------1----...                             -      __0.....                                    - 
Repairs to Structure                            Numbers  a                  6.000                     6.000
New Structures                                   Numrs                      6.000                     4 4.000
_  _ _ _  _     _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _     '       _   ,    _ _        _ _    _ _  _ _a a...  _...........   a_              -             __           _ ______________
in and 8ranch Canals                         a  Rs.                                         17,183,000  1SAR-37Kn. Actual 33.5 Km
-.aaa_______________                                                                                                                   ___________________   ___ ___ ____ _______ |__ |s_-__________
*    Earth Uork                                      ,Th. h 3  1               159.900                  143.820  1 
*    Lining / Retaining  Walts                       $Th. f 2                     3,024                    3,022                                                                     a
a    Repairs  to Structures                          0aber                            30:                      28                                                                    a
a    _      _      _      _      _      _      _     I_       _       _                   ,_ _........~ ............ .......................a-a-   ______ _  _  ____              ___
New Structures                                    Number                       169                      126
a    Distributory  Canas                                Rs.    :                          :         16,893,000  ISAR-36Km. Actual 30.8Km
Earth Uork                                     :Th.   3                              a216.900      211.740'
a     ---a-i                                                                                    ..----------------. -..-..-.-a
a    Lining/Rertaining UalLs                         :Th. M 2 :                     922  :                   918  1
Repairs to Structures                          :iNumber                           6                        4
New Strutures                                    Number ______                                         451__ _ _ _ __                                                           a 
N eu Structures                                   a Nube   '                      520  a                   451                        
a                                                    a           a_ a_ _                                           a                                                                 a   _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ , _   _   __         _ _   _     _ _     _  _ _ _ _ _ 



35
MINISTRY Of LAU3S, IRRIGATION AND MAHAWELI DEVELOP'ENT
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT DIVISIOti
MAJOR IRRIGATION RENABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION UITH PLANNED
Sub-project  -KANTALE
ITEMi OF WORK              1 UNITS    INITIAL ESTIMATED, ACTUJAL mLANTITY :                      REMARKS FOR VARIATION
QUANTITY, SAR           IMiPLEMENTED                        (if Significant)
OR LATER
Field Canals                             I  Rs.                                 32,997,000 ISAR 155 Km . ActuaL 169.2 km
a~~~~~~~~~~~| a                                 -                 I                   _a              
Earth Vork                                Th. t 3              259.260              249.990_
Linirg/Ualls                            'Th. N 2                     32:                  32
-                            .........           a.....   _    . . . .   __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -'
-pairs to Structures                   :Number                       7                    7
___________________________________________  _   _  _ _  _ _I__     , __                 _ ________ _ _   ___
New Structures                           'Nunber                 4,560                4,157
Drains                                      Rs.                                               :SAR 32.8KM                                             a
Earth Work                              :Th. 1 3                        ; -----
_    -..........a.....    ___ '___________________                                                a _    ___ _________________                      --
Repa irs to Structures                    Number                         I                    a
_ ~  ~  ~ ~  ~ .  _ _  -_  _______ -_                                                                                      _______ _ _ _ _ _a_| ___  
New Structures                            Number
_ ~ ~   ~       ~  ~ ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~ _  _ _  _                                      a _ _ _  ____ _ _ _ _ _  ____ _  _ _   _ ___  _ _ _________  a
CanaL Roads                                 Rs.                                  3,992,000 |SAR-22.3K10
* -_              _ _ _ _ _ _ _-    --'                                                             - a      -----                           -- _ _            -
Earth Uor  ;'J                           Th. M 3 a              22.630:              22.430 |
Gravel Surfacing                        T$hh  t 3                16.67 0              1667 a                                                          a
--                                   -  '--    -           -  O-         ----I~~~~~~~~~~~~a    a--  -        ----        -__________
Repirs to Structures                   I Number:                       a
;.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   ~ ~~ a,___ ............a __________  _   __________ _  ________I _ _ _ _ _ __________,
New Structures                             Number |                     a                                                                    -        a
0   Pilot Area                               a  Rs.                                               a |
*   Long Crest Falls                           Number
a   EaffLe Control                             Number                        a                    a
Proportional Turnouts                      Nuber                          
a   Lift Irrigation                          aRs
Pumps Replaced                          a Number 0                      a                    0
Earth Work in RehabiLitation            :Th. N 3                        a                    a
a   Lining Repair                            a ,h   tt 2 
O a"***',------___-  -                                            _         __ a -



36
?.;.iSTR' OF LANJDS, IRRiGATI1. AND               CV CELO0,E,I7
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT 0IviS!OIJ
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
CO,NPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WITH PLANNED
Sub-project -- KANTALE
ITEM OF WORK                UNITS  'INITIAL ESTIMATED: ACTUAL QUANTITY                       REMARKS FOR VARIATION
QUANTITY, SAR   :   IMPLEMENTED                          (if Significant)
OR LATER        |
B) OTHER WORK%
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t                                                                 
BUWILDING                                a           
a   _                                                 a                    I                          
I10                                      Number                     9 :                 2   7 DCO off. under construction
a.. _........... _       _ _..  _ _             _  __ _    _ _     _  _  _      _ _  _ _      ,    ____________________________________
ID                                       Number                     9                   9
-  --------- I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ -   ---a   --I-
LCD                                      Number
DAS                                    :Number:                     2                   2'
aa....                                           _ _,.._._._ _ _ _ __.._       _  _  _  _  _ _a   _  _ _ _ _____ ________-  
REHABILITATION ROADS                   1         a
Class I                                    Km                   6.80                 5.75'
CLass I i                                  Km                  39.90                23.49
Reuarisatinof            _             H          _ _ar____                      _              ____            _     _e__               _
Regutarisation of Encroachmnents   qHectares|                           
a_ --                                                a           -   -     



37
MINISTRY  O   LANDS,   IRRIGATION  AND  MAHAJELI DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT DIVISONt
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WITH PLANNED
SUMMARY OF PROGRESS
ITEM  OF WORK                      I UNITS    IINITIAL  ESTIMATED' ACTUAL QUANTITY                              REMARKS  FOR VARIATION
QUANTITY, SAR                 IMPLEMENTED                        (if Significant)
OR LATER
* ___________________________                    ____       _ ___      *      _ _ ___________ _ _ l I _______________        ___________________________  
,A)  IRRIGATION  SYSTEM  REHABILITATION                                                           a
*           ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _- ....               _     _    .......   __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ ___ |  *                         _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  a
DAM and Appurtenances                                   Rs.   |             28,993,600                 40,358,790
Earth  Works  Etc.                                  :Th. n  3                   110.315                    104.845
aRepairs  to  Structures  (New)                        Number                           27  :                      26
I ___________________              _     ____________ -                               _______ _.a                        _.            __       __          _
Rip-rap  Protection                                 ITh.  m  3  1                 10.520                      7.965
Metalting  &  Taring  Roads.                        :Th.  m  2  :                 51.200  :                  38.700
I                                                _  _                                             i, _______________    -     _..._......_.._.._.._........_.._.._.._  _  _.... -  
New  Structures                                     : Number  :                         10                         10
a  _____________ _                         _  _     _      _............. _ _    ______ _    - _  I                           .__________________ _  _ _ _ _      _   _  _
Feeder  Canal                                       :   Rs.                 13,501,000:                12,584,000
a                                    _  _     _  _     _  a............ a ...______ _ _   ........... _ _   _ ________        ________ -_  _ _   ____ _       _   _       
Earth  Work                                         :Th. M  3  :                 39,869  :                   37,069                                                       a
a      _ _ ____________ _            _   _..............    a................. ________________    a   __________________________     _  _      ____________________________
Lining                                              :Th.  M  2  :                 10.000.:                    9.000
-     Repairs  td  Str)'jture                             : Nuwber  :                    6.000  :                   6.000
New  Structures                                     : Number  :                    6.000  :                   4.000  :                                                    a
a .....         _   _   _   _               _  _   __...............a._ _ _ _ _ _ _ __......a _______ _._________
Main  and  Branch  Canals                               Rs.               136,302,000  :              86,368,030
.~ ~    ~ ~ ~ _.~.......... __          _                                             U __________._______ ...._.._                                      ____ I....a 
Earth  Mork                                         :Th. N  3  :           249502.056                 243138.076
a                                                  .....    _______ ...                         _.                .........._ ...  _ _|______________     _                     I
Lining  /  Retaining  WaLLs                         ITh. M 2  :                    3,024                      3,022
a                           _  _                a_     _    _   _                                                                                                               I  _ ,_     __
Repairs  to  Structures                             I Number  :                       150  :                     148
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......... _______                                _______--   t_--
New Structures                                      I Number                          718                        629:
*                           _                    __        a_      _    __          _Il__                                 _            __                  _ 
Distributory  CanaLs                                I   Rs.      |         87,208,200  |              76,294,090
I    Earth  Work                                         :Th.  M  3                  532.058                    541.376  :
Lining/Rertaining  ualls                            :Th.  M  2. :                    922                         918  :                                                   I
Repairs to Structures                                 Number                          166                        169
New  Structures                                       NumberI                               ,                          a                     .                            a
a    He      tructures                                   : Number  :                    2,602                      2,359                                                       a 
I  _ _ _   _                    _ _ _  _ __  ___   _ _   _~~~~~~~~~~~~ I   _a___ _ _ _            _    _      



38
MIraISTRY OF LANDS, IRRIGATION AND MAHAWELI DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WITH PLANNED
SUMMARY OF PROGRESS
ITEM OF WORK               : UNITS  'INITIAL ESTIMATED: ACTUAL QJANTITY :             REMARKS FOR VARIATION
4QUATITY, SAR            IMPLEMENTED               (if Significant)
f   OR LATER
. ._ _ _  __  _  _ _  __  _ _  __ _         I         I__ _       ___ _ _ _ _ _  I   _ _ _ ____  a _  __   -
FieLd Canais                           :  Rs.             83,885,000          91,902,880
Earth Uork                              Th. M 3                                     51269.557 0  1t0.031 :                         a
Lining/Walls                           'Th. M 2                    32                   32
; Repairs to Structures                     Number                  866                  866| 
_ _ _ _________________________-__ _ _   _  ___                  _ ___________ a_  _  ________  a _______ _   _ -_
Nu Structures                             Number               23,2 S               2,379
Drains                                      Rs. '           4,149,800            3,483,400                
________ _ ______   _   _  _           ______________  I __________ ___  a _ _ _ _   ________   __________                 __-
Earth Work                              ITh. M 3            23759.796            17938.650                
Repairs to Structures                    Number                                
New Structures                           Number
---                                 -- t                  -         --       -- --           O          
* Canal Roats,  2 .2 km)                       Rs.            23,769,200           20,020,8400
Earth Work                              Th. M 3 0           3845404  :              72.550
G ravel Surfacing                        :Th. M 3                 5 ,657               1,990               
Repairs to Structures                  I Nusber                     1
.________a _________ -               - O       O'- -                                 -     I -        -    -
New Structures                         | Number                     6                    6
Pilot Area                             :  Rs.             27802,000            23,867,000 |                                             -
- ______                 --_-_-_ -   -_                                                                                         _ -   O
rLong  Crest Falls                       Nuber :                   11                213:
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ -____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _____ __._ _   -   _ _ _ _                       _
B E eaffle Controlfi                     Number :                  12 :                 21 :                                      a
'~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ _ _ _ ________ _ _ - - -  -_________  a          a.......................O..
Proportionat Turnouts                     Number 011                                     21               
Lift Irrigation                            Rs. ,           16,892,000              683,330                
RePumas Replacedu r                      Number                    72                   70
- __    -___________  __ ------ - _ _     - ___-____ ___ -_-------      - __ ___ _   _______                  _____ -
Earth Work in Rehatilitation            :Th. M 3                                 
Lining Repair _______                 _       o  ___  o____ _        _         ___        _ a    _     ._ __________ 
a         O_________           a                    a            -__________________     _a



39
MINISTRY  OF  LAN:S, IRRIGATION  AND  MAHAUWLI  DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION M.A1JAGEMENT DIVISION
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
( CREDIT 1537 - CE )
COnPARISON OF ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION WITH PLANNED
SUtMARY OF PROGRESS
|ITE   OF WORK                   : UNITS   'INITIAL  ESTIMATEDO   ACTUAL QUANTITY                          REMARKS  FOR VARIATION
QUANTITY, SAR           |    IMPLEMENTED          '            (if  Significant)
*           '    OR LATER
a  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ............    ...      a........ __ ____ __ __ __ _ 
|B) OTHER WORKS                                        a            a
*               __________________~~~~~~...~~~~~~       _______  _________~...~.~a |                                                              --         _____  _   ___ 
BUILDING                                          7           a                          a                                                                        a
I~~~ ~~ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I, 
1mo                                                 Nu:ber                          is                        11
,    ID                                                   Nu-ber                          13                        13
__________________          _       _   ___                     _   __                        a _ ___   _        _   _ _   __                     _ ___  __ __
LCD                                                 Number
_    _       _       _   __   _    _ __   _   _____      .__ _ __  _      _ _ _ _          a         _______ _ _ _ _ ,    _ _ _ _  _ ____ _ _                 _
DAS                                                   Number                        20  k                     20'
,                           _     _  _    _  _    _     _ _    _  ._             _     |                _  -       -   -   - _ _ _________   _  _  _  _   _
REHABILITATION  ROADS                            a            a                         a                         a
I  _____________________ _                    _ _____   a    ________ _ .a...                 a_  _______         _    .1_             _               _  _  _   _   _
CLass  I                                               Km a                         21                        20
a_                           _     _     _         -    a _______ _____ ____ -I                               . a __________________ __ _    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
CLass I I                                              Km                         202                       200
Reg                   . ___isation  fEncroachments_  '                                      -,                        ______ 
'Reai LaVrisation cif Encroachments                |Hectares:          '         3.49> I                                           
_________________-;___________;___                                                         -    t       -               l             _       ___






..........................~~MI
...   .......    ........    .......
...... ....... .... ...
K ~~~~~~~II               .......4                                                                                                         ....1.. ....
'p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...8....................
..    ........     I   ..         .       ..       .                      .    ....                                                                                                                                           4
. . . . .   ~ ~ ~       ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~..... . . . .                                               0.C
........   .     . ...      q
...........  .......   .....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .      ....
.   ..... .... .~~1






43                               Annex: 2
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
IRRIGATIO'- tAi   STDIV'S'-:
PRO RATA  CCS7   :Rs
ITEM    SCHEME     FARM  POPULATIC FXTENT
FAMlLIES           [Ha)                  IMD           ID          LCD          ASD          AD         TOTAL
1  RAJANGNA       6,634   35,500  5,910 EXPENDITRUE  17,979,225  275,286,215   5,513,484   1,808,194   3,862,880   304,449,99E
PRORATA COST
ERs/FAMILLY]      2,710        41,496          831          273         582        45,892
[Rs/PERSON]          506        7,755          155           51         109         8,576
[Rs/HECTARE3      3,042        46,580          933          306         654        51,514
2  NACHCHADUWA    2,924   17,200  5,400 EXPENDITRUE  16,427,719  257,638,112   5,037,701   1,652,157   3,529,535   284,285,223
PRORATA COST
[Rs/FAMILLY]       5,618       88,112        1,723          565       1,207        97,225
[Rs/PERSON]          955       14,979          293           96         205        16,528
[Rs/HECTARE]      3,042        47,711          933          306         654        52,645
3  HURU WYEA      2,500   16,200  4,090 EXPENDITRUE  12,442,476  147,457,207   3,815,592   1,251,356   2,673,296   167,639,926
PRORATA COST
[Rs/FAMILLY3      4,977        58,983        1,526          501       1,069        67,056
[Rs/PERSON]          768        9,102          236           77         165        10,348
[Rs/HECTARE]      3,042        36,053          933          306         654        40,988
4  KANTALE        4,580   26,760  6,990 EXPENDITRUE  21,264,769  242,687,272   6,521,024   2,138,625   4,568,787   277,180,477
PRORATA COST
[Rs/FAMILLY]      4,643        52,988        1,424          467         998        60,520
[Rs/PERSON]          795        9,069          244           80         171        10,358
ERs/HECTARE3      3,042        34,719          933          306         654        39,654
5  MORA WEWA      1,300    7,400  1,960 EXPENDITRUE              0    3,359,185                                           3,359,185
PRORATA COST
ERs/FAMILLY]           0        2,584            0            0           0         2,584
[Rs/PERSON]            0          454            0            0           0           454
[Rs/HECTARE]           0        1,714            0            0           0         1,714
6  GIANT'S TANK  10,728   58,000 12,460 EXPENDITRUE              0  -1,774,944                                            1,774,944
PRORATA COST
[Rs/FAMILLY]           0          165            0            0           0           165
tRs/PERSON3            0            31           0            0           0            31
[Rs/HECTARE]           0          142            0            0           0           142
7  IRANAMADU      5,710   31,800  9,430 EXPENDITRUE              0   16,040,982                                          16,040,982
PRORATA COST
tRs/FAMILLY]           0        2,809            0            0           0         2,809
[Rs/PERSON]            0          504            0            0           0           504
[Rs/HECTARE]           0        1,701            0            0           0         1,70C
8 Extra Work Items
(a)  Rapairs to Kantale reservoir    EXPENDITRUE             0             0            0            0           0   227,601,13-
(b)  Head quarters buiLding for IIMI EXPENDITRUE             0             0            0            0           0   73,310,057
TOTAL     34,376  192,860 46,240 EXPENDITRUE  68,114,188  944,243,917  20,887,800   6,850,331  14,634,499 1,355,641,9_
PRORATA COST
ERs/FAMILLY]       1,981       27,468          608          199         426        39,4.-
[Rs/PERSON)          353        4,896          108           36          76         7, C2
tRs/HECTARE3      1,473        20,420          452          148         316        29,31E






45
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit/Title             Purpose                                                   Approval       Status     Comments
Date          a/
Mahaweli Ganga Develop-  To increase agricultural production and standard of living of  January  Completed   Successfully completed,
ment Project, Stage I    about 53,000 families by providing supplemental irrigation  1970      (Dec. 19791   even though implementation
Cr. 174-CE / Ln. 653-CE    water to about 51,000 ha of existing irrigated land and full                      was delayed by about two
(US$29 million)          irrigation to about 42,000 ha of new land to be developed in                        years. First stage of the
subsequent stages. To be achieved by construction of head                          Mahaweli Ganga Water
works, diversion dams and tunnels at Polgolla and                                  Master Plan. PAR 12/81.
Bowatenne, and of a 40 MW power plant at Polgolla.
Tank Irrigation          To improve irrigation supply, reduce seepage losses, provide    November    Completed   Success will depend on
Modernization Project    inputs, strengthen agricultural extension and water         1977      (June 19831  farmers fully adopting
Cr. 666-CE               management in five major tank schemes in the dry zone.                              project recommendations
(US$5 million)                                                                                               and government agencies
working together to provide
needed services. PCR 1;86.
Second Mahaweli Ganga    To increase paddy production and employment of about        April      Completed   Work was started end
Development Project      27,000 farm families in the Mahaweli System area (28,000    1977      (June 19851  1977, when GOSL decided
Cr. 701-CE               ha), and provide production support and social services                             to accelerate the Mahaweli
(US$19 million)          throughout the whole system area.                                                   Ganga Development
Program. Project should be
considered successful in
attaining major objectives
such as land development,
settlement and crop
production. PAR 6/88.
Mahaweli Ganga Technical  To support the Government's efforts to accelerate        January      Completed   Successful, but the
Assistance Project       implementation of the Mahaweli development program by       1980       (Sept 19851   envisaged implementation
Cr. 979-CE               assisting with studies to select the best plan for a future                         period of two vears was
(US$3 million}           transbasin diversion project and to provide detailed                                unrealistic. PAR 6/88.
engineering design for downstream development.
Village Irrigation       To support rehabilitation of 1,200 village irrigation schemes,  June   Completed   Targets met on a much
Rehabilitation Project   modernization of about 500 other small schemes,             1981      (Dec. 19901  smaller area than originally
Cr. 1160-CE              strengthening of government institutions involved in village                        expected, and this required
(SDR 24.5 million)       irrigation, and initiation of a systematic water management                         extending the project period
program.                                                                           by four years. The PAR
(1 2/94) rated overall per-
formance as unsatisfactory.
Third Mahaweli Ganga     Third IDA-assisted irrigation project under the Mahaweli    June       Completed   Project completion (with
Development Project      Ganga Development Program, to provide irrigation            1981      (Dec. 19911   cofinanciers assistance) is
Cr. 1166-CE              infrastructure for about 28,000 ha, clear jungle, settle                            expected in 1994. Outcome
(SDR 73.3 million)       farmers, assist on-farm development, and construct roads and                        is rated unsatisfactory - ERR
social infrastructure.                                                             of 4% vs. 18% at appraisal
- chiefly due to lower actual
and projected paddy prices.
Institutional development
objectives were only
partially met. PAR 12/94.
National Irrigation      Rehabilitation and improved O&M of minor, medium and large  June       On-going    Can be considered to be a
Rehabilitation Project   irrigation schemes to stabilize and increase agricultural   1991      (June 1998)  follow-up to VIRP ICr. 1160-
Cr. 2260-CE (SDR 21.9    production and incomes and standards of living.                                     CE) as far as minor schemes
million)                                                                                                     are concerned.
a/ Dates in parentheses are actual or expected closing dates.



46
2. Project Timetable
Item                                 Date Planned               Date Revised             Date Actual
Identification (GOSL)
Preparation (FAO/CP)                                                  -                     1983
Preappraisal                                                          -                Nov./Dec. 1983
Appraisal                            February 1984                    -                  March 1984
Negotiations                          October 1984                    -              Oct. 29/Nov. 2, 1984
Board Approval                       November 1984                    -               December 20, 1984
Credit Signature                    February 7, 1985                  -               February 7, 1985
Credit Effectiveness                  May 8, 1985              August 8, 1985          August 2, 1985
Credit Closing                       June 30, 1991              June 30, 1993           June 30, 1993
Credit Completion                          -                          -                 May 6, 1994
Comments
Major outstanding issues were resolved prior to the departure of the appraisal mission. Sixty percent of IDA
financing would cover local expenditures.
The last IDA disbursement was a replenishment of the Special Account (February 12, 1993). Withdrawal
applications received thereafter were used to recover the initial deposit into the Special Account. An amount of SDR
132,317.81 (US$188,601.84) representing unused funds in the Special Account was returned to the credit account on May 6,
1994, leaving a balance of SDR 5,913,458.48 in the credit account. This balance was cancelled effective May 6, 1994.
3. Credit Disbursements
A. Estimated and Actual IDA Disbursements (Cumulative; Million)
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Appraisal Estimate
SDR                         0.40    2.80    7.00    10.20   12.80   15.00   17.00
US$                         0.40    2.80    7.00    10.20   12.80   15.00   17.00
Actual
SDR                          -      1.78    4.61    8.27    8.84    9.12    9.98    10.94   11.22   11.09
US$                          -      1.91    5.44    10.28   11.02   11.38   12.57   13.88   14.27   14.08
Actual as % of Appraisal
SDR                          -     63.6   65.9    81.1    69.1    60.8   58.7    64.4    66.0   65.2
US$                          -    68.2   77.7    100.8   86.1    75.9   73.9    81.7    83.9   82.8
Date of last disbursement: 02/12/93.



47
B. Cofinanciers' Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Cumulative; Million)
(IDA FiscaL Years)            FY85    FY86    FY87    FYU    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
A. SDC
Appraisal Estimates 1/
-  SFR                         0.2     2.7      6.3     9.8    13.0    15.2    17.0
-  USS                         0.1     1.2      2.8     4.4      5.8      6.8     7.6
ActuaL
-  SFR                          2/      2/       2/      2/       2/      7.40   10.22   11.25   11.56 3/
-  USS                          2/      2/       2/      2/       2/     4.99    6.99    7.69    7.92
Actuel as Z of AppraisaL
-  SFR                          -        -       -        -       -        49      60       66       68
-  USS                          -        -       -        -                73      92      101      104
B. CIDA
Appraisal Estimates 1/
-  CanS                         -      0.3      1.1      2.0     2.8      3.5     4.0
-  USS                          -      0.2      0.8      1.5     2.1      2.6     3.0
Actual
-  CanS                         -      0.47    1.14    2.25    2.40    2.56    3.06    3.13    3.23    3.34 4/
-  USS                          -      0.34    0.84    1.69    1.81    1.94    2.38    2.44    2.52    2.61
Actual as X of Appraisal
-CanS                           -      157      104      113      86       73      77       78      81       84
-   SS                       -      170      105      113      86       75      79       81       84      87
1/  DCA, Schedule 1, and SAR, Annex 5.4:  Swiss contribution and CIDA joint contribution.
2/ Details not available.
3/ Through November 14, 1993.
4/ Through January 31, 1994.



48
4. Project Implementation
A. Physical Achievements
Net Area          Earthwork          Remodelling          Improved             Improved
Existing and New        Offtakes             Turnouts
Structures
(ha)            ('000 mI)             (no.)               (no.)                (no.)
Kantalai        (SAR)                 6,990               350                 154                 356                 4,590
(PCR)                6,785             see details        see details         see details          see details
Rajangana      (SAR)                  5,910               680                 168                  29                 6,545
(PCR)                5,910             see details        see details          see details         see details
Nachchaduwa    (SAR)                  5,400               450                 112                 145                 1,463
(PCR)                4,030            see details         see details          see details         see details
Finiuluwewa     (SAR)                 4,090               250                 49                   84                 2,591
(PCR)                3,867             see details        see details          see details          see details
Huuilwa Feeder (PCR)                  1,500
Rajangana Lift  (PCR)                 1,725
Length of Canal/                Earthwork         Remodelling Existing       New Structures
Road Rehabilitated (kmi)              (m)             Structures (no.)            (no.)
Nachchaduwa Scheme
Headworks                                                                                         20                         0
Feeder canals                                 9.60                         37,000                  -                        11
Main & branch canals                         67.00                        279,730                  1                       241
Distributary canals                          64.63                        180.441                                        1,156
Field canals                                222.37                        359,154                                        7.354
Drainage canals                              20.20                         17,900
Roads                                        40.55                         23,020                                            6
Rajangana Scheme
Headworks                                       -                          37,725                  1                        10
Feeder canals
Main & branch canals                          58.9                        171,380                 29                       213
Distributary canals                           51.4                        116,602                 30                       493
Field canals                                302.0                         355,350               155                      8,973
Drainage canals                                 -                          21,150                                            0
Roads                                         39
Huruluwewa Scheme
Headworks                                       -                           8,000                 5                          0
Feeder canals                                   -                          23,558                 0
Main & branch canals                          33.5                         92,876                 90                     a/ 67
Distributary canals                           30.8                         36,473               135                     b/ 302
Field canals                                 169.2                        188,237               704                      2,833
Drainage canals                               19                           17,500
Roads                                         22.2                         16,500
Kantalai Scheme
Headworks                                     6.67                         59,120                  1
Feeder canals                                12.50                         44,990                 6                         4
Main & branch canals                         33.5                         143,820                28                       126
Distributary canals                          30.8                         211,740                 4                       451
Field canals                                169.2                         249,990                 7                     4.157
Drainage canals                              57.07
Roads                                       131.10                         16,670
at Includes 70 improved offtakes.
b/ Includes 150 improved turnouts.



49
B. Fanner Organizations
Schee            Rild Channel    W-Chnnl    Inntit. DCOs with Bank Regitration IMD    Registration     Regstra tion        D-Channes
Groups      Orgaaons  Officers   Accourrs                          10                 DAS              Handed Over
Target   Pro-   Target  Pro-         Targt  Pro-  Target  Pro-   Target   Pro-   Target      Progres      Target   Pro-
grin           wre                  grs s         we             gras                                     gras
56A     56B
Ralangans       511     511      66    56    11    56    56    56    55           56      55      56       56      -       51      51
Nschchaduwa     291     291      36    36      9      36    34    36       16     36      36      36       24      16      46      34
Huruluwewa      225     215      23     23    13    23    23    23    23          23      23      23       23      13      26      26
Kantaisi        323     286      36    31      14    36    31    36        29     36      31      36      26       22      41      39
Total          1.350   1.303    151    146    47    151    144   151    123    151        145     151     129      51     164    150
C. Training
Type of Training                                                                  No. of       Average Number of Daysl
Partidpants              Participants
Overseas
Irrigation Department:
A. Mainly engineering
- M.Sc Irrigation Engineering                                                     4                  365
- Other training/seminars, etc.                                                  31                   43
B. Mainly water management
- Short courses/seminars, etc.                                                   67                   26
IMD:
A. Mainly water management
- Short courses/seminars, etc.                                                    17                  32
B. Monitoring and evaluation                                                           4                  25
C. Training methods                                                                    2                   18
D. Farmers' Study Tour                                                               32                    19
Lodal
Officers a/                                                                         988
Farmer Representatives h1                                                         6,727
Farmers _/                                                                       35,000
Comment: Local training carried out by IMD. Number of participants is total for several years, some participants may have attended
more than one session.
_i Training covered role in INMAS Program, participatory management, strengthening of FOs, preparation of work plan, role in
preparation and implementation of agricultural production program.
_I Training representatives as well as offcers of D-channel organizations in O&M of D-channels, financial management and general
agriculture.
_/ Training on the job in water management and O&M of the irrigation systems, as well as exchange visits with other farmers.



50
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Item                                 Appraisal                   Actual            Actual as %    Actual as %
of Appraisal  of Appraisal
(Rs)        (US$)
(Rs M)      (US$ M)        (Rs M)      (US$ M)
Irrigation Management               50.3           1.8         58.6          1.53          117            85
Division
Irrigation Department
- Civil Works/Schemes
Giant's Tank                     183.0           6.6          1.1         0.04             1             1
Huruluwewa                        55.7           2.0         76.2         2.26           137           113
Huruluwewa Feeder Canal                                       9.0         0.12
Iranamadu                        163.7           5.8          9.8         0.35             6             6
Kantalai Rehabilitation           95.7           3.4        145.4          3.92          152           115
Kantalai Breach Filling                                     227.6          7.57          182           163
Morawewa                          26.1           0.9          2.1          0.07            8             8
Nachchaduwa                      139.9           5.0        154.8         4.53           111            91
Rajangana                        145.3           5.2        163.5         4.50           113            87
Sub-total                        809.4          28.9        789.5        23.36            98            81
- Project Support                  256.2           9.3        364.4         10.79          142            116
Total Irrigation Department       1065.6          38.2       1153.9         34.15          108            89
Land Commissioner's                 31.6           1.1         19.5          0.53           62            48
Department
Department of Agriculture           13.1           0.5         14.1          0.38          108            76
Dept. of Agrarian Services          12.5           0.4          6.9          0.20           55            50
University of Peradeniya             5.8           0.2          3.1          0.07           53            35
IIMI                                27.3           1.0         73.3          1.84          268           184
TOTAL                             1206.2          43.2       1329.4         38.70          110            90
Comment: Achievement percentage for Kantalai breach filling refers to original estimate made for this item.



B. Project Financing
Plted                                                                   Actual
ToteL          60SL           IDA          CIDA            S0C         Total           GOSL            IDA          CIDA           SDC
Dv Expwditure CategorV (USS dillicn)
1. Civil Works                       30.2            7.1         14.2            3.0            5.9          26.2            5.7           11.7           2.6           6.2
2. Equipment & VehicLes               8.4            1.8          2.8            3.8            0.0           8.2            2.7            1.8           3.7           0.0
3. Technical Assistance,               1.7           0.0          0.0            0.0            1.7            1.8           0.1            0.0           0.0           1.7
Training, Surveys
4. Engineering & Admin.,               2.9           2.9           0.0           0.0            0.0           2.5            2.5            0.0           0.0           0.0
Incrmantal Staff Cost
TOTAL                                43.2           11.8         17.0            6.8            7.6          38.7           11.0           13.5           6.3           7.9
S Financing                                           27           39             16             18                           28             35            17            20
By  _-,  t- CBS *ntlien) 
IND                                  50.3           30.6         10.3            1.6           7.8           58.6           37.9           0.9            0.0          19.8
ID                                 1065.6          273.9        428.4          179.3         184.0         1153.9          312.1         423.7          230.7         187.4
LCD                                  31.6            7.0         13.4            3.9            7.3          19.5            9.7           5.9            1.3           2.6
DA                                    13.1           8.7          3.3            0.0            1.1          14.1           11.8            1.6           0.0           0.7
DAS                                   12.5           3.3          6.1            1.4            1.7           6.9            3.9           2.1            0.3           0.6
uW                                    5.8            0.5          0.3            0.0            5.0           3.1            0.3           0.3            0.0           2.5
RINI                                 27.3            6.9         12.3            2.7           5.4           73.3           18.4           0.0            7.3          47.6
TOTAL                              1206.2          330.9        474.1          18.9          212.3         1329.4          394.1         434.5          239.6         261.2
X Financing                                           27           39             16             18                           30            33             18            20



52
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                                                  SAR                      PCR
Benefitting farm families                                                  34,400
Excluding those in Giant's Tank, Morawewa, Iranamadu                    16,640                   19,800
At Huruluwewa Feeder Canal                                                                        1,700
Benefitting command area (ha)                                              46,240
Excluding Giant's Tank, Morawewa, Iranamadu                             22,390                   20,592
At Huruluwewa Feeder Canal                                                                        1,500
Rajangana lift irrigation                                                                         1,725
Irrigated areas cropping intensities at full development                 150 - 188%               135 - 179%
Increase in paddy production (tons)                                        73,800
Excluding Giant's Tank, Morawewa, Iranamadu                             37,400                   31,800
At Huruluwewa Feeder Canal                                                                          600
Increase in farm incomes (%)                                               36 - 157                 13 - 76
Generated farm employment (million work days) a/                             4.1                      1.0
a/ SAR gives no breakdown with respect to schemes.
B. Economic Impact
SAR Estimate              PCR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                                16                         19
Project life (years)                                                       25                        25
Standard Conversion Factor                                                0.85                       0.9
Unskilled labor CF                                                        0.8                        0.9
C. Financial Impact a/
SAR Estimnate (1985 Prices)  SAR Estimate (1993 Prices)    PCR Estimate (1993 Prices)
(WO)         (WP)          (WO)           (WP)           (WO)           (WP)
Net Farm Income (Rs)
I ha model with paddy and       16,440        22,340        36,250        49,260         22,370          39,670
OFCs b/
a/ For details, see Annex 1.
b/ Two of the three models used in the SAR represented schemes subsequently dropped from the project. The comparison
is made with the SAR model for Rajangana.



53
D. Studies
Study                   Purpose as Defined at Appraisal                 Status                          Impact of Study
Review of INMAS                     Mid-term review to determine the                  Completed              Highlighted weakness of farmer
effectiveness of the administrative                                     organizations due to insufficient
changes introduced in respect of                                        application of basic concepts and
INMAS.                                                                  problems arising out of PM's lack of
administrative authority over staff of
line agencies. Recommendations, with
respect to raising awareness of INMAS
program and assigning more
responsibilities to farmer organizations
in connection with irrigation systeni
management and O&M. implemented to
the extent that more lOs were
appointed. All distributary canals under
MIRP were handed over to DCOs for
O&M. The legal recognition of farner
organizations is being pursued.
Acceptance of INMAS and attendance
of officials at Project Committee
meetings improved.
Pilot Program                       Ascertain the impact of technological      Carried out in two systems,   Limited. Monitoring of the systems
improvements in control of irrigation    on-going in one (under NIRP)    shows no advantage in distribution of
supplies on one distributary (150-200                                   water by technological improvements,
ha) in each of four selected systems.                                   due to lack of farmers' cooperation in
regulation. Further studies required.
Establishment of hydrological models  To permit use of microcomputers for             Completed              Models established but not calibrated
operating irrigation systems according to                               with actual data. Currently unused.
crop requirements.                                                      except at Kantalai.
Catchment management                To (a) provide the basic information        Continuing under NIRP        Only interim findings available so far.
required to model the catchment water
balance which would be used to develop
water balance simulation models of each
system; (b) indicate the pattem on which
catchment management organization
should be developed so as to ensure
erosion control as well as allocation of
water and lands to different uses to
maintain availability of sufficient runoff
at the major tanks; (c) propose changes
to existing legislation to provide the
legal means to ensure proper catchment
management.
On-farm water management            To provide a clear understanding of         Continuing under NIRP        Implementation was disrupted by civil
irrigation water use and of measures to                                 disturbances. Study showed that
improve the efficiency of utilization.                                  farmers were using excess water on
paddy but correct quantities on OFCs.
Mid-term Evaluation                 To make recommendations for                     Not carried out
corrections.
Evaluation                          To be used for preparation of the PCR.            Completed              Provided information useful for the
PCR, but was early for impact
evaluation.



54
Study                  Purpose as Defined at Appraisal                Status                        Impact of Study
Procedures on Collection of        To address the question whether the             Completed             Recommendations focussed on user
O&M Fees                           water charge collection program was                                   support and concluded that the O&M
successful and what adjustments might                                 program should primarily ensure and
be necessary; to determine the current                                utilize user support for joint
cost of O&M of irrigation systems in                                  management rather than collect O&M
Sri Lanka and to propose a program for                                fees. These recommendations were
annual rate increases in order to achieve                             instrumental in GOSL's adoption of
full O&M cost recovery not later than                                 participatory management in irrigation
September 30, 1991.                                                  schemes. Appropriate changes in the
Development Credit Agreement (Section
4.03) were made.
Agricultural Credit                Not defined at appraisal. Commissioned          Completed             Report on Agricultural Credit Facilities
by project management towards the end                                 for Farmers and Guide to Credit
of the implementation period in order to                              Facilities provided useful information on
provide information to farmers on the                                 availability of credit in the project area
availability of credit facilities.                                    as well as data on past borrowing.
Action is being taken on recom-
mendation to make use of FOs for
group lending.



55
7. Status of Covenants
Development                              Covenant                           Deadline for Compgance             Status
Credit
Agreement
2.02 ic)       To open and maintain in US dollars a Special Account.        Condition of credit         In compliance.
effectiveness.
3.04            Establish a Project Steering Committee under the chairmanship of   Condition of credit  In compliance.
Secretary, MLLD.                                            effectiveness.
3.05           Appoint a Project Director in IMD and a Project Officer in ID.  Condition of credit     In compliance.
effectiveness.
3.06           Appoint a Project Manager for each sub-project.              Condition of credit        In compliance.
effectiveness.
4.01 (c)        To submit audit report within nine months of the end of each fiscal                     Generally in
year including separate opinion on use of statements of expenditure.                    compliance.
4.02            To provide sufficient O&M funds for irrigation schemes and a                            Not in compliance.
statement indicating sufficient funds have been allocated to meet
O&M costs of the project during the fiscal year.
Amended         Farmer organizations to be established and registered.                                  In compliance.
4.03 (a)
Amended         Farmer organizations to bear full cost of O&M of distributaries and                     Not in compliance.
4.03 (bI        field channels after rehabilitation is completed.
Amended         Farmer organizations to bear the cost of O&M of headworks and    Two years after completion.  Not yet due.
4.03 (c)        main canal.
Schedule 4,     To conduct mid-term review of INMAS and submit report.      December 31, 1988           Review carried out
para 1                                                                                                  and report submitted
in 1990. Action has
been taken on all
recommendations.
Schedule 4,     Furnish a program for the utilization of lift irrigation systems.  December 31, 1985    Lift irrigation systems
para 2                                                                                                  at Rajangana have
been transferred to
farmers for O&M after
installation of new
pumps and
rehabilitation of
channels.
Implement agreed program.                                   June 30, 1989
Schedule 4,     To employ additional staff in the pilot areas.              September 30, 1986          Additional staff
para 3                                                                                                  employed initially but
not for long.
Gaigamuwa Training
Institute staff carrying
out data collection at
present.
Schedule 4,     Submit report on pilot area relative performance.           December 31, 1987           Generally in
para 4                                                                                                  compliance.
Schedule 4,     Submit proposal for catchment control.                      December 31, 1987           Studies for catchment
para 5                                                                                                  control are continuing
under NIRP.
Schedule 4,     Furnish a report on the efficiency of transmission of Mahaweli  Within 3 months of each  In compliance.
para 6          supplies.                                                   crop season.



56
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Year           Pre-Appraisal         Appraisal         Negotiations        Supervision         Total
FY82                 1.7                 -                                                       1.7
FY83                13.2                 -                                                      13.2
FY84                35.0               42.6                  -                   -              77.6
FY85                 -                 22.4                 5.3                10.5             38.2
FY86                 -                   -                   -                 18.1             18.1
FY87                 -                   -                   -                 21.6             21.6
FY88                 -                   -                   -                  5.9              5.9
FY89                 -                   -                   -                  9.2              9.2
FY90                  -                  -                   -                  7.4              7.4
FY91                  -                  -                   -                  9.6              9.6
FY92                 -                   -                   -                 16.9             16.9
FY93                  -                  -                   -                 18.7             18.7
FY94                 -                   -                   -                 38.1             38.1
Total               49.9               65.0                 5.3               156.0           276.0
a/ Including 19.2 staff weeks spent on PCR, of which 16 by FAO/CP.



B. Missions
Stae of              Month/              No. of           Days Ih     Speciaizatlons       ------------------- ------------------------------4bdformance Ratings
Proiect Cycle         Year             Parsons *           Feld       Represented a/
Status bl           Trend c/              Types of
Problems d/
Identification
Preparation
Preappreisal       Nov./Dec. 83            3                13           EC,IE(2)
Appraisal           March 84
Supervision 1     March/April 85           1                 6              IE                 1                   1                     p
Overal Status e/  Development Imnpact f/  Compn8nce wAth       ProJect Management   Avaibbb
Covenants g/              hl             Funda i/
Supervision 2        June 85               1                 -              IE                 2                   1                      -                     1                1
Supervision 3        June 86               2                11      IE,IE(part-time),JMC       2                   1                                            1                1
Supevision 4       Oct./Nov. 86            1                18       IE,JMS,JMC(part-          2                   1                      -                     1                1
time)
Supervision 5      May/June 87             2                12       IE,SOC,JMC(W),            2                   1                      -                     1                1
JMSIW)
Supervision 6        Nov. 87               1                 8         IE,JMC,JMS              2                   1                      -                     1                1
Supervision 7      June/July 88            1                10           IE,JMS                2                  2                       -                     1                1
Supervision 8      April/May 89            2                12         IE,O&M,JMS              2                  2                       -                     1                1
Supervision 9        Nov. 89               1                12       IE,JMS,JMC(W)             3                  2                      2                      1               3
Supervision 10     June/July 90            1                15       IE,JMS,JMC(W)             2                  2                       1                     1               2
Supervision 11       Jan. 91               1                17        IE,JMS,JMC(W)            2                  2                       1                     1               2
Supervision 12       July 91               2                16       IE,WM,JMC,JMS             2                  2                      1                      1               2
Supersion 13         Jan. 92               1                13         IE,JMC,JMS              2                   1                     2                      1                1
Supervision 14       Sep. 92               3                14      IE(3),JMS,JMCIW)           2                   1                     1                      1               1
Supervision 15      March 93               2                11        IE(2),JMC,JMS            2                   1                     1                      1                1
PCR                Jan./Feb. 94            3                21           IE,EC,AG              -
I Includes only IDA and FAO/CP staff and consultants.
at AG = Agriculturalist; EC - Economist; IE = Irrigation engineer; O&M - Maintenance specialist; SOC - Sociologist; WM = Water management specialist.
JMC = Joint mission with CIDA; JMS = Joint mission with SDC: JMC(W) = Canadian representative attended wrap-up meeting only; JMS(W) = Swiss representative
attended wrap-up meeting only.
b/ 1 - Problem-free or minor problems. 2 = Moderate problems. 3 = Major problems.
c/ 1 = Improving. 2 = Stationary. 3 = Deteriorating.
d/ F = Financial. M - Managerial. T - Technical. P = Political.   = Other.
a/ through ii 1 = Problem free or minor problems. 2 - Moderate problems. 3 = Major problems, but appropriate action being taken to address these problems.






59
Annex 1
Page 1
A. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Farm Income
1.         The SAR used three indicative farm models for the project. Two of these models
represented areas which had subsequently to be dropped: Giant's Tank and Iranamadu. There are
widely varying data on yields and even cropped area since the project started. On the basis of
available information, the PCR mission has projected likely cropping patterns and yields at full
development under each of the four schemes. These projections and assessment of the future
"without project" are the basis for the re-evaluation of the project's impact on farm income. Three
different farm models have been used representing common situations currently in evidence in the
project area. The crop models and their corresponding financial crop budgets are in Tables 1-4.
Prices of inputs and outputs (in constant 1993 terms) and are in Table 5.
2.         The majority of farmers are settlers and generally have three acres, or rather less than
one hectare, under gravity irrigation. The most common cropping pattern, still preferred by about
70% of farmers in the project area, is paddy/paddy (Model 1, Table 6). Four variations of this
model are given reflecting the different potential of the individual schemes. A second common
cropping pattern is paddy in the maha season and a mix of paddy and other field crops (OFCs) in
yala. This is presented in Model 2 (Table 7), again with four variations. A third model (Table 8)
illustrates the situation of farmers in Rajangana who have land both under gravity and lift irrigation
(about two-thirds of the 3,000 farmers with lift irrigation).
3.         Farmers have not been paying water charges and have in fact received funding from
IMD/ID to carry out maintenance on distributary canals, even after responsability for O&M had been
handed over to farmers' organizations. In the "without project" situation, it is therefore assumed that
there is no water charge, but a full amount has been assessed in the "with project" situation.
Considerable use is made of hired labor and this is reflected in the models where the proportion of
hired labor ranges from 35-50%. The models indicate clearly the farmer's ability to make a
significant contribution to the cost of irrigation and still increase net income and return to family
labor. This is true even with a cropping pattern of paddy/paddy in Huruluwewa, where water
availability remains precarious and returns are correspondingly lower than in other areas.
Comparison of Models 1 and 2 illustrates the advantage to farmers of incorporating OFCs into the
cropping pattern, even at the very modest levels assumed. Returns, both in terms of net income and
return to family labor, are highest in Model 3, where farmers have both gravity irrigation for paddy
and lift irrigation for other crops such as eggplant (chosen as a proxy for vegetables). However, the
difference between the future without and with the project is least significant in this case, pointing
to the need to invest in inputs other than water to raise revenue further.
4.         PCR estimates (without project, and with project at full development) of net farm
income and return to family labor are shown in the table below and compared with the SAR
estimates of net cash farm income. Although it appears that increases in income are rather less than
expected, particularly where farmers continue to mono-crop, the impact of rehabilitation on farm



60
Annex 1
Page 2
income still is positive and farmers are, in principle, in a position to fmance O&M expenses of the
gravity-fed schemes.
Comparison of Farm Models
PCR        PCR        PCR        SAR        SAR       SAR
Model 1    Model 2    Model 3      Giant's Iranumadu Rajangana
l___________________  (average)   (average)                Tank
Net Farm Income                ... Rs 1993 terms      ...      .. .Rs 1985 terms 
Without                    9,905      13,028     87,096      5,690     16,600     16,440
With                      16,951      22,954     98,804     14,610     27,260    22,340
% Difference                 71          76         13        157         64         36
Return to Family Labor
Without                      140        167        329
With                         222        249        358
% Difference                 56          47         9
B. ECONOMIC ASPECTS
5.         The economic re-evaluation has followed, to the extent possible, the approach adopted
in the SAR.
Project Area
6.         A major difference in project area was caused by the elimination of three schemes -
Giant's Tank, Iranamadu and Morawewa - due to the security situation. As these areas were
dropped at an early stage of the project, any costs and benefits have been disregarded in the
economic analysis. In partial compensation for these areas, those under the Huruluwewa Feeder
Canal and under lift irrigation at Rajangana, included in the project at a later date, are taken into
account. In the latter years of the project, surveys were carried out to specify the area under gravity
irrigation in the four remaining schemes. The results have been adopted for the purposes of the re-
evaluation as they represent the most precise estimates of the area served (details in Table 9). In
some cases they differ from appraisal estimates, as indicated below:



61
Annex 1
Page 3
MIRP Area (ha)
Scheme                              SAR Estimate                    PCR
Huruluwewa                             4,090                        3,867
Huruluwewa Feeder Canal                                             1,500
Kantale                                6,990                        6,785
Nachchaduwa                            5,400                        4,030
Rajangana gravity                      5,910                        5,910
Rajangana lift                                                      1,725
TOTAL                                  22,390                      23,817
Original 4 Schemes                     22,390                      20,592
The difference is significant only in the case of Nachchaduwa, where the specified area is
significantly smaller than that estimated at appraisal (areas under the city tanks of Nuwarawewa,
Tissawewa and Bassawakulam included).
Project Cost
7.         As in the SAR, in addition to direct investment costs, expenditures for support services
have been allocated between the schemes on the basis of irrigated area (Table 9). The cost of the
International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) building is excluded, as is the cost of repairing
the breach at Kantale. The local component of financial investment costs has been converted to
economic terms using the prevailing standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 rather than the SCF of
0.85 used in the SAR. All costs have been converted to 1993 constant terms using the inflators
given in Table 10. Residual values of machinery provided for the project have been included as a
benefit, either at the end of the implementation period or when they were transferred out of the
project area. These values, calculated on the basis of remaining hours of operation, are significant,
as the machinery was well looked after.
Operation and Maintenance Cost
8.         Actual allocations for O&M in the four schemes have been adopted up to 1993. In the
with project situation, a farmers' labor contribution of two days per hectare per year has been
assumed with effect from 1991 in Huruluwewa, Nachchaduwa and Rajangana, 1992 in Kantale and
1994 for the Huruluwewa Feeder Canal. This is an approximation of the time when farmers took
over responsibility for O&M of the distributary canals. Furthermore, it has been assumed that in
the with project situation from 1994 onwards O&M funding in addition to the farmers' contribution
would remain at the level of 1993 (Rs 184/ac, or Rs 454/ha). This is well short of the requirement,
estimated by the Irrigation Department to be about Rs 630/ac (Rs 1,556/ha) in 1993 terms, but
appears realistic in the light of experience. It may even be an optimistic projection, given the
deterioration of allocations in real terms and farmers' reluctance to contribute in cash. Allocations



62
Annex 1
Page 4
have been adjusted by the SCF, and the labor contribution by the (identical) specific conversion
factor for unskilled labor of 0.9."
Project Life and Phasing
9.         The implementation period of the project was significantly longer than expected, ending
only in 1993, although about 80% of funds had been disbursed by the end of 1990. In the case of
the Huruluwewa Feeder Canal and Rajangana Lift Irrigation channels, a small amount of additional
investment will be required in 1994 to complete ongoing works and permit realization of full
potential. This investment has been included in the analysis. Because of the delayed project
completion, it has been assumed that full development would be reached in 1997, rather than in
1995, as was assumed in the SAR. Project life has been maintained at 25 years.
Agricultural Development
10.        Area and yield figures for each scheme up to 1993 have been arrived at by comparison
of various sources - Project Managers, Additional Director Agronomy, Impact Evaluation Report -
and consultation with farmers and field staff. Past and projected figures adopted for each scheme
are in Tables 1 1-16. Review of developments under the schemes has led to some assumptions with
respect to the with project situation at full development which are different from those adopted in
the SAR.
11.        Unlike the SAR, which only included soybean, consideration has been given to a range
of OFCs. This reflects the current situation and underlines the importance of OFCs in maximizing
the development potential of the schemes. However, the share of OFCs in the cropping pattern is
even lower than envisaged in the SAR in Huruluwewa and Rajangana, reflecting an extrapolation of
current farmers' preference to crop paddy/paddy whenever water availability is adequate. In
Kantale, a small area under OFCs has been included as, contrary to SAR assumptions, some crops
other than paddy are being grown in the yala season.
12.        Future yield with project has been based on the scheme average for 1991-1993. As
about 80% of project investment had already taken place at this tirne, the rehabilitated structures
were for the most part operational and the yields achieved may be considered to reflect the project's
impact on water availability. In the case of Nachchaduwa, the resulting yield is higher than the SAR
estimate; in Rajangana, it is the same; in Huruluwewa and Kantale, it is somewhat lower. Although
these projections are believed to be a realistic estimate of the project's impact, yield potential is
higher, and achievements could be considerably improved if better seed were used and water became
consistently available. The latter is particularly important in the case of Huruluwewa, which
continues to suffer from tapping (now regularized) of the feeder canal and unreliable provision of
Mahaweli supplies.
13.        Cropping intensities and yields assumed in the SAR and the PCR are presented in the
table below:
1/  Sri Lanka: Basic Parameters for Project Analysis, office memorandum of June 15, 1993.



63
Annex 1
Page 5
Comparison of Cropping Intensity and Yield Assumptions
Cropping Intensity                                Yield
PCR (WO) PCR (WP)  SAR (WO) |SAR (WP)   PCR (WO)  PCR (WP)  SAR (WO)   SAR (WP)
Huruluwewa                                                               ...... tons/ha/season ......
Paddy                1.00      1.15       1.00        1.15       2.1         3.0        2.1         3.4
Soybean              0.10      0.20       0.30        0.35       2.5         2.5        1.2          1.7
Kantale
Paddy                1.35      1.50       1.35        1.50       3.5         4.1        3.5         4.4
Chillies            0.00       0.01       0.00        0.00        -          2.1        -            -
Cowpeas              0.00      0.04       0.00        0.00        -          1.5        -            -
Nachchaduwa
Paddy                1.20      1.30       1.20        1.30        3.0        4.3        3.0          3.9
Chillies            0.02       0.08       0.00        0.00       1.9         2.1        -            -
Soybean              0.03      0.12       0.05        0.20       2.5         2.5        1.2          1.7
Rajangana
Paddy               1.63       1.68       1.63        1.68       3.5         4.3        3.5         4.3
Chillies             0.04      0.05       0.00        0.00        1.9        2.1        -            -
Cowpeas              0.06      0.06       0.00        0.00        1.5        1.5        -            -
Soybean              0.00      0.00       0.10        0.20        -          -          1.2          1.7
Key: WO = Without project; WP = With project at full development.
Output Prices
14.          It no longer appears likely, as assumed at appraisal, that Sri Lanka will achieve self-
sufficiency in rice by the middle of the 1990s or even within the project life. The economic re-
evaluation is therefore based on the import parity price of rice throughout. This price is estimated
on the basis of World Bank commodity price forecasts (Table 17). A quality adjustment of 25 % has
been made based on a comparison of average CIF Colombo and world prices. No value is given
to paddy straw as farmers generally burn it, although there is a move to encourage recycling into the
paddy fields to improve soil structure and nutrient content. Economic prices of OFCs can be taken
to be equivalent to financial prices (Table 5).
Input Prices
15.          Using World Bank commodity price forecasts, import parity prices have been derived
for the three types of fertilizer commonly used (Tables 18-20). As distortions affecting imported
chemicals are now nominal, the economic price of pesticides is considered equivalent to the financial
one. The price of seed paddy is taken to be 1.2 times the output price, while the economic price of
other seed is considered equivalent to the financial price. The cost of other domestically produced
inputs and of unskilled labor have been adjusted by a conversion factor of 0.9.



64
Annex 1
Page 6
Analysis
16.        As in the SAR, the different schemes have been evaluated individually and the results
combined to provide an overall rate of return. The re-evaluation of the Rajangana scheme includes
lift irrigation as it was not possible to separate costs. A separate evaluation has been carried out for
the Huruluwewa feeder canal area. The overall ERR is now estimated to be 19%, a slight
improvement over the SAR estimate of 16%. While results for Nachchaduwa and Rajangana are
better than expected, those for Huruluwewa and Kantale are below SAR expectations. The problems
with water availability at Huruluwewa have already been mentioned. Both there and in Kantale, the
lower ERRs reflect the lower yields now projected in comparison with SAR estimates.
17.        Economic benefit and cost streams are provided in Table 21; a comparison of the ERRs
calculated at appraisal and for the PCR is given below:
MIRP Economic Re-evaluation
Scheme                      SAR ERR (%)            PCR ERR (%)
Huruluwewa                       19.0                  13.0
Huruluwewa Feeder Canal          -                     10.0
Kantale                         18.0                   14.0
Nachchaduwa                     13.0                   18.0
Rajangana                       18.4                   21.0
Total Project                   16.0                   19.0
18.        The base case assumes realistic levels of O&M, which are below desirable levels and
may prove to be inadequate to maintain the schemes for the 25-year project lifetime.  A first
sensitivity test was therefore to reduce project life. A reduction of five years has little impact on the
ERR, which falls to 18%. If project life is reduced by ten years, the ERR falls to 15%, which is
still well above the opportunity cost of capital (OCC), assumed to be 10% for Sri Lanka. Traditional
sensitivity tests reducing future benefits by 20% or increasing future costs by 20% give ERRs of
16% and 18%, respectively.
19.        With respect to benefits, it may be argued that the PCR is too conservative regarding
paddy yields. A sensitivity test has therefore been carried out assuming that yields in the future with
project increase by 20%. Paddy production costs are also assumed to increase, but by only 10%,
while O&M costs are increased to full required levels (Rs 1,556/ha) plus the farmers' contribution
of two days labor from 1994. The results by scheme are given below:



65
Annex I
Page 7
Increased Paddy Yield Sensitivity Test
Scheme                                               ERR (%)
Huruluwewa                                             14.0
Huruluwewa Feeder Canal                                30.0
Kantale                                                20.0
Nachchaduwa                                            20.0
Rajangana                                              24.0
Total Project                                          22.0
20.        The higher than average increases in Kantale and the Huruluwewa Feeder Canal area
arise from the importance of paddy in the cropping pattern of the former and the fact that OFCs
cultivated in the latter are not expected to benefit from the project as they received adequate water
from illegal tapping in the without project situation. The improved overall ERR indicates the scope
for better returns from production even if full O&M costs are paid.



66
Annex 1
Page 8
Table 1. Paddy
(a) Per Hectare Crop Model '
Unit            A          B          C          D          E           F
Yield                   ton           2.1        3.0        3.5        3.0        4.1         4.3
Physical Inputs:
Male Labor               day           72         74         75         74         77          77
Of which: hired          day           36         37         38         37         38          38
Female Labor             day           25         27         28         27         30          30
Of which: hired          day           13         14         14         14         15          15
Seed                     kg           124        124        124        124        124         124
Urea                     kg           111        148        205        148        210        222
TSP                      kg            49         62         65         62         74          74
MOP                      kg            37         49         55         49         62          62
(b) Per Hectare Financial Crop Budget
Output Value             Rs         15750      22500      26250      22500      30750      32250
Input Cost:
Hired Labor                          4663       4848       4940       4848       5075        5075
Tractor                              4199       4199       4199       4199       4199       4199
Threshing                             988        988        988        988        988         988
Transport                             198        198        198        198        198         198
Seed                                 1235       1235       1235       1235       1240        1240
Pesticides                            988       1235       1482       1235       1606        1729
Fertilizer                           2004       2632       3293       2632       3509        3629
Total Cost                          14274      15335      16335      15335      16814       17058
Net Benefit                          1476       7166       9915       7166      13936       15192
Return to Farnily      Rs/day          30        142        193        142        258        281
Labor
' Columns A through F show different yield levels and corresponding physical inputs, both reflected in the per
hectare crop budgets below. Appropriate without and with project yields and corresponding per hectare crop
budgets have been used in the farm models.



67
Annex I
Page 9
Table 2. Chillles
(a) Per Hectare Crop Model
Unit                    WO                 WP
Yield                                    ton                      1.9                2.0
Physical Inputs:
Male Labor                               day                      274                274
Of which: hired                          day                       96                 96
Female Labor                             day                      257                275
Of which: hired                           day                      90                 96
Seed                                      kg                        1                  1
Urea                                      kg                      247                321
TSP                                       kg                       99                124
MOP                                       kg                       99                148
(b) Per Hectare Financial Crop Budget
output Value                              Rs                   148200             163020
Input Cost:
Hired Labor                                                     17238              17777
Plough/tractor                                                   2223               2223
Seed                                                              865                865
Pesticides                                                      11362              12375
Fertilizer                                                       4505               5992
Total Cost                                                      36193              39232
Net Benefit                                                    112007             123788
Return to Family Labor                  Rs/day                    324                347
Key: WO = Without project; WP = With project at full development.



68
Annex I
Page 10
Table 3. Eggplant
(a) Per Hectare Crop Model
Unit                    WO                 WP
Yield                                     ton                     24.7               26.6
Physical Inputs:
Male Labor                                day                      272                272
Of which: hired                           day                       95                 95
Female Labor                              day                      232                247
Of which: hired                           day                       81                 86
Seed                                       g                       371                371
Urea                                      kg                       371                482
TSP                                       kg                       333                408
MOP                                       kg                       247                321
(b) Per Hectare Financial Crop Budget
Output Value                              Rs                    172900             185868
Input Cost:
Hired Labor                                                      16417              16858
Plough/tractor                                                    2964               2964
Seed                                                               371                371
Pesticides                                                       11609              11609
Fertilizer                                                        9744              12382
Pumping                                  Rs/ha                    2470               2470
Total Cost                                                       43575              46653
Net Benefit                                                     129325             139214
Return to Family Labor                   Rs/day                    395                413



69
Annex 1
Page 11
Table 4. Other Crops
(a) Per Hectare Crop Models
With and Without Project
Unit         Cowpea    Mungbean        Soybean       Onion
Yield                         ton              1.5          1.5          2.5         9.9
Physical Inputs:
Male Labor                    day               49           49           69         240
Of which: hired               day               20           20           21          81
Female Labor                  day               59           67           59         291
Of which: hired               day               24           27           18          99
Seed                           kg               37           25           49           7
Urea                           kg               49           49          49          148
TSP                            kg               99           99          124          99
MOP                            kg               49           49           74          74
(b) Per Hectare Financial Crop Budgets
Output Value                   Rs            26676        29640        44460      138320
Input Cost:
Hired Labor                                   3992         4243         3586       16569
Plough/tractor                                1976         1976         1976        3952
Seed                                          1112          865         1235        5187
Pesticides                                     988          988          803        7410
Fertilizer                                    2055         2055        2564         3280
Total Cost                                   10122        10127        10164       36398
Net Benefit                                  16554        19513        34296      101922
Return to Family Labor       Rs/day            254          280         381          291



70
Annex 1
Page 12
Table 5. Prices (Rs)
Item              Unit               Financial             Economic
Outputs:
Paddy              kg                     7.5               7.2 - 9.3 (see Table 17)
Chillies           kg                      80                    80
Soybean            kg                      18                    18
Mungbean           kg                      20                    20
Eggplant           kg                       7                     7
Cowpea             kg                      18                    18
Onion              kg                      14                    14
Inputs:
Seed
Paddy            kg                      10          1.2 x sale price
Chilli            g                     0.7                   0.7
Soybean          kg                      25                    25
Mungbean         kg                      35                    35
Eggplant          g                     1.0                   1.0
Cowpea           kg                      30                    30
Onion            kg                     700                   700
Fertilizer
Urea             kg                      10                8.5 - 14 (see Table 18)
TSP              kg                      11                8.9 - 13 (see Table 19)
MOP              kg                     9.6                7.6 - 10 (see Table 20)
Labor
Men              day                    100                    90 (adjusted by CF of 0.9)
Women            day                     85                    77 (adjusted by CF of 0.9)
Tractor/ploughing    ha                 4199         as financial price



71
Annex 1
Page 13
Table 6.
Farm Model la: Paddy/Paddy at Huruluwewa
Unit                          WO                      WP
Total Area                                          ha                              1.0                    1.0
Cropped Area -'                                      ha                            1.00                   1.15
Yield h'                                          tons/ha                          2.1                     3.0
Production                                          ton                            2.1                     3.5
Farm Budget la
Inflows:
Output Value                                        Rs                          15750                   25875
Outflows:
Production Cost                                     Rs                          14274                   17635
Water Charge s'                                     Rs                              0                    1756
Net Farm Income                                     Rs                            1476                   6484
Family Labor                                        day                             48                      58
Return to Family Labor                             Rs/day                           31                     113
Farn Model lb: Paddy/Paddy at Kantale
Unit                          WO                      WP
Total Area                                           ha                             1.0                    1.0
Cropped Area "                                       ha                            1.35                   1.50
Yield  h'                                         tons/ha                           3.5                    4.1
Production                                           ton                            4.7                    6.2
Farm Budget lb
Inflows:
Output Value                                        Rs                          35438                   46125
Outflows:
Production Cost                                     Rs                          22052                   25221
Water Charge s'                                     Rs                               0                   1756
Net Farm Income                                      Rs                          13385                   19148
Family Labor                                        day                             69                      81
Return to Family Labor                             Rs/day                          194                     236
-' Total for maha and yala seasons.
h' Average for maha and yala seasons.
s' Assessed charge of Rs 1,556/ha (Rs 630/ac) plus 2 days work valued at Rs 100/day.



72
Annex 1
Page 14
Table 6. (Continued)
Fann Model Ic: Paddy/Paddy at Nachchaduwa
Unit                          WO                      WP
Total Area                                           ha                             1.0                    1.0
Cropped Area W                                       ha                            1.20                   1.30
Yield h'                                          tons/ha                           3.0                    4.3
Production                                           ton                            3.6                     5.6
Farm Budget lc
Inflows:
Output Value                                       Rs                           27000                  41925
Outflows:
Production Cost                                    Rs                           18402                  22175
Water Charge E'                                    Rs                               0                   1756
Net Farm Income                                      Rs                           8598                   17994
Family Labor                                        day                             60                      70
Return to Family Labor                             Rs/day                          143                     256
Farm Model Id: Paddy/Paddy at Rajangana
Unit                          WO                      WP
Total Area                                           ha                             1.0                    1.0
Cropped Area -'                                      ha                            1.63                   1.68
Yield b'                                          tons/ha                           3.5                    4.3
Production                                           ton                            5.7                    7.2
Farm Budget Id
Inflows:
Output Value                                       Rs                           42788                  54180
Outflows:
Production Cost                                    Rs                           26626                  28248
Water Charge E'                                    Rs                               0                   1756
Net Farm Income                                      Rs                          16161                  24176
Family Labor                                        day                             83                      91
Return to Family Labor                             Rs/day                          194                    266
-' Total for maha and yala seasons.
h/ Average for maha and yala seasons.
' Assessed charge of Rs 1,556/ha (Rs 630/ac) plus 2 days work valued at Rs 100/day.



73
Annex 1
Page 15
Table 7.
Farm Model 2a: Paddy/OFCs at Huruluawew
Unit                             WO                       WP
Total Area                                              ha                               1.0                      1.0
Cropped Area V                                          ha                              1.10                     1.35
Paddy                                                  ha                              1.00                     1.15
Soybean                                                ha                              0.10                     0.20
Yield b'
Paddy                                                tons/ha                            2.1                      3.0
Soybean                                              tons/he                            2.5                      2.5
Production
Paddy                                                 ton                               2.1                      3.5
Soybean                                               ton                               0.3                      0.5
Farm Budget 2a
Inflows:
Output Value                                           Rs                            20250                    34875
Outflows:
Production Cost                                        Rs                            15290                    19668
Water Charge v'                                        Rs                                 0                    1756
Net Farm Income                                         Rs                             4960                    13451
Family Labor                                            day                               57                       75
Return to Family Labor                                 Rs/day                             87                      179
Farm Model 2b: Paddy/OFCs at Kantale
Unit                             WO                       WP
Total Area                                              ha                               1.0                      1.0
Cropped Area W                                          ha                              1.35                     1.55
Paddy                                                  ha                              1.35                     1.50
Chillies                                               ha                              0.00                     0.01
Cowpeas                                                ha                              0.00                     0.04
Yield t'
Paddy                                                tons/ha                            3.5                      4.1
Chillies                                             tons/ha                            0.0                      2.1
Cowpeas                                              tons/ha                            0.0                      1.5
Production
Paddy                                                 ton                               4.7                      6.2
Chillies                                              ton                               0.0                     0.02
Cowpeas                                                ton                              0.0                     0.06
Farm Budget 2b
Inflows:
Output Value                                           Rs                            35438                    48885
Outflows:
Production Cost                                        Rs                            22052                    26018
Water Charge El                                        Rs                                 0                     1756
Net Farm Income                                         Rs                             13385                   21111
Family Labor                                            day                               69                       87
Return to Family Labor                                 Rs/day                            194                      242
' Total for mahe and yale seasons.
b' Average for maha and yala seasons.
2c Assessed charge of Rs 1,556/ha (Rs 630/ac) plus 2 days work valued at Rs 100/day.



74
Annex 1
Page 16
Table 7. (Continued)
Fann Model 2c: Paddy/OFCs at Nadichaduwa
Unit                     WO                   WP
Total Area                                  ha                        1.0                 1.0
Cropped Area                                ha                       1.25                1.50
Paddy                                      ha                       1.20                1.30
Chillies                                   ha                      0.02                 0.08
Soybean                                    ha                      0.03                 0.12
Yield b'
Paddy                                    tons/ha                     3.0                 4.3
Chillies                                 tons/ha                     1.9                 2.1
Soybean                                  tons/ha                     2.5                 2.5
Production
Paddy                                     ton                        3.6                 5.6
Chillies                                   ton                      0.04                0.17
Soybean                                   ton                       0.08               0.30
Fan Budget 2c
Inflows:
Output Value                               Rs                     31390               60765
Outflows:
Production Cost                            Rs                     19431               26534
Water Charge El                            Rs                         0                1756
Net Farm Income                             Rs                      11959               32475
Family Labor                                day                       70                  109
Return to Family Labor                    Rs/day                      172                 297
" Total for maha and yala seasons.
b' Average for maha and yala seasons.
El Assessed charge of Rs 1,556/ha (Rs 630/ac) plus 2 days work valued at Rs 100/day.



75
Annex 1
Page 17
Table 7. (Continued)
Farm Model 2d: Paddy/OFCs at Rajangana
Unit                       WO                   WP
Total Area                                     ha                         1.0                  1.0
Cropped Area s                                 ha                        1.73                 1.79
Paddy                                        ha                         1.63                1.68
Chillies                                      ha                       0.04                 0.05
Cowpeas                                       ha                       0.06                 0.06
Yield b'
Paddy                                      tons/ha                      3.5                  4.3
Chillies                                   tons/ha                       1.9                 2.1
Cowpeas                                    tons/ha                       1.5                 1.5
Production
Paddy                                        ton                        5.7                  7.2
Chillies                                     ton                       0.08                 0.11
Cowpeas                                      ton                       0.09                 0.09
Farm Budget 2d
Inflows:
Output Value                                 Rs                       50488                64200
Outflows:
Production Cost                              Rs                       28681                31226
Water Charge c'                               Rs                          0                 1756
Net Farm Income                                Rs                      21806                31218
Family Labor                                   day                        101                 112
Return to Family Labor                       Rs/day                       216                 278
al Total for maha and yala seasons.
bl Average for maha and yala seasons.
c' Assessed charge of Rs 1,556/ha (Rs 630/ac) plus 2 days work valued at Rs 100/day.



76
Annex 1
Page 18
Table 8.
Farm Model 3: Gravity + Lift Irrigation at Rajangana
Unit                      WO                  WP
Total Area                                    ha                         1.3                1.3
Gravity (paddy)                              ha                        0.8                 0.8
Lift irrigation                              ha                        0.5                 0.5
Cropped Area 3/                               ha                        2.30               2.34
Paddy                                        ha                       1.30                1.34
Mungbean                                     ha                       0.50                0.50
Eggplant                                     ha                       0.50                0.50
Yield b/
Paddy                                     tons/ha                      3.5                 4.3
Mungbean                                  tons/ha                      1.5                 1.5
Eggplant                                  tons/ha                     25.0                26.9
Production
Paddy                                       ton                        4.6                 5.8
Mungbean                                    ton                        0.8                 0.8
Eggplant                                    ton                       12.5                13.5
Farm Budget 3
Inflows:
Output Value                                 Rs                     136730              152365
Outflows:
Production Cost                              Rs                      48152              50921
Water Charge c/                              Rs                          0                1405
Pumping Cost d'                              Rs                       1482                1235
Net Farm Income                               Rs                      87096               98804
Family Labor                                  day                       265                 276
Return to Family Labor                      Rs/day                      329                 358
a/ Total for maha and yala seasons.
b/ Average for maha and yala seasons.
C/ Assessed charge of Rs 1,556/ha (Rs 630/ac) plus 2 days work valued at Rs 100/day.
d/ Pumping cost reduced with project from Rs 2,964/ha (Rs 1,200/ac) to Rs 2,470/ha (Rs 1,000/ac).



Annex I
Page 19
Table 9. Project Area
1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996  1997-2009
Total Gravity Fed Area Without Project (ha)
Huruluwewa            3867      3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867      3867      3867
Huruluwewa Feeder         0        0         0        0         0        0      1500     1500      1500      1500     1500      1500      1500
Kantale               6785      6785     6785      6785     6785      6785      6785     6785      6785     6785      6785     6785       6785
Nachchaduwa           4030      4030     4030      4030     4030      4030      4030     4030      4030     4030      4030     4030       4030
Rajangana             5910      5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      5910     5910       5910
Total                20592    20592    20592    20592    20592    20592    22092    22092    22092    22092    22092    22092            22092
Total Area With Project (ha)
Huruluwewa            3867      3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867       3867
Huruluwewa Feeder         0        0         0        0         0        0      1500     1500      1500      1500     1500      1500      1500
Kantale               6785      6785     6785      6785     6785      6785      6785     6785      6785     6785      6785     6785       6785
Nachchaduwa           4030      4030     4030      4030     4030      4030      4030     4030      4030     4030      4030     4030       4030
Rajangana             5910      5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      7635     7635      7635     7635       7635
Total                20592    20592    20592    20592    20592    20592    22092    22092    23817    23817    23817    23817            23817
Share of Total Area 1%)
Huruluwewa             0.19     0.19      0.19     0.19      0.19      0.19     0.18      0.18     0.16      0.16     0.16      0.16      0.16
Huruluwewa Feeder      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.07      0.07     0.06      0.06     0.06      0.06      0.06
Kantale                0.33     0.33      0.33     0.33      0.33     0.33      0.31      0.31     0.28      0.28     0.28      0.28      0.28
Nachchaduwa            0.20     0.20      0.20     0.20      0.20     0.20      0.18      0.18     0.17      0.17     0.17      0.17      0.17
Rajangana              0.29     0.29      0.29     0.29      0.29     0.29      0.27      0.27     0.32      0.32     0.32      0.32      0.32
Total Gravity Fed Area With Project (ha)
Huruluwewa             3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867      3867     3867       3867
Huruluwewa Feeder         0        0         0        0         0        0      1500     1500      1500     1500      1500     1500       1500
Kantale               6785      6785     6785      6785      6785     6785      6785     6785      6785     6785      6785     6785      6785
Nachchaduwa           4030      4030     4030      4030     4030      4030      4030     4030      4030     4030      4030     4030      4030
Rajangana             5910      5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      5910     5910      5910
Total                20592    20592    20592    20592    20592    20592    22092    22092    22092    22092    22092    22092           22092



78
Annex 1
Page 20
Table 10. Inflation Indices for Local Currency and Foreign Exchange
Year             Wholesale e         Derived Rs            MUV **             Derived FE
Price Index          Inflator               Index              Inflator
(1985 = 100)                           (1990 = 100)
1985                  100.0               2.21               68.60                  1.56
1986                   97.0               2.27               80.89                  1.32
1987                  110.0               2.00               88.84                  1.21
1988                  129.6               1.70               95.31                  1.12
1989                  141.3               1.56               94.65                  1.13
1990                  172.7               1.28              100.00                  1.07
1991                  188.6               1.17              102.23                  1.05
1992                  205.0               1.08              106.64                  1.00
1993                  220.5               1.00              107.17                  1.00
Sources:
*   IMF, International Financial Statistics, June 1994.
** World Bank, International Economics Department, International Trade Division, October 29, 1993.



Annex I
Page 21
Ttbte 11.  Nurutlum Scheme
(a) Area and Yield
1905       19%6       1987        1988       1909        1990       1991        1992       1993        1994       1995        1996  19iw-2u9
Area (ha):
Without                   3867        3867       3867       3867        3867       3867        3867       3867        3867       3867        3867       3867        3867
With Rehabilitated         414        1438       1892        3348       3686       3776        3867       3867        3867       3867        3867       3867        3867
With UnrehabiLitated      3453        2429       1975         519        181          91          0           0          0          0           0          0           0
Cropping Intensity:
Paddy
Without 1/              0.80       1.00        1.00       1.00        0.14       0.75        1.00       1.00        0.12       1.00        1.00       1.00        1.00
with I/                 0.80        1.0        1.00        1.00       0.14       0.75        1.00       1.00        0.12       1.00        1.10       1.15        1.15
Soybean
Without                 0.20       0.26        0.17       0.00        0.12       0.19        0.00       0.00        0.03       0.10        0.10       0.10        0.10
With                    0.20       0.26        0.17       0.00        0.12       0.19        0.00       0.00        0.03       0.10        0.15       0.20        0.20
Cropped Area (ha):
Paddy
Without                 3094       3867        3867       3867         541       2900        3867       3867         464       3867       3867        3867        3867
With                    3094       3867        3867       3867         541       2900        3867       3867         464       3867       4254        4447        4447
Soybean
Without                  m         1005         657          0         464        735           0          0         116        387        387         387         387
With                     m          1005        657          0         464        735           0          0         116        387        580         m           m
Yield Ct/ha):
Paddy
Without 1/               1.9        2.1         2.1        2.1         2.1        2.1         2.1        2.1        2.1         2.1        2.1         2.1         2.1
With 1/                  1.9        3.0         3.7        2.5         3.8        3.7         2.6        3.5        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0
Soybean                    2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5
(b) Production
Paddy
Without                 5878       8121        8121       8121        1137       6091       8121        8121        974        8121       8121        8121        8121
With                    5878       9415       11148       9460        2014      10622       10054      13535        1392      11730      12761       13341       13341
Incremental                0       1294        3027       1339        877        4531       1934        5414        418        3609       4640       5220         5220
Soybean
Without                 1934       2514        1643          0        1160       1837           0          0        290         967        967         967         967
With                    1934       2514        1643           0       1160       1837           0          0        290         967       1450        1934        1934
Incremental                0          0           0          0           0          0           0          0          0           0        483        967          967
1/ Maha and Yala combined.



80
Annex 1
Page 22
Table 12. Huruluwewa Feeder Canal
(a) Area and Yield
1991        1992         1993        1994         1995        1996    1997-2009
Area (ha):
Withiout                       1500        1500         1500        1500         1500         1500         1500
Witih                         1500         1500         1500        1500         1500         1500         1500
Cropping Intensity:
Paddy
Without 1/                    1.00        1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00        1.00          1.00
Witlh 1/                     1.00         1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00        1.00          1.00
On ions
Without                      0.30         0.30        0.30         0.30         0.30        0.30         0.30
With                         0.30         0.30        0.30         0.30         0.30        0.30         0.30
Soybean
Without                      0.50         0.50        0.50         0.50         0.50        0.50         0.50
With                         0.50         0.50        0.50         0.50         0.50        0.50         0.50
Cropped Area (ha):
Paddy'
Withiout                     1500         1500        1500         1500         1500        1500         1500
With                         1500         1500        1500         1500         1500        1500         1500
Ollionls
Without                       450          450         450          450         450          450          450
With                          450          450         450          450         450          450          450
Soybean
Withiout                      750         750          750          750         750          750          750
With                          750          750         750          750         750          750          750
Yield (t/ha):
Paddy
Witlhout 1/                   3.8          3.8         3.8          3.8          3.8         3.8           3.8
With 1/                       3.8          3.8         3.8          3.8          3.8         4.0          4.2
Onliolns                       10.0        10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0         10.0
Sovbean                         2.5         2.5          2.5         2.5          2.5          2.5          2.5
(b) Production
Paddy
Without                       5700        5700         5700        5700         5700         5700         5700
With                         5700         5700         5700        5700         5700         6000         6300
Incremental                     0            0            0           0            0          300          600
Onions
Without                      4500         4500         4500        4500         4500         4500         4500
With                         4500         4500         4500        4500         4500         4500         4500
Incremental                     0            0            0           0            0            0            0
Soybean
Without                       1875        1875         1875        1875         1875         1875         1875
With                          1875        1875         1875         1875        1875         1875         1875
Incremental                     0            0            0           0            0            0            0
1 / Maha and Yala combined.



Annex 1
Page 23
Tabte 13. Kantate Scheme
(a) Area md Yield
1985      1966        1957       19e8        1969        1990       1991        1992        1993       1994        1995       1996  1997-2D09
Area (ha):
Without                     6785      6785        6785       6785        6785        6785       6785        6785        6785       6785        6785        6785       6785
With Rehabilitated           280      1130        2195        2595       4039        5001       5746        6436        6785       6785        6785        6785       6785
With UnrehabiLitated        6505      5655        4590       4190        2746        1784        1039        349           0           0          0           0          0
Cropping Intensity:
Paddy
Without Maha                        0.92        0.18       0.54        0.87
Without Yala                        0.02        0.47       0.63        0.02
Without Combined          1.35                                                     1.35       1.35        1.35        1.35       1.35        1.35       1.35        1.35
With Naha                           0.92        0.18       0.54        0.87        0.80       0.60        0.80       0.95
With YaLa                           0.02        0.47       0.63        0.02       0.76        0.76        0.55       0.76
With Combined             1.35                                                                                                   1.50        1.50       1.50        1.50
ChiLlies                                                                 0.01        0.01       0.01        0.01       0.01        0.01        0.01       0.01        0.01
Cowpeas                                                                  0.01        0.02       0.04        0.04        0.04       0.04        0.04       0.04        0.04
Cropped Area (ha):
Paddy
Without                  9160       6378       4410        7938        6039       9160        9160        9160       9160        9160       9160        9160       9160
With                     9160       6378        4410       7938        6039      10210        9217        9160      11602       10178       10178      10178       10178
Chillies                                                                   40          50         57          64          68         68          68         68          68
Cowpeas                                                                    40         100        230         257         271        271         271        271         271
Yield Ct/ha):
Paddy
Without Naha                         3.0         2.8        3.2         2.7
Without YaLa                         3.3         3.3        3.7         3.0
Without Combined          3.7                                                      3.5         3.5         3.5        3.5         3.5        3.5         3.5        3.5
With Maha                            3.0         2.8        3.2         2.7        4.0         3.3         3.8        4.5
With Yala                            3.3         3.3        3.7         3.0        2.0         4.3         4.4        4.2
With Combined              3.7                                                                                                    4.1         4.1        4.1        4.1
Chillies                                                                  1.9         1.9        1.9         2.0         2.1        2.1         2.1        2.1         2.1
Cowpeas                                                                   1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5
(b) Production
Paddy
Without                33891       19174       13943      27540       16345      32059       32059       32059      32059       32059      32059       32059       32059
With                   33891       19174       13943      27540       16345      32034       35064      36790       50664       41558      41728       41728       41728
Incremental                0           0           0          0           0        -25        3005       4730       18604        9499       9669        9669        9669
Chillies                                                                   76         94         111         129         140        140         140        140          140
Cowpeas                                                                    61         150        345         386        407         407        407         407         407



Annex I
Page 24
Table 14. Nachchaduwa Scheme (includes Nuwarawewa and Tissawewa)
(a) Area and Yield
1985        1988         1987         1988        1989         1990         1991        1992         1993         1994        1995         1996   1997-2009
Area (ha):
Without                       4030         4030         4030         4030        4030         4030         4030        4030         4030         4030        4030         4030         4030
With Rehabilltated              242         927         1813         2700        3063         3506         4030        4030         4030        4030         4030         4030         4030
With Unrahabilitated          3788         3103         2217         1330         967          524            0           0            0            0           0            0            0
Cropping Intensity:
Paddy
Without Maha                  0.99        0.99         0.72         0.99         0.20                                  0.95         1.00
Without Yale                  0.72        0.56         0.00         0.38        0.06                                   0.10        0.10
Without Conbined                                                                             1.20         1.20                                  1.20         1.20         1.20        1.20
With Maha                     0.99        0.99         0.72         0.99        0.20         1.00         0.99         0.95         1.00
With Yala                     0.72        0.56         0.00         0.38         0.06        0.59         0.26         0.10        0.10
With Combined                                                                                                                                   1.20         1.20        1.25         1.30
Chillies
Without                       0.02         0.02        0.02         0.02         0.02        0.02         0.02         0.02        0.02         0.02         0.02        0.02         0.02
With                          0.02        0.02         0.02         0.02        0.04         0.03         0.05        0.03         0.03         0.04        0.06         0.08         0.08
Soybean
Without                       0.03        0.03         0.03         0.03        0.03         0.03         0.03        0.03         0.03         0.03        0.03         0.03         0.03    t;
With                          0.03        0.03         0.03         0.03         0.06        0.05         0.07         0.05        0.05         0.06         0.09        0.12         0.12
Cropped Area (ha):
Paddy
Without                      6891         6247         2902        5521         1048         4836        4836         4232         4433        4836         4836         4836        4836
With                         6891         6247         2902        5521         1048         6203         5038        4232         4433        4836         4836         5038         5239
Chillies
Without                        81           e1           81          8l 81                     81           a1          81           81          81           81           81          81
With                           81           81           81          81          142          116          202         121          121          161         242          322         322
Soybean
Without                        121         121          121         121          121          121          121         121          121          121         121          121          121
With                           121         121          121          121         213          191          282         202          202         242          363          454         484
Yield (t/ha):
Paddy
Without Maha                   3.0          4.4         4.5
Without Yala                   3.7          5.0         0.0
Without Combined                                                     3.0          3.0         3.0          3.0          3.0         3.0          3.0          3.0         3.0          3.0
With Mahe                      3.0          4.4         4.S          3.4         4.1          4.0          4.6          4.6         4.1
With Yala                      3.7          5.0         0.0          4.4          3.8         4.1          4.5          4.2         3.9
With Combined                                                                                                                                    4.3          4.3         4.3          4.3
Chillies
Without                        1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9
With                           1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9          2.0         2.1          2.1         2.1          2.1          2.1
Soybean                         2.5         2.5          2.5          2.5          2.5         2.5          2.5         2.5          2.5          2.5         2.5          2.5          2.5



Annex 1
Page 25
Table 14. Nachchaduwa Scheme (Continued)
(b) Production
19           1966         1987         1988         1989         1990         1991         1992          1993         1994         1996         1996   1997-2009
POddy
Withou                        22706        28839        13057        16563         3143         14508        14508        12695        13299        14508        14508         14508        14508
Wkh                           22705        28839        13057        13603         3210         22605        22669        19304        18095        20795        20795        21661         22528
ffi hus awntnbl0                               0            0         -2961          67          7997         8161         6609         4796         6287         6287         7153          8020
Chil
Wkhout                          151          151          151           151          151          151          151          151          151          151          151           1S5          151
wkh                             151          161          151          161           266          217          390          242          249          332          499          665           665
hmnw,w                            0            0            0            0           115           66          239           91           98          181          348          514           514
Wkhoua                          302          302          302          302          302           302          302          302          302          302          302          302           302
WIh                             302          302          302          302          532           478          705          504          504          605          907         1209          1209
htarmuti                          0            0            0            0          230           175          403          202          202          302          60S          907           907



Annex 1
Page 26
Table 15. Rajangana Gravity Scheme
(a) Area and Yield
1985        1986        1987         1988        1989         1990        1991         1992        1993         1994        1995        1996   1997-2009
Area (ha):
Without                       5910         5910        5910         5910        5910        5910         5910        5910         5910        5910         5910        5910         5910
WIth Rehabilitated             639         1563        2838         4407        5562        5712         5910        5910         5910        5910         5910        5910         5910
With UnrehabHitated           5271         4347        3074         1503         348          198           0           0            0           0            0           0            0
Cropping Intensity:
Paddy
Without Maha                 0.84         0.84        0.85         0.96        0.96         0.86        0.98         0.92
Wihozut Yale                 0.72         0.70        0.65         0.67        0.00         0.84        0.87         0.60
Wrthout CombIrned                                                                                                                1.63         1.63        1.63         1.63        1.63
With Meta                    0.84         0.84        0.85         0.96        0.96         0.86        0.98         0.92        0.93
With Yae                     0.72         0.70        0.65         0.67        0.00         0.84        0.87         0.60        0.95
With Combined                                                                                                                                 1.68        1.68        1.68         1.68
Chililes
Without                      0.04         0.04        0.04         0.04        0.04         0.04        0.04         0.04        0.04         0.04        0.04        0.04         0.04
ith                          0.04         0.04        0.04         0.04        0.04         0.05        0.05         0.05        0.05         0.05        0.05        0.05         0.05
Cowpeas                       0.06         0.06        0.06         0.06        0.06         0.06        0.06         0.06        0.06         0.06        0.06        0.06         0.06
Cropped Area (ha):
Paddy
Without                      9220        9101         8866        9633         5674       10047        10934        8983         9633        9633        9633         9633        9633
Wth                          9220        9101         8865        9633         5674        9710        10934        8983        11111        9899        9899         9899        9899
ChiHlies
Without                       236         236          236         236          236         236          236         236          236         236         236          236         236
With                          236         236          236         236          236         294          296         296          296         296         296          296         296
Cowpes
Without                       356         355          355         355          355         355          358         355          385         355         355          355         355
With                          355         355          355         355          355         355          355         355          355         355         355          355         355
Yied (tiha:
Paddy
Without Mat                   4.9          4.7         4.6
Without Yal                    2.9         3.1         2.3
WIthout Combined                                                    3.5         3.5          3.5         3.5          3.5         3.8         3.5          3.5         3.5          3.5
wi,th Mh                       4.9         4.7         4.6          4.0         5.1          4.1         4.5          5.2         4.3
With Yale                      2.9         3.1         2.3          3.4         0.0          2.9         3.0          4.3         4.4
With Combined                                                                                                                                 4.3          4.3         4.3          4.3
ChiHes
witout                         1.9         1.9          1.9         1.9         1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9         1.9         1.9          1.9
With                           1.9         1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9         1.9                      2.0         2.1          2.1         2.1         2.1          2.1
Cowpeaa                         1.5         1.5         1.5          1.5         1.5          1.5         1.5          1.5         1.5         1.5          1.5         1.5          1.5



Annex I
Page 27
Table 15. Rajangana Gravity Scheme (Continued)
(b) Production
1985       1986       1987        1988       1989       1990        1991       1992       1993        1994       1995        1996  1997-2009
Paddy
Without                  36666      36157      31944       33717      19858      35165       38267      31441       33717      33717      33717       33717      33717
With                     36666      36157      31944       35537      28401      35233       41488      43521       48338      42402      42567       42567      42567
Incremental                  a          0           0       1820       8543          69       3221       12080      14621       8685        8850       8850       8850
Chillies
Without                    443        443         443        443        443         443        443        43          443        443        443         443        443
With                       443        443        443         443        443         550        573        591         609        609        609         609        609
ncgmental                    0          0           0          0          0         107        129        148         166        166         166        166        166
Cowpess
Without                    532        532         532        532        532         532        832        532         532        532        532         532        532
With                       532        532         532        532        532         532        532        532         532        532        532         532        532
Incrnemntal                  0          0          0           0          0          0           0          0           0          0          0           0          0



86
Annex 1
Page 28
Table 16. Rajangana Lift Irrigation Scheme
(a) Area and Yield
1993              1994               1995               1996           1997-2009
Area (ha):
Without                         1725              1725               1725               1725                1725
With                            1725              1725               1725               1725                1725
Cropping Intensity:
Mungbean
Without                       0.30               0.30               0.30               0.30                0.30
With                          0.40               0.45               0.50               0.50                0.50
Eggplant
Without                       0.30               0.30               0.30               0.30                0.30
With                          0.40               0.45               0.50               0.50                0.50
Cropped Area (ha):
Mungbean
Without                        518                518                518                518                518
With                           690                776                863                863                 863
Eggplant
Without                        518                518                518                518                 518
With                           690                776                863                863                 863
Yield (t/ha):
Mungbean
Without                         1.5                1.5               1.5                1.5                 1.5
With                            1.5                1.5               1.5                1.5                 1.5
Eggplant
Without                       25.0               25.0               25.0               25.0                25.0
With                          25.6               26.3               26.9               26.9                26.9
(b) Production
Mungbean
Without                         776                776                776                776                 776
With                            1035               1164               1294              1294                1294
Incremental                      259               388                518                518                 518
Eggplant
Without                        12938              12938             12938              12938               12938
With                           17664             20377              23184              23184               23184
Incremental                    4727               7439              10247              10247               10247



87
Annex 1
Page 29
Table 17. Economic Price of Paddy (Import Parity)
Year        Rice 1/      Rice     Quality Adi.  Freight &    c.i.f.   Colombo   PotSTranap.  Farngate  Fwmngadt
Const. 1990  Const. 1993   x 0.75 2/   Insurance           3/     Processing 41   Rice    Paddy 5/
..................... US$1ton .................. .............. Rslton .
1985         315         337         253         30       283      13659        -50       13609    9254
1986         260         278         209         30       239      11522        -50       11473    7801
1987         258         277         207         30       237      11466        -50       11416    7763
1988         316         338         254         30       284      13697        -50       13648    9281
1989         338         362         271         30       301      14550        -50       14501     9860
1990         287         307         230         30       260      12573        -50       12524    8516
1991         308         330         247         30       277      13387        -50       13338    9070
1992         270         289         217         30       247      11914        -50       11865    8068
1993         238         255         191         30       221      10674        -50       10625     7225
1994         248         265         199         30       229      11062        -50       11012    7488
1995         244         261         196         30       226      10907        -50       10857    7383
2000         255         273         205         30       235      11333        -50       11283    7673
2005 and     251         269         201         30       231      11178        -50       11128    7567
later
I/ World Bank, International Economics Department, International Trade Division, November 2, 1993.
2/ Quality adjustment based on comparison of average c.i.f. Colombo and world prices.
3/ Converted to Sri Lankan Rupees at the rate of US$1 = Rs 48.3.
4/ Includes port handling (Rs 900) and transport from port to Colombo (Rs 95) less costs of
processing (Rs 600) and transport from farmgate to Colombo (Rs 2.50/ton/km x 180 km), all
adjusted by the SCF of 0.9.
5/ Conversion factor paddy to rice: 1 : 0.68.



88
Annex 1
Page 30
Table 18. Economic Price of Urea
Year          Urea          Urea       Freight &      c.i.f.       c.i.f.     Port/Transp.  Farmgate    Price of
Const. 1990  Const. 1993   Insurance    Colombo    Colombo          Marketing       Price      Nutrient
1/                         2/                        3/            4/                        5/
------------ - ------------US$/ton ----- --Rs/ton------------------                             Rs/kg
1985           199          213           37           250         12086         1945         14031         30.5
1986          131           141           35           176         8487          1848         10335        22.5
1987          131           141           35           176         8487          1848          10335        22.5
1988          163           174           36           211         10169         1894         12063        26.2
1989           140          150           35           185         8945          1861         10805         23.5
1990           157          168           36           204         9850          1885         11735         25.5
1991           168          180           36           216         10435         1901          12336        26.8
1992           132          141           35           176          8519         1849          10368        22.5
1993           97           104           34           138         6656          1799          8455         18.4
1994          115           123           35           158         7614          1825          9439        20.5
1995          123           132           35           166         8040          1836          9876        21.5
2000           144           154          36           190          9158          1866         11024        24.0
2005 and       140           150          35           185          8945          1861         10805        23.5
later
1/ World Bank, International Economics Department, International Trade Division, November 2, 1993.
2/ Freight charge - US$30; insurance charge - 3% of C&F.
3/ Converted to Sri Lankan Rupees at the rate of US$I = Rs 48.3.
4/ Includes stevedore charges (Rs 236), sampling and landing charges (Rs 38), storage (3% of c.i.f.), overheads and
dealers' margins (Rs 1,525), all adjusted by the SCF of 0.9.
5/ Based on nitrogen (N) content of 46%.



89
Annex 1
Page 31
Table 19. Economic Price of Triple Superphosphate
Year         TSP         TSP       Freight &      c.i.f.     c.i.f.    Port/Transp.  Farmgate     Price of
Const. 1990 Const. 1993  Insurance   Colombo   Colombo    Marketing         Price       Nutrient
1/                      2/                     3/           4/                        5/
----------------------------US$/ton------------------------------ -----------------------Rs/ton-----------------------  Rs/kg
1985         177         189          42          231       11163         1852        13015         28.3
1986         149         159          41          200        9668         1812        11480         25.0
1987         155         166          41          207        9979         1820        11799         25.6
1988         166         178          41          219       10578         1836        12414         27.0
1989         152         163          41          204        9832         1816        11649         25.3
1990         132         141          40          182        8768         1787        10555        22.9
1991         130         139          40          179        8661         1785        10446         22.7
1992         113         121          40          161        7756         1760         9516         20.7
1993         103         110          39          150        7224         1746         8970         19.5
1994         110         118          40          157        7597         1756         9352         20.3
1995         116         124          40          164        7916         1764         9680         21.0
2000         125          134         40          174        8395         1777        10173         22.1
2005 and     121          129         40          169        8182         1772         9954         21.6
later
I / World Bank, International Economics Department, International Trade Division, November 2, 1993.
2/ Freight charge - US$35; insurance charge - 3% of C&F.
3/ Converted to Sri Lankan Rupees at the rate of US$1 = Rs 48.3.
4/ Includes stevedore charges (Rs 160), sampling and landing charges (Rs 38),
storage (3% of c.i.f.), overheads and dealers' margins (Rs 1,525),
all adjusted by the SCF of 0.9.
5/ Based on phosphate (P) content of 46%.



90
Annex 1
Page 32
Table 20. Economic Price of Muriate of Potash
Year           MOP          MOP        Freight &      c.i.f.      c.i.f.    Port/Trsnsp.  Farmgate   Price of
Const. 1990 Const. 1993   Insurance    Colombo    Colombo        Marketing       Price     Nutrient
1/                       2/                       3/            4/                       5/
------------------------------US$/ton ---------------Rs/ton----------------    Rs/kg
1985           122          131           40          171         8235          1773         10009       16.7
1986            85           91           39          129         6249          1719         7968        13.3
1987            77           83           39          121         5860          1709         7569        12.6
1988            92           98           39          137         6639          1730         8368        14.0
1989           104          111           39          151         7277          1747         9024        15.0
1990            98          105           39          144         6958          1739         8696        14.5
1991           107          114           39          154         7437          1751         9188        15.3
1992           105          112           39          152         7331          1749         9079        15.1
1993           101          108           39          147         7118          1743         8860        14.8
1994           105          112           39          152         7331          1749         9079        15.1
1995           104          111           39          151        7277           1747         9024        15.0
2000            107         114           39          154         7437          1751          9188       15.3
2005 and        103         110           39          150         7224          1746          8970       15.0
later
I / World Bank, International Economics Department, International Trade Division, November 2, 1993.
2/ Freight charge - US$35; insurance charge - 3% of C&F.
3/ Converted to Sri Lankan Rupees at the rate of US$I = Rs 48.3.
4/ Includes stevedore charges (Rs 160), sampling and landing charges (Rs 38),
storage (3% of c.i.f.), overheads and dealers' margins (Rs 1,525), all
adjusted by the SCF of 0.9.
5/ Based on potash (K) content of 60%.



TabI. 2l. MItP Ecoovioc R-Evab.iion (Bs '000)
1985     1986      I987     19W8       198      1990      1991       I992      1993      1994      1995      1996     I997      1991      1999    2000      2001     2002     2003    2004  2005-9
BENEFITS
1wr. As. Bendrits
Hundluw...                 0    100D95    23491     12421      8650    38606      17537     43689      3020    27033       42947    56231   56534    56837    57140   57442   57338   57234   57129   57025   56920
Huruluw.w. Fcodcr          0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0        0          0      2231    4498       4532      4567    4602    4590    4578    4566         4554    4542
KiCwsk                     0        0          0        0       1091     2487    33462      45126    141838      71475     78612     79243   79804    10365    80925   11416   11293   81099    80906   80713   10519
Nadcbcduw,                  0       0         0   -27475      13911     76549   100415    64217    46158         67037    15065    110633   117543   218008    118473   111939  1218778  121611   111457  118297  111137
RsPpawuGravity             0        0         0      16190    14236      9152    39557    109306    119010    71350        71612    79125    79639      80152    8065    11179   11002   80825   80648   10471   80294
Ra*p.nw  Liaft              0       0          0        0         0         0         0          0    38261    59136       82076    82076   82076    12076    82076   82076   82076    82076   12076   12076   82076
Sub II                     0    100D95    23491      1143   107958   126794   190970   262338   34126   310731   367401   409540  420093   421970   423847  425723  425076  424429  423712  423135  422417
RadndW Valum
Huxuiuw.w.f                0        0         0         0         0       1130      371          0      3100         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
HuWu6DwSmFeed=              0       0          0        0         0         0         0          0       165         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
KAWAIs                     0        0         0         0         0         0         0          0       776         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Naoduwv                    0        0         0         0         0       817         0        63       2093         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
R.apap                      0        0         0         0        0          0         0       322      1559         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
SLub cotl                  0        0         0         0         0      1947       371       316      7694         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Tasal 1wc. soits            0    10095    23491       1843   107958   128741    191341    262724   355910   310731    367401   409540  42093   421970   423847  425723  425076  424429  42375   423135  422417
corn
Im. Prod. cost
Huniuwmf                   0      1233      1932        0       270       1449      1067      3877       523      4519     15737    23055    23145      23231    23321   23412   23390   23368   23345   23318   23294
1luYiduwF.odw,              0        0         0        0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0       773     1154      1727      1742     1757     1754     1751     1748     1744     1741
Kaah                        0        0         0         0      513     22512       7053     10744    63001      34190    35204    35375   35545    3570          35876   36047   36008   35969    35930   351312   35841
Nathdduw.                   0        0         0      919      5628    33396       18231      8158      9728     13796     21313    32967   37255       37359    37469   37580   37553   37526   37499    37465    37437                      "
RapapinGraviy               0        0         0         0         0    -3177       7051     11326    4480       20114     21059    21133    21307    21425    21548   21673   21646   21619    21592   21559   21531
Ra*nm ift                   0        0         0         0        0          0         0         0     16151    25360    34677    34759    34839        34916    34996    3507    35054   35030   3500         34973    34947
Sub teal                   0     123       I932       919      64117    54250    35451      34105    134211     99379    127990    148112  153245    154365    154953   155546   155404  I155263  155117  154941   154791
hy  a  COdLS
Huraulu f               13330   63799    31093    27175    27662        22312    22137       23864      3746         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
H1unduwmaF.sdw             0        0          0        0         0         0       1000     4324       4714      2280         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Kuadsj                  10264  24230      4503       21690    25930    23735    27393        23021     10646         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Naedmb~du              2M3855210          34553     35656    i3n6        15517    33564      14105      5093         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Raopapa                 14314   38332    33499    44362    34258    27905    26972           1820      11546     17100         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Sub todI               66791  181561    144182   123193   106714    94469    116066         14719    35745      19380         0         0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
hm. O&M Cads
Hunduwma   ~         0        0         0         0        0          0       696       696       696       696       696       696      696       696       696      696      696      696      696      696      696
JlwvdumFmdi                 0        0         0         0        0          0         0         0         0       270       270       270      270       270       270      270      270      270      270      270      270
rantab              ~~0       0         0         0         0         0         0      1221      1221      1221      1221      1221     1221      1221      1221     1221     1221     1221     1221     1221     1221
Nachhduwa                   0        0         0         0        0          0       725       725       725       725       725       725      725       725       725      725      725      725      725      725      725
Rs*W-S                      0        0         0         0         0         0      1064      1064      1064      1064      1064      1064    1064       1064      1064    1064    1064       1064    1064    1064       1064
Sub todi                   0        0         0         0         0         0      2485      3707      3707      3977      3977      3977    3977       3977      3977    3977    3977    3977    3977    3977    3977
I=.DMDcosts                0         0         0         0        0          0         0         0       750      1500      1500      1500     150D      1500      1500     1500    1500      1500     150D    1500      1500f
TdaMI w. cows          66791   1812143    146114   12910      1132D1    141720   152002   122530    174413   124236    133466    153583   158722   159641    160430  161023  160881   160739  160593  160418  16027
Nat Dmiiaz            -66791 -172754  -122623  -127959    -5244   -17997          39339    140194    181567    186495   233935   255952  261371    262129   263417  264701  264195  263690  2631 3   262717  262220
ERR -        19%






93
Annex 2
Page 1
Table 1. Performance of Machinery and Equipment Procured
Under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
Make and Model of Machinery and             No. of Hours Worked                 Working             Location
Equipment                                    up to June 30, 1993                Condition
Crawler Tractor D53A Komatsu                         7,760                        Good              (Rajangana)
Huruluwewa
Crawler Tractor D53A-17 Komatsu                     10,950                        Good              Kantale
6,710                       Good               Inginirnitiya
(Anuradhapura)
8,380                       Good               (Huruluwewa)
Anuradhapura
7,250                       Good               Anuradhapura
(Huruluwewa)
6,120                       Good               Anuradhapura
13,550                       Good               Anuradhapura
(Kantale)
Massey Ferguson M/F-240                              8,340                        Good              Rajangana
8,460                       Good               Huruluwewa
2,010                       Good               Huruluwewa
7,255                       Good               Huru]uwewa
11,210                       Good               Anuradhapura
4,010                        Good              Kantale
6,210                       Good               Kantale
8,340                       Good               Kantale
7,515                       Good               Kantale
7,360                        Good              Kantale
8,210                        Good              Kantale
4,950                        Good              Rajangana
7,560                        Good              Anuradhapura
4,435                        Good              Monaragala
(Rajangana)
6,720                        Good              Anuradhapura
5,910                       Good               Anuradhapura
6,505                       Good               (Rajangana)
Dambulla
6,750                        Good              Anuradhapura
6,390                       Good               Anuradhapura
5,710                        Good              Huruluwewa
6,880                       Good               Huruluwewa
5,230                       Good               Huruluwewa
6,765                       Good               Inginimitiya
(Rajangana)
6,590                        Good              Inginimitiya
(Rajangana)
6,005                       Good               Anuradhapura
7,010                       Good               Anuradhapura



94
Annex 2
Page 2
Table 2. Performance of Machinery and Equipment Procured With CIDA Financing
Make and Model of Machine and                  No. of Hours    No. of Hours          Present         Location
Equipment                                     Worked up to   Worked When            Condition
June 30, 1993       Transferred
'Mack' Low Bed Trailer                                53,862                  -        Good        Rambewa
Front End Loader - CAT 936                              9,500             6,900        Good        (Huruluwewa)
Monaragala
6,966             3,174       Under        (Anuradhapura)
repair      Anuradhapura
11,500            10,182        Good        (Anuradhapura)
Ampara
15,700                 -        Good        Rajangana
7,800                 -        Good        Huruluwewa
5,380                 -        Good        Huruluwewa
13,100                 -       Good         Kantale
11,090                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
7,750                 -        Good        Kantale
9,210             7,780        Good        (Rajangana)
Inginimitiya
'Link Belt' Crawler Excavator                        Bumtby                   -          -         (Rajangana)
terrorists                                    Rambewa
13,540                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
12,350                 -        Good        Kantale
8,820                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
7,720             1,964        Good        (Huruluwewa)
Anuradhapura
19,900            18,988       Good         (Kantale)
Mutur
3,200                 -        Good        Huruluwewa
'Champion' Motor Grader 710 A                           4,230                 -        Good        Rajangana
Bumt by                  -       Under        Rambewa
terrorists                       repair       (Huruluwewa)
5,625                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
Massey Ferguson MF 250                                  6,140                 -        Good        Huruluwewa
9,600                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
9,510                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
6,850                 -        Good        Rajangana
8,010                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
6,460                 -        Good        Dambulla
12,150                 -       U./S.        (Kantale)
Rambewa
8,950                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
10,510                 -        Good        Anuradhapura
4,600                 -        Good        Huruluwewa
11,240                 -        Good        Kantale



95
Annex 2
Page 3
Table 2. Performance of Machinery and Equipment Procured With CIDA Financing
Make and Model of Machine and               No. of Hours    No. of Hours         Present        Location
Equipment                                   Worked up to   Worked When          Condition
June 30, 1993      Transferred
Massey Ferguson MF 250                               6,300                -       Good        Dambulla
(Rajangana)
8,310                -       Good        Kantale
11,610           10,266       Good        Inginimitiya
(Rajangana)
10,820            9,632       Good        Ampara
(Anuradhapura)
8,450                -       Good        Anuradhapura
6,615                -       Good        Rajangana
6,920                -       Good        Rajangana
Burnt by                -       U./S.       Huruluwewa
terrorists
7,360                -       Good        Huruluwewa
Met with                -       U./S.       Kantale
accident
9,050            7,940       Good        (Anuradhapura)
Hirlyala
6,380                -       Good        Huruluwewa
8,310            6,690       Good        (Rajangana)
Monaragala
9,820                -       Good        Anuradhapura
10,620                -       Good        Dambulla
Table 3. Equipment Assigned for Post-Project O&M of Project Schemes
EE "            IE Huruluwewa    IE Rajanganaya               IE Kantale
Anuradhapura
(Nachchaduwa)
Crawler excavator                     2                     1                     -                      I
Crawler tractor                       3                     2                     1                     1
Motor grader                          -                     I                     I                     -
Farm  tractor                        15                    11                     5                     8
Front-end loader                      1                     2                     1                     2
Irrigation Engineer.






Table 1. Operation and Maintenance Fund Availability (Historic Data)
Year            Total                       OIW Allocatiors for Gravity Schemes                      OlM Allocation                  C&M Cost Per Acre
Gravity                                   (Rs Million)                                   Per Acre                            (Rs)
Area                                                              Total               (Gravity)                 With                 Without
(acres)                 IND                     ID               Allocation                (Rs)            Administration &       Administration &
Allocation            Allocation            (ID + IMD)                                 Depreciation of        Depreciation of
Vehicles              Vehicles
1982          624,697                   -                    57.8                   57.8                    93                    200                   176
1983          629,389                   -                    68.0                  68.0                    108
1984          631,726                   -                    65.0                   65.0                   103
1985          631,726                  55.0                  18.0                   73.0                   115
1986          631,726                 43.5                   19.5                   63.0                   100
1987          633,076                  59.0                  20.8                   79.8                   126
1988          652,995                 49.5                   21.0                   70.5                   108
1989          662,735                  57.5                  22.0                   79.5                   119                    405                   290
1990          557,930                 46.5                   23.1                   69.6                   124
(62.0) +
1991          450,000                  34.5                  21.5                   56.0                   124                                                            9D
1992          450,000                 51.0                   25.4                   76.4                   169
1993          561,960                 61.7                   41.0                  102.7                   184                    630                   488
Table 2. Breakdown of O&M Cost Per Acre (Gravity Irrigation Schemes)
Sib- Item                                                    1993 Cost (Rs)                             1994 Cost (Rs)                           Allotted To
Labor                                                            321.81                                     321.81                                   IMD
Supervision                                                       17.45                                      17.45                                    ID
Drivers and Operators                                             36.77                                      36.77                                     ID
Travelling and Combined Allowances                                 3.41                                       3.41                                    ID
Fuel and Repairs to Vehicles                                      20.15                                      20.15                                    ID
Purchase of Materials and Tools                                   64.40                                      70.45                                   IMD
Physical Contingencies                                            23.20                                      23.50                                   IND
Administration and Overheads                                      97.45                                      97.45                                    ID
Depreciation of Vehicles and Equipment                            44.99                                      44.99                                    ID
TOTAL (rounded)                                                  630.00                                     636.00                                                         I'd



I-



Eidg. Depurtement fOr auswartigs Angel.genheiten  Annex 4
D6ErDtemcnt Md6ral doe ffairs btrang,w           Page 1
Dipartimento federalb dggli affari eatet
Bitdieses Zeichen in der Antwort wiedorholen
Priira de rapeolor ce. r6f6mnce done Ia r6ponse
Pregosi rommamere queso riferimento nella risposte
t.311 Sri Lanka 12 - HZ
The World Bank
Attn. Mr. Peter Streng
Senior Economist
Sachboorbiter                            Agric. Operations Division
CoNlaboreteor W. Hunziker                Country Department II
Cofabomarse                              South Asia Region
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA
Tel.031/p 25 91 24
Berne, 31 October 1994
Re: Sri Lanka, Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (MIRP)
Cr. 1537-CE - Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Streng,
We acknowledge receipt of the above cited Project Completion
Report (PCR), received with covering letter dated August 16th.
we gain the impression that the evaluation has been carried out
in a comprehensive and objective manner and has addressed the
most critical issues.
The PCR paints a generally positive picture, especially in its
"Evaluation Surmary". Maybe this part is a shade too positive
and could be somewhat misleading for readers who tend to read
sunmiary parts of reports only. On the other hand, the paragraph
"lessons learnt" presented in the summary is accurate and
provides useful recommendations for future work in this sector.
We agree, in general, to most of the conclusions presented in
the PCR. Nevertheless, we would like to seize the opportunity
to comment briefly on four aspects.
- An aspect which, in our view, has been presented in too
positive a light in the PCR is the one dealing with quality
of construction (para 5.10). We cannot agree with the summary
statement "The quality of construction is good, in general."
It is not good enough, in general. And further deterioration
can be expected within a relatively short timespan. We would
recommend that this aspect be re-examined in one or two years
time. Our consultant Mr. Franz Moos has provided us with an
number of photos that illustrate some of the more frequently
DEH   Direittlo  ifr Entwicklungazuesmmenarbeit und humanitere Hillt  CH-3003 Bern
DDA   Diretion deola coop4ralton au d0v6loppement Stdo l'ide humanitaire  ([L
OSA    Direzione dolla cooperazione allo sviluppo e dell'siuto umanitarlo  Telegr. Atetra Bern
SDC   Swi" Development Cooperation                     Telex 911340EDACH
CSD  Cooperad6n Sutan el desarollo       N.Lv         Teleftx 0311/61 35 0O



Eidg. Departement fur auswimrtige Angelegenheiten  Annex 4
Departement f6d6ral des affaires btrang6res
Dipartimento federdle degli affari esteri          Page2
100
observed damages. We enclose these photos together with an
excerpt of his January 1994 mission report.
- The statement (Annex 1, para 3) "The models indicate clearly
the farmer's ability to make a significant contribution to
the cost of irrigation and still increase net income and
return to family labor." is basically true but to a large
extent of "theoretical" value only, namely for those farmers
that possess small amounts of land, and for whom the
increased profit is hardly sufficient to better satisfy some
of the very basic needs.
- We are somewhat puzzled to see that there is such an
insignificant difference of net farm income between without
and with project for the Rajangana lift irrigation (Model 3,
Table page 2, Annex 1). The fact is that in a wide area of
the lift irrigation scheme, in a without project situation
nothing could be produced at all during the dry season!
- ERRs presented on page 6 Annex 1 look favorable but the
question is: what are the additional costs necessary to
maintain yield levels, given the relatively low standard of
O&M and construction quality encountered in some parts of the
project area? In addition, a lot will depend on the ability to
significantly improve marketing facilities for OFC to increase
incomes and mobilize resources for proper O&M.
We would like to seize this opportunity to express our
sincerest thanks to you and all the other Bank staff that have
contributed to the successful implementation of this project.
Yours sincerely
W. Hunziker
Asia I Section
encl
DEH  Direktion fur Entwicklungazusammenarbeit und humanitire Hilfr  CH-3003 Barn
DDA  Diretion de la cooperation au developpement et de a'aide humanitaire
DSA  Direzione della coperazione allo sviluppo e dell'aiuto umanitario  Telegr.Affetra Bern
DCA  Directorate of Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid  Telex 33151 EDA CH
COSUDE  Direcci6n de la cooperaci6n al desarrollo y de Is ayuda humanitaria



Annex4
_ X griSwiss                    101                             Page 3
Si XI ziM=c   /  2I4NtX
SmC:Z4   clo }:> c-at* d4cPxm orus    o> x-corst - c X4- tio- xx
Q"e  L-t-W *'  ( _L rs    JaLxx a     199m >cWX~ 3
LB-1, DI: A channel bridge (pipe crossing) over a drainage
depression washed off by the december flood. It has been
newly made by MIRP some time ago. Obviously, the foundation
and the masonry work of the supporting pillars was too weak.
LB-3, DI: A break of the channel bund has been repaired.
Because it was not lined, farmers can do such repair more
easily. Just next by, the lined FC has broken some time ago
and has not been repaired. It is no more used. Farmers help
themselves by taking water directly from D-channel: Another
useless investment under MIRP.
A construction site: DCO members building a new sidewall of
the D-channel, partly broken during the flood. Quality of
design (standard ID), of exection and supervision questiona-
ble. Training of masons etc. is still a great need! And the
professional technical advice by ID, which is partly finding
this new wall, is lacking.
LLD 6, FC 7: Field-day: Organized by the DCO secretary and
the FR. 8 of 9 farmers attend. They are doing routine clea-
ning. In addition they replace a broken turnout to a branch-
FC, now, during operation only provisionally. They are plan-
ning to construct a new definitive turnout after harvest,
with DCO fund (now Rs 60'000).
HLD 4, FC 3: serious flood damages: turnouts washed off due
to earlier damages (bund cutting etc.) and no maintenance!
The lesson is clear.
HLD 26, FC 4: The concrete sidewall done twice under MIRP
seems to be solid now, at least it was keeping since 1992.
However, the middle wall between the twin channels (DC+FC)
has fallen aside on a stretch of about 15 meters: it did
probably not stand the pressure of the fully flowing DC
while the FC was closed. Is this a failure of design, con-
struction or operation? ID promised to pay the repair costs
to the DCO (estimate RS 10'000). Field-days in this DCO were
planned for this week, but postponed for next week because
farmers were engaged in replanting damaged paddy fields.
RB-2 (pilot area): The costly avio-gate is no more working,
it is blocked in fully open position. Obviously too much
water is flowing in.
FC22: The broken drops have been repaired in the last period
of rehabilitation. But the tail fields have still not enough
water, even now when too much water is flowing in at the
channel head!
FC19 + 20: broken "concrete" channel structures. Water can
again not flow to the tail farms of FC 19 (as already in
1988!). Here it becomes clear that the farmers in many cases
have got a Trojan Horse with handing over the channels
(without previous joint inspection).






1<   /                              SRI LANKA
K          I   L I N 0 CH C H I'                             MAJOR  IRRIGATION
Kdnochch,                                   REHABILITATION PROJECT
- -                        ,,-s   --: -              Location  of Subprojects
M  U  L  L  A  I r  r Iv  u
\x                                                               0 j0            20     30      b0
r       \.                                       0     5    IC  IS    20    25
/                                            N \ W   _  _   ,   ,               M l L r s
I   _        ~V A  V  U  N  I Y A,
\                  'N. 1'  R                                                N N COMALEE
,J    1    Sz Xjf   y                                    .'          ,       ;       \ '~~~~5   1'
A  NU              R A       A  P  U  R  A
-1- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~/
N.           j                  .  f,       do          /      /1             ', ' '    /f  ' y' '
X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                P 0 0     N--                   , A  )WA j
CW:WL r.W_ RWrY K U R U( NJ E G A L A                       8    )    '9' eo/<"''                             / ^-
-/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
_J                            AnJ  Z   7k1roY 9     hop_      \        < o      { o o
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Tb.Xen wo &n. ,i.i .L.h.n  ,_ Gogo                                                                                  8  0_, Jbuu1 10 lYEF
SRI LANKA                 ELEVATION IN FEET        \|5             E        -Le R  `-                  PROPOSED
_ 7~~\      Ower 5000         Y>P   - / <,RELAI1E~~~~'RSI  WHL2t   zZzs REHABILITATION
SUBP 5000                 If i\'     |                                SURPROJECtS
9- > wZ, 9-300 - 500- |'- --- RIVERS
AREA OF MAP                    JPOWER HOUSE
;'.r       fmolOIe  .    r--X                (i         *   ~~~~~~~iNTAKES
'..-.4.    .}                                                 :     I                                   DAMAS
eo '-a   i .   RA            8e   <           1Jt  ~~~~~~~~~~                  ~~K A N D Y  4t =_=TUNJNELS
i * 11 .. ' 9_ < ' X\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATED AREAS
..DVSO MlKondy              V~ y, 0    TOWNS
..__ .,i ,.  MAIN ROADS
n.. (->.- |RAILROADS
CQDIOMEO  , .   1   7  > \   g j   )  \   g f, ---  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
C( LOMB 6                                                                          '
60  .2                                N /                N .J W i R A
6                          6 o                  \      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E L I Y A   \c  J
.  0 ,1                            52                                                       .                                  _.N -









INAG TNNG
Report Nc:        14742.
Type: PC R



