Ile Wodd Bank
FOlt OFMCL USE ONLY
C .   3S-3p- C'
*                                       ~qust Ne. P-3903-CE
REPORT AND RECO      ON
OF TEE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELCPT ASSOCIATION
TO TrEE
EXECUTIME DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 17.0 ETILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 29, 1984
Thi d~ua bamha a restdct  disb&ludlm and may be mud by reciiuufs only in the peufsmauc of
ther aEiad d.t  ft comats may " edhrwise be di_osed witou Wed Bumk atodwadm



CURRENCm   EVALENTS
US$1.90     =   SL Rs 25.20
SL .e 1.00      US$0.0397
UNITS AlNl EOUIVALUTS
1 hectare (ha)               =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (Mt)               1.0161 long tons (1 ton)
A3BREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
DA      -   Department of Agriculture   -
DAC     -   District Agricultural Committee
DAS     -   Department of Agrarian Services
ID      -   Irrigation Department
3111    -   International Irrigation Management Institute
DlM     -   Division of Irrigation Management
INMAS   -   Program for Integrated Management of Major Irrigation Systems
LCD     -   Iand Commissioner-s Department
NCR     -   Million Cubic Meters
MLDT    -   Ministry of Lands and Land Development
PSA     -   Project Special Account
SDC     -   Swiss Development Cooperation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
SRI LAA
NAJOR IRRIGATION RERABUIIT&TION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:           The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:             SDR 17.0 million (US$17.0 nillion equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project             The proposed project seeks to increase agricultural
Description:       production on land commanded by seven selected major
irrigation systems by (a) rehabilitating seven
existing irrigation systems serving a total area of
about 46,000 hectares; (b) introducing an inte-
grated management program to ensure proper operation
and maintenance of the systems and distributien of
irrigation supplies; Cc) strengthening support services
provided by various government agencies; and (d) making
provision for monitoring and evaluation of project
execution and performance. The major project benefits
would be higher crop production, improved Vate; dis-
tribution, and better water management. The project
would promote an incremental production of 73,800 tons
of paddy; 6,200 tons of soya; and generate about 3,000
new jobs during the execution period. The project has
no technical risk, but faces a general risk from
possible failure to implement the proposed water
management improvements.
|is document has a resrted distibuton and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of |
thcir official dus. Its contents may not otherwise be disdowed without World Bank authorizaton.



-ii-
(US$ Million Eanivalent)
Estimated Cost: {aLocal                                     Forejn       Total
Civil. Works                 19.0        11.2       30.2
Equipment and Vehicles         1.8        6.6        8.4
Technical Assistance and
Training                      1.3        0.4        1.7
Administration                2.9         0.0        2.9
Total                    25.0        18.2       43.2
Finaucina Plan:                                    (US$ Million Equivalent)
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA                           7.2         9.8       17.0
Government                   1'.8         0.0       11.8
CIDA                          1.6         5.2        6.8
SDC                           4.4         3.2        7.6
Total                    25.0        18.2       43.2
Estimated
Disbursements:
(USS Million Equivalent)
IDA FY     1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual      0.4    2.4    4.2    3.2    2.6    2.2    2.0
Cumulative  0.4    2.8    7.0   10.2   12.8   15.0   17.0
Rate of Return:      16 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 5231-CE, dated November 6, 1984
___S_                IBRD No. 18021, 18022
/a Includes taxes and duties of about US$2.6 million equivalent.



INTERNtAIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMEUDAXIOR OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDITr
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A MAJOR IRRIGATION RFRA3ILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and reconmendation for a proposed
credit of SDR 17.0 million (US$17.0 million equivalent) to the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Tanka to help finance a Major Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project on standard IDA. terms. Cofinancing arrangements bave
been made with the Canadian International Development Agency (CMnA) for a
grant equivalent to US$6.8 million and with the Swiss Development Cooperation
(SDC) for a grant equivalent to US$7.6 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A country economiz memorandum, "Sri Lanka: Recent Economic
Developments, Prospects and Policies" (Report No. 5038-CE dated May 4, 1984),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1984.  Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy has
experienced sustained growth. This growth has been the direct result of the
economic liberalization of 1977 and a significant growth in foreign
as:istance. Until 1977, Sri Lanka-s growth performance had been below both
need and potential. Although the 4.4Z annual GDP growth in the 1960s was
above the average for low-income countries, it slackened sharply in the
1970-77 period to 2.9Z per annum, just below the average for low-income
countries. Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated
steadily, eroding even these modest gains. The slowdown in econom.c growth
in the 1970-77 period was attributable to a combination of factors, including
inadequate investment, poor management of the economy, and a policy environ-
ment not conducive to growth and investment; these difficulties were con-
pounded by poor weather in some years and a sharp rise in the cost of
imported food and petroleum.
1/ This part is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
on the Nahaveli Ganga Development Project IV for Sri Lanka (Report No.
P-3821-CE), that was approved by the Executive Directors on June 7, 1984.



-2-
4.      In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
By virtually all social indicators-life expectancy, literacy, infant
mortality, birth rate, nutrition levels-Sri TLaka ranks significantly better
than other countries at its per capita income level.  These improvements in
the quality of life, in particular the rise in health standards, the spread
of education and the availability of subsidized food, have been important
factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age of marriage, the
spread of female education and employment, and a family planning program also
have contributed to a sbarp decline in fertility. As a conseouence, popula-
tion growth, net of migration, has dropped steadily, from 2.7Z per annum in
the 1953-63 period to 2.2Z per annum in the 1963-71 period, and to 1.7% per
annum during 1971-81.
5.      However, the Government financed both its investment and social
expenditures largely through the extraction of the surpluses of the three
major tree crops (tea, rubber and coconut), which traditionally have fur-
nished easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange. These surpluses began
to decline in the late 1960s as government export tax policies discriminated
against tree crops and export unit prices weakened. With the growth in other
productive sectors declining in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary resources
available for social programs were squeezed between inelastic revenues and
rapid inflation. As a consequence, expenditures for social services other
than the food subsidy declined as a-proportion of total current expenditures
and of GDP, threatening the hard-won gains in health and education. In
short, the economy could no longer generate the resources needed to sustain
the large program of welfare expenditures. Moreover, the very size of those
programs reduced the scope for policy makers to shift resources to
development.
6.      In 1977, a package of policy measures was introduced in order to
break this vicious circle. In an attempt to liberalize the economy and allow
a greater role for the private sector, the new Government introduced, in
close consultation with the INF, policies designed to (a) reduce sovernment
intervention in commodity markets, (b) reduce government consumption sub-
sidies to assist in restoring producer incentives and public savings, and
(c) create a favorable environment for private (foreign and domestic) invest-
ment by tax concessions, the creation of an Investment Promotion Zone, and
the unification and depreciation of the exchange rate. Two of the more
important positive consequences of this policy reform package were that the
burden of selected subsidies and transfers fell from around 1OZ of GDP in
1977 to around 3% by 1981, and that the periodic increase in the domestic
support price for paddy in line with world price trends resulted in a highly
positive producer response in rice.
7.      In addition to these policy reforms, the Government also embarked
on an ambitious public investment program. As the Government responded to
the increased availability of resources (from domestic and foreign sources)
to tackle long overdue investments, the Government-s capital expenditure
jumped from 6X of GDP in 1977, to an average of 13% in 1978 and 1979, peaking
at 19Z in 1980, and subsequently declining to an average 14% over the period
1981 to 1983. At the center of the Government-s investment plan were three
major new undertakings: (a) the accelerated implementation of the Nahaweli
Ganga Development Program, the largest multipurpose river basin development



-3-
program ever undertaken in Sri Lanka; (b) the establishment of a 200 square
mile free trade zone north of Colombo near the international airport, aimed
primarily at attracting foreign investors; and (c) a massive housing and
urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan region,
including the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of
Colombo.
=
8.      The initial result of both the policy reforms and increased level
o. investment was an impressive jump in the GDP growth rate to an average
6.8Z per amnum for the period 1977-80 declining to 5.3% in 1980-83.  The
major activities which accounted for most of this increased growth were paddy
production, garment exports, tourism and the service sector. Paddy produc-
tion has averaged an annual 5.7% real growth rate since 1977, resulting in a
decline in rice imports from an average 33Z of total rice consumption during
1970-77 to only 12% during 1978-83. Manufactured garment exports have
increased from US$12 million in 1977 to US$197 million in 1983, raising their
share of non-petroleum manufactured exports from 41% in 1977 to 76% in 1983,
whereas tourist arrivals have increased from 153,665 in 1977 to 407,230 in
1982, with a setback to 337,342 in 1983 due to ethnic disturbances during
July.
9.      However, some of the basic structural weaknesses within the economy
have not been addressed. With respect to directly productive activities,
three subsectors have continued to perform poorly; i.e., the tree crop
sector, public manufacturing enterprises and non-traditional exports. The
volume of output from the centrally important export-oriented tree crop
sector has continued to decline. The public manufacturing enterprises
inherited by the present Government, which account for approximately 40X of
the value added in the non-petroleum manufacturing sector, continue to util-
ize resources inefficiently thereby reducing the overall growth rate in
manufacturing. And, lastly, the real growth of non-traditional exports has
been fairly low and erratic. Underlying the poor performance of these
sectors are two principal factors: poor management of publicly owned
enterprises and an overall incentive framework which offers high and uneven
levels of effective protection with a general bias against export activities.
Moreover, as the exchange rate has not been fully adjusted in a systematic
way since 1977 so as to compensate for the high levels of domestic inflation,
the incentive to invest in the production of traded commodities has been
reduced in favor of non-traded goods.
10.     In addition to these distortions in the incentive framework and the
inefficient management of publicly owned assets, the Government's budgetary
policy has been a major source of macro financial instability, particularly
over the past few years. As a share of GDP, budgetary spending increased
sharply from 23Z in 1977 to a record 43% in 1980, subsequently declining but
still remaining at 32% in 1983. Although initially much of this increased
expenditure was accompanied by a corresponding inflow of foreign concession-
ary capital which was linked to the public investment program, the need to
resort to domestic or comercial foreign financing increased. In addition,
the Government-s efforts to mobilize additional domestic resources fell short
of what was required. Due to falling volumes and prices in the tree crop
sector and an insufficient effort to widen the tax base away from traditional
sources, the Government became increasingly reliant on ad hoc taxation
measures to maintain existing revenue levels. The large growth in spending



-4-
coupled with large inflows of foreign savings and a weak domestic revenue
effort has resulted in large budget deficits which peaked at the equivalent
of 232 of GDP in 1980 and still amounted to 15Z of GDP in 1983. In response
to the increasing domestic deficits, current spending has been squeezed.
Although the reduction in subsidies are welcome, the limits placed on both
public sector salaries and operation and maintenance expenditure are begin-
ning to impose significant costs on the economy in terms of recruitment/
performance in the public sector and the efficient use of the existing
publicly-owned capital stock. Even so, savings on the budgetary current
account have remained negative from 1979 to 1983. In swmmary, despite
impressive donor support for the country-s development programs, equivalent
to 7.3% of GDP during 1981-83, the high level of public expenditure has meant
that only 45Z of the overall deficit was financed by concessionary flows
during these three years with about 10% being covered by foreign commercial
borrowing and the remaining 45Z through domestic borrowing.
11.     The rapid expansion in investment and general economic activity has
been reflected vividly in the balance of payments. Import volumes grew at
an average annual rate of 18.8Z between 1977 and 1980, with investment goods
increasing from USS83 million to US$493 million and intermediate goods and
petroleum imports tripling in current prices over the same period. This
fairly broad-based expansion in imports resulted in the share of merchandise
imports as a percent of GDP increasing from 23% in 1977 to 51Z in 1980.
Export volumes, however, expanded at a much lower rate (an average annual
growth rate of 4.7% between 1977 and 1980) with the decline in tree crop
export volumes offsetting the strong growth in garment exports from new firms
established in the Investment Promotion Zone. As a consequence, merchandise
exports increased as a share of GDP from 21% in 1977 to only 26% in 1980.
These adverse trade volume trends were accompanied by a 26% terms of trade
deterioration over the same period. The rapid growth in tourism receipts
and private remittances from abroad in this period failed to offset the
deterioration in the trade account, and the current account deficit
deteriorated from a positive 2.4% of GDP in 1977 to a record 19.8% deficit
in 1980. Although the deficits in 1978 and 1979 were more than offset by
increased net aid disbursements, even to the extent that Sri Lanka could
continue to add to net international reserves, by 1980 the situation had
changed. In the latter year net international reserves fell by US$220
million and the public sector began to make increased use of commercial
financing.
12.     Since 1980, the external deficit has mirrored the erratic movements
of the budget deficit. Realizing in 1981 that a continuation of the 1980
trends would result in serious financial instability, the government began
to take corrective measures, mainly in the form of tighter overall monetary
expansion, a substantial reduction in government spending and a gradual
realignment of the exchange rate as part of a new IMF program.  Although
these measures were beginning to show results by the end of 1981 (the current
account deficit in the balance of payments had declined to 13.7% of GDP and
the budgetary deficit to 15.6%), the political resolve to continue to apply
the needed policy mix weakened in 1982 due in large part to the Presidential
elections and the subsequent referendum to extend the life of Parliament. As
a result, both the external and internal deficits increased in 1982 (to 15.3Z
and 17.3%, respectively) and the overall growth rate declined to 5.1% (the
lowest since 1977). Due partly to a continuation of this election process in



-5-
response to post-referendum criticism and partly to the subsequent attempts
to find a solution to the continuing ethnic problems, the Government has
continued to accord priority to the pressing political/social issues.
Although policy measures did contribute to the decline in the current account
deficit in the balance of payments to 12.4% of GDP in 1983, the estimated 14%
improvement in the terms of trade was the primary factor. By the end of
1983, net international reserves were slightly negative, gross official
reserves equal to about two months of imports, and the debt service ratio
continued to increase (para. 16). In addition, as a result of the budgetary
deficit and some movement in the exchange rate, inflation accelerated to an
average 14Z during 1983 and the GDP growth rate fell to 4.9x.
13.     While the 1983-84 terms of trade improvement is giving the economy
some breathing space, the need for basic structural change has not
diminished, particularly the tree crop and manufacturing sectors. Therefore,
to avoid the consequences of an abrupt downward adjustment in aggregate
demand which is likely to follow from a continuation of past policies, one of
the priority objectives of government policy should be to restructure the
economy away from producing for the very limited domestic market towards
exports. The basic thrust of the required policy package would be to move
towards a more neutral incentive framework which would permit the full diver-
sity of Sri Lanka's particular comparative advantage to develop. However, in
the short run, the implementation of such a policy package may not be suffi-
cient because, firstly, the capacity of the economy to respond to a changed
set of incentives may be limited and, secondly, the non-policy-related con-
straints to economic growth (such as the basic infrastructure and imperfect
credit markets) will continue to require the careful attention of Government.
14.     Although the uncertain political situation continues to constrain
the Government's ability to adopt a comprehensive economic policy package,
recent measures demonstrate that the Government is both aware of the medium-
term problems and capable of implementing some of the required reforms. To
illustrate, a program of management and incentive reforms in the tree crops
sector has been initiated, and the Presidential Tariff Commission should
present recommendations designed to reduce the overall anti-export bias of
the incentive structure to Parliament this year. Furthermore, the revised
1984 budget does imply a further reduction in the budgetary deficit and the
Government has pledged to continue to reform its tax base so as to increase
domestic resource mobilization. Also, there have been encouraging institu-
tional developments affecting the budgetary management. A comprehensive
inter-ministerial exercise is ongoing, designed to ensure adequate expendi-
tures on O&M which, starting in 1985, will appear explicitly as a separate
category of spending in the budget. Also the Cabinet has laid down criteria
for project selection for inclusion in future public capital budgets which
should remedy a major weakness. Actual implementation of these measures
would improve coordination among the multitude of ministries, and represent
an important step forward in budgetary management. Nevertheless, continued
strong measures will be required in order to curtail the size of the budget
deficit and redirect public investment into those areas where it is most
efficiently used. Given the rapid build-up of the country's capital stock
since 1977, the highest return probably centers around complementary invest-
ments to the existing infrastructure plus a few selected new projects in
those long-gestating activities (e.g., power) which, at this time, are
appropriate for public sector investment. If these actions are taken,



-6-
together with measures designed to remove the policy-related distortions
which constrain efficient production decisions, the economy could stabilize
and continue to grow at the level attained in the recent past.
15.     The aid community has responded enthusiastically to the Government's
development efforts in recent years. Most of the growth has come in project
aid, reflecting the Government's efrorts to increase investment, particularly
in the Accelerated Mahaweli Program. The overall level of aid commitments
increased from US$250 million in 1977 to a record US$814 million in 1981,
equivalent to US$55 per capita. Disbursements grew much more slowly and
there was a rapid build-up of the aid pipeline to around US$1,630 million by
the end of 1981. With the need to curtail public capital spending during
1982-83, both because of implementation and domestic financial constraints,
commitments declined to US$550 million in 1982 and US$370 million in 1983,
halting further increases in the pipeline. Aid disbursements have grown
steadily, from US$200 million in 1977 to US$450 million in 1983, or close to
US$30 per capita. The slow growth of disbursements relative to commitments
through 1981 can be explained largely by two factors: the rapid acceleration
in aid commitments themselves which proved to be beyond the country's absorp-
tive capacity, and the relative shift over time from food and commodity aid
towards slower disbursing project aid. Continued high levels of aid will
depend upon donors' ability to finance a sizeable portion of local costs, to
provide supplementary financing for ongoing projects where needed and to
increase non-project aid, as well as upon Government's ability to make effec-
tive use of the assistance. The Government will need to maintain donor
confidence in its economic policies and management through a continued
vigorous domestic resource mobilization program and continued restraint in
government exp2nditures as the budgetary situation remains tight. Local cost
financing, in support of Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts will
not only provide valuable relief from these budgetary pressures but also
supplement foreign exchange resources needed in support of the balance of
payments.
16.     External public debt outstanding and disbursed stood at an estimated
US$2,205 million at the end of 1983, amounting to about 46Z of GDP. Although
a greater part of this debt is on concessional terms, the increased resort to
commercial finance during 1981 and 1982 has contributed to the debt service
ratio increasing from 10.1% in 1982 to 11.9% in 1983 excluding IMF charges
and repurchases. Even though record tea prices in recent months continue to
maintain Sri Lanka's export earnings at a high enough level to enable it to
reduce its dependence on commercial finance in the near term, any deteriora-
tion in the terms qt trade would rapidly reverse the situation.  However, the
Government has taken measures to reduce the budget deficit and is actively
considering policy measures designed to stimulate exports and efficient
import substitution activities. If the Government continues to make progress
along these lines, the current account deficit in the balance of payments
should decline to approximately 7Z towards the end of the decade with the
debt service ratio declining to below 15% in 1990 after temporarily rising to
almost 17% due to existing debt repayment commitments.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the
Bank Group has approved 10 loans totaling US$127.7 million (net of
cancellations) and 36 credits totaling US$695.6 million (net of cancel-
lations) in support of 43 projects.  About 52Z of Bank Group assistance has
been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development), 23%
for power, 10% for transport, and the remainder of 15Z among development
finance company operations, a program crodit (mainly involving the import
of raw materials for industry), water supply, construction industry,
telecommunications, and small and medium industries. Eight loans and 13
credits have been fully disbursed so far. This is the first Sri Lankan
operation to be presented to the Board in FY85. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank Group operations as of September 30, 1984.
18.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$16.74 million equivalent in loans. Investments
have been made so far in two textiles industries, one polypropylene bag
industry, one equipment leasing company, one hotel, and two IFC lines of
credit (US$7.0 million), which have been extended to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for term loans to medium-sized industries.
19.     The Bank Group's current strategy is primarily to assist-Sri Lanka in
reaching a more sustainable balance-of-payments position in the medium term
through export promotion and import substitution. The strategy focuses on
the agriculture sector and therein grants the highest priority to stabilizing
the vital tree crops subsector in the short term and to stimulating sus-
tai    e export growth in the medium term.  This strategy includes projects
to     bilitate rundown infrastructure that is necessary to support expanded
eco.. .Lc activity, particularly in the private sector.  Projects currently
under preparation include a fourth tree crop project, a second road main-
tenance project, and a second dairy project.
20.     The Bank Group, as of the end of 1983, accounted for 10.7% (IBRD,
1.6%; IDA, 9.1%) of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and
5.0Z of debt service on medium- and long-term debt.  The projected Bank
Gronp's share in total existing external debt outstanding and disbursed will
increase to 17: by 1985 (with IBRD's share declining to 1.3%). The Bank and
IDA portions of debt servica are expected to decline to about 4% by 1985.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
21.     Agriculture plays an important role in Sri Lanka's economy it
accounts for about 25Z of GDP, more than 50% of the labor force, and about
60% of export earnings. About 95% of the rural population is involved
directly in agriculture-related activities. In addition, much of the
activity in manufacturing, transport, and the service sectors relates to
either supplying agricultural inputs or processing agricultural produce.



-8-
22.     Traditionally, agricultural development has been concentrated in the
wet zone in the southwest portion of the island. Accounting for only one-
third of Sri Lanka's surface area, this zone contains about two-thirds of
its population and 50% of its paddy land. Future agricultural growth in the
wet zone will depend primarily on whether the productivity of already
developed land can be increased. In contrast, the dry zone to the north is
sparsely populated and underdeveloped despite continuing migration and
settlement. Permanent agriculture in the dry zone accounts for less than 30%
of the 2.24 million ha which are considered potentially arable nationwide.
(An additional 1.0 million ha are under subsistence-type slash and burn
(chena) agriculture.) Cultivation in the southwest monsoon season (yala) is
confined to irrigated areas. Wato'r and other constraints limit average
land-use intensities to about 100-120%. Considerable potential exists in Sri
Lanka both for increasing cropping intensities on already developed land, and
for limited expansion of cultivated areas, particularly in the dry zone.
Objectives and Stratezy for the Future
23.     The Government recognizes the pivotal role of agriculture in
stimulating economic growth and rural development in Sri Lanka. Its medium-
term strategy for agriculture emphasizes (a) better utilization of existing
resources through institutional and policy reform, as well as strategically
selected investments to increase the production base. Some high-priority
areas are: (a) appropriate price incentives for producers; (b) agricultural
support services, such as research and extension, credit, farm power supply,
and fertilizer distribution; and (c) stronger irrigation water management.
Following adoption of measures in 1977 designed to implement the above and
due partly to favorable weather, the agriculture sector has responded well.
Agricultural performance during 1978-82 improved substantially, with growth
averaging 4.0% annually and the increase in paddy production averaging 5.22
anuually. As a consequence, imports of rice declined dramatically. Climatic
vagaries, however, continue to plague Sri Lankan agriculture. To mitigate
the impact of variations in rainfall on production, for the long term the
Government is expanding irrigated agriculture further into the dry zone
through accelerated development of its major river basins, the Mahaweli Ganga
and Maduru Oya.
The Irrigation Subsector
24.     In the wet zone, irrigation normally consists of run-of-the-river
diversion to supplement rainfall, whereas in the dry zone, where rainfall is
less certain, schemes irrigation are based on the use of water storage tanks
to supplement rainfall in the maha season (October to February). To the
extent possible, the residual supplies of water from the tanks are used to
support yala season (May to September) cultivation. Some 180 major tank
systems irrigate about 165,000 ha, and about 2,500 smaller irrigation schemes
command a comparable area. The ongoing Nahaveli Ganga program will irrigate
ultimately about 365,000 ha of new or poorly-irrigated land both within the
basin, and by transfer of supplies to the neighboring dry zone. Mahaweli
supplies already reach a number of tanks in the dry zone, including three
that are to be rehabilitated under the proposed project.



-9-
Irrigation Nanafement and Rehabilitation
25.     Inspite of increased irrigation coverage and growth in paddy produc-
tion (para. 23). most of Sri Lanka-s major irrigation systems are yet to be
fully utilized, mainly due to to inefficient distribution of water, wastage
as a result of poor water manegement, the absence of adequate control
structures, and lax maintenance and general deterior8tion of structures. The
Go6vernment has decided to rehabilitate all major tank irrigation systems
under a phased program, and five systems have been rehabilitated under the
IDA-assisted Tank irrigation Nodernization Project (Cr. 666-CE). The
-'        proposed project seeks to rehabilitate another seven systems, while
feasibility studies are about to commence with Japanese assistance for
rehabilitation of four more systems. The systems selected for rehabilitation
command relatively better paddy lands and benefit from releases from the
Nahaweli Ganga system.
Bank Group Support for Irrization Develoiment
26.    The Bank Group has provided assistance to the irrigation subsector
in Sri Lanka through the Nbhaveli program, water sector projects, and rural
development projects- Under the Nahaveli program, four projects totaling
about US$160 million and a technical assistance credit of US$3 million have
been approved by IBEDIIDA; one of these projects (Ln_ 653-CElCr_ 174-CE for
US$14.5 million each) has been completed. Three water sector projects
financed by IDA have also been completed: Lift Irrigation (Cr. 121-CE-US$2
million), Land Reclamation and Drainage (Cr. 168-CE-US $2.5 million) and Tank
Irrigation Modernization Project (Cr. 666-CE-US$5 million). A fourth
project, the Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1160--CE-US$30
million), which is also financed by rDA, is progressing well. Irrigation
rehabilitation is also an important component in three ongoing rural develop-
ment projects (Cr. 891-CE, Cr. 1079-CE, and Cr. 1363-CE). Past operations in
the irrigation sector, particularly the Tank Irrigation Modernization
Project, have taught a number of important lessons, which have guided the
planing and design of this project- These lessons include attention to
detailed design, advanced planning, and construction periods of sufficient
length; prevention of indiscriminate land and water use in catbchent areas;
and establishmeat of efficient water managenent systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
27.     The feasibility report for the proposed project was prepared by
FAO/CP in 1983. Engineering Consultants Ltd. prepared the reports on the
cropping potential under the project, and the University of Peradeniya
(Sri Lanka) provided the socioeconomic data. On the basis of these reports,
the project was appraised by a joint IDA/CIDA mission in March 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. October 29 - November 2, 1984.
The government delegation was led by Mr. Nanda Abeyvickerema, Secretary,
Ministry of Lands and Land Development.



-10-
Proiect Objectives
28.     The proposed project seeks to increase agricultural production on
land commanded by seven selected major irrigation systems by promoting more
effective use of irrigation vater, introducing systematic water management,
strengthening agricultural support systems, improving roads, and conducting
studies to improve system performance.
Proiect Description
29.     The principal project components are:
(a) Rehabilitation of the Irrigation Systems and Pilot Proaram: The
project would rehabilitate the irrigation systems including seven major
tanks:  Giants' Tank (12,460 ha), Nuruluwewa (4,090 ha), Iranaadu (9,430
ha), Kantalai (6,990 ha), Noraweva (1,960 ba), Nachchaduwa (5,400 ha), and
Rajangana (5,910 ha). The rehabilitation works in each system would differ,
depending on the nature of work required to upgrade and improve the system.
These works would mostly involve constructing new structures, remodeling
existing structures,-raising and strengthening channel banks, improving field
channels and farm turnouts, improving drainage and, in some cases, raising
tank storage. Four systems would be selected for a pilot program to deter-
mine how technological changes to irrigation structures could improve .-ntrol
of water supplies.  These changes would ensure that controlled releasrs .af
water would rotate to individual farms for a fixed duration for each crop.
Since such methods are not currently used in Sri Lanka's irrigation systems,
the possible use of the new methods would be evaluated against conventional
ones.
(b) Equipment. Buildinus, and Survevs: To facilitate the rehabilita-
tion work and maintenance thereafter, the project would provide additional
construction machinery and buildings to supplement available accommodation
for field staff. It would also provide equipment for the collection of
hydrological data and the modeling of systems, as well as for surveys and
designs, quality control, laboratory vork, and vehicles.
(c) Program for InteRrated Manaxement of Maior Irrigation Systems
(INMAS): The project would provide support to the Government-s recently
introduced national Program for Integrated Management of Major Irrigation
Systems. In each irrigation system, the program seeks to establish manage-
ment units that would, in cooperation with far!mer organizations and govern-
ment agencies, schedule cropping patterns, plan distribution of water,
activate maintenance programs, encourage farmer participation, make proposs
for adequate water charges and ensure payment, and monitor and evaluate
agricultural benefits. A Project Manager (PM) in each system would coor-
dinate these activities. System-level institutional officers would assist
the PMs in promoting farmer organizations and encouraging farmer participa-
tion in system management. In consultation with other line agencies, a tea=
of specialists located within the newly-created Irrigation Management
Division (IMD) in the Ministry of Lands and Land Development (NLLD) would
identify actions and recommend measures to be taken for long-term integrated
management of the irrigation systems. The specialists would also provide
technical guidance and support to the PNs. INMAS would improve coordination
between the Irrigation Department (ID) operating and maintaining the system,



-ll-
other line agencies providing agricultural inputs and services, and farmers.
The project's support to INMAS would include financing investment costs for
setting up IMD, training of PHs, institutional officers, and farmers of the
project area, and research studies of water management problems. Various
items to be financed would include office and audio-visual training
equipment, overseas study tours,-and staff housing.
(d) Rewularization of Landholdings and Relairs of Roads: The project
would provide financing for the incremental cost of regularizing landholdings
in the project area; although some land encroachments may have to be cleared.
others will need to be regularized to establish clearly the irrigated area
under each system. The project would also provide assistance for the repair
of 35 miles of gravel-topped road and 255 miles of unpaved roads in the
project area. The Land Commissioner's Department (LCD), which has both the
physical and budgetary resources, would maintain the roads rehabilitated
under the project.
(e) Construction of A2rarian Service Center and Fertilizer and Input
Stores: If agricultural inputs are to be made available to farmers in a
timely manner, additional facilities will have to be provided in the project
area. The project would, therefore, provide for construction of one agrarian
service center, 35 stores for fertilizer and seed to supplement existing
facilities, and some additional vehicles (for moving the staff and supplies)
for the Department of Agrarian-Services (DAS).
(f)  Local Costs of Establishinm International Irritation Nanaxemeut
Institute (II111): A team to study irrigation management recommended estab-
lishment of IIKI in Sri Lanka. The Consultative Group on International
Agricultural Research constituted the study team in 1981 and endorses the
establishment of IDE.  The principal objectives of IDE are to conduct
multidisciplinary research on management of irrigation systems, provide
training and short study courses, and prepare and disseminate research and
training materials. IM} is funded currently by a support group of about 11
members including ADB, IFAD, USAID, UNDP, and the Government of Sri Lanka.
It is expected to start functioning by the end of 1984. The Government has
agreed to renovate and expand existing housing and other facilities at Kandy
and to construct new facilities at field sites. The project would finance
part of the Government-s contribution to the creation of these facilities.
(g) Studies on Catebment Nana2ement and On-Farm Water Management:
The project would include a study on catchment management and a study on
on-farm water management in selected project areas.  The study on catchment
management would require about two years to complete and would provide
information needed to model (a) catchment water balance, Cb) the pattern for
the catchment management organization, and (c) changes to the existing
legislation, if necessary, to ensure proper catcbment management. Draft
terms of reference have been prepared. The on-farm study would provide a
clear understanding of the utilization of water and of measures that could
improve utilization. The Government has agreed to prohibit further develop-
ment of tanks or diversion weirs in the catchbent areas of the seven systems.
It would submit to IDA by December 31, 1987 (Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 4
(para. 5), draft DCA), a proposal for the organizational set up and legal
framework for proper catchment control in the project area.



-12-
(h) Socioeconomic Survevs: The project includes provision for two
socioeconomic studies in the project area: one during project implementation
and the other upon project completion. The studies vould be undertaken by
the staff of University of Peradeniya, and would be follow-ups to their
initial baseline surveys.
(i) Technical Assistance and Trainina: The project onuld provide
technical assistance for developing hydrological simulation models for each
irrigation system, the pilot program and systems management. It would also
finance a local and overseas training program for staff of ID, ID and DA.
The draft terms of reference for consultants and the training program bave                 a
been prepared.
Water Availability
30.     Water supplies from the Mahaveli Ganga that are diverted through the
Polgolla tunnel (Map IBRD 18021) directly-augment the inflow to three tank
systems of the seven (Huruluvewa, Kantalai, and Nachchaduva). In recent
years the annual diversions have exceeded 1,000 million cubic meters (HM()
at Polgolla tunnel. However, with the completion of the dams at Kotmale,
Victoria and Randenigala in the near future, power generation at these dams
would create a conflict of interest. Therefore, the cropping patterns on
land commanded by these three Mahaveli-fed systems will have to be developed
on the basis of an average annual diversion of 875 MM (a range of 675-1,100
NCN, depending on dry or wet year) through the Polgolla tunnel.
31.     Water releases from the Mabaveli reach the tanks through long feeder
channels and often pass through village tanks, with unauthorized tappings
occurring en route. To limit unauthorized use, ID has recently announced
that the management responsible for operation and maintenance (OiN) of tanks
will also be responsible for ODH of feeder channels. ID proposes to monitor
the efficiency of transmission through the feeder channels, with efficiency
determined in each crop season, and to take appropriate steps to reduce loss.
A report would be submitted to IDA vithin three months after each season
(Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 4 (para. 6), draft DCA).
Project Organization and NanaLement
32.     The newly created InD of MUnM has overall responsibility for
implementing the project and coordinating.the activities of the participating
agencies. IDD would also be responsible for the implementation of INH&S and
related activities, including the appointment of PNs for each of the seven
systems. PNs would be responsible for the management and implementation of
INNAS at the system level. A Deputy Director of IKD would be designated
Project Director with sole responsibility to implemeut the project and coor-
dinate the activities of the participating agencies.  The Government would
reviev the effectiveness of the administrative changes under IhEAS and submit
a report to IDA on the findings no later than Deceuiber 31, 1987 (Section
3.01(b) and Schedule 4 (para. 1), draft DCA).
33.     ID would be responsible for the rehabilitation vork, the pilot
program, and technical assistance to and training of its staff and for 06M
of the rehabilitated irrigation systems. A Deputy Director of ID would be
appointed Project Officer with responsibility to coordinate all activities of



-13-
rehabilitation work. The appointments of the Project Director, Project
Officer, and PMs for the irrigation systems would be conditions of effective-
ness of the proposed credit (Sections 3.05. 3.06 and 6.01(d and e), draft
DCA).
34.     LCD would be responsible for regularizing landholdings and for
repairing roads in the project area. The Department of Agriculture (DA.)
would be responsible for conducting studies and training its staff on catch-
ment management and on-farm water management. The Department of Agrarian
Services (DAS) would be responsible for the construction of the additional
input stores, and the University of Peradeniya would be commissioned to carry
out the socioeconomic surveys. ID would be responsible for the renovation
and construction of the additional facilities at I1IM headquarters and field
sites.
35.     There would be a Project Steering Committee at the national level
in M1LD with the Secretary, MILD, as the Chairman and the Project Director
in DMO as the member-secretary. Representatives to the committee would come
from ID, the Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research, D&, AS. LCD,
the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the Department of External Resources,
University of Peradeniya, and other agencies, as deemed appropriate. The
committee would approve annual programs and budgets, allocate funds to the
various departments, review and monitor programs, resolve implementation
problems, and change project design, as necessary. At the district level,
subcommittees of the District Agricultural Committee (DAC) would be estab-
lished with the Government Agent as Chairman, IDWs Range Deputy Director as
member-secretary, and the district departmental heads and the PHs as members.
The subcommittees would provide policy and program guidance and resolve all
project problems at field level in all major irrigation systems under the
project. The formation of the Project Steering Committee would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Sections 3.04 and 6.01(c),
draft DCA).
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
36.     O&M of the irrigation systems would continue to be the responsibility
of ID, but would be subject to overall coordination by DO. There would be
sufficient staff for each system, and although the staff-would be under ID,
they would have close liaison with IND staff and farmers. In the past, not
enough funds have been available to maintain the irrigation systems properly.
-The Government would review water charge collections around March 1985 and
confirm to IDA as a condition of effectiveness (Section 4.03 and 6.01(f),
draft DCA) that adequate funds would be available in 1985 to meet the full
O&M requirement of the major irrigation systems. Also, by January 31 each
year the Government would submit a report to IDA indicating that sufficient
*       funds have been allocated to meet 06  costs for the project during the fiscal
year (Section 4.02, draft DCA).
Cost and Finance
37.    The total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$43.2 mil-
lion (including taxes and duties amounting to US$2.6 million equivalent),
of which about US$18.2 million (42Z) would be in foreign exchange. The civil
vorks would cost about US$30.2 million (70Z); equipment and vehicles about



-14-
US$8.4 million (192); technical assistance and training about US$1.7 million
(4%); and engineering and administrative support, US$2.9 million (7%). These
costs are based on mid-1984 prices. They include provision for a physical
contingency of 10%. They also include a price contingency for foreign
exchange costs amounting to 8% for 1985, 92 for 1986 to 1988, 7.5% for 1989,
and 6% for 1990; and local cost contingency amounting to 12Z for 1985, llZ
for 1986, 10% for 1987, 9% for 1988, 7.5% for 1989, and 6% for 1990.
38.     The proposed IDA credit of US$17.0 million would finance about 422
of the total cost, net of taxes and duties.  The cofinanciers of the project
are CIDA with a grant of US$6.8 million equivalent and SDC with a grant of
about USS7.6 million equivalent. The Government would provide about US$11.8
million toward the project cost. Total foreign financing would provide about
80% of the project cost net of taxes and duties, 1OOZ of the project-s for-
eign exchange cost, and 532 of the local cost. The project's civil works
would be financed jointly by CIDA, SDC, and IDA. Equipment and vehicles
would be procured under parallel financing provided by IDA and CIDA, while
technical assistance and training would be financed by SDC. Effectiveness of
the CIDA grant and the SDC grant would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 6.01(b), draft DCA).
Procurement
39.     The project-s procurement arrangements are -ummarized below:
Procurement Method
-  -     nUss million
Total
Proiect Component                           ICB         LCB     OTHER    Cost
Civil Works                                  -         18.1      12.1      30.2
(8.4)    (5.8)    (14.2)
Equipment                                   3.4          -        5.0       8.4
(2.5)                (0.3)      (2.8)
Technical Assistance and Training            -           -        1.7       1.7
Engineering and Administration                           -        2.9       2.9
TOTAL                                       3.4         18.1    21.7       43.2
(2.5)        (8.4)   (6.1)    (17.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
40.     Since civil works (US$30.2 million) would be small-scale, labor-
intensive and scattered, they would be carried out partly through local
competitive bidding and partly through force account. ID has established
detailed procedures for calling bids and awarding contracts that are satis-
factory to IDA. All work contracts over US$100,000 would be subject to IDA
review before being awarded. Other awards would be subject to selective
postaward review. Equipment and vehicles (US$8.4 million) to be funded by
IDA and CIDA would be procured under the procedures of the respective
cofinanciers. IDA-financed equipment estimated at US$2.5 million vould be
procured through ICB. The equipment procurement would be phased under three



--15-
teuders; the first to be issued in 1984 and the other two in 1985 and 1986.
ID would be responsible for the procurement of all necessary equipment,
including that required by other implbuenting agencies. Local manufacturers
would be given a preference of 15Z of the c.i.f. price, or the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes, whichever is lower. Hydromechanical
equipment and other items (costing less than US$10,000 each), for which
international tendering is impracticable, would be procured after prices from
not less than three independent suppliers were compared, in accordance with
government procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases would
not exceed the equivalent of US$0.25 million.
Disbursements
41.     Disbursement of the IDA credit, the CIDA joint contribution and the
SDC contribution would be made for:
(a) Civil works-75X (45Z, TDA; 10%, CIDA; and 20X, SDC)
(b) Equipment and vehicles-100Z of foreign expenditures
for directly imported, 100% of ex-factory cost, or 80% of
expenditures on locally procured equipment and vehicles
(to be financed by IDA)
(c) Technical assistance, surveys and training-by SDC, 10OZ
42.     Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account and small
contracts would be made against statements of expenditures, which would be
properly audited according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Reimbursement
applications would be submitted when the expenditures reach the equivalent of
US$20,000. Supporting documents would be retained by the Government and made
available to supervision missions whenever required. Disbursement-against
civil works contracts exceeding SL Rs 500,000 and contracts for items other
than civil vorks would be documented in accordance with IDA's standard
requirements. IDA would administer CIJA funds for civil works through a
trust account and would administer all disbursements for SDC funds. It is
anticipated that the final disbursements of the IDA credit, CIDA grant, and
SDC grant would be made by June 30, 1991, about six months after the
scheduled completion of project implementation. These disbursement projec-
tions are based on the standard sectoral disbursement profiles for IDA
credits deemed appropriate for rehabilitation projects.
Project Special Account (PSA)
43.     To avoid delays in implementing the project and to ease the pressure
on local funds, a PSA would be established in US dollars for financing the
civil works. Funding by IDA, CIDA and SDC would be through the PSA. The PSA
would be established and operated under procedures acceptable to IDA.
Opening of the PSA in the Central Bank would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (Sections 2.02(b) and 6.01(a), draft DCA).
Cost Recovery
44.     The total investment costs of the project works would amount to
about SL Rs 601.4 million in present value (PV) terms discounted at 10%.



-16-
Incremental expenditure for O0M of the project works would amount to about
SLRs 57.2 million (PV). Estimated recovery from the incremental water charge
collections (para. 45) would amount to about SLRs 67.7 million (PV) over a
period of 25 years. This estimated amount of recovery would meet about 101
of the investment costs and incremental OEM expenditure, or about 118Z of the
project's incremental O02 expenditures.
Water Charzes
45.     After extensive dialogue with IDA, the Government agreed to introduce
water charges in the Mahaveli irrigation system under the Hahaveli Ganga
Development Project III (Cr. 1166-CE). It agreed to start collecting water
charges in 1982 at 202 of O&M costs and to reach 10OZ of such costs by 1991.
However, collection did not start as originally agreed because of the 1982
elections and the drought conditions that prevailed during 1981-82. Some
inadequacies were also found in the Irrigation Ordinance of 1946 under which
the water charges were to be collected. In 1983, the Government decided to
remedy some of these deficiencies and to start collections beginning in 1984
at 50Z of OhH costs. The target of 100% recovery of OM costs by 1991 was
reiterated. The Government also approved the following rates to cover
average a&M costs: SL Rs 2,000/ha for major lift irrigation, SL Rs 688/ha
for drainage, and SL Rs 500/ha for gravity irrigation. In addition, the
Government approved special accounts for O&2 of irrigation systems into which
collected vater charges would be credited. The entire range of issues per-
taining to water charges was discussed under the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Project IV (Cr. 1494-CE/Cr. 2437/CE). The Government has reiterated its
commitment to the above provisions in respect of major irrigation systems and
the following agreements were reached: (a) the Government would by September
30, 1991 achieve full OEM cost recovery in the irrigation systems; (b) by
July 31, 1986, it would review the vater charge collection program to assess
its success plus what adjustments might be necessary, and it would propose a
program for annual rate increases; (c) by July 31 of each year it would
provide IDA with a detailed report on the progress of water charges collec-
tion and take steps to improve collection charges; and (d) until such time as
full recovery of annual O&M costs is achieved, it would provide adequate
funds for O&M of the irrigation systems (Section 4.03, draft DCA).
46.     The present water charge collection program is a major step toward
recovery of OEM costs in irrigation projects and emanates from a recognition
of past inadequacies. The Government has already sent IDA interim reports on
the collection of water charges. Thus far the 1984 collection record is
reasonable, in view of the lack of rain in the early 1983-84 maha season, and
the subsequent record rains from December to March, as well as the newness of
the collection system itself.
Farm Income
47.     About 34,400 farm families (population 193,000) depend on the project
irrigation systems. Persons less than 30 years old constitute 65-75% of the
populaton, and about 50% of these are less than 15 years old. The literacy
level is high and fairly uniform throughout the project area; about 90X of
the population have at least five years of schooling. Land holdings vary
from less than 0.4 ha Cl acre), owned by about 5% of farmers, to more than
2 ha (5 acres), owned by about 25%. Farmers have ownership title deeds for



-17-
about 51% of land area and Land Development Ordinance permits for about 24Z,
the remainder is leased land or held by unauthorized occupation.
48.     Annual farm income currently varies from SL Rs 2,200 to SL Rs 11,000;
the variation mainly depends on whether one or two crops are grown. Without
the project, but with various ongoing government programs, farm income is
expected to increase and range from SL Rs 5,700 to SL Rs 16,400 by 1995.
Upon completion of the project, farm income will increase further and is
expected to range between SL Rs 14,600 to SL Rs 27,300.
Project Benefits and Justification
49.     The project covers a net irrigable area of about 46,000 ha and repre-
sents 28% of the total lands irrigated by major tanks in Sri Lanka. The
production potential of these systems has not been fully realized owing to
inadequate maintenance, an inefficient distribution system, and poor
management. Without the project, land resources in these systems vill remain
underutilized, and productivity of land may deteriorate. The principal
benefits would be higher cropping intensity, improved cropping practices, and
therefore higher production and increased farm income.
50.     The significant changes in the cropping practices in the project area
would include dryland cultivation and sowing, early cultivation, intensive
application of herbicides, improved on-farm water management, and crop
diversification. The cropping intensity, currently averaging 98Z in the
project area, would increase to 138Z. Paddy yields are projected to increase
from 2.9 tons/ha without the project, and to 3.98 tons/ha with the project.
The project would increase production by about 73,800 tons of paddy and
6,200 tons of soya, yielding a net value of SL Rs 78 million annually to the
ecoiony. These incremental outputs of rice and soya would result in a net
foreign exchange saving of about US$3.1 million annually. The net benefit
per hec-tare of agricultural land would increase from SL Rs 1,950 vithout the
project to SL Rs 3,640 with the project at full development. The increase
in farm family income would range between 36% and 156%. The project would
create an estimated 3,000 new full-time jobs yearly during its execution
period.
51.     The project-s net present value over its lifetime, at a discount rate
of 10% (the estimated opportunity cost of capital), is about SL Rs 211.4
million (US$8.4 million). The economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to
be about 16%. The project's economic viability is sensitive only to shocks
arising from major cost increases or reductions in benefits, both of which
are unlikely. The project can withstand up to a 1.5-year delay (which repre-
sents three cropping periods) in generating incremental benefits and still
remain economically viable. There are no serious technical risks in the
project; however, it faces the possible risk of a failure to implement the
proposed water management improvements.



-18-
.PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the recomiendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The opening of the PSA, effectiveness of the CIDA grant and the
SDC grant, establishment of a Steering Committee, availability of sufficient
O&M funds for 1985, and appointment of the Project Director, Project Officer
and Project Managers would be additional conditions of effectiveness of the
credit (Section 6.01, draft DCA).
53.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply vith the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 29, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                             AN  I
TAULK a                                          Page 1
-?  W-                 - ineC t  awom   m ROU           l&su
201U70t m caRSrU JL    3                                     NCL  .wi:
ACCULDIBUL                           17.2        26.2        26.0               . 
mCP     (356 c60| x.0                            100.0       320.0            273.4                  10g1.2
(CKlOCUNS 0F OML EZAL1r)           122.0        152.0       123.0            272.0                   567.3
Q %MAnOWA     EL S_L22
pOvwanou,nn-uAa (SSAN)            9U9.0       12SIL0      15139.0
URBAN POPZAOM  CZ or TOTAL)         17.9         21.9        24.4             21.7                    34.7
IPOPMATSM ICJUCTIU5
IlLAbTbI   UAR 2000 OML)                                   21.1
STAxaUr   MPOLATW (NLL)                                    32.5
FAOII of                                                   1.6
vn SQ. a.                         150.7       190.6       238.0            165.6                   261.9
PE SQ. a. AC8L LAID              573.9        517.6       576.6            345.5                  1735.1
OPiAflO  AS SUCT03  tS)
0-14 IRS                          4.l1        41.9        35.2             35.8                    39.0
1S-   S                  -        54.3         54.5       60.8              59.8                    57.6
65 ANDAB E                         3.4          3.6        4.3               4.3                     3.3
POPULATION GRTWh 36K CE)
TOtL                               2.5          2.4         1.6              1.9                     2.3
URB                                1.7          4.3         M5               4.1                     1.3
cu   SUM RAZE CPEL T2OUS)           35.7         29.4        26.5             27.7                    30.!
CRUD1 DEAT RATE (i  MM5)             9.2          7.5        6.0              10l1                     9.5
GROSS 26OUCTO  RATE                  2.4          2i          1.7              1.8                     LC
ANML PLAIEND                                        -
ACCSP?ORS. AUIUL (t105)              -         55.3       O 100.5
usES C:OF HAED UlUW)                ..           ..        55.0               ..                    52.7
IlD   OF FOOD PROD M  CAPTA
(1969-71-100)                       93.0        103.0       151.0            112.8                   123.0
PER CAPITA SULY OF
CAlOUES (Z OF           1S)       10.0        103.0      lO.0              97.7                   134.4
PROTEINS (GCRAS in DAY)           46.0         47.0       43.0              56.8                    57.0
OF 1ICR ANIMEDIL ALD PULSE       11.0        12.0         1.0 ic          14.9                    14.1
aCUa (AnEs 1-4) OAtll RAE            7.1          5.1        2.9               9.8                     7.2
LIFE EECT. Ar 11BT (TEAM)           62.0         63.6       68.9              60.0                    60.4
INAFAJr 1. RATZ (P EROT 5)          70.6         58.5.     3lL0               *3.J                    66.3
aCCESS TO SAFE YATE  (%10P)
TOL                                 ..         21.0        20.0 7d          32.9                    37.0
iAN                                 ..         46.0       4S.O 77           70.9                    54.8
RwL                                .*-         14.0        13.0 fd          22.1                    26.4
AS    ETO RETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATIO)
TOTAL                               ..         64.0        59.0 /a          18.                     41.3
URN..                                          76.0       6L0 7;            72.8                    47.'
RUNL                                ..         61.0        55.07;            1.6                    33.3
2OPULATI PER PM RS1CI8A1          4490.0       5950.0     7170.0            3846.2                  7749.1
POP. InER NSIN  PERSO             4170.0 If   2260.0      1340.0            4793.1                  2660.4
POP. PR HOSPITAL -ED
TOTAL                             320.0       330.0       340.0           1066.5                  10".2
URBA                             120.0 if    210.0       240.0 Id          296.0                   651.2
RURAL                            1060.0 if    570.0       511.07d         593.4                   2594.6
auSSnss Pu HOSPTLE                    ..         56.4         ..                ..                    27.0
ARACE  SIZE OF HOSEDD
TOTL                                5.4 lb      5.8
CRBAN                              6.3 7ir      6.3
RUlAL                              5.2 /b       5.5
AVERAE N. OF PRBSONS/ROGE
TOTAL                              2.0 /h       L5          ..                -.
URUBN                              Z1 7;        L7.
RURAL                                0-7;         s 2.5
ACCESS TO ULCT. (Z rF WALDN)
TOTAL                               7.5 /b      P.0
URBAN                             35.9 /b      34.5
RURAL                               2.L3b 7     3.0



-2o0
-ANEX I
T AL 7I X                                      Page 2
i~sLk  .,ok  um0hJk        ASA aPAcFI             8U26 &umz     PACsiuma 
ADJUSTID Z{   - NIISUOLI 3T10
iM~ia   TOTAL                      95.0         99.0      1030               97.6                   I02.O
MM                     100.0        106.0       104.0            110.5                    10N.9
nzz                     90.0         94.0      100.0              83.7                     8.2
SECOUDIT TOL.                      27.0        67.0        51.0              35.9                    46.0
388*                    38.0         66.0       69.0              66.6                    6M
nWAIX                   16.0         68.0       54.0              26.8                    43.1
,ocazzau u(o of swcnua)                ..         0.6         0.6 d              2La                   17.5
FUPIL-UIACUERL RATIO
P3EDM                              31.0          ..        32.0              38.                     51.8
S      y                             ..          ..          .               18.7                    22.5
ArLDT LITUACT RATZ CZ)               75.0 af      77.6       16.0              53.6                    72.9
PASSEM  CARSIIouSAND PFOP             8.6         7.0         7.3 LI            0.9                    10.1
RADIO 3ZC MVESIUO     D FO           35.8        39.9        98.7             112.1                   113.6
TV  zc7.IvEIO/DUA    POP               ..           ..        2.4              15.7                    50.1
N     EIA4   C"'I  GENEUAL
ZEZUEZST") CIRCULATION
Pt TDUSIAND POPULATIOI             36.0        U8.9          ,,              16.2                    53.9
c A   U  .L chAPr                     2.9 1      7.8         4.9 /             3.6                     3.6
TOTAL LASM POMCE (71030)           3391.0       *188.0     5771.0
FDUIAl (1Z3CEUT                    22.6        23.7        26.9              33.3                    33.5
ACRCU QTI   (P.CZNrT)              56.0         55.0       54.0              69.6                    52.2
[}808Th? (PERCE2IV)                14.0        14.0        14.0              15.8                    17.9
PARTYCIPATIOERATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              34.3         33.5       3L0               62.6                    38.7
KMAl                               50.8        49.1        53.0              5.7                     50.9
FW"                                16.2        16.5       21.0              29.8                    26.6
ECOUOIC SEPEIDUCTY RATI               1.3          1.4        1.0               1.0                     1.1
PRCENor OF PRIVATE DfC
wRECIVD 6Y
HrsMsT 5   I DUSEOLDS              26.4         18.Z         ..                ..                    22.2
HIGNEST 202 OF  UOUDE              52.1 /b     63.4          ..                ..                    4.0
LoamES 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.5 b       7.5          ..                ..                     6.4
LowER? 602 or HUSCIIDLDS           13.7 7lb    19.2          ..                ..                    15.5
ESTThAM  ABSOLUTE POVmtY INCON?
LEVE (U1$ PER CAPITA)
RBAN                                 ..          ..          ..             133.9                   18L6
RuAL                                 ..          ..          ..             111.6                   152.0
S          RElATIVE FOVER? [l
LEEL (an PUE CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..          ..                ..                   177.9
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..                ..                   164.6
ESTIRATED POP. BELO  ABSOLT
POVET IIIcME LEm (I.)
AN                                   ..          ..          ..              43.8                    23.4
RUAL                                ..           ..          ..              51.7                    37.7
NOK AVAILAE
SOT APPLICANLX
11 O T E S
/a  Tbc group averaoe for each  dlicator are population-witted a         e    sc m . Coverag of esqtrde       the
Idicatocs doamads on svalabillty of date a"d I not unform.
tb   Wase otherws  nuoted. 'lata for 1960t refer to ay rew betw.m 1959 ad 1961; "Data for 1970" betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for -1o.t Namt Eatlato" betwee  1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; Id 1976; 1/ 1975; /f 1962; 1R 1979; /h  1963; /I 1978; LI 1958.
JUNE, 1981



....I*hl*1113 513133V
I-   p-                      .'~~s 11I44 V  J.1  13- hII    543513451-1    1
I Ms... j-  .-Vm   __4,ru-                                   .   l  *i  .1)1    1131151  .iIsd..  314  r1114.s1
1-1-    1.1--  -14 ..,  -_b~   11---                   .,1I41  U1.1-l.141653IS 14-p511   15* aw .5 1-3
T-K   .4- -3      Am~~~~~~~ -Im4s11  (sir j131                              l   19135.91*11   431   lA    1
-. '*515 911   ,1553   -4II..51  iCVI -11   335111
.-6                                                                 -11" -3  -3 1. -Idd-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~139LW)        le   C Idd 11345
*iI*p-l      sIi 5115P     0~   l141 rIn       Wi.-  ,3..11s(.:3
(15   S. 141  15501   i31   15          SIA11           51'.-I *...a4                            x1  3513 9-P- l t-13*1"             P-`*    i   -5   .31111   lAll
-  11  - 114i51   - (131 m5*34   511  133n IIIIg54115MPals                                  i9111.1  s  ll18   111  -3i1C4  .53111P511   4.                       As15913
-A3i9aSiIA9-.wl             1181114519*51C9  31I3i5                                        si  sIIo   31lfi  dy  l  111-3.hld91-3111 5                           -11
p- 9.1-4 - ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ $4V-)15  5  3436A1-31    i5'5A311111-p314111A* 53*511  51' *..3-.4a
--I -V, I-                  .,4 7                                                                                              --~~~~~~91    5l  19Al*  11AP R   IIeA   sS5.1*s ' 5   19111
-P Z., PlI131l1                                           il   55  9iC5A31  3   14i413 6i  lIS33   l)11-51
a.  45A  1  1.11  311  e.51  I  11515513-AIl51454   16a.  -1   lll*      p1i19Ii  s)SI3345  s*   e.pi.  pi      eA4s.Is
.-.n-    n   .3                  I~~~~351515i   Cii11  (Il-.01  *l3il    .139125135
A           -4l3P1*1 41  111344a33a.13*s6i 14.lll1ssiIAs1   11a3l.w                                                    i~   51Suus
II  111 9tI95  Ii59C  1133* 1!!!111 p- Ii114 e9lRe wlg                                                 M-15  1A155115  45*1355   1914-i5   5531   4131
- 915   13 .        311  1i-flA-     14   15111 ...3  .58   11*55191 3                               o      31-511   -1111     AIl 114! 7;1i113n314  3110- Ill-Al
11 1131443A315l4 - 131115 951   1    113-i - 5h31.5As)I I1511tv6  11 13310   -3S11m1ii; - 19
P-,*131115343(155101.141  el-A-Si51. 3i3a35I1 n                                          1-  51.1   s..Jl -3n.rs     P.I3.a1          sprs.  I       P     sIls.
9..1.3.1   ~all5i   33551  155154.193-  IISSI  05335155                      .s p1. I   .rp.s M  3.a          -im..    - l*s  13195    .i
-8 1-1-ass - C.-Pr-   ~      ~     ~     55111 1111                      311115    11511*151  311   1hA.l dlS   *1                  AC.1siss
I 6.1-   ..,P..  ~     ~        '11-p131C*351I  1115-      C1 -1515 ASli1S1                                                      CCCA131
f  'I    S l,  421   -. As  -11*d                          1   195         53dd413  1315   1131  3 ..it-&~ R.                                sl - 11511J-  1* 0*1     0"%5
*ql.'-W         I3lft   5153135   *A   I3               .)P   4C                      3111        1   _l3.1516   3151135  111JC5111   - 113A-   4331.
3n. .A  0       9-is. .-insOS    1110   -,4a.  433.9.    -Z1i511i5 -15111                                   13  1 1313*3.5111 41353    II-.115  11i1
M3*5   Ii -     his 55  1 1'll3s-      1lI1A  Ii    151*  1                               .  *43 I-.'_      I -S.1      "4*5      Is        .!-.P 551* -
I"  114915  313 1*1155iI-  -1113.55                                                                                   --Id-'15311   I  10913   5115   15151  31P13t- 31111 131-311 -34 115   9
19-5111  3q.0e   4  s 11151311115  15111-3154C   15                                -.3 .... as"   sqi 5. 14153  11. 31S11515P.. 151.11111  s8    44411   9
13955 5  31i51)C3*15114* 1553 Cl  s 11351511 II15113115 95111331*                                      l~551i9A9rV5.Ii*3 P.       5131e3-I...13141
511)11 I1341 I 1 "9l  All1- 43345   p-513  II *5         s 91A4115  515-S  -5 a 3513     15  -(5 1)  344153n311
lIp-5131513211  5    MPH5 33  - 41    `P11115." 1113  5513i-  1313*1*151",I*g                                                  *11 *          P- 33  5Cd$ I5   51131*3 P= .
519-  534411131 11*51134 -  11I11h51  9511114  S15  -51  511111                     sd-9      3*        Ms.. 11jn s- A is1513              a- *531591   .3l94.9
P_  -a-_.  _--d-    ""s-  ~~181-4                    133.3111                -3331313)51 P-111  43-5,5 .115330  -   P11P5P           5135   9  13351
511  11.A 3ad-33  54  13*   33  1  3.51II9- "I                                                   13533153P."*1  5143..-9133*C113-0  1  *1d5
11 31131 is 9113  AI131   CIIIP   55559 -P-Pq, 11  11 v           51113 11 95                                                      *1119  *. pa C.oill  P,uWIAM...3P1*1
Ill-li 1135151.5al.           lm 4111S1  44.31 S* 13   1513   151W            1*155-' 
Ii 933e11 I11el33~4j -5150111'435-014   31-31                                                                                                   *IP01CP-J -M..
p 115 Agsaadadais3 31a    11141151   41111*11. 11%3.1-4 -1d3,,                                          a11 351139       W"1111  3156 55391 P" 91 13- 115        111131511
pi a   tsial9-sl  95141   1114al;11 P.t11n         P  1151.2   1114    *1315 .11115-1,1-41 s-  as1 55131351  51  13d_    51 d11,  14 (on   WAdo    -,
53~i 111l4  11 511       )-    113               11-  14111lS431   4  3  11345135   51i1a11591.15113   13
0  31111 311311 1431514511114  5.3s41    S   531151  .11113511103351   5ll;I MI                                                    ..155   II   1  30-Was
14-5 "-  115 a`VdPi -111   -  5-19- 111- 1111 *                 I  511353                     13313451S-   5314 5*1   11-0-IA41131,          1 -           -I515151113
02131 -.1115151 8   113.ij I   1154111-  11151   --un 319            - 1111)1111113             Ills 1         6*1     ftq31 a113 "41  -513 13-l  9-J C413  1 1' 11
ImAsst-8- adada, P    a-ad   addme, C1515f VP P **311 .AVl                   115113PP     .-P d1 111.1*5513.   Ila.55    .15 15111ads  P-i-rs A-113
Asi l1. 11_1 211113.11 _1411 0333_9-                  P 14111361  1said,1                            5131314519-s,    g%    ..  .A-v  . 111414511931   19     1  1111 ad-1,   1103  
All   "I-dPlas"  I      1 AM  555 4   31131113         14102 141-v    s  .   Id%.PV   M          "     .RK1-lP -A1   - P 050  1951  .1 13304 IV                     -VI
Ii91131   s4.aS.5                     14911       33111514    -*15    i3n5Ae    05111131415   1331*   1553



-22-
ANNEX I
Page 4
SRI LANKA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN 1983 BY SECTOR                      ANAL RATE OF GROWN-M(1costant-prices)
Value Added
$ Million    z            1970-77       1977-83       1970-83
Agriculture               1,304     27.5            2.0            4.2           3.0
Industry a/               1,257     26.6            2.1            5.8          3.8
Services                  2.171     45.9            3.7           27. 0.t
Total /                 4,732    100.0            2.9            6.0          4.3
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983
USS Million     _x_
GDP at Market Prices                           5,199-      100.0
Investment                                     1,488        28.6
Gross National Savings                           843        16.2
Current Account Deficit                          645        12.4
Exports of Goods and NFS                       1,354        26.0
Imports of Goods and NFS                       2,136.       41.1
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs million)    Z of GDP at Market Prices
1983         1975     1982      1983
Current Receipts c/                     21,088        17.2    16.6       17.2
Current Expenditures A/                 23,822        18.3    18.0       19.5
Current Surplus                         -2,734        -1.1     -1.4      -2.3
Capital Expenditures e/                 15,578         7.3    15.9       12.7
External Assistance                     10,974         3.2      8.1       9.0
a/ Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
jt GDP at factor cost.
c/  Includes capital revenue.
4/ Includes advance accounts.
e/  Includes net lending.



-23-
AME I
Page 5
SRI LAuA - =c31C ZDIC&gS
"oin- cuutr. AND UtIGIS                    1970    JL7    19         I979             U191     1962    1983
(end of period)                                                       (Ca s
300&7 guDfi qsasi Money                   3.1I5   8.T17   10.892.  15,05  19.860  24,447  30,510  37,257
-  ak C-edit to Public Sector             2,856   4,659    4,226   6,267  13.095  IT.277  21.828  21.918
Ba%k Credic to Private Sector             1.320   4.116    6,4.9   8,705  Z.709  16.690  20.570  27,375
CPercentages or Index INubers)
Nuey and Quasi oney as Z of CDP            22_8    23.9    25.5       28_7    29.9    28.8    30.4    30.5
General Price Index (1970-100)            100.0   147.0   164..    182.6   230.2   271.6   301.1   343.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                        *5.9    -1_2   .12.1    *10.S   *26.1   *18.0   -10.9   -14.0
Bank Credit tD Public Sector              -10.4    *7.7    -9.3    b48.3  -109.0   .31.9   *26.3    '0.4
1nk Credit to Private Sector               48.6   '40.5   +56.7    .35.0   +46.0   .31.3   .23.2   -33.1
3ALANCEOF PA FAS3S                                               HRCRANTSE WPORTS (1983)
196     1982    1983                      -            milion     _
(USS Million)
res                           353       33.3
Exports of Goods, NES               1,346   1,305   1,354        Rubber                         1Z2       11.4
rmports of Goods, NES               Z.055   2.205   2,136        Cocont Products                 60       5.7
Resource Gap (deficit  -)            -709    -900    -782
All Othr Coiodities           5Z5       49.6
Interest Payments (net)    -_82                -80    -117
Vorkers    a sirttnces                  -        -        -            TOL                    1.059      100.0
Other Factor Pzyecs  (net)            -15      -18     -18
get Transfers                         203      264     272
Balance on Current                   -603    -734    -5          E        DErT "LS Million) Al
Direct Foreign  uvestowent             49       63      35                                  December   December
Net MwIXr Loans                       337      416     360                                    1982       1983
Disbursements                       380      484     445
A=ortizatiou                         43       68       85      Total Outst-nding           3.561      3.614
Capital Grants                        161      162      171
Otebr Capital (net)                    23       66      77       Total Outstanding
Change in Reserves C- - increase)     -33      -27      .-I       and Disbursed             1.965      2.205
Gross Reserves (end-year)             451      520      5A4
Net Reserves (end-year)                 5      -22      -21
DEMT SERVICE RATIO k/ C:)    10.1       11.9   -
Crude Oil and Petrolezz Products
Imports                            4&8       590     469
Exports                             175      158      114      IBRD/IDA LEDINI. Seotember 30. 1984 (USS Million)
IBRD IDAL
RATE OF EXCRANGE
Outs..anding and Disbursed     54.9   342.9
End 1978              End 1951                                   Undisbursed                     11.5   318-S
USS1-00 - Bs 15.51    USS1.00 - Rs 20.55
as 1.00 - USS 0.06    Rs 1.00 - USS 0.05                         Outstanding. including
Undisbursed                  66.4   661.4
End 1979              End 1982
USl1.00 - Rs 15.45    US$1.00 - Rs 21.32
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.06    as 1.00 - USS 0.05
End Z980              End 1983
USS1.00 - Rs 18.00    U5S$.OO - Rs 25.00
Rs 1.00 - USS 0.06    Is 1.00 - USS 0.04
a/ Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one yer.
k/ Ratio of debt serwice on public and publicly guaranteed N&LI debt (excluding IMF charges
and repurchases) to exports of goods and services.
South Asia Programs Department
November 16. 1964



-24-                      ANNEKh I_ ':
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIOS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Sentember 30. 1984)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                    Amount
Credit                                                             (net of cancellations)
No.      gar   Borrower      Purpose                            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight 1I as and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 72.9   96.1
701     1977  Sri lanka  Nahaveli Ganga Development II                 19.0       9.5
818     1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)                21.0      10.1
891       79  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                   20.0      9.4
900        I Sri Lanka  load Maintenance                               16.5       7.5
931     1; , Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                           15.5     11.3
942     19    Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                   16.0       3.4
979     19E   Sri Lanka  Kahaveli Ganga Technical Assistance            3.0       1.4
994     19E   Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                      53.0      21.7
1017     198   Sri Lanka  Rubber Rehabilitation                         16.0      13.2
1020     198L  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                            30.0       6.9
1041     1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                           30.0      20.1
1048     1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                   19.5      10.6
1079 la 1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                       33.5      16.0
1130 /a  1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                         13.5       5.9
1160 Ja  1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation             30.0      20.2
1166 /a  1981  Sri Lanka  Nahaweli Ganga Development III                90.0      44.8
1182 la  1982  ___ Lanka  SNI II                                        30.0      25.5
1210 /a  1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                 36.0      16.3
1240 Ja  1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                             20.0     14.1
2187     1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                           42.7     -       11.5
1317 /a  1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry 1                                     9.0       2.3
1363 /a  1983  Sri Lanka  TLird Rural Development                       23.0      21.1
1401 /a  1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                25.0      21.2
1494 /a  1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV                 30.0      30.0
2437 Iatb 1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV         12.1             12.1
TOTAL                                                           127.7  695.6    372.1
of which has been repaid                                       49.2    4.2        -
Total nov outstanding                                            78.5  691.4
Amount sold                               3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total nov held by Bank and IDA /c                                73.5  691.4
Total Undisbursed                                                23.6  348.5    372.1
/a  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in US dollars equivalent
at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's Reports and undisbursed
amonts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at
September 30. 1984.
/b  Not yet effective.
[c  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of th US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



-25-
AUME II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INvESTIENTS (as of September 30. 1984)
Year           Oblizor                    Type of Business       Amonmt (USS Million)
Loan  Eit  Total
1970      Pearl Textile                   Textiles                2.50   0.75   3.25
1978180/83 The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon        Development Banking      -    0.45   0.45
1978181   Bank of Ceylon                  Development Banking     7.00   -      7.00
1979      Cyntex                          Textiles                3.15   0.54   3.69
1979      llikecbris Industries           Polypropylene Bag       0.89   0.10    .99
1980184   LOLC                            Leasing                 -    0.34   0.34
1981      Taj Lanka Hotels                Hotel                  19.30   .70  20.00
Total Gross Couitments                             32.84  2.88  35.72
-       Less: Cancellations, TerminatidKW,
Repaymts, and Sales                          16.10   .75  16.85
Total Conitments now Held by IFC                   16.74  2.13   18.87



-26-
AM  In
Page 1
SR  LANKm
NAJOR IRRIGATION REEA ILITAIION PROJECr
SuMlementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare the Project                   TWo Years
(b)  Project Prepared by                                FADICP
(c) First Presentation to the Bank Group                June 1982
Cd)  Departure of Appraisal Mission                     March 1, 1984
Ce) Completion of Negotiations                          November 2, 1984
gf) Planned Date of Effectiveness                       April 15, 1985
Section II: Special BankIlDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: SDecial Conditions
(a) Condition of Effectiveness
Ci) Opening of project special account (para. 43)..
(ii) Fulfillment of the effectiveness conditions of the
CIDA grant and the SDC grant (para. 38).
(iii) Appointment of the Project Director, the Project
Officer, and the Project Nanagers (para. 33).
(iv) Formation of the Project Steering Committee (para. 35).
(v) Availability of sufficient O&N funds for 1985 (para. 36).



-27-
ANNEK III
Page 2
(b) Other Conditions
(i)  Proposal for catchment management to be submitted to
Association by December 31, 1987 (para. 29(g)).
(ii) Kid-ter- review to determine effectiveness of administrative
changes introduced in InRAS (para. 32).
(iii) Allocation of sufficient funds to meet operational and
maintenance costs (para. 36).
(iv)  Water charge collection progrm  (pmra. 45).



SRI LANKA
K  L I N O C H CH                                  MAJOR  IRRIGATION
K,Iinochchi - 
;lncc   ~g.J          '', >('  REHABILITATION  PROJECT
: -zr'  (u:~ L I       .T-'                   Location of Subprojects
,  v      ~~M     U    IL    L     A    I    T     T     I    v.,u   
//  j   '\,&,    ,,n,w,,,             X              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
9      20    2p~~~~11  41O
1'~~~~~ A'-     N N{/ h,, A R
V A V                                                  u  I Y A       
%t       >            ~~~~~~~~~Vovuniyo 4 o        r    2 
S                                   ~~~~~~~~~~TRINCOM   
|   t-           \9-r<Me~~~~~~~~~~~adowachthiyc    a
Anuradhopurq",
., .,      ihintale          t        fMi n
k C \, '   ^"'"   , X    i'a,l



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,I'.   /   j w  :l ,   
C,oloa
Junctn        A  0
0
rha foa his been piepated by -
Twe v>td Dank's sta# exdUfteitf    Golgamu lO
ta the conversence ot th           /.l,ot |                                                     -uw
,eacds and As fcOnr aNWn Ie/r t\ e                                                                                 onnoruT
m1ernat use at The tWtufM ank
and tdIfe t-hoanahcaa FNnce
CoIca rhoTwd &envtwlomas    K  R   L'  I E 'AI A
usred and Me bouandns  rhown\-
on tha map dr noI p an he         \I
ctlotnlthvFramnc  Coipcla he. n               /ambuluD' I/                                              DLt4  . I
any pudgrment on the legal status  ?1
at any tau.toiy of any
ondoe.sent ar oacceptance 01    t|
such beamdat,es                                                                  E                   I
SRI LANKA                     ELEVATION IN FEET                             ALPROPOSED
OVer 5000                                     DIVERSION WEIR       ( (  24$#j REHABILITATION
. ;   m   3Q0Q - 5000        gt           z ^,                          S                 ~~~~~~~~~~SUBPROJECTS
3000 -5000                                     EAEA      ~     -POOE
- |    t 500 - 3000                                                                  EXISTING FEATURES
0100                              IVRIN..I RESERVOIRS & TANKS
9g                                                                            M A T A 10  E                              - (   -- RIVERS
I 6 (   sD v o  l  )                    I     --        CANALS
.- ,,   t jAREA OF MAP                      )                                       I        U      POWER HOUSE
/ pD   &  oX r;                otcittJ i      t      >s       r    / t;11         *    ~~~~~INTAKES
V!t   a  3              (fc' |1   ten t;i             ||<                <                             )91              WEIRS
a                                               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~K  A  N  D Y--    TUNNELS
?  \                                                                        \,        *.7 @ > ' >IRRIGArED AREAS
PO                                    ~~~~~~~0 TOWNS
l CSJ  < )   A?   <   R)                 Z~~~~~~~IVERSION DAM-01o  SO     'J4y\;-                         ON
0-    LI  ~    ~        oa                        .~*-                           MAIN ROADS
~~pBI  *2                            ,-.---,---.- ~RAILROADS
:c0@                              > F                    4 g  S    < )-- *-- DISTRICT BOIJNDARIES
b  < , ,   ;;3.                   / \a.  '   t                             \ ~~~~~BADULl A                 
600   -Ar;   810 r82^                                        ToNuwaroE/iya -1-   'N U W  A R A
\ rDt ; \' ?/ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~E L I Y A a
6~~~~~~~l '2                                                  ro$Ur   -uar N@         



evioS 0.                 o 5   an Pass  80l 25S
Fo/z/tz2   \--'XIta\o!ib r)t-< e*>01
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Joffno LrubandgJngl
~~~N\  Fores ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~crb n



J"S N    \                                       b                                0
9020   <   X   \  ! Z    }   {   /         Tt"HCttW"t0
rhu Z1W Fos bean Prepared by
18,wi & Dis cOOOia* Oi ft
~       ~ ~~mre f   ade w w O U   o8C fl W t  V V
on hafl's row doE OVPM, on III
pall of rho biA'* DaM and VI
Irifersim;na Puruura CopaqWaW%
SRI LANKA                                                      \ow*v.or art. of
MAJOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT   Tank
Iranamadu Subproject                                                      /                                  of
KILOMEIRS *_0  1     2      3      4      5
MILES                                              ~rrO~d
0lt                                   2  --3      c; rnl;
PROPOSED CANAL REHABILITATION                 BUILT -UP AREA          N
-     MAIN CANALS                                   PRINCIPAL ROADS                                                      S R I
-  -   BRANCHES & DISTRIBUTARY CANALS                 OTHER ROADS
--   PROPOSED DIVERSION STRUCTURE           -       RAILROADS                                                 INDIAN   LANKA
AREA UNDER PADDY CULTIVATION                  TANKS & RESERVOIRS
AREA OF TRADITIONAL CULTIVATION         >     RIVERS                                                                               -
*    EXISTING PUMP HOUSE                            DISTRICT BOUNDARY
*Field canals not sh6wn.                                   '00
80o 20'                                                       8 25 '






