Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7788-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Banking Sector Support Loan)  
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 13, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 13, 2009, entered into between INDIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two billion Dollars ($2,000,000,000) 
(“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of 
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
 953-31-66175 
 91-11-23092477 
New Delhi 
 
FINE IN 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ 
Anup K. Pujari 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
N. Roberto Zagha 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Government of India has executed Statements of Intent with each of its 
Public Sector Banks.   
 
2. 
The Government of India and Reserve Bank of India have prepared a 
comprehensive Financial Sector Assessment and publicly released this document.
 
3. 
The Reserve Bank of India has taken necessary measures to improve the 
supervision of all Scheduled Commercial Banks, including: (i) improving 
arrangements and procedures for on-site supervision; (ii) requiring Public Sector 
Banks to ensure that certain important returns are filed online; and (iii) 
implementing the use of effective early-warning systems for banking distress. 
 
4. 
The Reserve Bank of India has taken necessary actions to proactively manage 
liquidity as a response to the financial crisis by reducing policy rates and reserve 
ratios and creating temporary special-purpose refinance facilities.
 
5. 
The Reserve Bank of India has taken necessary actions to strengthen prudential 
norms for the banking sector including: (i) issuing prudential guidelines 
regarding capital adequacy pursuant to the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision’s 
International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital 
Standards: A Revised Framework
;
(ii) adopting prudential norms on off-balance 
sheet exposures for Scheduled Commercial Banks; and (iii) strengthening 
prudential norms for valuation, classification, and operation of commercial 
banks’ investment portfolios. 
 
6. 
The Reserve Bank of India has issued revised exposure guidelines to govern 
credit made available by Scheduled Commercial Banks to individual and group 
borrowers and for capital market transactions. 
 
7. 
The Government of India, in coordination with the Reserve Bank of India, has 
ensured that elections of directors to Public Sector Banks were in compliance 
with the Reserve Bank of India’s “fit and proper” criteria for such elections.  
 
Page  7
6
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General
.
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts
.
The Loan is allocated according to the amounts 
set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Single tranche of Loan amount 
available for withdrawal 
 
1,995,000,000 
Front-end Fee 
5,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$2,000,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts
.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each February 1 and August 1: 
 
Beginning February 1, 2015  
through August 1, 2039 
 
2%
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  9
8
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  11
10 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“Financial Sector Assessment” means the Government of India and the Reserve 
Bank of India’s comprehensive assessment of its financial and banking sectors 
dated March 30, 2009. 
 
3. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Government of India’s fiscal year commencing April 1 
of a calendar year and ending March 31 of the next calendar year. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Non-Performing Assets” means those assets of banks and financial institutions 
that are considered non-performing under applicable guidelines of the Reserve 
Bank of India. 
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated August 20, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
7. 
“Public Sector Banks” means a commercial bank in which the Government of 
India owns at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the equity or has the ability to 
control its management and policies. 
 
8. 
“Reserve Bank of India” means the Reserve Bank of India, an entity constituted 
under Section 3(1) of the Reserve Bank of India Act (No.2 of 1934) for, among 
other matters, the purposes of taking over the management of currency from the 
Central Government; carrying on the business of banking under the Reserve 
Page  12
11 
Bank of India Act; and such other functions that might be assigned or entrusted 
to it under applicable laws and regulations. 
 
9. 
“Scheduled Commercial Banks” means the commercial banks listed in the 
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act (No.2 of 1934). 
 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Statements of Intent” means the statements of intent on annual goals as agreed 
between the Government of India and each Public Sector Bank that contain a 
number of quantitative criteria including an appropriate increase in gross credit 
that each such bank is expected to achieve during a Fiscal Year and an indicative 
level of Non-Performing Assets for each such bank. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
Page  13
12 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
Page  14
13 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(d) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
