Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4967 
Operation Name 
First Banking Sector Support Loan 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Banking (100%) 
Project ID 
P116020 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Department of Economic Affairs, MOF 
Room # 166/D, North Block 
India 
110001 
Fax: 2309-3422 
Implementing Agency 
Department of Financial Services, MOF 
India 
Date PID Prepared 
August 3, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 8, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 22, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
In recent years, India’s economic growth has been among the fastest in the world, supported by stable 
macroeconomic policies, high savings and investment, and increased economic liberalization that raised 
efficiency.   Banks have played a strongly complementary role, especially the public sector banks (PSB), 
which have maintained levels of credit growth, credit quality and profitability that is comparable to 
private and foreign banks in India and abroad. 
 
After a period of very high economic growth—which reached 9.7 percent in 2006-07—the Indian 
economy entered a cyclical downturn during the first half of 2007-08, partly reinforced by government 
policies intended to avoid an overheating.  The onset of the global financial crisis in 2008 and the 
subsequent spillover effects on economic activity in the Indian economy resulted in a sharper economic 
slowdown, with the growth rate falling to about 5-6 percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2008-09.  
Although there is uncertainty about near and medium term prospects, current trends suggest that a 
growth rate of between 5.5 and 6.5 percent for 2009-10 seems realistic.  In other words, India is likely to 
grow by only a little more than half the rate it has been able to achieve in recent years. 
 
While this growth rate is high by regional and international standards, it is well below India’s economic 
potential.  More importantly, employment and national competitiveness could be eroded by a prolonged 
global slowdown, undermining India’s long term success in reducing poverty in the country.  Among 
other measures, providing adequate credit during the slowdown and early stages of recovery will be 
important in containing such effects.  Private and foreign banks have reduced their lending as well as 
their deposit taking, requiring the PSB to step in.  However, traditional sources of capital expansion to 
support PSB lending at adequate levels are limited as a result of tight liquidity conditions in financial 
markets.   Several PSB do not have the option of going to the financial market for additional capital, as 
they are required to maintain a government ownership share of 51 percent. 
 
Page  2
During the presentation of its budget for 2009-10, the Government announced its intention to continue 
with the economic stimulus program
—which started in late-2008— to revive growth to pre-2008 levels.  
One component of this program is support to the PSB through its budget, to ensure that a shortage of 
capital does not emerge as a constraint on lending—as it has in several other developed and emerging 
financial markets—and as a precautionary shield against other adverse developments.  During 2008-09, 
the Government announced a budgetary allocation of Rupees 4600 crore (Rupees 46 billion or US$0.95 
billion) as capital for four PSB, of which US$0.39 billion was provided during 2008-09. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The World Bank’s support is in line with the Country Strategy for India that focuses on sustaining 
inclusive growth within the framework of the 11
th
 Five Year Plan.  The objective of the proposed 
operation is to provide budgetary resources to the Government, which will enable it to maintain the 
economic stimulus program at planned levels, including buffering the capital of PSB to help maintain 
adequate good quality credit growth in the economy and absorb the likely increase in non-performing 
assets resulting from the impact of the global financial crisis on India’s real sectors. 
 
Increased capital will be needed by several institutions to enable them to meet the expected demand for 
credit.  The PSB have indicated that areas of strong credit demand, in addition to priority sector lending, 
include infrastructure, which is widely seen as a good countercyclical asset class in an economic 
downturn.  In addition, banks are concerned about rising delinquencies in some market segments—
arising, for example, from higher receivables and inventories in SME and mid-sized corporate borrowers 
and the weaker cash flows of over-leveraged large corporate borrowers.  Some additional capital will 
also be required for agreed salary revisions and pensions, branch expansion to deepen financial inclusion 
and the adoption of new technology.   
 
The detailed analysis of the capital needs of the PSB has been developed from information for 19 banks 
that the Government believes are most likely to require additional capital.  In addition to their aggregate 
requirement, the likely time pattern of funding and sensitivity to credit growth and delinquency 
assumptions were considered in the estimates.  The various forms in which banks could reach targeted 
levels of capital adequacy (currently 12 percent, three percentage points above the mandatory level 
adopted by the authorities and based on Basel 2 guidelines) have also been considered in stress tests.  
Banks vary greatly in the share of Government ownership, retained earnings and overall headroom with 
regard to capital sources.  The Department of Financial Services (DFS) has asked all PSB to maintain 
Tier 1 capital at a healthy level of at least 8 percent, while maintaining an overall capital adequacy ratio 
of at least 12 percent.  Funds provided from the government budget will be in the form of Tier 1 capital 
and will be tailored to the specific situation of each PSB in the program. 
 
The Government estimates the total capital requirement to be Rupees 22,489 crore (US$4.8 billion) by 
2011, of which the Tier 1 need is likely to be Rupees 18,483 crore (US$3.9 billion).  It estimates that, in 
addition to the budgetary spending, about US$0.5 billion in Tier 1 and US$0.9 billion in Tier 2 capital 
can be obtained from the financial market and other innovative funding sources in the outer years.  This 
is likely to take place through the PSB using headroom in Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital to raise the balance, 
while complying with the 51 percent government ownership requirement.  The Government has 
indicated that the list of PSB eligible for capital support as well as the amounts and timing of the capital 
infusion into each PSB might change over time, depending on dynamic internal and external factors.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Page  3
World Bank support of a cumulative amount of US$3.0 billion will be provided through two 
development policy loans (DPL), which will disburse during 2009 and 2010 to support the 
Government’s budgetary needs for its macroeconomic stimulus packages and related measures.  The 
first DPL of US$2 billion equivalent will provide support to the government budget for the 2009-10 
fiscal year.  The subsequent DPL is likely to be implemented by June 2010, and its size and scope will 
be based upon an assessment of budgetary needs for 2010-11.  These needs, in turn, are likely to be 
affected by the overall level of stimulus spending by the Government and the residual capital 
requirement of the PSB, after accounting for capital sourced internally by the banks or from the financial 
market. 
 
Since mid-to-late 2008, the government has taken a series of policy and institutional steps to address the 
needs of the Indian economy in the context of the global economic slowdown and financial crisis.  These 
include monetary, fiscal, trade and financial sector measures, among others.  With respect to the 
effectiveness of the banking sector, it has identified through a financial sector assessment released in 
March 2009 some of the reform actions it intends to address in the coming years.  India has also 
implemented regulatory reforms that will strengthen on-site supervision and off-site surveillance, 
prudential norms (for example regarding off-balance sheet exposures), and criteria for the elected 
directors of the PSB.  Such measures, which have all been completed, will support the execution of the 
first DPL, and complement the broader macroeconomic, liquidity, and credit measures introduced by the 
Government over the past 12 months. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation is not likely to have direct effects on India’s environment and natural resources. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
Borrower and Public Sector Banks 
1500 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
2000 
 Total 
3500 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Deepak Bhattasali 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8582 
Fax: (202) 522-0356 
Email: Dbhattasali@worldbank.org 
 
