Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4771 
Operation Name 
First Banking Sector Support Loan 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Banking (100%) 
Project ID 
P116020 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Department of Economic Affairs,  
Ministry of Finance  
Room # 166/D, North Block 
India 
110001 
Fax: 2309-3422 
Implementing Agency 
 
Department of Financial Services, MOF 
India 
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 26, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 8, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
August 31, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
In recent years, India’s economic growth has been among the fastest in the world, supported by stable 
macroeconomic policies, high savings and investment, and increased economic liberalization that raised 
efficiency.   Banks have played a strongly supportive role, especially the public sector banks (PSB), 
which have maintained levels of credit growth, credit quality and profitability that is comparable to 
private and foreign banks in India and abroad. 
 
After a period of very high economic growth—which reached 9.7 percent in 2006-07—the Indian 
economy entered a cyclical downturn during the first half of 2007-08, partly reinforced by government 
policies intended to avoid an overheating.  The onset of the global financial crisis in 2008 and the 
subsequent spillover effects on economic activity in the Indian economy resulted in a sharper economic 
slowdown, with the growth rate falling to just 5.3 percent in the third quarter of 2008-09.  Although 
there is considerable uncertainty about near and medium term prospects, on the basis of current trends a 
growth rate of between 5.5 and 6.5 percent for 2009-10 seems realistic.  In other words, India is likely to 
grow by only a little more than half the rate it has been able to achieve in recent years. 
 
While this growth rate is high by regional and international standards, it is well below India’s economic 
potential.  More importantly, employment and national competitiveness could be eroded by a prolonged 
global slowdown, undermining India’s long term success in reducing the incidence of poverty in the 
country.  Among other measures, providing adequate credit during the slowdown and early stages of 
recovery will be important in containing such effects.  However, traditional sources of capital expansion 
to support PSB lending at adequate levels are limited as a result of tight liquidity conditions in financial 
markets.   Several PSB do not have the option of going to the capital market for additional capital, as 
they are required to maintain a government ownership share of 51 percent. 
Page  2
The Government has announced its intention to support the PSB through its Budget to ensure that a 
shortage of capital does not emerge as a constraint on lending
—as it has in several other developed and 
emerging financial markets—and as a precautionary shield against other adverse developments.  During 
2008-09, the Government announced a budgetary allocation of Rs. 3,800 crore (Rs. 38 billion or 
US$781 million) as capital for three PSB, of which Rs. 1,650 crore was provided during 2008-09.  For 
2009-10, World Bank support will help meet more than half of the estimated budget financing needs.  
The World Bank’s support is in line with the Country Strategy for India that focuses on sustaining 
inclusive growth within the framework of the 11
th
 Five Year Plan. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed operation is to provide budgetary resources to the Government to enable it 
buffer the capital of PSB to help maintain adequate credit growth in the economy, and to absorb the 
likely increase in non-performing assets resulting from the global financial crisis and its impacts on 
India’s real sectors. 
 
Increased capital will be needed by several institutions to enable them to meet the expected demand for 
credit.  In addition, banks are concerned about rising delinquencies in some market segments—arising, 
for example, from higher receivables and inventories in small and medium enterprises (SME) and mid-
corporates and weaker cash flows of over-leveraged large corporate borrowers.  Some additional capital 
will also be required for salary revisions, pensions and branch expansions agreed earlier, and for 
meeting Basel 2 norms. 
 
The detailed analysis of the capital needs of the PSB has been built up from individual bank information.  
In addition to their aggregate needs, the likely time pattern of funding and sensitivity to credit growth 
and delinquency assumptions were considered in the estimates.  In addition, however, the various forms 
in which the Government intends the banks to reach targeted levels of capital adequacy (currently 12 
percent, three percentage points above the mandatory level adopted by the authorities and based on 
Basel 2 guidelines) have also been considered in stress tests.  Banks vary greatly in the share of 
Government ownership, retained earnings and overall headroom with regard to capital sources—
innovative perpetual debt instruments, perpetual non-cumulative preference shares, hybrid debt capital 
instruments, preference shares, subordinated bonds, etc.  DFS has asked all PSB to maintain Tier 1 
capital at a healthy level of at least 8 percent, while maintaining an overall capital adequacy ratio of at 
least 12 percent.  Capital injections will need to be tailored to the specific situations of each PSB in the 
program, and is likely to be primarily in the form of pure Tier 1 equity capital. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
World Bank support of a cumulative amount of US$3.0 billion will be provided through two 
development policy loans (DPL), which will disburse during 2009 and 2010 to support the budgetary 
needs for capital infusions into PSB identified by the Government.  This financing will complement the 
Government’s macroeconomic stimulus packages and other measures taken to minimize the effect of the 
global crisis on the Indian economy.  The first DPL of US$2 billion equivalent will provide support to 
the Government Budget for the 2009-10 fiscal year.  The subsequent DPL is likely to be implemented by 
June 2010, and its size and scope will be based upon an assessment of financial market conditions and 
capital needs for 2010-11. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Page  3
The proposed operation is not likely to have direct effects on India’s environment and natural resources. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
Borrower and Public Sector Banks 
600
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
2,000
Total 2,600
6. Contact point 
Contact: Deepak Bhattasali 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8582 
Fax: (202) 522-0356 
Email: Dbhattasali@worldbank.org 
 
