Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR1855
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IBRD-77880)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.0 BILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDIA
FOR A
BANKING SECTOR SUPPORT LOAN
June 29, 2011
PREM, Finance and Private Sector Development Department
South Asia Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2011)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs)
Rs 45.03 = US$1
US$ 1.61 = SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR: Aprill-March3l
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSSL   Banking Sector Support Loan              LIBOR London Interbank Office Rate
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy              M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
CRAR Capital to Risk (Weighted) Assets Ratio    MoF    Minsitry of Finance
CRR    Cash Reserves Ratio                      NPA    Non Performing Assets
CSO    Central Statistical Organisation         OMO    Open Market Operation
DDO    Deferred Drawdown Option                 PD     Program Document
DFS    Department of Financial Services         PDO    Program Development
DPL    Development Policy Loan                         Objectives
FDI    Foreign Direct Investment                FSR    Financial Stability Report
PSBs   Public Sector Banks                      FSU     Financial Stability Unit
RBI    Reserve Bank of India                    GDP    Gross Domestic Product
SBI    State Bank of India                      Gol    Government of India
SBL    Single Borrower Limit                    IBRD   International Bank for
SLR    Statutory Liquidity Requirement                 Reconstruction and
SOI    Statement of Intent                              Development
ICR    Implementation & Completion Report       TFC    Thirteenth Finance Commission
ISR    Implementation Status Report             YoY    Year On Year
Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
Country Director: N. Roberto Zagha
Sector Manager: Ivan Rossignol
Task Team Leaders: Deepak Bhattasali and Thomas A. Rose
ICR Team Leader: Michael Markels


﻿INDIA
BANKING SECTOR SUPPORT LOAN
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design.......................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes        .........      ................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes           ....................................    .......... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                      ............................... 22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................. 23
6. Lessons Learned..................................................... 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners      .......... 25
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes        ............ 26
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results                          ....................................... 27
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.   ..................     .......... 28
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......      .......... 29
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders    ................ 30
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents...................................... 31


﻿A. Basic Information
Country:            India                Program Name:        Banking Sector Support
Loan
Program ID:          P116020             L/C/TF Number(s):   IBRD-77880
ICR Date:            04/26/2011          ICR Type:            Core ICR
GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:  DPL                 Borrower:            NDIA
Original Total       USD 2,000.0M        Disbursed Amount:    USD 2,000.OM
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      USD 2,000.0M
Implementing Agencies:
Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Finance, Banking Division, Government of India
Coinanciers and Other External Partners:..........
Revised / Actual
Process           Date           Process       Original Date     es)
Date(s)
Concept Review:    04/24/2009   Effectiveness:      12/01/2009       12/01/2009
Appraisal:         07/27/2009   Restructuring(s):
Approval:          09/22/2009   Mid-term Review:
Closing:            06/30/2010      06/30/2010
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank               Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Satisfactory   Government:               Satisfactory
Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory   Iemeni                 Satisfactory
Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
for                Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance: Performance:


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation         Indicators      QAG Assessments          Rating:
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem                        Quality at Entry
Program at any time    No                                    None
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                   Quality of
No None
time (Yes/No):                            Supervision (QSA):
DO rating beforeHihyStsaor
Closing/Inactive status:HihyStsaor
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                100               100
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Corporate governance                                     10              10
Macroeconomic management                                 50              50
Other financial and private sector development           10              10
Regulation and competition policy                        10              10
Standards and financial reporting                        20              20
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       Isabel M. Guerrero            Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:     N. Roberto Zagha              N. Roberto Zagha
Sector Manager:       Ivan Rossignol                Kiatchai Sophastienphong
Program Team Leader: Deepak Bhattasali and Niraj    Deepak Bhattasali
Verma
ICR Team Leader:      Michael Markels
ICR Primary Author:   Ravi Kanbur
Monika Sharma
F. Results Framework Analysis
Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the proposed operation is to provide capital support to banks to help maintain
confidence in the banking sector, prevent shortages of capital from leading to a slowdown in
credit growth, and to provide a capital buffer to absorb the likely increase in NPA resulting from


﻿the global financial crisis and its impact on India's real sectors. Such funding support would
complement the Government's macroeconomic policy stimulus and other measures taken to
minimize the impact of the global crisis on the Indian economy. The additional capital will serve
as a precautionary shield, which could become crucial in the context of the ongoing global
financial crisis.
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target  Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
approval       Target      Completion or
documents)      Values      Target Years
Indicator 1:   Growth of PSB credit is consistent with the growth of nominal GDP
Total credito/s for
all PSB=Rs
2412508 crore.
Value          Total credit o/s for all Consistent with         Gro25h oeS
(quantitative or  PSB = Rs. 2018711  the growth of              credt at .1i
Qualitative)   crore.              nominal GDP.                 hi   than. in
higher than nominal
GDP growth of
17.3%.
[Date achieved  03/31/2009          09/30/2010                  03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target               Actual Value
FormallyromAchieved at
Indicator      Baseline Value     Values (from     Revised     cmplet
approval                   Completion or
documents)                  Target Years
Indicator 1:   Maintenance of appropriate capital adequacy level in PSB
e ITier 1 CRAR of 8%
Value          Tier 1 CRAR of 6%   Te a     o  f               in 85% of PSBs and
8% and overall
(quantitative or  and overall CRAR of           .               overall CRAR of
Qualitative)   9% in PSB.           80%of1S13                 12% in 96% of
80% of PSB.                  PB
PSBs
Date achieved  03/31/2009           09/30/2010                  03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


﻿G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                    Ata
No.    Ate                 DO                    IP             Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    12/18/2009       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                0.00
2    06/28/2010    Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory         1995.00
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


﻿1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.0.1  In its November 2008 meeting, the G20 called upon the Bretton Woods Institutions to
play a central role in the global response to the biggest financial crisis in a generation1. The Bank
responded globally, and in India. As the CAS Progress Report for India notes, ""Guided by the
G20 November 2008 decisions, the Bank supported India's response through a series of
operations (total US$4.2 billion) that helped ensure credit growth in the economy, and access to
infrastructure finance. IFC contributed with an unprecedented US$2.7 billion in investments to
the private sector in FY09-10. The Banking Sector Support Loan (BSSL), India Infrastructure
Finance Corporation, Ltd. (IIFCL), Powergrid, and additional financing for Small-and Micro-
Enterprise (SME) Project- were all in response to the global financial crisis. This helped
maintain the pace of credit expansion to the private sector and credit flows to SMEs critical for
job creation and infrastructure investment, in addition to needed financing for infrastructure." The
Bank thus came forward with a package of support to India in the face of the global financial
crisis.
1.0.2  The Banking Sector Support Loan (BSSL) provided budget support to the Government of
India (Gol) to enable it to maintain its economic stimulus program to contain the effects of the
global crisis. An important component of the broader stimulus and recovery program of the Gol
was the provision of additional capital support to public sector banks (PSBs) in order to i)
maintain confidence in the banking sector, ii) ensure that credit growth is not hampered on
account of capital constraints, iii) provide a capital buffer to absorb the possible increase in non
performing assets (NPA) resulting from the global financial crisis and iv) help contain the effects
of the global crisis on priority productive sectors and vulnerable social economic groups. For this,
the Gol estimated that India's PSBs would require an injection of at least USD 4.8 billion (bn)
during 2009-11. The objective of the proposed program of two Development Policy Lending
operations (DPLs) of about USD 3 bn, was to provide budgetary support to the government,
equivalent to over half of Gol's requirement, for capital injection before June 2010. The second
loan in this program was expected to calibrate and reflect the specific financing needs, as real and
financial market conditions evolved during 2009-10, and include a program of policy and
regulatory measures designed to further strengthen the effectiveness of the banks in achieving the
objectives of the Government's economic program. In addition to maintaining credit growth, the
program's prior actions and triggers focused on improving financial sector oversight, regulation
and supervision, strengthening prudential norms, improving risk management and governance. As
discussed later in this assessment, the second loan did not in fact materialize for a number of
reasons. However, BSSL was a key element of the Bank's overall package of support to India's
response to global financial crisis.
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.1.1  The deterioration in global financial markets and global economic slowdown in 2008
created great uncertainty in India about the prospects for growth and development. India's prime
minister said in a speech delivered at a meeting with industry leaders, "The financial crisis has
exacerbated a global downturn that was expected earlier but is now likely to be more severe and
Annex 6
1


﻿prolonged. A crisis of this magnitude was bound to affect our economy and it has. International
credit has shrunk with adverse effects on our corporates and our banks. Global uncertainty is also
tending to dampen investor sentiment." Indian policy makers set about designing a robust
program, to leave markets in no doubt that they would respond effectively to the crisis.
1.1.2  The Indian economy did indeed see moderation in growth in the third quarter of 2008-09
after growing at an average of 8.8 per cent year -on year (y-o-y) over the past five years. In the
last quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 growth had fallen to 5.6 and 5.8 percent (y-o-y)
respectively. The Gol and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) used several measures to contain the
impact of the global slowdown on growth. The RBI eased its monetary stance and responded
quickly by reducing interest rates, the cash reserves ratio (CRR) and the statutory liquidity
requirement (SLR), stepped up open market operations (OMO) and intervened in the foreign
exchange market to cushion the depreciation of the rupee. RBI lowered its policy rates in four
steps by a cumulative 425 basis points starting in September 2008 to April 2009. Fiscal stimulus
packages worth 3.5 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) were introduced which included
revenue and expenditure measures at the central and state levels of government.
1.1.3  One of the major challenges was to maintain the flow of credit to the economy while
maintaining credit quality. High economic growth witnessed in the years prior to the crisis was
partly fueled by a sharp rise in bank credit, and the onset of the global financial turmoil had
further raised reliance on bank credit due to the drying up of external funding sources.
1.1.4. While India's banking sector continued to be strong, efficient and well regulated, it faced
constraints due to the sudden economic slowdown, arising mainly from widening of spreads on
foreign borrowings and the weakening of short term capital inflows, which especially affected the
private and foreign banks. Credit spreads for leading US and European banks shot up by 40 to
100 per cent and more between the end of August and early October 2008. The 3-month London
Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) rose from 2.82 per cent on September 12, 2008 to 4.82 per cent on
October 10, 2008. There was also a risk that spillovers from the global financial crisis coinciding
with the turning of the domestic credit cycle could result in a substantial increase in non
performing assets (NPAs). It was recognized that demand for credit from PSBs continued to grow
and was likely to grow in the medium term. It was important that the PSBs continue to have
access to the capital to support the credit demand and make up for the sharp fall in lending by
private sector and foreign banks. Foreign banks slowed their credit growth rate to 3.5 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2008-09, compared to 27.8 percent in the same period (y-o-y) in the previous
year. Private sector banks also saw their credit growth rate shrinking from 18.8 percent in fourth
quarter (Jan-March) of 2007-08 to 10.2 percent (y-o-y) in fourth quarter in 2008-09. The credit
growth rate remained relatively healthy for the nationalized banks as well as the State Bank of
India (SBI) and its associateS2, which recorded growth rates of 24.7 and 21 percent, respectively,
in the fourth quarter of 2008-09, marginally lower than 25 and 20.8 percent (y-o-y), respectively,
in the previous year. As the BSSL Program Document (PD) noted, the Government, RBI and the
World Bank, as well as analysts3 carried out stress tests and assessments of bank capital under
2 Commercial banking sector in India consists of public sector banks (SBI and its six associates, nationalised banks and
IDBI bank Ltd.), private sector and foreign banks.
3 Mckinsey
2


﻿.4
alternative scenarios . The simulation exercises showed that the PSBs would need capital support
to sustain credit growth at reasonable levels and/or as a precautionary shield. The simulation
exercise also estimated the need of capital for 16 PSBs in order to reach a CRAR level of 12
percent and a Tier I capital of 8 percent.
1.1.5  As the BSSL PD noted and as envisaged in Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India
(2009-12), the CAS supports the achievement of rapid, inclusive growth in India through studies
and lending operations that address both cyclical and structural factors. Strengthening
macroeconomic, fiscal and financial stability at both the central and state levels is a key focus of
the CAS. The CAS recognized that the global crisis posed important challenges to the
achievement of the goals laid out in the government's 1 1th five-year plan. It also envisaged the
World Bank and other development partners to come up with creative solutions in a timely
manner and scaling up funding support. The CAS flagged the expansion of development policy
lending beyond the identified projects and their extension to the national level.
1.1.6  This was the context for the Bank's accelerated response to Gol's request for BSSL in
2009. The CAS progress report in turn noted that BSSL was an important component of the
Bank's support to the Gol's crisis response strategy.
1.2    Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
1.2.1  The objective of the proposed operation was to provide capital support to banks to help
maintain confidence in the banking sector, ensure that credit growth is not hampered by capital
constraints, and to provide a capital buffer to absorb the likely increase in NPA resulting from the
global financial crisis and its impact on India's real sectors. As its PDO, BSSL PD noted,
"support to Indian economic growth and employment during a period of global slowdown and
financial crisis by helping maintain credit expansion at a reasonable rate."
1.2.2  BSSL was designed as the first of a set of two programmatic crisis-response operations.
The outcome indicators in the table below were designed accordingly. In the absence of a second
operation, some of the outcomes which were a part of the second operation were not achieved
while others were achieved fully. It was emphasized in the PD and the Implementation Status
Report (ISR) that the design of a second operation would require a re-assessment of evolving
conditions in the Indian economy, financial markets and the condition of banks, and the policy
reforms needed to support their effectiveness. It was further recognized that triggers for the next
operation would need to be re-examined in light of the changed conditions and, once determined,
rapid progress on completing the actions would be required if the operation was to respond to the
Government's needs.
Table 1: Indicative Monitoring Indicators
Indicators for the programmatic operations  Baseline   Target (September  Achievement by end
30, 2010)         of BSSL-I 1/
Macroeconomic  1.Maintenance of      Government is in  Compliance with the  India's
stability     appropriate           compliance with the  fiscal responsibility  macroeconomic
4 Annex 5 and Table 12 of PD has details of simulations estimating the capital requirements of the PSBs
3


﻿macroeconomic stance    fiscal responsibility  and budget       policy framework
(central and general    and budget          framework of the    has been adequate to
government fiscal balance,  management      Government of India  respond to the global
quasi-fiscal spending,  framework                               financial crisis and
inflation, external balance                                     set the stage for a
and international reserves                                      return to high growth
for medium term                                                 rates. Fiscal stance
sustainability)                                                 has been conducive
2.Financial market                                              to macroeconomic
stability (short and long                                       stability. (See para
term real interest rates,                                       2.2.3 for details)
money growth, and stock
market indices)
Credit Growth  1I.Growth of PSB credit 2/  Credit outstanding at  Credit outstanding of  Growth of PSB
PSB was Rs.20,082   PSB is consistent   credit at 19.5%
billion at end-March  with the growth of  relative to nominal
2009                nominal GDP         GDP growth of
17.3%.
Financial       I.Increase in PSB filing  Initiation of filing  Not less than 90% of  All PSB currently
Sector Actions  returns through the online  online returns by  PSB filing online  file their returns
system                  PSB in 2008-2009    returns             online
2.Maintenance of        Tier 1 CRAR of      Tier 1 CRAR of      Tier 1 CRAR of 8%
appropriate capital     minimum 6% and      minimum 8% and      in 85% of PSB and
adequacy level in PSB   overall CRAR of     overall CRAR of     overall CRAR of
minimum 9% in PSB   12% in at least 80%  12% in 96% of
by end-March 2009   of PSB              PSBs.
Banking Sector  I.Improved risk         Initiation of stress  Not less than 90% of  All PSB have
Actions         management through      testing framework in  PSB adopt stress  adopted stress testing
adoption of stress testing  PSB in 2008-2009  testing framework  frameworks.
frameworks in PSB
2.Improved corporate    Government has      Government has
governance in PSB       adopted "fit and    adopted "fit and    The Government has
proper" criteria for  proper" criteria for  adopted 'fit and
elected directors in  nominated directors  proper' criteria for
all PSB in 2008-    in all PSB          nominated directors
2009                                    of the PSB.
1/ Assessment is based on interviews with and data provided by DFS, Ministry of Finance.
2/ For monitoring purposes 21 PSB will be covered for these indicators, excluding the six
associate banks of the State Bank of India
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
Not Applicable
1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
1.4.1   The policy areas agreed under BSSL were: i) maintaining credit growth in public sector
banks; ii) improving financial sector oversight, regulation and supervision and managing liquidity
to avoid a credit crunch; iii) strengthening prudential norms and improving risk management and
governance.
4


﻿1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
Not Applicable
1.6 Other significant changes
1.6.1   BSSL was seen as the first of two loans, the role of the second loan being to support an
extended economic stimulus if needed, while addressing deeper reform issues in the financial
sector. The second loan did not in fact materialize. However, the government carried forward the
program of capitalization through its own resources.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.0     The recovery of the Indian Economy has been robust. Real GDP grew at 8 percent and
8.6 percent in 2009-10 and 2010-11 respectively. The credit growth revived to 24.4 percent (y-o-
y) in December 2010 from 13.8 percent (y-o-y) in December 2009'. While the credit growth in
2009-10 was led by public sector banks, in 2010-11 all bank groups participated in increased
credit off take. The third quarter review of monetary policy by RBI noted that the public sector
banks remained the dominant lenders in the banking system, accounting for nearly three-fourths
of the incremental year-on-year credit off-take at the end of the third quarter of 2010-11. This is
in line with their non-crisis market share.
2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)
2.1.1   All prior actions for BSSL were completed, by design, prior to Board approval in
September 2009.
Table 2: Targets and achievements under BSSL- I
Issue          Operation 1              Operation 2             End-of Program    Achievements
Outcomes and     by end of BSSL-
(by June 2009)           (by June 2010)          Indicators        I
1/
.      Maintain credit growth
Avoid credit   The Gol has executed     PSB have achieved a level  Outcome: Credit  Growth of PSB
crunch and     Statements of Intent on  of credit growth that is  growth is       credit at 19.5%
maintain good  Annual Goals with each of  consistent with the growth  sustained at levels  relative to
quality credit  its Public Sector Banks  of nominal GDP, while  commensurate      nominal GDP
growth in the                           containing NPA within   with expected     growth of 17.3%.
banks (PSB)                             reasonable limits.      GDP growth.
NPA ratio
Indicator: Growth  remained steady.
rate of credit in  Gross NPAs as
PSB.             ratio to gross
advances for
Commercial
Banks PSB as a
Non food gross bank credit
5


﻿whole increased
from 2 per cent
in 2008-09 to 2.2
per cent in 2009-
10.
I.     Overall financial sector actions
Improving       The Gol and the RBI have  At least 90 percent of the  Outcome:        Financial Sector
financial sector  prepared a comprehensive  PSB have commenced     Improved           Assessment has
oversight,      Financial Sector          filing key returns through  oversight of the  been prepared
regulation and  Assessment (FSA) and      the online returns filing  financial sector.  and published on
supervision     publicly released this    system which is part of the                 Ministry of
document                  offsite monitoring and    Indicator:        finance website
supervision system        Percentage of PSB
The RBI has taken                                   filing returns    All PSB
necessary measures to     Based on the statements of  through the online  currently file
improve the supervision of  Intent, the Government has  system. PSB   their returns
all Scheduled Commercial  undertaken periodic       capital adequacy,  online.
Banks, including (i)      monitoring of the financial  earnings, asset
improving arrangements    health of PSB including on  quality and     The CRAR was
and procedures for on-site  capital adequacy, earnings,  liquidity     13.5 per cent and
supervision; (ii) requiring  and asset quality      indicators.        13.3 percent at
Public Sector Banks to                                                 end march 2009
ensure that certain                                                    and 2010
important returns are filed                                           respectively -
on-line; and (iii) implanting                                          above 12 percent
the use of early warning                                               both under Basel
systems for banking                                                   I and Basel II
distress                                                               framework.
The return on
assets (RoA
defined as net
profits as per
cent of average
total assets) in
2008-09 and
2009-10 for
PSBs as a whole
was 1.02 and
0.97 respectively.
The RBI
instituted the
Financial
Stability Unit
(FSU) in the
Bank to conduct
macroprudential
surveillance of
the financial
system on an
ongoing basis
and the first
Financial
Stability Report
(FSR) was
released in
March 2010.
FSR is published
6


﻿twice a year.
Managing            The RBI has taken         Government has        Outcome: Better   RBI in its
liquidity to        necessary actions to      carried out a study of  understanding of  quarterly review
avoid a credit      proactively manage        the impact of the     effectiveness of  of credit policy,
crunch              liquidity as a response   various policy and    liquidity         annual report on
to the financial crisis   regulatory initiatives  enhancing       banking in India
by reducing policy        instituted in the     measures.         and financial
rates and reserve ratios  banking sector since                    stability report
and creating              mid 2008              Indicator:        makes
temporary, special                              Assessment note   assessment of
purpose refinance                               on effectiveness of  liquidity
facilities                                      enhancing         conditions. RBI
liquidity         has taken
effective
measures using
policy rates,
reserve ratios and
open market
operation (OMO)
to manage
liquidity
III.    Banking sector actions
Strengthening   The RBI has taken         The Government has        Outcome:          All PSBs are
prudential      necessary actions to      ensured that all PSB have  Improved         implementing the
norms           strengthen prudential norms  adequate capital to comply  adherence to  guidelines on
for the banking sector,   with the Basel II         prudential norms.  Basel II
including, among other: (i)  framework                                framework
issuing prudential                                  Indicator:
guidelines regarding capital                        Percentage of PSB
adequacy pursuant to the                            implementing the
Basel Committee on                                  guidelines on
Banking Supervision's                               Basel II
"International Convergence                          framework
of Capital Measurement
and Capital Standards: A
Revised Framework"; (ii)
adopting prudential norms
on off-balance sheet
exposures for Scheduled
Commercial Banks; and
(iii) strengthening
prudential norms for
valuation, classification,
and operation of
commercial banks'
investment portfolios
Banking sector                            Government has reviewed   Outcome: Better   Part of second
development                               key banking reform        follow up to      operation
proposals from recent task  banking sector
forces and committees and  reports.
prepared a report on
actions taken and those   Indicator:
being considered for      Comparison report
implementation during     prepared on
2010-11                   actions taken and
those being
7


﻿considered.
Improving risk  The RBI has issued revised  Government has taken  Outcome:        All PSB have
management     guidelines to govern credit  necessary actions to ensure  Improved risk  adopted stress
made available by        that not less than 90   management in    testing
Scheduled Commercial     percent of PSB have     the banking       frameworks.
Banks to individual and  adopted stress test     system.
group borrowers and for  frameworks approved by
capital market transactions.  their boards       Indicators:
Formulate and issue      Government has completed  Percentage of PSB
guidelines on exposure   a study on the practices  with a stress test
norms for commercial bank  followed by PSB for   framework
credit to                assessing environmental
individuals/groups, industry  and social risks.
and capital markets.
Improving      The Gol, in coordination  Government has adopted  Outcome: Better  The Government
governance     with the RBI, has ensured  "fit and proper" criteria in  governance in  has adopted 'fit
that elections of directors to  nominating non- official  PSB.     and proper'
Public Sector Banks were  directors for all PSB                    criteria for
in compliance with the                           Indicator:        nominated
Reserve Bank of India's                          Adoption of better  directors of the
"fit and proper" criteria for                    corporate         PSB.
such elections                                   governance
practices in PSB.
Productivity                            Government has required  Outcome:         Part of second
and                                     those PSB with          Systematic follow  operation
performance                             significantly lower than  up on actions to
average productivity levels improve
to prepare action plans to  productivity and
improve productivity    performance of
PSB.
Indicator: Action
plans to address
performance gaps.
1/ The assessment on achievements by BSSL-I is based on publicly available data, and interviews
and data provided by the Government.
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation
2.2.1   Robust Recovery of Indian Economy. The Indian economy recovered from                 the
slowdown at the time of the global financial crisis with strong GDP growth, in particular over the
first half of 20 10-1 1.The economy is estimated to grow by 8.6 percent (y-o-y) during the fiscal
year 2010-11 as compared with a revised estimate of 8 percent growth for 2009-10. The first and
second quarter growth rates of 8.9 percent in 2010-11 were the highest achieved since the third
quarter of 2007-08. The agricultural sector grew strongly in 2010 after a normal monsoon and
slow growth in the previous year. The industrial sector registered double-digit growth for three
consecutive quarters in 2010-11. On the expenditure side, while the domestic demand led by
government consumption led the recovery in the first half of 2009-10; a resurgence of investment
with a pickup in private consumption spurred the recovery afterwards. On the trade front,
merchandise exports fell by 4 percent in 2009-10 but grew by 29.5 percent (y-o-y) between April
and December 2010 to reach $164.7 billion. Imports grew by 19 percent in the same period as
compared to the previous year. From April 2009, there was a resurgence of portfolio capital
8


﻿inflows. Portfolio flows have recovered strongly, rising from $26.8 billion during April to
December 2009 to $33 billion in the same period in 2010. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)
remained strong during the global crisis but recently there has been a drop in net FDI flows from
$22.6 billion to $17.8 in April- December 2010.
Figurel: India GDP growth by industry (y-o-y change, in percent)
16.0%                                                            16.0%
14.0%      -   Agriculture    Services  -  GDP   -Industry       14.0%
12.0%                                                            12.0%
10.0%                                                            10.0%
8.0%                                                            8.0%
6.0%                                                            6.0%
4.0%                                                            4.0%
2.0%                                                            2.0%
0.0%                                                            0.0%
-2.0%                                                            -2.0%
-4.0%                                                            -4.0%
Cr cr   0      cr   N  cr      cr 0H  cr      cr 0 H N cr
00  00  00  00                 C)  CD  C) 0c:     _
oo I.~I~0       0  00  00      M~  M~  M~  C  CD  C
Figure 2: Growth in Exports and Imports (y-o-y change, in percent)_
10-Exports           -Imports
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
-20%
-40%
-60%
-    r-  00 C  00  00  00  M~  M~  a)  a)  C>  C  C   )
-(0               0~ -,  <   -  0       <(      0
Source: Central Statistical Organisation (CSO), RBI
2.2.2 RBI reversed its policy stance to monetary tightening. Monetary policy was eased
significantly in September 2008 with a reduction in policy rates by more than 400 basis points,
liquidity injections through lower prudential ratios and open market operations (OMO). The RBI
was among the first central banks to reverse the monetary easing measures and policy rates were
tightened significantly in steps starting in October 2009. Overall, the RBI has raised the Repo
and Reverse Repo rate by 200 basis points and the statutory CRR by 100 bps since February
2010. The rise in inflation along with signs of a revival in the rate of credit growth and an
expansion in industrial production has been cited as reasons for monetary tightening by RBI.
Furthermore, it rolled back some of its earlier measures facilitating external borrowing.
9


﻿Figure 3: Policy rates (in percent)
10.00
-    Repo Rate
9.00
8.00                                -   Reverse Repo Rate
7.00                                    Cash Reserve Ratio
6.00
5.00
4.00
3.00
2.00
1.00
0.00
r.  r.  r,  00  00  00  00  M~   M   M~  M   0   0   0D 0CD
- 0      CD   )      C)C)C  C)  C  - C    C   -
Source: RBI
2.2.3 The fiscal policy stance was widened by 3.5 percent of GDP through tax reductions
and expenditure increases (including higher wage payments as recommended by Sixth Pay
Commission) in 2008-09 compared with the previous year, and some further expansion in 2009-
10. This led to a worsening of the deficit to 6.1 percent of GDP in 2008-09. This raised serious
concerns over fiscal sustainability and crowding out from government borrowing. However, the
strength of government demand supported GDP growth in the second half of 2008-09, when
private demand slumped. The 2010-11 budget cautiously rolled back some of the stimulus
measures adopted in the second half of 2008-09 with measures like partial reversal of the
reduction in excise taxes, and re-imposition of import duty and excise taxes on crude and
petroleum products. The central government deficit is estimated at 6.7 percent of GDP in 2010-
116, which is marginally above the budget target and lower than the deficit of 6.8 percent of
GDP in 2009-10. The union budget for 2011-12 targets a very ambitious consolidation. The
government benefited from windfall receipts from the auction of 3G telecom licenses (US$20bn)
and disinvestment of shares in public enterprises of together 1.6 percent of GDP in 2010-11. It
accounts for these receipts as non-tax revenue and therefore estimates the 2010-11 deficit at 5.1
percent of GDP. For 2011-12, the government targets a deficit of 5.0 percent of GDP (4.6
percent of GDP in its own accounting because of envisaged disinvestment receipts of 0.4 percent
of GDP). The 13th Finance Commission (TFC) recommended general government deficits to
contract by 4 percentage points of GDP between 2009/10 and 2014/15 and public debt to fall
from 79 to 68 percent of GDP stressing on the fiscal consolidation.. On the structural reforms
side, some positive steps have been taken in last two years including a new nutrient based
fertilizer pricing scheme and deregulation of fuel prices. However these reforms have not been
fully implemented. On the major tax reforms, the progress has been slow. It was announced in
2011-12 budget that the new direct tax code will be implemented and the constitutional
amendment bill for the Goods and Service Tax bill will be tabled in the coming fiscal year.
6 World Bank definition. Under the Gol's accounting rules, privatization and telecom license revenue is treated as
"above the line" revenue.
10


﻿Figure 4: Fiscal Deficit (per cent of GDP)
12%            M Centre's Fiscal Deficit
10%            m States' Fiscal Deficit
8%
6%
4%
2%
0%
0     00          000                      0
A  d,-                                              C'
0     0
Source: Budget Documents, RBI, CSO
BE: Budget Estimate, RE: Revised Estimate
2.2.4  The growth in credit has been strong and gradually getting more broadbased. The
strong credit growth reflects growing credit demand associated with robust economic
growth. All the bank groups have registered an increased credit offitake. The data on
sectoral deployment of gross nonfood credit show the increasing broad-based pattern in
2010-11 as compared to 2009-10.
Figure 5: Sectoral deployment of Non food credit (y-o-y change, in percent)
40
35 -                                                  Dec-08
30 -                                                  Dec-09
25 -                                                  Dec-10
20
15
10
5
0
-5   Agriculture and    Industry       Services      Personal loans
Allied Activities
Source: RBI
11


﻿2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
2.3.1  The BSSL identified a set of indicators to measure the outcomes and benchmark progress.
The Department of Financial Services (DFS) in Ministry of Finance (MoF) was identified as the
key nodal and coordinating agency for the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the
program. The monitoring indicators were well defined. Given that the lending policy guidance,
performance contracts and majority ownership of PSBs is implemented through DFS in MoF, the
department has significant capacity to carry the monitoring and evaluation activities for the
program. The data on all the indicators is collected regularly by RBI and MoF and is available in
public domain.
2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):
2.4.1  BSSL was designed as the first of a set of two programmatic crisis-response operations.
However, with the change in context relative to the first BSSL, as markets revived and capital
was available more freely and after doing an analysis of possible needs, sources of capital and
options offered by the World Bank to respond to the request, Gol decided not to pursue the
second operation, although it did continue the capitalization program, choosing to fund this form
its own resources. The ongoing discussions on the resolution of the single borrower limit (SBL)
issue were also relevant in the Government's decision.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
3.1.1  The global financial crisis of 2008 threatened a global meltdown and severe reversal
for emerging market economies like India, China and Brazil. In the policy debate that
followed, there was a broad consensus that the first priority of governments was to prevent a slide
into depression. Economic stimulus programs were introduced in major developed economies,
even if they were considered too timid by some observers. Emerging market economies also
introduced major stimulus programs, and it is now recognized that these played a central role not
only in avoiding a recession in these countries, but in shoring up aggregate demand at the global
level, thereby halting the slip into a global depression.
3.1.2  India came to the crisis with a very healthy growth history, but which threatened to
be undone by the multiple impacts of the crisis-on capital flows and on export demand.
Growth in the previous year 2007-08 was 9.3 percent per annum. From early 2008, growth was
slowing down due to domestic cyclical reasons when the global crisis hit. The global crisis
triggered adverse impact through credit, capital flows and trade channels. In the last quarter of
2008 and the first quarter of 2009 growth fell to 5.6 and 5.8 percent respectively (Figure 1). The
stresses were also apparent in the stock market, and in the banking sector. After the Lehman
Brothers collapse the Bombay Sensitive 30 Stock index (BSE 30) lost 40 percent of its peak
January 2008 value. In the banking sector, private and foreign bank lending seized up-credit
growth by these entities fell from 27 percent (YoY) in last quarter of 2007-08 to 3.5 percent
(YoY) in last quarter of 2008-09. For private banks it slowed from 18.8 percent (YoY) to 10.2
percent (YoY) during the same period.
12


﻿3.1.3. It was in the context of this crisis that the government of India approached the Bank
to support its economic stimulus program, partly as a signal of international backing to
maintain market confidence. It is perhaps difficult now, after the broad success of economic
stimulus programs the world over, and in India, to re-imagine the panic that hit world markets,
and the turmoil that threatened growth and development, in late 2008 and in 2009. The
slowdown that India was already facing since early 2008 due to domestic cyclical reasons
increased the concern of policymakers even more over the potential fallout of the global crisis.
The key to stopping a collapse was restoration of market confidence, through general and robust
signaling of the government's resolve to do whatever was necessary to shore up aggregate
demand, and through specific measures in key areas that would demonstrate this intent.
Although there was a specific area in which support was requested, it is clear from interviews
with government officials that this was seen as part of an overall strategy to maintain market
confidence. The chart below (Figure 6) on RBI's professional forecast survey shows the decline
in expected current fiscal year credit growth and next fiscal year credit growth in the period
December 2008 to March 2009, however the period since June 2009 saw a rise in the expected
credit growth in next fiscal year. There was a deliberate attempt made by Gol through media to
inform the market of the request and ongoing negotiations with World Bank on this support.
Figure 6: Expected credit growth- RBI professional forecast survey
23
-Mean for Current Fiscal Year
22
-Mean for Next Fiscal Year
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10
Source: RBI
3.1.4  The Bank's Country Strategy (FY 2009-2012) recognized the threat that the global
crisis posed to India's growth and development. It indicated a readiness to help the
government manage the crisis so as to stay the course in the medium term. This operation,
requested by the government as part of its overall strategy of crisis response, showed the Bank's
responsiveness to client needs as demanded by the global situation and as envisaged in the CAS.
3.1.5  The government targeted the maintenance of credit growth in the economy as
centrally important to fuelling economic activity in the face of the threat to aggregate
demand, and this essentially meant support to credit growth through the PSBs. Overall
credit growth had been rising from 23 percent in 2000-01 to a high of 32 percent in 2005-06, and
13


﻿this in turn had underpinned the historically high economic growth. Up to the crisis, the credit
growth had been dominated by (PSBs) and by private domestic and foreign banks. But as noted
above credit expansion through private banks froze as the crisis hit. The major instruments the
government thus had in its hands to keep credit growth going through the crisis were the PSB.
3.1.6  Indian banks are firmly regulated, with capital requirements equal to or ahead of
international norms. It is widely recognized that this regulation played a key part in preventing
the buildup of toxic assets during the period prior to the crisis. Indeed, during this entire period
before, during, and after the crisis, capital requirements were being tightened, staying one step
ahead of international norms. Thus the requirements for Tier 1 capital went from 4 percent to 6
percent during this period, staying ahead of the Basle norms. But maintenance of these norms
naturally means that when credit growth is required, it must be accompanied by capital infusion.
3.1.7  PSBs in India are legally required to have 51%   government ownership, and their
performance is framed and monitored through statements of intent (SOI) signed with the
MoF. The SOIs establish, inter alia, projected credit growth overall and in the government's
priority sectors-agriculture, small and medium enterprises, etc. They are the instrument through
which the government, as owner, can influence the PSB to achieve its objectives of credit growth
and composition.7 The PSB, however, face constraints in maintaining credit growth, because of
stringent and strengthening capital requirements mentioned above. Moreover, they might face a
constraint in meeting these capital requirements from the capital markets because of the legal
limit of 49% of private ownership.
3.1.8  Reform of the financial sector is a longstanding issue of debate and action in India.
There has been significant reform, undertaken incrementally in the reality of coalition
politics and significant reforms remain to be undertaken. But the worst global financial
crisis in a generation was not the occasion on which to launch complex structural reforms.
A series of reports from eminent Indian analysts and practitioners, commissioned by the Indian
government, have offered diagnoses and proposed reforms. It is generally recognized that
momentum is building slowly for reform, for example for changing or addressing creatively the
issue of 51% government ownership--just recently the Government tabled the Banking Laws
(Amendment) Bill 2011 which proposes to raise the ceiling on voting rights of shareholders of
nationalised banks from 1% to 10%, a move which increases the access of the nationalised banks
to the capital market to raise funds required for expansion of the banking business. But it would
have been inappropriate to have tried to tie such deep reforms to a crisis response operation
targeted to maintaining credit growth as part of an overall package of economic stimulus to
prevent economic meltdown. As noted in the project document, "The main objective of the
proposed BSSL is to ensure that, together with other critical stimulus and recovery spending
needs, the Government is able to meet such requirements and that capital does not emerge as the
constraint on their credit growth during the current economic downturn, or during the early stage
of India's economic recovery."
It should be noted that SOIs do more than set credit growth targets and priority sector targets. Targets are set for asset
quality, capital adequacy, write off ratios, credit deposit ratios etc. It should also be noted that PSB are increasingly
operationally independent banks that are listed in the markets and have responsibility to shareholders beyond the
government.
14


﻿3.1.9  The overall design envisaged the BSSL as being the first of two operations. The
second operation was foreseen as a loan of $1 billion, to follow the first BSSL of $2 billion. The
PD notes: "The second loan in this set will be calibrated to reflect the specific financing needs, as
real and financial conditions evolve during 2009-10. In addition, it will include a program of
policy and regulatory measures designed to further strengthen effectiveness of banks in achieving
the objectives of the Government's economic program." The PD also recognized that
"Responding to the full request of the Government, coupled with the planned International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) lending in the CAS, would carry projected exposure
over the current SBL by FY13." As it turned out, at the end of the first operation the Government
and the Bank decided not to pursue the second operation. There seem to have been three main
reasons for this outcome. First, the macroeconomic recovery from the crisis was rapid. Second,
concerns over the ongoing SBL discussions led to a decision not to use up $1 billion of exposure
in this way. Third, interviews with government and staff revealed that agreement on the sorts of
deeper reforms which could underpin a second operation might not be achievable in the time
frame envisaged in the PD. The first and second reasons were adequately flagged and discussed
in the PD. However, the PD did not give adequate indication of the possible issues that could
arise in a second operation, in that the depth and pace of reform might have to be greater than that
envisaged in the policy matrix as prior actions and triggers for the second operation. Of course,
this did not affect the design of the first loan, which was primarily a loan to support economic
stimulus. Further, as a government official noted in interviews conducted by the team, "standing
by your client at a time of crisis earns you a seat at the table in discussion of long term reform
issues." Nevertheless, it can be argued that the difficulties in proceeding with a second operation,
while discussed, should have been reflected in the PD and more clearly in the design of the
program as a whole. In particular, a clearer indication could have been given in the PD of the
stronger reform trajectory that was likely to have been part of a second operation.
3.1.10 The timeline of this operation is important in assessing design and implementation,
given its justification as crisis response. It is generally recognized that the global crisis went
into full swing with the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008, and with its impacts on
capital markets, on trade and on economic activity coming throughout the fourth quarter of 2008.
It is clear from a review of the press at that time that the Indian authorities were in high alert
mode during this period. The concept review for this operation took place on 04/27/2009 and
appraisal was on 07/27/2009. The loan was approved on 09/22/2009 and became effective on
12/01/2009. Loan proceeds were withdrawn in a single tranche on 04/30/2010 and the loan was
closed on 06/30/2010. With these dates, a question can be raised as to why the concept review
only took place in late April of 2009, 8 months into the crisis, and why loan approval only came
in September of 2009, a full twelve months into the crisis-might not Bank processes and Gol
processes have been speeded up in response to the crisis? The project team, and Gol officials,
have argued in interviews that even while the loan was in preparation the fact that it was in
process was the key in signaling to markets, as part of the overall set of measures the government
had already taken and was taking to contain the impact of crisis. Nevertheless, this experience
suggests that the Bank should review its procedures and the speed of its response in crisis
situations.
3.1.11 Although the loan disbursed in the second quarter of 2010, when by some measures
India was already coming out of the crisis, the right question to ask is whether the loan
supported market confidence and credit growth in the early stages of the crisis through
signaling the availability of funds. On a simplistic assessment the timing may raise a question
again about the design of the operation and its contribution to addressing the crisis given that
15


﻿application of funds came so late in the crisis cycle. However, while the Bank and Gol could no
doubt have moved quicker, the real question is one of signaling-whether the fact that the
infusion was known to be coming gave the PSBs confidence to continue credit expansion. In the
event, credit growth did indeed meet targets, and the subsequent capital infusion addressed capital
requirements that had arisen as a result. Interviews with PSBs confirmed that it was the
confidence that capital infusion would come that helped maintain the credit growth momentum
for them, including to the priority sectors, since this was all done in any case in the framework of
the SOI with the government. Credit rating agencies also confirmed that a key factor in their
ratings of PSBs is the confidence that the government will indeed supply required capital for
expansion.
3.1.12 Selection of banks for capital infusion. The objective was to maintain the expansion of
credit growth in the aggregate. GOI's infusion targeted those banks constrained by capital
adequacy.. There were other secondary factors as well, as discussed in the PD8. The PD and
Bank staff wisely stayed away from micromanaging the selection of banks for support. The
potential for moral hazard, defined by capitalizing insolvent banks, was not an issue for two
reasons. First, none of the banks were insolvent. Banks needed capital to sustain credit growth,
and given the backdrop of the financial crisis, to accommodate a buffer for potential losses.
Second, all the state banks have to adhere to performance contracts codified in their SOI with
GOI. As it turned out, seventeen state banks received capital infusion from GO!.9
3.1.13 It is also important to discuss why an alternative instrument such as a deferred
drawdown option (DDO) was not used. A DDO is not considered as an option in the Concept
Note. Interviews with the project team reveal that it was rejected in discussions with the
government team for various reasons including: (i) since the government intended to draw down
the full sum as part of its strategy to facilitate credit growth, a deferred drawdown that a DDO
offered did not make sense, (ii) a perception that a DDO at this late stage might have negative
signaling effects as a desperate crisis measure rather than well structured plan to get ahead of the
impacts of the global trend, and (iii) the cost structure of the DDO was thought to be
disadvantageous; this changed in August 2009 and became more attractive, but this was too late
for this operation. However, it also seems clear from the interviews that the possibility of using a
DDO in the event of a crisis had not been a systematic part of the Bank's dialogue with the client
before the crisis (as one government official observed, it is the responsibility of the Bank to
initiate and sustain these discussions on alternative instruments in advance of a possible need for
them). While not necessarily an issue in terms of this specific operation, which did the best it
could given the situation as it was, this experience suggests that going forward the Bank should
8 Para 67 in the PD. They include the fact that during preparation of the project, equity capital markets were difficult
to access for capital raising, and some banks were close to the 49% limit on private ownership. Other factors include
budgetary situation, retained earnings, growth plans and overall headroom with regard to other capital sources-
innovative perpetual debt instruments, perpetual non-cumulative preference shares, hybrid debt capital instruments,
preference shares, subordinated bonds, etc.
Out of a total of twenty public sector banks. SBI Group was handled separately. These banks included Allahabad
bank, Andhra bank, Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, Central bank of India, Corporation Bank,
Dena bank, Indian overseas bank, Oriental bank of commerce, Punjab national bank, Syndicate bank, UCO bank,
Union bank of India, United bank of India, Vijaya bank, IDBI bank Ltd. ( Source: DFS, Gol and Corporate
announcements, NSE)
16


﻿have such a dialogue with Gol on crisis instruments, in the context of a general discussion on the
range of instruments the Bank can offer, and especially in light of recent revision to the terms and
conditions of instruments such as DDOs.
3.1.14 Finally, since the operation essentially provided direct budgetary support, it is
important to discuss the fiscal environment and its role in the design. During the crisis
response phase the government was in expansionary mode on all fronts, monetary and fiscal. The
Bank's total contribution of $2 billion is small relative to the total size of the fiscal expansion
(which was around 3.5% of GDP, $40 billion), but its advantage is that the government did not
have to borrow on the markets, thereby displacing funds for private sector use. The terms of
IBRD borrowing can also be argued to be beneficial relative to other sources of finance. The key
issue in design is an assessment of the government's resolve and its plans for recovering the fiscal
deficit after the crisis. The project document discussed this and came to the conclusion, on the
basis of the evidence then available, that these plans were credible.
3.1.15 To summarize, while the BSSL does very well on the relevance of objectives, design
and implementation, in meeting Gol's need to respond to the biggest global crisis in a
generation, it does raise some issues. (i) There could have been greater clarity on the depth and
pace of reforms that would have been needed to underpin the second operation in the program.
(ii) Even given the key signaling role of the BSSL operation, the processing of the operation
could have been more rapid-in the event, actual disbursement happened a considerable time
after the crisis broke. (iii) While the arguments against the use of a DDO are strong in retrospect,
there could have been greater prior dialogue with the government on crisis response instruments;
so that mere unfamiliarity would not have the weight it might have been given in the
circumstances.
3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
3.2.0  This section follows closely the policy matrix. However, it should be noted that the
policy matrix in the PD is based on two operations, of which BSSL1 was the first. The matrix
specifies End of Program Outcomes and Indicators jointly, and does not break them out operation
by operation. A judgment has to be made therefore on which outcomes and indicators pertain
directly to BSSL1 and which were envisaged as relating to the second operation. Some guidance
can be derived from the prior actions listed in the matrix, and the narrative below provides an
interpretation of which outcomes/indicators belong to which operation, in the assessment of PDO.
3.2.1   Maintain credit growth: The issue is to avoid a credit crunch and maintain good quality
credit growth in PSBs. The stated indicator for the outcome is the growth rate of credit from PSBs.
An additional indicator, not specified in the policy matrix but implied by the requirement of
growth in "good quality" credit, is the portfolio of PSBs during the period of the operation. Table
3 shows credit growth and measures of portfolio quality for 2007-8, 2008-9, 2009-10 and 2010-
11, for all PSB, for the seventeen banks that received a capital infusion through the operation in
2010-11 and as comparators for private and foreign bankslo. The Tables 3, 4 and 5 below show
clearly that credit growth was maintained without major deterioration in portfolio quality. The
10
Annex 6 has details on the capital infusion in Public Sector Banks by Gol in 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-11 and the
recent data on CRAR for PSBs.
17


﻿credit growth in 2008-09 and 2009-10 slowed down for private sector banks and turned negative
for foreign sector banks while public sector banks continued to grow with only marginal increase
in gross NPA ratio in 2009-10.
Table 3: Growth of Credit of Commercial Banks (y-o-y, in percent)
Bank Group        2007/08         2008/09          2009/10    2010-11 (April- Dec)
Public sector banks    22.5            20.9                  19.5                15.8
Foreign banks          28.5             4.0                  -1.5               14.3
Private sector banks   19.9             10.9                 11.7                17.9
Total                  22.3            17.5                  16.7               16.1
Table 4: Non Performing Assets of Commercial Banks
2007-08            2008-09             2009-10
Public  Private Foreign Public Private Foreign Public Private Foreign
Gross NPA (%)                2.2   2.6   1.9    2.0   2.9    3.8   2.2   2.7   4.29
Net NPA (%)                  1.0   1.05   0.8  0.94   1.29  1.81   1.1   1.03   1.82
Note: Gross NPA are shown as a ratio to gross advances; net NPA as a ratio to net advances
Table 5: Gross NPA (ratio to gross advances) and Growth in Advances(y-o-y, in percent)
Mar- 08              Mar-09              Mar-10
Gross NPA  Advances Gross NPA   Advances Gross NPA Advances
Allahabad Bank                  2.0      20.4        1.8      18.3       1.7    21.8
Andhra Bank                      1.1     22.8        0.8      28.9       0.9    27.2
Bank of Baroda                  1.8      27.6        1.3     34.3        1.6    22.2
Bank of India                   1.7      33.3        1.7      25.9       3.3     17.9
Bank of Maharashtra             2.6      27.8        2.3      17.1       3.0     17.6
Central Bank of India           3.2      40.9        2.7      17.1       2.3    23.3
Corporation Bank                1.5      30.8        1.1     23.8        1.0    30.3
Dena Bank                       2.4      25.8        2.1      25.4       1.8    22.8
Indian Overseas Bank            1.6      28.3        2.5     24.0        4.7     5.5
Oriental Bank of Commerce       2.3      23.6        1.5      25.5       1.7    21.9
Punjab National Bank            2.7      23.7        1.8     29.5        1.7    20.6
Syndicate Bank                  2.7      24.0        1.9      27.3       2.4     10.9
UCO Bank                        3.0      17.2        2.2     24.9        2.2     19.9
Union Bank of India             2.2      19.0        2.0      30.0       2.3    23.6
United Bank of India            2.7      25.7        2.9      27.0       3.2     19.6
Vijaya Bank                     1.6      30.8        2.0      11.9       2.4     17.1
IDBI Bank Limited               1.9      28.1        1.4     24.3        1.5    33.4
All Public Sector Banks         2.2      24.8        2.0     25.7        2.3    19.6
HDFC Bank                       1.4      35.1        2.0      56.5       1.4    25.0
ICICI Bank                      3.3      16.0        4.3     -2.7        6.5   -36.5
Private Sector Banks            2.5      25.0        2.9     11.0        3.0     9.9
Citibank N.A.                   2.6      17.1        5.1       5.2       3.4     -9.3
Hongkong & Shanghai             2.3      30.0        5.4      -5.7       6.8    -14.3
Banking Corporation Ltd.
Standard Chartered Bank         2.1      10.7        2.8     12.8        2.6     10.6
Foreign Sector Banks            1.9      27.5        4.3      2.6        4.3    -1.3
All Commercial Banks            2.3      25.0        2.3     21.0        2.5    16.6
Note: As of March 31, end of India fiscal year
Source: RBI
18


﻿3.2.2   Overall financial sector actions: Improving financial sector oversight, regulation and
supervision. The indicators are the percentage of PSBs filing returns through the online system,
and PSBs capital adequacy, earnings, asset quality and liquidity indicators. The Table 5 above
shows portfolio indicators for PSBs, the seventeen chosen banks, and the private banks. Table 6
below shows capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) for commercial banks. Clearly,
portfolio quality in the seventeen banks and PSBs in general has been maintained at a high level,
and capital adequacy in particular is in compliance with or superior to Basle norms. On filing of
returns, the Department of Financial Services confirmed that all PSBs now file their returns
through the online system.
Table 6: CRAR of commercial Banks
Basel-II
2008                     2009                     2010
Tier-I  Tier-II  Total   Tier-I  Tier-IT  Total   Tier-I  Tier-II  Total
Public Sector Banks
Allahabad Bank              8.0     5.1     13.1     8.0     5.1    13.1      8.1     5.5    13.6
Andhra Bank                 8.7     4.6     13.2     8.7     4.6    13.2      8.2     5.8    13.9
Bank of Baroda              8.5     5.6     14.1     8.5     5.6    14.1      9.2     5.2    14.4
Bank of India               8.9     4.1     13.0     8.9     4.1    13.0      8.5     4.5    12.9
Bank of Maharashtra         6.1     5.9     12.1     6.1     5.9    12.1      6.4     6.4    12.8
Canara Bank                 8.0     6.1     14.1     8.0     6.1    14.1      8.5     4.9    13.4
Central Bank of India       7.0     6.2     13.1     7.0     6.2    13.1      6.8     5.4    12.2
Corporation Bank            8.9     4.7     13.6     8.9     4.7    13.6      9.3     6.1    15.4
Dena Bank                   6.8     5.3     12.1     6.8     5.3    12.1      8.2     4.6    12.8
Indian Bank                11.9     2.1     14.0    11.9     2.1    14.0     11.1     1.6    12.7
Indian Overseas Bank        7.9     5.3     13.2     7.9     5.3    13.2      8.7     6.1    14.8
Oriental Bank of Commerce   9.1     3.9     13.0     9.1     3.9    13.0      9.3     3.3    12.5
Punjab & Sind Bank          8.4     5.9     14.4     8.4     5.9    14.4      7.7     5.4    13.1
Punjab National Bank        9.0     5.1     14.0     9.0     5.1    14.0      9.1     5.1    14.2
Syndicate Bank              7.9     4.8     12.7     7.9     4.8    12.7      8.2     4.5    12.7
Union Bank of India         8.2     5.1     13.3     8.2     5.1    13.3      7.9     4.6    12.5
United Bank of India        7.6     5.7     13.3     7.6     5.7    13.3      8.2     4.6    12.8
UCO Bank                    6.5     5.5     11.9     6.5     5.5     11.9     7.1     6.2    13.2
Vijaya Bank                 7.7     5.4     13.2     7.7     5.4    13.2      7.7     4.8    12.5
IDBI Bank Ltd.              6.8     4.8     11.6     6.8     4.8     11.6     6.2     5.1    11.3
Private Sector Bank
HDFC Bank                  NA       NA      NA      10.6     5.1    15.7     13.3     4.2    17.4
ICICI Bank                 11.8     2.2     14.0    11.8     3.7    15.5     14.0     5.5    19.4
Foreign Bank
Citibank                   11.2     0.8    12.00    12.4     0.8    13.2     17.3     0.9    18.1
HSBC                       NA       NA      NA      14.1     1.2    15.3     16.6     1.4    18.0
Standard Chartered Bank     8.2     2.4     10.6     8.0     3.6     11.6     8.9     3.5    12.4
Note: As of March 31
Source: RBI
3.2.3   Managing liquidity to avoid a credit crunch. The outcome is a better understanding of
effectiveness of liquidity enhancing measures, and the indicator is the production of an
assessment note on effectiveness of enhancing liquidity. However, it is clear from the
prior action columns of the matrix that this refers primarily to the second operation. The
prior actions of the BSSL are expansion of capital to meet the needs of expansion out of a
crisis, and this has indeed been achieved (see Tables in Section 1.2 and 2.1). In any event,
the RBI does do periodic reviews of policy and regulatory issues.
19


﻿3.2.4  Banking sector actions
3.2.4.1 Strengthening prudential norms. In interview, the RBI has confirmed that all PSBs are
implementing the guidelines on Basel II framework.
3.2.4.2 Banking sector development. It seems clear from the context that this is an outcome
expected at the end of the two-loan program, and associated particularly with the
projected second loan. Our information is that the government is in the process of
discussing and preparing actions based on recent task forces. For example, just recently
the Government tabled the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill 2011 which proposes to
raise the ceiling on voting rights of shareholders of nationalised banks from 1% to 10%, a
move which increases the access of the nationalised banks to the capital market to raise
funds required for expansion of the banking business. It also empowers state-run banks to
issue bonus shares and make rights issues to raise capital for expansion and meet
regulatory requirements. The Bill also proposes to remove the voting right restriction of
10% for private sector banks and align it with actual shareholding. The amendments are
expected to enhance the regulatory powers of the RBI and enable nationalised banks to
increase or decrease their authorised capital with approval from the government and the
RBI. The Bill proposes to confer powers upon the RBI to impose conditions it deems
necessary while granting approval for acquisition of 5% or more share capital of a
banking company and to seek information and returns from associate enterprises of
banking entities.
3.2.4.3 Improving risk regulation. In interview, the government confirmed that all PSBs now has
a stress test framework, as set out in the policy matrix.
3.2.4.4 Improving governance. The indicator proposed in the matrix, "Adoption of better
corporate governance practices in PSBs" is not very well specified, but the government
confirmed in interviews that all PSB now have "fit and proper" criteria in nominating
non-official directors, which was the prior action for the projected second loan.
3.2.4.5 Productivity and performance. From the context it is clear that this is an outcome
associated with the second operation. In general, the government is in the process of
examining performance of PSBs, and does so in the context of the statement of intent
(SOI) agreements.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
3.4.1  The design of the BSSL and its implementation scores high on the relevance of its
main objective and the achievement of this objective. The objective of the BSSL was to
"provide support to the Government to enable it to maintain its economic stimulus program to
contain the effects of the global crisis." The biggest crisis facing the world economy in a
generation threatened the hard won gains of growth and development in India-recall that the
much smaller East Asia crisis had wiped out the poverty reduction gains of a decade in some
countries. Gol launched an all out effort to contain the impacts of the crisis through a
comprehensive economic stimulus program. Maintenance of credit growth was a key component
of this program and, in turn, maintenance of credit growth by PSBs was an important sub-
component. The Government asked the Bank to provide crisis support, focused on credit growth
in PSBs, but also as a general signal to the markets of international support for the Government's
20


﻿program. The Bank responded, and the Bank's support is clearly greatly appreciated by the
government and has strengthened the relationship. As one government official noted, standing by
its client at the time of crisis has earned the Bank a seat at the table in medium term policy
discussions.
3.4.2  However, despite the overall success of the design and the outcome, a number of
issues have been identified by this assessment. (i) There could have been greater clarity in the
PD on the depth and pace of reforms that would have been needed to underpin the second
operation in the program. (ii) Even given the key signaling role of the BSSL operation, the
processing of the operation could have been more rapid-in the event, actual disbursement
happened a considerable time after the crisis broke. (iii) While the arguments against the use of a
DDO are strong in retrospect, there could have been greater prior dialogue with the government
on crisis response instruments, so that mere unfamiliarity would not have the weight it might have
been given in the circumstances.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
3.5.1  A major reason for continued government ownership of banks is the importance that
targeted credit to vulnerable sectors has played and still plays in Indian policy making. All public
and private sector banks have to meet targets for lending to the Agricultural sector, to small and
medium enterprises, self help groups, etc., coming to about 40% of total lending. (Figure 7)
Figure 7: Growth in Priority Sector Lending (y-o-y change, in percent)
70.0 -            Priority Sector- Total
60.0 -          m Agriculture
50.0 -            Small Scale Industries
40.0 -
30.0 -
20.0  -
10.0
0.0
2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10
Source: RBI
3.5.2  While the main objective of this operation was to maintain overall credit growth in
support of the economic stimulus program, the targeted credit policy means that it is also an
operation in support of maintaining credit to the most vulnerable sections of society. Maintaining
overall economic growth would of course be beneficial for poverty reduction objectives, but
maintenance of targeted lending to vulnerable sectors would further serve to protect the poor from
the immediate impacts of the crisis.
21


﻿3.5.3  Although one can have a discussion about the medium term efficacy of targeted credit as
an instrument to help the poor, and there are strong arguments on both sides, in the present policy
framework, and in crisis response mode, it should be clear that a policy of maintaining credit
growth by PSBs is a pro-poor policy as well as a pro-growth policy.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
NA
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
NA
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low
4.1    The major risk to India in the face of the crisis was the risk of doing nothing. The bold
economic stimulus held the global crisis at bay, and the economy has now returned to its pre-
crisis growth path. The poverty consequences of a zero or negative growth path, as experienced
by some western economies that did not go into stimulus mode, would be dramatic compared to
the "V" shaped recovery that India did manage.
4.1.2  However, the risk of fiscal and monetary stimulus in the face of a crisis, even if there is
no choice in the matter in order to avoid a descent into deep recession, is that the Government
will not be able to pull back and achieve fiscal consolidation after the crisis has passed. In case of
India, the consolidation has been slow. However, the fiscal stance has been conducive to the
macroeconomic stability. Strength of government demand supported GDP growth in the second
half of FY2008-09, when private demand slumped. There are of course medium term fiscal issues
in India, related to the demands of a number of items of public expenditure. However, emerging
from the crisis, the general evaluation of markets is that the government is indeed on the path of
rectifying the fiscal gaps that opened up as a result of the crisis response (recognizing of course
that medium term issues remain). The union budget 2011-12 targets a very ambitious
consolidation by targeting deficit of 4.6 percent in 2011-12 as compared to revised estimate of 5.1
percent in 2010-1111. The Budget has cautiously rolled back the stimulus partially in two previous
budgets. The deregulation of fuel prices has been looked as a positive towards the path of fiscal
consolidation. IMF's assessment note on India (Article IV, Feb, 2011) noted, "The government's
renewed commitment to fiscal consolidation is welcome. Not only would tighter fiscal policy be
the best way of cooling the economy, but this year's receipts overperformance offers an
opportunity to reconstitute fiscal space faster." Market analysts12 , in their analysis of Budget also
said that on the reform front, there has been some progress towards fiscal consolidation.
11 According to Gol accounting methodology
12 Citibank, India
22


﻿5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
5.1.1  The Bank responded to a clear demand by the Gol to stand by them at a time of great
uncertainty, when a global melt down was not off the cards, and the potential consequences for
India in terms of capital flows, trade and economic activity could have been catastrophic. The
Bank developed an operation to support a key component in the stimulus program, the
maintenance of credit growth by PSBs. The development of the operation was an important part
of the government's signaling to markets that they were responding to the crisis and the
international community was with them.
5.1.2  However, despite the overall success of the design and the outcome, a number of issues
have been identified by this assessment. (i) There could have been greater clarity in the PD on the
depth and pace of reforms that would have been needed to underpin the second operation in the
program. (ii) Even given the key signaling role of the BSSL operation, the processing of the
operation could have been more rapid-in the event, actual disbursement happened a
considerable time after the crisis broke. (iii) While the arguments against the use of a DDO are
strong in retrospect, there could have been greater prior dialogue with the government on crisis
response instruments, so that mere unfamiliarity would not have the weight it might have been
given in the circumstances.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
5.1.3  Supervision and monitoring were not major issues in this operation. This was a quick
disbursing loan which was withdrawn in a single tranche four months after effectiveness on the
basis of prior actions. The supervision mission and the ISRs found satisfactory progress on the
basis of information made available, including publicly available information on credit growth,
the key monitoring indicator.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Both components of the rating are satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
5.2.1  Interviews with government officials indicate a client highly engaged with this operation,
from the highest levels down. The client's needs were expressed clearly and unequivocally to the
Bank's senior management at the height of the crisis, especially the need to signal to markets the
23


﻿government's resolve in responding to the crisis with an economic stimulus, and Bank staff and
Government officials were given the task of delivering the specific operation to maintain credit
growth in PSBs as one component of an overall package being managed by Gol. The support at
the highest levels of Government was important in setting the tone of urgency for the
implementing agency.
5.2.2  Some of the issues highlighted on the preparation and design of the operation also apply
here. The "two operations program" design did not in the end materialize. Perhaps there should
have been greater clarity on the likely depth and pace of reforms that was feasible in the second
phase, although of course the first priority was to avert the crisis.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
5.2.3 The implementing agency worked closely with Bank staff in the design of the operation,
and provided some of the needed framework and detailed analysis in the project document (for
example, the simulation exercises on likely capital infusion needs for credit expansion scenarios
in Annex 5 of the PD). Interviews confirmed a team with high degree of competence and
commitment to the objectives of the operation.
5.2.4  Some of the issues highlighted earlier apply here-the two operations design, and the
time taken to process a crisis operation (although it is recognized that the process issues could be
more on the Bank side).
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Both components of the rating are satisfactory.
6. Lessons Learned
6.1    This operation has important lessons for the Bank in responding to its clients during
periods of major crises:
(i)   The Bank can be a valued partner, and was seen as such in this case, for a Government
facing a crisis not of its own making. But the Bank has to be ready to go in with significant and
rapid support, leaving aside the normal mindset of a DPL, whose focus is generally on medium
term policy reform.
(ii)  The signaling role of a Bank operation, and Bank engagement, can be as important in the
eyes of the Government, and of the markets, as the actual disbursement of funds.
(iii)  The Bank should look closely at the processing time of its crisis response operations. In
this case more than a year lapsed between the onset of the crisis and loan effectiveness. Even
accepting that the signal of loan preparation being in process can be powerful, such a delay in
the actual delivery of funds could be problematic in some cases.
(iv)  While combining a crisis support operation with a projected reform focused operation
may make sense, the Bank and the client should be more clear eyed about the depth and pace of
reforms that would be needed to underpin the follow up operation.
24


﻿(v)   The Bank needs an ongoing dialogue with its clients about the use of the full range of
instruments, including DDOs for example, in crisis response. The client needs to be kept updated
on changes in terms and conditions of instruments, as well as new variants that are available.
The time to have these discussions is in normal times, so as to be prepared for the crises that are
bound to buffet growth and development paths in this globalized world.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
(b) Cofinanciers
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
25


﻿Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                        Title              Unit       specilty
Specialty
Lending
Gabi George Afram        Sr Financial Economist         SASFP Financial Sector
Deepak Bhattasali       ILead Economist                 SASEP TTL
James A. Hanson         {Consultant                     IEGCC fFinancial Sector
Rabin Indrajad Hattari  Research Analyst               SASEP fMacro and Fiscal
Suhail Kassim           Private Sector Development Spe  SASFP fFinancial Sector
. . . .Country Sector
Giovanna Prennushi       Economic Adviser               SASEP Coorinator
Coordinator
Thomas A. Rose          [Consultant                     EASPR [Financial Sector
Niraj Verma              ISr Financial Sector Spec.      SASFP [Financial Sector
Supervision
Deepak Bhattasali        Lead Economist                 SASEP  TTL
Suhail Kassim            Private Sector Development Spe  SASFP Financial Sector
Niraj Verma              Sr Financial Sector Spec.      SASFP TTL
(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                                       USD Thousands (including
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY09                                     46.66                   314.49
FY10                                      21.75                   105.88
Total:                                   420.37
Supervision/ICR
FY10                                      19.07                    83.58
Total:           19.07                    83.58
26


﻿Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
NONE
27


﻿Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
NONE
28


﻿Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Borrower provided updated bank by bank information on capital infusion but did not comment
further.
29


﻿Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NONE
30


﻿Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents
1. Details of Capital Infusion in Public Sector Banks by Gol in 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-
11.
2. G20 Communique, November 2008
3. Letter from Gol requesting for the World Bank's support for their economic
stimulus program
31


﻿Details of Capital Infusion in Public Sector Banks by Gol in 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-11
(Amount - Rupees in crore)
S.No.    Name of the Bank       Amount         Mode of      Date of Sanction
investment
FINANCIAL YEAR 2008-09
1    UCO Bank                         450    PNCPS          March, 2009
2    Central Bank of India            117     PNCPS         March, 2009
583      IPDI         March, 2009
3    United Bank of India             250     PNCPS         March, 2009
4    Vijaya Bank                      500     PNCPS         March, 2009
Sub-total         1900
FINANCIAL YEAR 2009-10
5    UCO Bank                         450     PNCPS         March, 2010
6    Central Bank of India            450     PNCPS         March, 2010
7    United Bank of India             300     PNCPS         March, 2010
Sub-total         1200
FINANCIAL YEAR 2010-11
8    UCO Bank                         300     PNCPS          02.06.2010
9    Central Bank of India            250     PNCPS          02.06.2010
10   United Bank of India             250     PNCPS          02.06.2010
11   Vijaya Bank                      700     PNCPS          02.06.2010
12   Bank of Maharashtra              588     PNCPS          12.07.2010
13   Union Bank of India              111     PNCPS          12.07.2010
14   UCO Bank                         373     PNCPS          12.07.2010
15   IDBI Bank Ltd.               3,119.04   Preferential    26.07.2010
allotment of equity
16   Central Bank of India        2,003.19 Rights Issue  of 22.03.2011
equity shares
17   Allahabad Bank                   292 Preferential   24.03.2011
allotment of equity
18   Allahabad Bank (Plan)            378      -do-      24.03.2011
19   Andhra Bank                      618      -do-      24.03.2011
20   Andhra Bank (Plan)               555      -do-      24.03.2011
21    Bank of India               1,010.00     -do-      22.03.2011
22    Bank of Maharashtra             352      -do-      23.03.2011
23    Corporation Bank                309      -do-      22.03.2011
24    Dena Bank                       539      -do-      22.03.2011
25   Indian Overseas Bank          1,054.00    -do-      23.03.2011
26    Syndicate Bank                  633      -do-      22.03.2011
27    UCO Bank                        940      -do-      22.03.2011
28    United Bank of India            308      -do-      25.03.2011
29   Vijaya Bank                      368      -do-      25.03.2011
30    Bank of Baroda (Plan)       2,461.00     -do-      29.03.2011
31    Oriental  Bank    of         1,740.00    -do-      29.03.2011
Commerce (Plan)
32    Punjab National Bank            184      -do-      28.03.2011
(Plan)
33    Union Bank of India             682      -do-      29.03.2011
(Plan)
Sub-total      20,117.23
GRAND TOTAL                 23,217.23
32


﻿Bank             CRAR Tier 1(%)   CRAR TOTAL (%)
Mar-10    Dec-10   Mar-10   Dec-10
Allahabad Bank               8.12      8.14    13.62    12.78
Andhra Bank                  8.18      7.06    13.93     12.0
Bank of Baroda               9.20      7.70    14.36    12.45
Bank of India                8.48      7.97    12.94    12.41
Bank of Maharashtra          6.41      7.38    12.78    13.24
Canara Bank                  8.54      8.27    13.43    13.02
Central Bank                 6.83      6.18    12.23    11.76
Corporation Bank             9.25      8.13    15.37    14.27
Dena Bank                    8.16      7.22    12.77    11.08
IDBI Bank                    6.24      8.84    11.31    14.1
Indian Bank                 11.13      9.69    12.71    12.35
Indian Overseas Bank         8.67      7.25    14.78    13.45
Oriental Bank of Commerce    9.28      8.99    12.54    12.26
Punjab National Bank         9.11      7.58    14.16    11.90
P&SB                         7.68      9.19    13.09    14.13
Syndicate Bank               8.24      7.84     12.7    11.74
UCO Bank                     7.05      7.47    13.21    13.02
Union Bank                   7.91      7.44    12.51    11.88
United Bank                  8.16      8.22     12.8    12.51
Vijaya Bank                  7.69      9.25     12.5    13.67
SBI Group
SBI                          9.45      9.57    13.39    13.16
SBBJ                         8.35      7.26     13.3    11.41
SBH                          8.64      9.44     14.9    14.87
SB of Indore                 8.58              13.53
SB of Mysore                 7.59      8.94    12.42    13.18
SB of Patiala                8.16      8.32    13.26    13.01
SBT                          9.24      8.95    13.74    12.65
Source: Department of Financial Services, Gol
33


﻿G -20
Conmuniqud
Muung ur mffminrs and Governurs
ice Paula - Brazi
LD November 2008
L We, the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the G-20, held
our tenth annual meeting in Siho Paulo, Brazil. We met at a time when ti
global economy is facing its most serious financial crisis and economic
slowdown in decades. We discussed the causes of and policy responses to
the global financial crisis, and shared perspectives on scenarios going
forward, with a particular focus on ensuring financial stability, supporting
global growth and maintaining recent achievements in poverty reduction
and social inclusion.
2. We welcomed that the Ieads of G-20 countries will convene for a
Leaders Sumnit on Financial Markets and the World Economy to be held
on 15 November 2008 in Washington, mating that t global crisis requires
global solutions and a common set of principles and that the forthcoming
summit is an important step in enhancing international cooperation. We
stand ready to urgently take forward work and actions agreed by our
leaders to restore and maintain financial stability and support global
growtL
3 We noted that the current financial crisis is largely a result of excessive
risk taking and faulty risk management practices in financial markets,
inconsistent macroeconomic policies, which gave rise to domestic and
external imbalances, as well as deficiencies in financial regulation and
supervision in some advanced countries.
4. The key challenge is to resolve the financial crisis in a durable manmer and
to mitigate the imtpact of the crisis on global economic activity through
comprehensive, coordinated and timely measures as appropriate. Measures
must be designed not only to restore growth and financial sLability, but also
to minimize the negative social impact particularly in emerging and low
income countries. The G-20, with its broad representation of major
systemically important economies, has a critical role to play in ensuring
global financial and economic stability, and, with that purpose, is
committed to enhancing collaboration.
BraziI2008
34


﻿0 -20
5. We welcomed the bold and decisive measues taken in a number of
countries to stabilize financial markets and estom the flow of cedit, to
support global economic growth. These measures have begun to stabilize
the banking system and other financial sectors. However, thee remains
considerable volatility in global financial markets. We will continue to
work together to take all necessary actions to reduce this volatility and
restoie normal functioning of money and credit markets in both advanced
and emerging market counries.
6. We agreed that all countries must addiess the risks associated with
excessive leverage and improve their regulatory and supervisory regimes
in order to deliver improved risk assessment and management by financial
institutions, to enhance transparency and accountability in Financial
markets, as well as to strengthen international cooperation to identify and
respond preentively to national and intesrational systemic risks.
Furthermore, we recognized the need to improve the supervision and
governance of financial institutions, at both national and international
levels. In this regard, we should consider ways of enhancing the
identification of systemically important institutions and ensure proper
oversight of these institutions, including credit rating agencies. We should
ensume that all sectors of the financial industry, as appropriate, are
regulated or subjected to oversight We agired that it is important to
address the issue of pr-cyclicality in financial market regulations and
supervisory systems. We also agreed that financial institutions should have
common accounting standards and clear internal incentives 1o pomot
stability and that action needs to be taken, through voluntary effort or
regulatory action, to avoid compensation schemes which reward excessive
short-term returns or risk taking. Regulators and supervisors should
enhance their vigilance and cooperation with respect to cross-border flows.
7. We expaessed concem over the impact of the spreading international
financial crisis on the real economy through trade, credit and curency
transmission channels. We considered in particular the severe challenges it
poses to short-term gowth. Advanced economies, where the crisis came
into being, are slowing markedly and some ae aleady close to or in
recession. We are also seeing evidence of slower grwth in emerging
markets, and while overall these countries should continue to play an
important role in supporting world growth, emerging economies a  facing
external financing pressmes. We recognized that a pronounced lack of
cofidence has led to severe credit constraints, which affects consumption,
2
Brazil2008
35


﻿0-20
investment and employment. We affirmed our determination to take all
necessary steps to foster non-inflationary growth in a stable and
sustainable manner according to the needs and available instruments in our
respective countries, including through monetary and fiscal policy. We
recognized the need to support the efforts of the emerging economies and.
especially, to help them find additional resources for their development
We urged all countries to resist protectionist pressures, whether in respect
of trade or investment, and reiterate our strong support for a prompt and
ambitious conclusion of the Doha Development Round of trade
negotiations.
8. One of the most deleterious aspects of the current crisis is the freeze in the
private credit and equity markets and the tendency of capital to flow back
to where the current crisis originated. We should explore ways to restore
emerging and developing countries' access to credit and resume private
capital flows which are critical for sustainable growth and development.
including ongoing infrastructure investment.
9. We noted that fiscal policies have served as an important instrument to
address the current financial crisis, including through government support
to the financial sector and have performed an important stabilization role
and in mitigating further negative effects on markets and on economic
activity. Some countries are also considering additional fiscal measures to
stimulate the economy and we agreed that countries must use all their
policy flexibility consistent with their circumstances, to support
sustainable growth. while we recognize the importance of fiscal
sustainability for macroeconomic stability and growth. It is essential that
the recent gains in reduction of poverty and social inequality are not set
back by the financial crisis and global economic slowdown. Less
developed countries would probably need more flexible frameworks.
Furthermore, in cases where severe market disruptions have limited access
to the necessary financing for counter-cyclical fiscal policies, multilateral
development banks must ensure arrangements are in place to support. as
needed, those countries with a good track record and sound policies.
1OWe recognized that many low income countries are particularly vulnerable
to commodity price volatility and changes in investor sentiment due to the
financial crisis. We agreed on the importance of maintaining official flows,
including aid flows, to these countries in line with existing commitments
and urge all multilateral development banks to work to sustain the
Brazil2008
36


﻿0         20
momentum of infra-structure investment for development in low income
countries.
II.We recognized the relevance of adopting sound monetary policies. The
recent slowdown in world growth and consequent reduction of commodity
prices have decreased inflationary pressures especially in advanced
economies and permited central banks to decide on monetary easing. In
those economics facing currency depreciation and still suffering from
second round effects. inflationary pressures may be more persistent. In this
context, monetary authorities will need to continue to carefully monitor
economic developments. including the consequences of financial
deleveraging, in order to take appropriate action if needed.
12. We underscored that the Bretton Woods Institutions must be
comprehensively reformed so that they can more adequately reflect
changing economic weights in the world economy and be more responsive
to future challenges. Emerging and developing economies should have
greater voice and representation in these institutions. We welcome the
progress made this year in reforming the IMF. We also noted the first step
in the ongoing process of reform of the World Bank Group. which is to be
followed by a wider share realignment. We emphasized our commitment
to further reform the Bretton Woods Institutions in order to increase their
legitimacy and effectiveness. Such reforms should also take into account
the interests of the poorest countries and reflect their distinct mandates.
13. At this juncture. the IMF, the World Bank Group and other international
financial institutions have an important role to play. consistent with their
mandates, in helping to stabilize and strengthen the international financial
system. advancing international cooperation for development and assisting
countries affected by the crisis. To meet this task, we should review the
adequacy of the resources of the IMF. the World Bank Group and other
multilateral development banks and stand ready to increase them where
necessary. In this context. we welcome the use of the IMF's emergency
procedures to provide substantial assistance quickly to countries in need.
and also the creation of a new short-term liquidity facility, which allows
quick disbursements without traditional conditionality for countries with
strong economic policy track records. We urge the IMF to continue to
review and adapt its lending instruments to adequately meets its member
needs and revise its lending role in the light of ongoing financial crisis.
4
Brazil2008
37


﻿O-:20
14. We agreed that we must draw policy lessons from the current crisis and
take all necessary steps to restore market confidence and stability and to
minimize the risk of a future crisis. Given its near universal memtvrship
and core macro-financial expertise. the Fund should take a leading role in
this task consistent with its mandate. We believe that the IMF must
enhance its early warning capabilities with due regard to systemically
important economies, in order to anticipate stresses and identify at an early
stage v ulnerabilities, systemic weaknesses and spillover risks across
financial markets that can endanger both the international financial system
and the global economy. We also underline the importance of
strengthening the IMF surveillance and policy advice leading to
appropriate and timely macroeconomic policy responses from all
countries.
15. In response to the challenges presented by the global financial situation,
and recognizing the global nature of financial markets. we believe that the
FSF must expand to a broader membership of emerging economies.
16. We agreed that the G-20 plays a vital role in responding to challenges
facing the world economy and must maximize its effectiveness.G-20
deliberations should focus primarily on concrete policy outcomes.
Consideration should be given to holding G-20 Ministers and Central Bank
Governors' meetings in the run-up to the meetings of the Bretton Woods
institutions with the flexibility to hold ad hoc Ministerial meetings when
necessary.
17. We thanked our Brazilian hosts for chairing the G-20 this year. and looked
forward to further effective collaboration in the G-20 next year under the
United Kingdom's chair. We welcome the Republic of Korea as a member
of the Troika in 2009 and chair of the G-20 in 2010.
5
Brazil2008
38


﻿Letter from Gol requesting for the World Bank's support for their economic stimulus program
Fu.    m 11200-
~           OfMMMw     R¥t^w sm~
q< 11            w     ov.m.rrnma
To
swi P~b' 8; ZEOk
1818 D1-15ra  NW
The w«    c# the     of     i a  ~u to Bm;nt  y<w fcr e   lnk*s
support for our wanomc «ruk progm in the fac if tie currn1 global qonorn c
Ovmr the sav,rg mMr'thm, s Goverr   and oh. Vrt Snk have been cuba~g in
an ef~r to procs u Oepmen Picy Ltn. e Firt Baning Seclor Su~Cl Loen (9BSSL
~   ~waordcwy colab&atie effort¥ on both ides. the Program Documrern for Ihe pr~poed
&SSL "n~ been complhed. The BSSL wt ply r irarW and wure'y part in t4 Govenrnenrs
vral rTespnø i el curent gb" cis and ka 6np¢ on ile
Ov the past  vral yenrs al ham expatunced tiong øconomic gewin leading   I
nr being amorig rne top 10 lrgsi tcenlie. TIb beric gowi h  h  bem m pted by
iai'ng inmlet and sIngL Corpore~B pro~bir has gbwwn very rong since oorty
20g. Th* gr~imh ~o ra~ds n   inor.d Inlagratixn  ii te wrld ecoray. T 
Inlagi n  eþid to aovde the exb,rnl touc  needud to ~upplemere e i =r=mm= Inaanolal
resurces k#r suporg repid *conomic grath,
fine nnc10l orials ilch belan fr 11 devel~pd world. h1 '1ed  n IrpMct on fdia
AilfIougVl indim hoor  tinud 1 experieæ mcon.mio grath. te spd of grohi he sloweb d
>c^u to teiernanl inancig by manly ef aur corae w ntlessw who empoy w   a Sttbl
numbør of p~l and canIrIbte In renry o~he w"re to te w"nomy, bas b~aorr aI lo
bIn, Dornm~uy. p*v~ø banks ~ av  gnilny Meduced their Wrin. wich ha fmeued
in m~ny bueses mad eoDl rdag i d4 lt lo ases credt
The Gov~nment has  ond rapirNy and aggre=uv~y lo the eteamal sk
tmougb a edreeo monety, Ised trde and fnl    en«~  fisures tat øsfguar
esav*ity ~  ekl and seui vdraOte sectors T'1 p~lcy r4*l~ves cl Ute Oveevnt
and te Resen e Beni o lindl (RBI) reve bbn d rected st providag ~dequel rupee iqudity
~0eurrg å cooDW40   lvel * f dlar liquy. safeguekng pubil ex~pndEutoa bi cmr. sogu -
and eom~fic su-sclo   ntan ing o merkt urarnment arnnatl to "le onirued
1owo (di to prodd e sector U
Fd~owig th al ofth curre gilai ts. 1nd a erihnced ~ a s^adown t~ ud11
gro~li The s~ou wea mos* apparent arn"g ur foreign and dm~  piusan sealor
banks t for =va  raa, have ezperecd a reduc~on in me gro~h o& dlaig and
39


﻿dpos takng. The ek to «onomic growN b~ a readil appøant in th last ha of 200-
09 One componMf     me Goarln*ørC werm slnmIW   p"mgram seeks 1o ad~uh  tis
weknes tlvough the prouimloe of casta to soun~d pubiac sscior berik to hay rneinlin credit
grw^. This. w* buawl   cee ontai he wf.si m~erS esses On empoyment and poverty
and enabl nds bu*nsuss to mn~nus to bn    conn  he copeirenhss md prepare for
reiny.
The poposed BSSL Is an iagrei omponent =f the Gov«mmens oner I respnse. li
w* pro~kle budglry .upport to flthr hmpøm ant ou .conomc st~us program and wi
e~b uu 10 On~tinug =ur program cf provMdNg deeim caplml bfie bor Ihe pub ~ bnk to
~lln *e high cocfdmne uf lhe public in the banking esor. prmven uliortege* df Wpal
pm   lading to a ktr sowon in credit grwth, end prode 6 b~ger 10 absorb n$-
piformnig ass~s NPA) t may rMult rm t iowd~os.
WMh rmgrd to the pgs)ø v døvelpnut d M  bkng hecor  d finmncai servic
d    r. *~    re a key ookycus of he Gft rnmeant ws ha~  made sgnMcwn prgres
ovOr #he pauu dpcade This is rogly evidnced by fhe current itngth and drv~rWdiultin of
th bkng øsor, *Md Øwi kvn    in R1w~   imncluso.  Ind~as banking ecmtor ha
undertaken corp~r~hnk  rloms under  e letderhp of the REI. Th result has been 
tabe bnking sctor, w~h he  profitøbdity ~nd ednquats capNit. camined with the abiy lo
expand crsdit  line wNhl the rne  o us goong mconomy  Muesm wernroduced lo
cowrwciale thw pulc ector banke, reuting In muc a~rongr be~anco shl. strng r
lWkng ractics and a ~ ~ficr't mJc~  in ~wV NPA.
In addtion to holpn mulo~lIn en approprite macrocon>mic an~. hw OSSL inl
fouan kimplm.nkng so~øs in m~evrs aras th~t wil boltr the eflociv~ne~s of c~pMel
injø<on $> *e bans~. Th~  we: 1) ennurin quefly credli g-rh b) strØmni prudentl
norm for thening seclar; 1I) Impr~vn govumnce; Od IV) mproving  k mangmnt~ al
banke.
Th   8  L81. u  iy an important rle by proding bu~gabary suppert to the
Govemment progran lo enlin tIhe Im~pac of the cur*rn gtobe crm1 . The yher wil lUwy
brNg d~flcuhls but, duspite 1h  rcums^ancs, t* Govemwnm   o india ns  mtmid to
.   4n high moonmia growth nd canining futlr dovelpmsnt of the b~nVang Uetr We
bow re~Sney take stWpw   ich t help to gu»de futurm b~nig deveop n,. wilng a
el Ihe neds of 1 Wn*ig s      &tor and  u  =a Usmhh t bnd upon r* Ddi~ibu of
Dhe frmd FWP of the MF md World Blai. In ddkion,nud W i thu program documwnt is
a~r streg notW, which %mrthe points io ou ordinusd spor for reform and hlrobnng ef
the beng sector.
Thørefoe, I ainrely hope he Gornnt of Indi, roquest for . cdabbo~rev
BsP~    h hroug  Deveopmen l Poiky Lom will be con~ldered ta~rmbly nd promp by the
w~ Bank.
Your kMid coopere~n is.is utay , very murh apprciatd.
Youus 4si~bfuIy,
Jo4n Secriry
40


