                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00002752



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-41150 IDA-47100)



                               ON TWO CREDITS

        IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 31.4 MILLION and XDR 42 MILLION
         (US$ 45.87 MILLION and US$ 65.27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPULBIC OF VIETNAM

                                       FOR A

  RED RIVER DELTA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                               December 19, 2013




Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2013)

            Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                    VND 1.00 = US$0.0001
                     US$ 1.00 = VND 21,105

                           FISCAL YEAR


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABD        Asian Development Bank
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CLTS       Community-Led Total Sanitation
CPC        Commune People’s Committee
CPO        Central Project Office
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
DARD       Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
DPC        District People’s Committee
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
EPC        Engineering, Procurement and Construction (Design-build contracts)
EMDP       Ethnic Minority Development Plan
FIRR       Financial Internal Rate of Return
GoV        Government of Vietnam
HSP        Household Sanitation Promoters
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IEC        Information, Education, Communication
IFR        Interim Financial Report
ISR        Interim Status Reports
JSC        Joint Stock Company
KAP        Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
KPI        Key Performance Indicator
MARD       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MoF        Ministry of Finance
MoLISA     Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs
MPI        Ministry of Planning and Investment
NCERWASS   National Centre for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
ODA        Official Development Assistance
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PAP         Project Affected People
PCERWASS    Provincial Centre for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
PDO         Project Development Objective
PPC         Provincial People’s Committee
PPMU        Provincial Project Management Unit
P4R NTP     Results-Based Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Under the National Target
            Program
RAP         Resettlement Action Plan
RRD RWSSP   Red River Delta Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
RWSS        Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
RWSS 2020   National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy up to year 2020
RWSSE       Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Enterprise
SRF         Sanitation Revolving Fund
TOR         Terms of Reference
TTL         Task Team Leader
US$         United Stated Dollar
VDB         Vietnam Development Bank
VND         Vietnamese Dong
WSS         Water Supply and Sanitation
WU          Women’s Union
WB          World Bank




                    Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
                  Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
                   Sector Manager: Jennifer Sara
              Project Team Leader: Hoa Thi Hoang
                 ICR Team Leader: Habab Taifour
                           VIETNAM
   RED RIVER DELTA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT

                                                    CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 54
  Annex 9. Revised Results Agreement ......................................................................... 55
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          VN-Red River Delta
Country:                Vietnam                  Project Name:            Rural Water Supply and
                                                                          Sanitation Project
Project ID:             P077287                  L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-41150,IDA-47100
ICR Date:               12/19/2013               ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                          SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:                REPUBLIC OF
                                                                          VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 31.40M               Disbursed Amount:        XDR 68.41M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 68.41M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/10/2002     Effectiveness:              05/31/2006       05/31/2006
Appraisal:            02/03/2005     Restructuring(s):                            03/10/2010
Approval:             09/15/2005     Mid-term Review:            10/19/2009       11/03/2009
                                     Closing:                    06/30/2011       06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      3                   3
Sanitation                                                            14                  14
Sub-national government administration                                 5                   5
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal                                     18                  18
Water supply                                                          60                  60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               20                  20
Other human development                                               40                  40
Rural services and infrastructure                                     40                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                      Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:            Jennifer J. Sara                     Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:       Hoa Thi Hoang                        Richard W. Pollard
ICR Team Leader:           Habab Taifour
ICR Primary Author:        Habab Taifour
                           Daisuke Miura

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective is to improve water and household level sanitation services
and their effective use in selected provinces in ways that are financially, technically, and
environmentally sustainable, thereby contributing to poverty alleviation in participating
rural communities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                Number of people in project areas with access to "improved water sources "and
Indicator 1 :
                hygienic sanitation facilities and percentage of these that are poor
Value
                106,786.00; 15,000;         800,000; 300,000; 950,000;       1,289,674; 960,648;
quantitative or
                N/A%                        20%               600,000; 20% 100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    09/30/2005        03/10/2010     06/30/2013
                The result for access to improved water sources exceeded AF target values by
Comments
                30.5%; achievement of hygienic sanitation facilities exceeded AF targets by
(incl. %
                160%. At project closure 100% of poor households in project areas gained access
achievement)
                to WSS.
                The percentage of people in project areas with access to "improved water
Indicator 2 :
                sources"
Value
quantitative or N/A                         20%               20%            80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    09/30/2005        03/10/2010     06/30/2013
Comments        80% of total population of 4 targeted provinces now has access to improved
(incl. %        water sources. This achievement far exceeds Original project targets, which
achievement) aimed to reach 20% of total population of phase 1 provinces.
                The number of new piped household water connections that have resulted from
Indicator 3 :
                the project intervention
Value
quantitative or N/A                         N/A               200,000        255,165
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    09/30/2005        03/10/2010     06/30/2013
Comments        At MTR this indicator was added to harmonize with Core Sector Indicators. The
(incl. %        target set was 200,000. At project closure 255, 165 household water connections
achievement) were realized.
Indicator 4 : The number of RWSSEs established, and the financial viability of the enterprises
Value
quantitative or 0                           N/A               4              4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    09/30/2005        03/10/2010     06/30/2013
Comments        4 RWSSEs that are fully operational with 20 year business plans in place, high
(incl. %        tariff recuperation rate (95%) that covers O&M, depreciation fund and on track
achievement) to meeting sustainability targets
                  The percentage of people in project communes who have adopted safe hygiene,
Indicator 5 :     and sanitation behaviors, based on participatory assessment and Knowledge,
                  Attitudes and Practices (KAP)
Value
quantitative or estimated 7%                N/A                 100%            88.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    09/30/2005          03/10/2010      06/30/2013
                The KAP study carried out from 09/2009 – 06/2011 revealed that 88.4% of
Comments
                households in project areas have knowledg of safe and hygienic sanitation
(incl. %
                facilities. Results from impact evaluation at closure indicate higher adoption
achievement)
                rates.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
                  number of people in project areas with access to "improved water sources"
Indicator 1 :
                  (piped water/household connections)
Value
(quantitative     30,000                    N/A                850,000        1,119,652
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                09/30/2005         03/10/2010     06/30/2013
Comments
                  Achievement of household connections to tap water exceeded AF targets for
(incl. %
                  indicator introduced during AF by 31.7%
achievement)
                  Percentage of those who are poor in project areas provided access to improve
Indicator 2 :
                  water sources
Value
(quantitative   N/A                        20%                 20%             100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   09/30/2005          03/10/2010      06/30/2013
                This indicator was originally combined with indicator 1 in PAD. At AF stage it
Comments
                was separated to capture % of poor people who received access to improved
(incl. %
                WSS. Based on GoV statistics 100% of poor HH in project area were provided
achievement)
                access to WSS services
                The number of additional people in project areas with access to hygiene
Indicator 3 :
                sanitation facilities
Value
(quantitative   15,000                     30,000              600,000         960,648
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   09/30/2005          03/10/2010      06/30/2013
Comments        Due to concerted efforts (sanitation and hygiene campaigns) & success of SRF, #
(incl. %        of people in project areas with access to hygiene sanitation facilities surpassed
achievement) Original targets by 220%. The final results surpassed AF targets by 160%.
                The number of new piped household water connections that have resulted from
Indicator 4 :
                the project interventions
Value
(quantitative     N/A                       N/A                 200,000        255,165
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                 09/30/2005         03/10/2010     06/30/2013
Comments          At MTR this indicator was added to harmonize with Core Sector Indicators. The
(incl. %          target set was 200,000. At project closure 255, 165 household water connections
achievement)      were realized.
                  The number of household that borrowed from revolving fund to improve
Indicator 5 :
                  sanitation facilities
Value
(quantitative     N/A                       N/A                 40,000         43,946
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                03/10/2010           03/10/2010     06/30/2013
Comments          Number of households benefiting from Sanitation Revolving Fund and Savings
(incl. %          group surpassed targets by 10%. Some households took multiple loans and as a
achievement)      result 48,215 water supply and sanitation facilities were constructed or upgraded
Indicator 6 :     The number of public sanitation facilities constructed
Value
(quantitative     0                         N/A                 300            661
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                09/30/2005          03/10/2010     06/30/2013
Comments
                  This indicator was introduced at AF stage. Establishment of public sanitation
(incl. %
                  facilities surpassed AF target by 120%.
achievement)
                  The number of targeted communes that can demonstrate a positive and sustained
Indicator 7 :     improvement in hygiene knowledge, attitude, and practice in relation to water
                  supply and sanitation facilities
Value
(quantitative   0                         100                  120            169
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  09/30/2005           03/10/2010     06/30/2013
                At project design stage % of people was noted, frpm MTR onwards figures were
Comments
                reported based on communes. At AF the target was 120 communes. At project
(incl. %
                completion 169 communes have adopted sage hygiene and sanitation behavior,
achievement)
                surpassing AF targets by 141%
Indicator 8 : The number of RWSSEs that are financially viable
Value
(quantitative   0                         N/A                  4              4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  09/30/2005           03/10/2010     06/30/2013
                This indicator was revised to put in place the wording "financially viable" instead
Comments
                of PAD indicator of "% of RWSSEs' costs for operation, maintenance and debt
(incl. %
                repayment that is covered by revenue from water tariffs" (calculated as average
achievement)
                for all RWSSEs)
Indicator 9 : the number of utilities (RWSS enterprises) that the project is supporting
Value
(quantitative   0                         4                    4              4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    09/30/2005         03/10/2010      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        four fully operational RWSSEs have been supported by the project
achievement)
                The degree of user satisfaction within targeted communities with services and
Indicator 10 :
                advice offered them on water supply and sanitation services
Value
                                                               fully           fully satisfactory
(quantitative   N/A                         satisfactory
                                                               satisfactory    (90%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    09/30/2005         10/03/2010      06/30/2013
                indicator in PAD listed targets in %. At AF stage targets were changed to Fully
Comments
                satisfactory. User surveys were conducted on 4 point scale from highly
(incl. %
                unsatisfactory to highly satisfactory. This measurement was deemed more
achievement)
                realistic. 90% satisfaction
                Extent to which satisfactory oversight and quality control are achieved, as
Indicator 11 :
                confirmed through supervision and independent monitoring
Value
                                            moderately         fully
(quantitative   N/A                                                            fully satisfactory
                                            satisfactory       satisfactory
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    09/30/2005         03/10/2010      06/30/2013
                Monitoring was generally satisfactory by CPO. Implementation capacity during
Comments
                initial stages was limited and quality needed further enhancement. Throughout
(incl. %
                project implementation, capacity was strengthened and quality control was
achievement)
                deemed to be satisfactory.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
 1      03/23/2006         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.00
 2      10/18/2006         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                 0.60
 3      05/07/2007         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.91
 4      12/19/2007     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 3.34
 5      11/25/2008         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                 7.41
 6      08/01/2009         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               10.36
 7      01/26/2010         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      18.85
 8      01/05/2011         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      31.60
 9      02/27/2012         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      60.54
 10     12/01/2012         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      78.43
 11     06/22/2013         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      95.07




H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Additional financing (XDR 42
                                                     Million); revision of closing
                                                     date to June 30, 2013; revision
 03/10/2010               S       S          20.39   of disbursement schedule;
                                                     resvision of results framework
                                                     to harmonize with Bank's core
                                                     Sector Indicators




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and Sectoral context. In 2000, the Government of Vietnam (GoV) made
concerted efforts to improve rural infrastructure and developed Vietnam Development Goals,
based on the Millennium Development Goals. As part of this initiative, GoV developed the
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy from 2000 up to the year 2020 (RWSS 2020).
At the time of Appraisal in 2006 Vietnam’s economy was experiencing rapid growth. The
average per capita income was estimated at $620 and life expectancy at 70 years. While
notable progress was made through targeted government interventions, there were significant
disparities in access to basic services between urban and rural populations. At the time, 74%
of the population was concentrated in rural areas; according to Vietnam Household Living
Standards Survey (2004) only 48% of rural households had access to clean water, in
comparison with 82% of households living in urban areas.

2.      Despite concerted efforts by government-led programs, access to safe water supply
and hygienic sanitation facilities in rural areas was among the lowest in East Asia. It was
estimated that only 16% of rural households had access to water supplies meeting clean water
standards; and access to hygienic sanitation facilities was equally low. At the time, many
rural households utilized untreated water from dug wells, rivers, ponds, streams or irrigation
canals. Existing rural water supply and sanitation infrastructure tended to be inappropriately
designed as well as poorly constructed and maintained. In many cases, schemes were
deemed financially unsustainable as tariffs did not adequately cover the cost of operation,
maintenance and repairs; and were dependent on substantial subsidies to continue operation.
Higher population densities in the Red River and Mekong Deltas indicated the presence of
rural poor households residing in these areas. In 2002, nearly 3 million people in the Red
River Delta were classified as poor, which accounted for 17 percent of all poor households in
Vietnam. The four provinces included in Phase-1 of the Red River Delta Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project (RRD RWSSP) were estimated to have poverty rates ranging from
23% to 37%. In these areas, poor rural health was affected by the prevalence of water-borne
diseases and recorded child malnutrition rates were higher relative to neighboring countries.
Underlying cause of these health issues was related to the availability and use of safe water
and sanitation and personal hygiene. Productivity of the rural population was also affected by
poor health; increased burden placed on women to care for those with diarrhea and other
water-borne diseases as well as labor required primarily from women for the collection and
handling of water.

3.       Rationale for Bank involvement. The aim of the project was to support the
Government of Vietnam in operationalizing its RWSS 2020 through a phased investment
program. The RWSS 2020 was deemed to provide a clear, politically-supported policy
framework and approach that underpinned the adaptable program design of this project. The
project was in line with IDA’s strategic approach in Vietnam to support projects that feature
demand-responsiveness, decentralization, community participation and that build local
institutional capacity. The phased implementation lending instrument provided the flexibility
and resources needed to further develop specific approaches and local capacities that could
progressively expand the program.


                                              1
4.      The Bank’s involvement rested on added value from (i) experience with participatory
methodologies developed and applied at scale in rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS)
projects in the region; (ii) provision of technical advice, critical review, field supervision, and
follow-up dialogue to provide independent feedback; (c) financial support for infrastructure
and social services; (d) links to global and regional research and promotion programs, such as
the global hand washing initiative; and (e) access to knowledge concerning global and
regional best practice in the water supply, sanitation, and health sectors.

5.      Higher level Objectives. The project was consistent to the 2003-2006 CAS theme of
enhancing equitable, socially inclusive and sustainable development. Within that theme, the
project sought to help reduce the rural/urban development gap, and contribute to gender
equality and the advancement of women. It was intended to contribute to the theme of
promoting good governance by increasing the capacity of communes and local governments
to make development choices through transparent and democratic processes, and to plan and
manage development initiatives. Additionally, it was intended to promote the development
and operation of transparent and accountable commercially viable RWSS enterprises. The
project was expected to support Vietnam’s efforts to achieve the Millennium Development
Goals, in particular Goal 7.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      The development objective is to improve water and household level sanitation
services and their effective use in selected provinces in ways that are financially, technically,
and environmentally sustainable, thereby contributing to poverty alleviation in participating
rural communities.

7.    The following key outcome indicators were reflected in the PAD Results Framework
and Monitoring:

     •    The number of people in project areas with access to “improved water sources” 1/ and
          hygienic sanitation facilities2, and the number of these that are poor;
     •    The percentage of people in project areas with access to “improved water sources”;
     •    The number of new piped household water connections that have resulted from the
          project intervention;
     •    The number of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Enterprises (RWSSEs)
          established, and the financial viability of the enterprises;




1
  Improved water sources includes piped includes piped household connections (house or yard connection), public standpipe,
boreholes, protected dug well and rainwater collection facilities. These sources must meet quality requirements: no color,
smell, strange taste and no component that can affect people’s health. Water from these sources can be used as drinking water
after being boiled. Source : NATIONAL RURAL CLEAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION STRATEGY
UP TO YEAR 2020 (THIRD UPDATED VERSION); November 3, 2010.
2
  Hygienic sanitation facilities, as defined by Decision No. 08/QD-BYT, have to meet the following requirements: (i) human
feces isolated from human, animal and insect contact; (ii) facilities should that separate agents in feces (viruses, bacteria,
unicellular organisms and worm eggs) from surrounding environment.




                                                               2
     •   The percentage of people in project communes who have adopted safe hygiene and
         sanitation behaviors, based on participatory assessment and Knowledge, Attitude, and
         Practices (KAP) Survey.

8.       Key intermediate indicators, as reflected in the main text of the PAD, were:
     •   Targeted rural communes progressively have new or improved water supply, new or
         improved sanitation, and new or improved household drainage;
     •   Targeted rural commune populations progressively have adopted safe hygiene
         behavior and are effectively using water supply and sanitation (WSS) infrastructure;
     •   RWSSEs, community, Government and other institutional entities at commune,
         district and provincial level involved in the project, progressively have the capacity
         and capability to play appropriate roles in support of all stages of sustainable water
         supply, sanitation, household drainage, improved hygiene and capacity building; and
     •   Each Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU) and Central Project Office (CPO)
         is progressively able to successfully manage and support the project (and similar
         ones).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

9.      The project outcome and intermediate indicators were revised following Mid Term
Review (MTR) as part of restructuring and Additional Financing (AF). This revision sought
to clarify terminology and harmonize project indicators with the Bank’s Core Sector
Indicators, which were developed in July 2009. Revised indicators are listed in Annex 9.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.      The project’s primary target group was 800,000 households in 120 communes across
4 provinces in the Red River Delta, namely Nam Dinh, Hai Duong, Thai Binh and Ninh Binh.
Other beneficiaries that were expected to benefit from support and capacity building
activities included: Central Project Office (CPO), Provincial Project Management Units
(PPMUs), Provincial Center for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (PCERWASS), District
Focal Persons and Hygiene and Sanitation Promotion Teams, Provincial Women’s Unions,
Development Assistance Fund (DAF), Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Enterprises
(RWSSEs), Departments of Agriculture and Rural Development (DARDs) National and
Provincial RRD RWSS Project Steering Committees, Provincial Peoples Committees (PPCs)
and Commune Peoples Committees (CPCs). Primary target group was expanded to serve
950,000 households within the same 4 provinces after the MTR, during the AF process.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.     Component 1: Water and Sanitation Infrastructure Development (US$45.82
million): this component’s objectives were to respond to growing rural/urban services gap by
improving access to safe water supplies and hygienic sanitation facilities in selected rural
areas. 25 to 30 communes were expected to develop improved water and sanitation
infrastructure from each of the phase-1 provinces.




                                               3
12.     Component 2: Hygiene and Sanitation Behavior Change (US$1.73 million): this
component’s objectives were to provide a range of hygiene and sanitation promotion
interventions aimed at optimizing the effective use of improved water and sanitation
infrastructure, and the adoption of safe hygiene behaviors in all households within project
areas through commune and school-based programs.

13.      Component 3: Strengthening the Capacity of Community and Local Government
Institutions and Management Entities ($US0.89 million): The objective of this component
was to address deficiencies in fund transfer, institutional capacities, and the effectiveness of
decentralized investment through training and technical assistance. Capacity building
activities were anticipated to support RWSSEs established under the project. Capacity
building activities were also expected to support provincial government line agencies,
commune-level government, and commune-level water development groups and cooperatives.

14.     Component 4: Support for Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
(US$1.67 million): the objective of this component was to manage financing and technical
assistance for the establishment and functioning of Provincial Project Management Units and
a Central Project Office within the National Center for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(NCERWASS) in Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD).

1.6 Revised Components

15.    Following the MTR, additional financing of US$65.27 million was added to Original
IDA credit for reasons highlighted in section 1.7. The activities within each component
remained unchanged. The outputs and targets associated with each component were revised
accordingly in the Results Framework to reflect additional funds. Break down of costs per
component can be found in Annex 1.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.     Revision of project cost and financing following Mid-Term Review (MTR).
Additional financing of US$65.27 million Credit from IDA and US$8.13 million from GoV
was required to complete all activities in the 120 communes covered in Phase 1 and to
achieve the project objectives. The additional funds were needed due to the following
reasons: (i) high inflation from 2008-2009 led to sharp price escalation of building materials
and as such unit costs exceeded those estimated at project appraisal; coupled with (ii)
increase in water demand (from 40 liters/person/day to 80 L/C/D) and expansion of project
scope and water scheme capacities (from 60% to 90% connection rate). Due to the following
reasons in addition to underestimation during project design, unit costs estimated at appraisal
(US$35) were far lower than actual costs during implementation (US$98). The provision of
additional financing brought the total IDA loan contribution to US$111.14 million. The
projected disbursement schedule was revised to reflect additional financing funds and a
revised implementation schedule.

17.     Extension of closing date. The project was extended from June 30, 2011 (original) to
June 30, 2013 to allow for procurement and implementation using additional financing. The
extension also provided additional time to compensate for delays caused by weak fiduciary




                                               4
capacity during initial stages of implementation that subsequently delayed preparation of
feasibility studies and technical designs.

18.    Modification of procurement thresholds. (i)The threshold of National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) method for goods and works was increased from US$100,000 to cost
equivalent or more than US$300,000 per contract; and (ii) The threshold for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) method applied for goods and works was increased from a range
of US$30,000 to US$2 million to US$300,000 and US$3 million respectively, per contract.
This change was prompted as a response to the Bank-wide threshold increases in
procurement procedures.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

19.      Project implementation was tailored to adhere to tenants of national sector policy,
prioritize community empowerment, and introduce novel management modalities for water
supply and sanitation that promote demand responsiveness as well as bring about
decentralization and build local institutional capacity. Throughout the course of
implementation the following factors contributed to project success and posed
implementation challenges:

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     Background analysis: Country and sector priorities and lessons of earlier
operations were taken into account. The project design was to be fully consistent with
government priorities and was intended to be the first program to operationalize RWSS2020
strategy. Lessons learned from earlier activities in rural water supply sector in Vietnam, in
neighboring countries and globally were incorporated into the Project design. First,
community participation was considered to be a critical factor for ensuring sustained
projected benefits. Second, it was deemed necessary to provide capacity building at all levels
of project implementation to help local government agencies adapt to demand-responsive
approach of the project. Capacity building was deemed crucial to familiarize stakeholders,
particularly in communes and villages with project interventions in order to increase their
engagement in planning, supervision and management of infrastructure and in establishment
of legally recognized groups that represent community interests.

21.      Assessment of the project design: Project preparation carried out detailed
assessments and analysis to ensure project components strike an appropriate demand-
responsive balance between water, sanitation and hygiene activities. Government of
Denmark (Danida) provided a grant to support project preparation through a component of its
Water Sector Support (Water SPS) Project. Through its country program for Vietnam, the
Water and Sanitation Program (WSP), provided technical inputs and led the Bank’s
preparation team for the project. The National Center for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(NCERWASS) within MARD was assigned to be the coordinating agency, and the Director
of NCERWASS was nominated to be the Director of the Project Preparation Unit.
Institutional setup of the project implementation unit was adequately assessed and agreed
upon by all levels of government. Grant funding was utilized to carry out the following
project preparation activities: (i) overview of 12 Provinces (including eight provinces that are
now part of the envisioned Phase 2, the Results-Based Rural Water Supply and Sanitation



                                               5
under the National Target Program); (ii) pre-Feasibility Study Report; (iii) guidance for the
other interested communes in 8 selected districts to prepare Feasibility Studies; (iv) project
Implementation Plan; (v) Project Operations and Project Management Manuals; (vi)
Feasibility Study Reports for 8 communes in 4 targeted provinces (including IEC, Socio-
economic Surveys, Preliminary Engineering Designs, tariff estimates, and Willingness to
Connect Studies); and (vii) other reports such as Environment Assessment Reports,
Resettlement Reports, Ethnic Minority Strategy report, Socio-economic Analysis reports and
Ability to Pay reports. These assessments ensured that concepts of demand responsiveness,
decentralization, community participation and building local institutional capacity were well
integrated into project design. As such, they provided a solid framework to design
complementary components that fulfilled the targeted project objectives. Additionally, they
provided a strong foundation to determine social and environmental impacts for which
mitigation measures were subsequently well integrated into project design.

22.     Quality at entry was tempered by availability of limited technical design studies and
lack of agreement on proposed management models. Feasibility studies and detailed
technical designs were completed for 8 out of 120 communes selected in the project scope.
The remaining technical designs were to be prepared during project implementation. Weak
fiduciary capacity delayed completion of subsequent batches of technical studies in a timely
manner, which caused disruptions in implementation progress. Dialogue pertaining to
management models carried over well into implementation phase, which also contributed to
delays in establishing enterprises that were mandated to carry out technical designs and
supervision of civil works.

23.     Adequacy of government’s commitment and stakeholder involvement: Project
preparation process devoted special attention to engaging stakeholders to ensure their
inputs were adequately addressed in Project design. Information regarding the project was
disseminated through a series of community consultations as well as through surveys,
meetings, brochures, and leaflets. The preparation process made considerable efforts to
promote gender balance. This was realized in project design management of sanitation
revolving funds by Women’s Unions (WU). Targeting and inclusion of low income
beneficiaries was considered through various mechanisms including: (i) flexible payment
schedule of water supply contributions; (ii) access to soft credit to construct or upgrade
sanitation facilities; and (iii) inclusion in IEC campaigns.

24.      Risk assessment. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects were thoroughly
vetted during the preparation process. Key risks were considered to be: (i) shift in
government underlying strategy, which underpinned project preparation; (ii) prolonged
economic setbacks that could potentially reduce or eliminate the viability of the financing
strategy for the project. These risks were assessed and significant changes were considered
unlikely. Risks to the project development objectives and proposed components were
identified as: (a) Procurement management capacity; (b) Affordability by the poorest; (c)
resistance to new institutional arrangements introduced; (d) uncertainty regarding
legal/regulatory framework for establishing RWSSEs and modalities for consumers’ sharing
ownership with Provincial Peoples Committees (PPCs) through commune-level
representative bodies; (e) Insufficient local capacity to support community-based planning;
(f) Women and the poor or other socially marginalized groups may be excluded from
community decision-making and management of services; and (g) beneficiaries may not
adopt good hygiene practices and therefore obviate some or all of the health benefits of


                                              6
infrastructure improvements. The project put in place mitigation measures that for the most
part helped safeguard implementation from substantial bottlenecks. Section 2.2 addresses
how these measures performed during implementation.
25.     There was no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the project’s quality at
entry.

2.2 Implementation
Factors that contributed to success
Sector arrangements and Community empowerment:
26.     Strong commitment from national and local governments and efficient
coordination between pertinent stakeholders contributed to success of project. The Central
Project Office (CPO) formed within NCRWASS under MARD played the pivotal role of
promoting inter-agency coordination. The CPO effectively brought together PPMUs, PPCs,
District People’s Committees (DPCs), CPCs as well as representatives from central
government agencies such as Ministry of Finance (MoF), Ministry of Planning and
Investment (MPI) and institutions such as Vietnam Development Bank (VDB) and WUs.

27.     Capacity building and community participation from early stages of project
empowered local governments and beneficiaries and instilled strong sense of ownership.
Community participation began at early stages during project preparation and implementation.
Sensitization and awareness campaigns in targeted communities preceded project feasibility
studies to garner community involvement and ensure their needs are met through project
interventions. Throughout project implementation, numerous trainings, workshops and
capacity-building activities were tailored to target different stakeholders. RDD RWSSP
contributed to and benefited from this strong commitment and inter-governmental
coordination by successfully building capacity of local governments and encouraging their
active participation in all facets of project implementation.

Project management arrangements:
28.      Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Enterprises that are demand-responsive and
financially sustainable. The establishment of enterprises in the form of joint stock
companies proved to be highly suitable for this context. The decision to establish four
enterprises at the provincial level struck an appropriate balance between decentralization and
establishing viable institutions that do not pose to be an administrative burden in managing
rural water supply and sanitation services. RWSSEs collaborated with local government and
community officials to oversee construction of water treatment plants and installation of
distribution networks. The involvement of communities (users) as well as local government
as co-owners of the enterprises allowed them to meaningfully engage in discussions related
to quality of construction (distribution networks), tariff pricing as well as business plan
development. Elements to target poor households and address gender issues were heavily
incorporated into the business plans of these enterprises. Communities contributed 10% of
pre-financing for water infrastructure and actively supported the management of construction
contracts. Each enterprise worked out various mechanisms to ensure poor households have
access to water supply and sanitation infrastructure. Additionally, flexible payment plans of
10% community contributions were set up to allow poor households to contribute at a pace
that is not financially taxing on their households. As such RWSSEs were able to effectively
meet needs of communities (customers) and set affordable tariffs while achieving full cost



                                              7
recovery, while maintaining standards of service delivery that is comparable to urban-level
utilities. As a result of these efforts, tariff collection rates were 99%. RWSSEs experienced
limited difficulties in recouping tariffs. This allowed enterprises to continually reduce non-
revenue water (water losses), which ranged between 19%-25%. It also allowed the RWSSEs
to recoup revenues to establish depreciation funds. Further, it allowed some of the RWSSEs
(Hai Duong and Nam Dinh) to begin repayment of loan to provincial Ministries of Finance,
well ahead of the anticipated schedule.

29.      Development of Inter-commune water supply schemes reduced capital costs,
increased coverage and facilitated management. Introduction of schemes that served
multiple communes was initially met with reservation from local governments. An
institutional arrangement to support management between multiple communes was never
introduced and as such commune-level local governments were weary of establishment of
such schemes. Despite slow implementation of these schemes due to dialogue to determine
best inter-communal institutional arrangements, in the long term these schemes resulted in
significant cost savings in capital investments. Inter-commune arrangements reduced the
transaction costs of multiple schemes managed by each RWSSE. These schemes also allowed
funds that would have been used in establishing new treatment plants to be used to expand
the distribution network and increase access to tap water in target communities.

30.     Introduction of design-build (also known as Engineering, Procurement and
Construction (EPC)) contracts for water supply and sanitation infrastructure reduced
contract management burdens and expedited implementation. To expedite implementation
and reduce contract management burdens on government procurement specialists, the
approach of ECP contracts was introduced. The use of such contracts was a first in Vietnam,
particularly for this sector. Initially there were limited firms that possessed the capacity to
design and construct water supply and sanitation facilities. This encouraged contractors to
enter into joint-ventures or sub-contract the required skills. As a result of these contracts,
processing time was halved through the joint tendering of combined design and civil works
bidding documents. The success of these contracts is now being promoted by NCERWASS
and being replicated in other donor-financed projects.

Sanitation and hygiene approaches:
31.     Combination of IEC campaigns with management of Sanitation Revolving Fund
by Women’s Unions increased women’s roles in the project, increased demand for
sanitation financing and enhanced sanitation and hygiene behavioral changes. The project
capitalized on the presence of a strong grassroots network of Women’s Unions. The WU’s
trusted grassroots presence with the provision of trained Household Sanitation Promoters
(HSPs) and ability to provide and manage financing, supported a significant increase in
demand for sanitation financing. WU’s worked at household levels to effectively deliver
hygiene campaigns in line with Community-Led Total Sanitation (CLTS) principles. Once
adequate information was disseminated, WU’s provided low cost loans with 5% interest to
interested households. Loan recipients were automatically enrolled in saving groups that
stipulated monthly contributions. This mechanism helped households adhere to a repayment
schedule; resulting in a nearly 100% loan repayment rate. Loans were provided at lower rates
than those available through other micro-finance institutions (Vietnam Bank for Social
Development). In addition to the provision of loans, WUs helped households engage in a
meaningful discussion on technology options available. WU’s closely followed up to ensure



                                              8
funds were properly utilized and repaid in a timely manner. As a result of their effective
campaigns, the amount of loans provided through the fund surpassed AF targets by 10%.


Factors that caused implementation bottlenecks

32.      Increase in water demands coupled with economic recession, which caused a sharp
price escalation in civil works, and underestimation of unit costs during appraisal
contributed to a financing gap during implementation, requiring an injection of additional
financing to achieve project objectives. During appraisal, inflation was measured at 5% and
it was assumed that these rates would remain fairly stable. Due to the unforeseen global
economic crisis, in 2008, Vietnam went into serious economic recession and annual inflation
rose sharply to 19.9%. Additionally, unit costs for water infrastructure that underpinned the
project budget were based on investments for 800,000 people with schemes targeting 60%
coverage rates and a scheme standard design for water consumption of 40liters/capita/day.
These assumptions yielded an average investment cost of US$35 per capita. Unit costs were
theoretically calculated at appraisal as large scale operations such as this project were not
existent in Vietnam and as such limited benchmarks were available. During the early stages
of project implementation, it became evident that unit costs estimated during appraisal were
lower than market prices. After the first sets of tendering documents were evaluated, true unit
costs were found to be in the range of US$98 per capita. The high unit cost was due to a
combined factor of price escalation due to economic recession and underestimation during
preparation. Furthermore, water supply demands during the project were found to be
significantly higher and in reality closer to Ministry of Construction standards of 60
liters/capita/day. Due to these factors the original financing was found to cover only 52 out of
the original 120 proposed water schemes and 100 out of 300 public sanitation facilities. After
a thorough review following the MTR findings, the project was restructured to provide
additional financing of US$65.27 million and the project closing date was extended to allow
for timely completion of proposed activities.

33.     The presence of limited number of detailed technical designs and feasibility studies
delayed implementation. At the onset of project implementation only 8 out of a total 120
schemes had detailed technical designs. The lack of detailed feasibility studies and technical
design for individual water treatment schemes delayed tendering of bidding documents and
as such slowed down disbursement estimates. Weak fiduciary capacity during initial stages of
project implementation complicated development of proposed technical studies. This
challenge was remedied through targeted capacity building and the introduction of EPC
contracts.

34.     Limited fiduciary capacity caused discrepancies in the tendering processes. Project
staff had limited or no experience in fiduciary management aspects, particularly procurement.
During the initial stages of implementation there were many inconsistencies between World
Bank and Government Guidelines. This resulted in protracted delays in procurement. These
inconsistencies also led to a contract being declared as misprocurement. Upon investigation
and declaration of a verdict, MARD took up the matter with urgency and misappropriated
funds were returned to IDA accounts. This proved to be a very useful lesson learned. It also
made fiduciary staff more aware of potential pitfalls within procurement processes.
Procurement staff took greater care in reviewing subsequent contracts and ministry level
directives were sent to ensure staff complied with more stringent review processes. Overall


                                               9
fiduciary capacities at all levels were gradually strengthened through extensive trainings,
workshops and hands-on support. As project implementation progressed, fiduciary capacity
also steadily increased and helped speed up pace of project progress.

35.      Weak contractor capacities in carrying out both design and build activities for civil
works hampered quality and caused significant implementation delays. There were initial
difficulties in finding qualified contractors who possessed both design as well as construction
capacities. As demand for these types of contracts increased within the project, contractors
began to enter into joint ventures or sub-contracted to provide comprehensive services. A
review of initial EPC contracts revealed many inadequacies where contractors specialized in
developing technical designs could not adequately execute civil works and vice versa. This
caused extensive delays as numerous initial contract required extensions to complete the
required works. The low capacities of contractors were exacerbated by economic recession.
During this time period, many contractors could not fulfill their contractual obligations due to
limited financial liquidity. As such, many contractors could not mobilize civil works, which
subsequently delayed project implementation progress. To ensure poorly performing
contractors were not continuing to bid and win remaining contracts, the Ministry of Planning
and Investment created a “black list” to warn provincial level fiduciary staff of contractors to
potentially avoid. In addition, to remedy poor construction quality, the CPO, engaged
numerous technical supervision consultants who were tasked to closely follow up with the
construction of civil works.

36.     Expansion of rural roads caused disruptions to established water supply networks.
Throughout the course of project implementation, parallel efforts by GoV in rural
development led to revised directives to increase the size of rural roads. This led to enormous
rural road expansion efforts. These activities severely impacted project implementation. It
complicated efforts of distribution network construction, which closely follow rural roads.
Furthermore, where distribution networks were previously laid, they were forced to be
relocated to accommodate the road expansion. This not only caused technical complications
but also raised various financial issues, including how to cover additional costs associated
with the extra work to relocate water distribution networks. After protracted dialogue, a
combination of local and provincial government support was utilized to finance the additional
works, as it was deemed unfair to hold contractors accountable for these changes.

37.     Unclear institutional arrangements led to weak O&M of public sanitation facilities.
Sanitation and hygiene campaigns led to tremendous demand for both household and public
sanitation facilities. Through the project, 661 public sanitation facilities were constructed.
Unfortunately O&M of these facilities greatly varied depending on local context. Overall the
O&M of these facilities was very poor, with many in serious risk of being unsustainable in
the future. These issues were raised during implementation support missions. In some
communities, local governments of pertinent institutions hired caretakers for these facilities,
but long term financing for O&M remains a challenge. At present, institutional mechanisms
to set and enforce collection of service fees are not systematized. Further, despite notable
gains and willingness to pay for water supply and household sanitation facilities, the same
attitudes do not extend to public sanitation blocks and there are some sentiments that O&M
of these facilities should be subsidized by government.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization



                                              10
38.     M&E Design. The project’s M&E system was thoughtfully developed to rely on
participatory, process and sustainability monitoring mechanisms. It was designed to measure
the achievement of the PDO as well as intermediate indicators and outputs to measure
progress of each of the components. The project’s Key Performance Indicators (KPI)
adequately captured outputs and outcomes. The KPIs were also well aligned with GoV
indicators and facilitated monitoring and reporting in line with national standards. Indicators
and corresponding targets were agreed upon based on findings of baseline survey carried out
during project preparation. There was discrepancy between the key indicators in the main text,
the Results Framework, and the Arrangements for Results Monitoring in the PAD.
Additionally, in Annex 3 of the PAD, only 4 out of the 12 PDO and intermediate outcome
indicators had target values. Despite well-intentioned efforts the terminology used in Results
Framework at design stage was vague and some of the targets in the PAD were not properly
defined.

39.     M&E Implementation. The CPO coordinated M&E efforts and conducted
verification missions to ensure data quality control. Communities were heavily involved and
aided in the monitoring of progress during implementation through community members
appointed by CPC. Village level groups reported to PPMUs and RWSSEs on the status of
construction, particularly of water distribution networks and public sanitation facilities.
Furthermore, they monitored and reported on hygiene and sanitation activities and provided
feedback on the utility and effectiveness of these activities. During the MTR, project
restructuring introduced new indicators to align with GoV’s monitoring framework and
revised terminology and phrasing of indicators to harmonize with the Bank’s Core Sector
Indicators. These changes did not adequately capture PDO indicators in the Arrangements for
Results Monitoring table and omitted value targets for user satisfaction rate and oversight &
quality control. The Bank’s internal Operations Portal was not changed to reflect these
revisions. As such, at an initial glance it gives the perception that there are inconsistencies
between indicators in the revised Project Paper (Restructuring) and the indicators in the
internal system. The M&E system and reporting, by the Government via quarterly and
biannual progress reports and by the Bank through Aide Memoires, reflected those changes.

40.     M&E utilization. The M&E system was used by CPO, PPMUs, Enterprises and the
Bank Task Team to track project implementation and results. Quarterly progress reports were
disseminated within NCERWASS for internal project management. Results and progress of
the project were occasionally highlighted on Department of International Cooperation’s,
within MARD, website and newsletter. Information collected through M&E activities helped
guide project implementation and provided useful insights for project restructuring. Data
related to project progress was thoroughly reviewed by the National Target Program (NTP)
to better understand achievements and bottlenecks in implementation and draw lessons that
could be applied to the government’s NTP activities. These results also served as the
foundation during the design of the PforR operations (previously phase 2 APL of RRD
RWSSP). Findings from these results helped the PforR team assess interventions and set
reasonable targets for the KPIs. In addition to the M&E system designed to capture both
outputs and outcomes; an independent assessment survey and impact evaluation was carried
out by an international firm after project closure. Although, long term impacts were not
anticipated at such an early stage, the impact evaluation (available in Project file) indicated




                                              11
positive results from schemes and interventions that were completed in earlier phases of the
project.



2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

41.     Safeguards compliance. The relevant environmental and social safeguard policies
were in full compliance. The project was a category B project and triggered OP/BP 4.01-
Environmental Assessment for its potential safety, construction and operation adverse
impacts related to construction of water supply and sanitation infrastructure. Environmental
Assessments/Environmental Management Plans concluded that overall the project would
have positive environmental and public health impacts. Potential adverse impacts were
deemed to be localized and reasonably mitigated through appropriate project design and
mitigation measures. All technical designs prepared during implementation followed outlined
environmental guidelines, which articulated design, consultation and disclosure requirements
as well as monitoring indicators. Additionally, the project triggered the following social
safeguards: (i) OP/BP 4.12-Involuntary Resettlement related to land acquisition for
construction of water supply and sanitation infrastructure and (ii) OP/BP 4.20-Indeginous
Peoples, due to presence of small number ethnic minority group (primarily Moung) in one
commune out of 120 targeted communes. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared in
close consultation with project affected persons (PAPs), local authorities and pertinent
stakeholders, and subsequently publicly disclosed. For subprojects designed during
implementation, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) guided their preparation. To ensure
that identified indigenous people in target project areas would benefit, a Strategy for Ethnic
Minority Development Plans was prepared in accordance (EMDPs) with BP 4.20 standards.
The EMDPs ensured that participatory methods were used during project planning and
provided equitable choices to ethnic minorities to avoid adverse impact through land
acquisition. The overall community-participation approach also helped to ensure that ethnic
minority rights were included in overall infrastructure development, capacity building and
sanitation and hygiene promotion.

42.     Financial Management. Financial management performance was Moderately
Satisfactory throughout the Project period, with the exception of satisfactory performance
during a short period from late 2010 to early 2011. Quarterly Interim Financial Reports
(IFRs) submitted were acceptable to the Bank albeit with some delays in timely submission.
Audited financial statements and audit reports were generally submitted to the Bank on time
and with acceptable quality. However, the audit opinions for the initial years of Project
implementation were usually qualified due to (i) ineligible expenditure; (ii) cut-off errors in
recognition; (iii) internal control weaknesses; and (iv) delays in collection of community fund
contributions.

43.      During preparation the following issues were identified: (i) lack of adequately
qualified and experienced financial staff; (ii) lack of suitable accounting software; and (iii)
lack of a detailed manual on financial management. A financial management action plan was
developed to rectify these shortcomings and provide targeted capacity building to pertinent
institutions.




                                              12
44.     Internal controls remained a challenge during implementation mainly due to limited
financial management capacity and accountability at the provincial level, which resulted in
qualified audit opinions and a significant number of internal control weaknesses highlighted
in the audit management letters. These issues were primarily resolved toward the closing of
the Project. Excess funds realized through foreign exchange rate fluctuations were reported
by VDB and approved by the Bank for use to expand project scope. Out of the total credit
amount the project was able to utilize US$105.31 million (93% of total amount).

45.     Project preparation and implementation provided valuable lessons learned that helped
enhance financial management activities within the scope of this project and better inform
other interventions. These lessons were: (i) establishment of an acceptable accounting
software and training of users is critical during early stages of the project; (ii) different roles
of implementing agencies, namely, CPO, VDB and the Women Unions should be defined
before project implementation with clear reporting responsibilities; (iii) community
contribution should be set up at a level acceptable to the households to avoid lack of
community contribution throughout implementation; and (iv) VDB should allow advances to
the PPMUs’ project accounts (instead of having 100% expenditure disbursed as
reimbursements or direct payments) to facilitate project activities such as training, workshops,
media campaigns where the PPMUs need funds to initiate these activities.

46.      Procurement. Procurement compliance was rated Moderately Satisfactory in ISRs
during the early and mid-stages of project implementation and gradually improved to
Satisfactory. In general, procurement was acceptable to the Bank. The Procurement Plan was
in place from Project start, and was subject to various updates to accommodate changes to
contract amounts, due to price escalations and delays. Delays in procurement were primarily
caused by limited procurement capacity at all levels of project implementation during the
initial stages; this issue was remedied with targeted capacity building. Teething pains were
experienced in executing EPC contracts as noted in Section 2.2 (paragraph 29). Further,
contractor capacity was limited as few entities had combined experience in both design as
well as construction, which resulted in poor quality tendering documents (discussed in
section 2.2). The economic recession that affected Vietnam from 2008-2009 and 2011
hampered the financial autonomy of contractors. Consequently, tendered contracts were
extended multiple times to allow for works to be completed.

47.     A case of misprocurement was documented in November, 2010 relating to Contract
Package 1.4/CPO4: Preparation of Phase II Sub-Projects in 8 Project Provinces. The contract
was investigated and misappropriated funds were reimbursed to the IDA account. Despite the
bottlenecks noted, procurement capacity increased steadily over the course of project
implementation. Albeit with some delays, project staff at PPMUs identified collusion
incidences and reported occurrences to the World Bank for bid cancellation. Moreover, due
to competitive bidding processes, transparency was greatly enhanced and subsequently a cost
savings of 20% of total works contracts was achieved. Funds from cost savings were utilized
to expand scope of the project and increase the number of beneficiaries.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

48.    Financially viable institutions are in place to carry out operation and maintenance
of project-financed infrastructure. The 87 water supply schemes established through this



                                               13
project are under the capable management of four RWSSEs. All four enterprises have shown
remarkable growth and maturity in management of water supply infrastructure, with detailed
business plans; cost recovery for operation and maintenance as well as debt repayment for 2
of the enterprises; community representative shareholders who actively participate in tariff
distribution; as well as noted steps to enhance service delivery as evidenced by the declining
percentage of water losses.

49.     Joint stock companies/Enterprise model for rural water supply management are
now an approved and formally promoted model by Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development nationwide. MARD has thoroughly reviewed the track record of RWSSEs
established under this project and has concluded that they are a prime example of effective
rural water supply management. As such the enterprise model is now being promoted as part
of National Target Program’s interventions when considering management of new and
existing schemes.

50.     Sanitation Revolving Funds have been approved by Provincial Peoples Committees
to continue operation under the management of Women’s Union to scale up sanitation
financing. Following the success garnered by the sanitation funds and its ability to generate
demand for sanitation and hygiene financing while availing funds to all rural households,
PPCs have agreed to continue to scale up the use of this fund. The SRFs will continue to be
managed by Women’s Unions under the conditions set out in this project. Finances will
continue to be supervised by Vietnam Development Bank.

51.     Phase 2 APL of this project has been successfully launched as Program for Results
supporting government systems and infrastructure in 8 provinces in Red River Delta. The
project APL second phase had 2 policy triggers, 2 access triggers, 1 institutional reform
triggers and additional 2 institutional triggers. The expected institutional framework and
conditions put in place were largely met during first phase of the APL. Given the strong
progress and commitment, the second phase of the APL was converted to PforR in order to
better support government-wide interventions across the sector and align with national goals.
The delivery of the PforR NTP is largely due to the institutional gains and successful model
of RRD RWSSP. This project in addition to very strong counterparts, trusting relationship
with GoV and high government commitment allowed for the scaling up of engagement in
RWSS sector through NTP. The PforR’s objective is to increase sustained access to water
supply and sanitation services and improve sector planning, monitoring and evaluation in
participating provinces of the NTP. This is supported by the government’s adoption of the
enterprise model for rural water supply management, and increased support for sanitation and
hygiene promotion and financing.

52.     Design-build (EPC) contracts for civil works have been promoted by MARD in
water supply programs funded by other donors. These contracts have been credited with
reducing management burdens and expediting the pace of implementation. Furthermore, such
contracts have been sought to increase demand for multi-faceted contractors who possess the
capacity to both design and build. As such MARD, in collaboration with Ministry of
Planning Investment have stipulated the use of such contracts in the implementation of rural
water supply interventions financed by Asian Development Bank (ADB) in the central region
of the country.




                                             14
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
53.      The project objective was highly relevant for Vietnam and in line with pertinent
national and Bank engagement strategies. The project’s development objective was
consistent with development objectives of Vietnam as stipulated in the RWSS 2020. RRD
RWSSP’s objectives and adaptable program approach was the first large scale investment
used to operationalize RWSS 2020. The development objectives were true to RWSS 2020
tenants of responsiveness, decentralization, community participation, and building local
institutional capacity. Additionally, the project objectives effectively responded to the themes
of the 2003-2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of: (i) enhancing equitable, socially
inclusive and sustainable development; (ii) reducing the rural/urban development gap; (iii)
contributing to gender equality and the advancement of women; and (iv) promoting good
governance.

54.     The project’s design and implementation were also highly relevant. The project
design was reasonably sound and struck an appropriate balance between financing of
“hardware” (infrastructure) and “software” (Information, Education, Communication)
interventions. The activities of the four components were complementary in equally
addressing both water and sanitation. With relation to relevance of implementation
arrangements, the project was structured in an adaptable manner to allow for flexibility in
implementing proposed novel approaches in Vietnam. The decentralized implementation
modalities were effective in cementing community engagement throughout the planning and
implementation phases. The project’s preparation should have perhaps put more emphasis on
preparing detailed technical designs ahead of implementation or have appropriately
apportioned the disbursement schedule to account for the initial slow start. Implementation
modalities were effective in engaging all stakeholders, with a strong emphasis on institutional
and capacity building at all levels of project scope.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
55.      The project markedly improved access to water supply and household level
sanitation services. Despite initial delays, the project achieved its PDO and exceeded all
targets. The number of people in project areas with access to “improved water sources”,
1,289,674, surpassed AF targets by 13.5%; while 960,648 were provided with improved
hygienic sanitation facilities, surpassing AF targets by 160%. Public sanitation was greatly
enhanced through the construction of 661 public sanitation blocks, more than double the AF
targets.

56.    Through comprehensively integrated sanitation and hygiene campaigns effective
use of developed water supply and sanitation facilities has been greatly enhanced. 169
communes can effectively demonstrate positive and sustained improvement in hygiene,
knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to water supply and sanitation, in comparison
to AF targets of 100 communes. 135 communes (80% of total project population) have
pledged to adhere to tenants of Community-Led Total Sanitation (CLTS). Communes have
adopted internationally recognized CLTS principles and committed to improving their
commune’s sanitation. The Sanitation Revolving Fund was able to provide a record 43,946
loans surpassing AF targets of 40,000 loans. Through the provision of these loans,
households were motivated to construct or upgrade (septic tanks) 48,215 water supply and


                                              15
sanitation facilities. Through communal mechanisms, societal peer-pressure and motivation
of WUs and HSPs, communities were instilled to stop open defecation practices.
Communities actively engaged in site selection of public sanitation blocks. Beyond
technology options, household surveys indicted pronounced behavior change in increased
number of households reporting hand washing prior to food preparation or after using
sanitation facilities. “Green Sundays” program was led by CPCs to encourage community
members to come out on designated Sundays to help in community cleanup programs. This
included collection of garbage and removal of debris in rain drainage ditches.

57.      The project put in place water supply and sanitation infrastructure that is
financially, technically and environmentally sustainable. The project successfully supported
the establishment of 4 enterprises, one in each participating province. Each enterprise has
been capacitated and is fully functional in the operation and maintenance of 87 schemes
established under this project and 2 additional schemes established under GoV’s NTP. Three
out of the four enterprises have established various price discrimination tariff structures,
which allow for price distinction based on either volume or type of use (domestic,
institutional, industrial, etc.). This is a clear sign of institutional maturity. Connection rates to
each scheme surpassed the targeted 60% connection rates and varied between 85%-100%.
Technical considerations such as selection of appropriate technology and introduction of
inter-commune schemes greatly enhanced efficiency. As such, non-revenue water (water
losses) has continually decreased to a range between 19-25%. Recuperation of tariffs is 99%
and household surveys carried out at project closure indicate that 90% of households are
highly satisfied with services. Due to environmental considerations put in place during
project design, established infrastructure has minimal impact on surrounding environment.
The increase of access to sanitation facilities has contributed to the reduction of
environmental pollution in project areas.

58.     The project increased access of water supply and sanitation facilities to poor
households, thereby contributing to poverty alleviation in participating rural communities.
Project design aimed to provide access to improved water supply and sanitation facilities to
20% of poor households in project areas based on Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social
Affairs statistics. Project interventions such as the low cost access to sanitation financing
(SRF), flexible payment plans for water infrastructure contributions and affordable tariffs
afforded the opportunity of a greater number of poor households to gain access to water
supply and sanitation services. These interventions coupled with effective management of
funds, which resulted in 20% cost savings of civil works, allowed the project to expand its
coverage. As such, 100% of poor households in the 4 participating provinces were provided
with access to improved WSS facilities.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: satisfactory
59.     An economic rate of return analysis for water supply and sanitation infrastructure
shows positive economic impact that is higher than anticipated at appraisal. Economic
analysis at completion stage was conducted for the water and sanitation infrastructure
component (Component 1). This component accounted for approximately 92% (USD $42.0
million) of the Bank financed cost at PAD stage, and 95% (USD $98.2 million) including
additional funding at completion stage. At appraisal, it was agreed that the Project would
adopt the water tariff structure determined by an inter-ministerial decree. Consistent with the


                                                 16
decree, the tariff planned was set to ensure the recovery of O&M cost, depreciation of fixed
assets funded by loans and consumer contributions. A Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) carried
out at appraisal resulted in an anticipated Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of 10.8%.
At completion, CBA indicated the project yielded more benefits than expected at appraisal,
resulting in EIRR that ranges between 13.0% and 17.2% for the four provinces. These results
highlight evident combination of direct benefit and consumer surplus. The value of EIRR
would increase by including (i) the time saving of not having to collect water and (ii) public
health benefits. The EIRR would change either upward or downward by (ii) conducting a
separate socio-economic analysis to identify more accurate consumer surplus benefit. But it
is fair to say this Project has achieved the expected value of economic benefit. Methodology
for this analysis is included in Annex 3.

60.      Financial analysis of water supply and sanitation infrastructure indicates that
investments are financially viable. At appraisal, financial analysis was not conducted for
targeted 120 communes, but to 8 communes in the four provinces. On the other hand, the
analysis at completion has been conducted with water and sanitation service enterprise in
each province, meaning all the 89 schemes are covered. Financial Internal Rate of Return
(FIRR) following MTR, at AF were lower than the original (appraised) figures due to the
increase in investments costs and calculation of FIRR that included 100% of investment costs
in line with Government policy of not providing any capital subsidy. The FIRR at completion
is satisfactory when compared to the AF stage, primarily due to (i) meeting the expected
water demands; and (ii) the establishment of tariff structures that are gradually increasing and
allowing for full recovery of the O&M and depreciation cost.

61.      Efficiency analysis concluded that RWSSEs are financially sustainable. The FIRR
at completion ranged from 3.5% to 12.2% with each province exhibiting varying degree of
financial sustainability. Hai Duong exhibits excellent FIRR because (i) investment cost per
m3 of water supply is the lowest among the four provinces; (ii) the highest unit sales revenue
of 6,612 VND/m3 in 2013 has already been achieved; and (iii) the spread between unit sales
price and unit production cost is the widest, indicating the operational cost has been
efficiently managed. FIRR of Ninh Binh province is below expectation because (i) the capital
cost per capita was the highest among the four provinces; and (ii) the pace of the tariff
increase is slower than the other provinces. The business plan of RWSSE in Ninh Binh shows
the average water tariff increased by only 4% over the past five years, which affected the
operational cash flow for those years, leading to a lower FIRR. Despite the slower pace of
tariff increase, the financial position of the Ninh Binh RWSSE is expected to improve in line
with the projected demand increase and tariff increase. Detailed results of FIRR analysis can
be found in Annex 3.

62.     Average unit costs for water supply and sanitation infrastructure are significantly
lower than interventions delivered by government and bilateral donors in this sector. The
average cost varied considerably between provinces, though ranging from US$57-$81.70 for
water supply infrastructure per capita. At present the National Target Program- Phase III is
delivering similar investments at a unit cost of $140 per capita. For Sanitation, the investment
ratio per capita ranged between US$6-$8.29. This calculation takes into account community
contribution (10%).




                                              17
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: satisfactory
The outcome of the RRD RWSSP Phase 1 is rated Satisfactory based on, high relevance, the
highly satisfactory rating of its efficiency and achievement of PDO and satisfactory rating of
efficacy. This project out-performed its design target but given its implementation delays and
fiduciary challenges, it is prudent to provide a satisfactory rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
63.     Poverty Impacts. With regards to access to water supply, the 10% of community
contribution was utilized to subsidize connections for poor households. Each enterprise
devised various programs to continue supporting low income households. Poor households
were allowed to pay contributions in installments. In some provinces, they are exempt from
the minimum water usage limit that is imposed by enterprises. Regarding sanitation, the
integration of hygiene promotion with sanitation financing through SRF, has tremendously
increased demand for improved sanitation facilities. Findings of an independent impact
evaluation3 found a statistically significant impact of this project on health and long term
economic development. Results indicate positive impact on labor force participation. Men in
treatment areas were found to have lower number of days off work due to water-related
illnesses. Findings also show some positive impacts on reduced number of days off work to
take care of ill children. Moreover, with high access rates to tap water and satisfactory
service delivery, the project has contributed to decreasing the urban/rural gap. This project
was found to significantly contribute to the increase in shared prosperity as it increased
access to improved water sources and hygienic sanitation facilities.

64.     Gender Aspects. Project activities greatly contributed to increasing women’s
participation and role in water and sanitation as well as income generation. Household
surveys carried out at project closure indicate that now in 48% of households women are
equally important in earning income as their husbands. Given the hands-on approach adopted
by Women’s Unions in management of SRF, nearly all sanitation related decisions were
made by women (92%). With regards to household sanitation, women made decisions on
appropriate sanitation technology. For public sanitation, through the proactivity of a high
number of female Sanitation Promoters, women played a greater role in site selection of
public sanitation blocks. Women were also found to be more frequent users of public
sanitation facilities (in health clinics, community houses and CPC offices). Further, women’s
active participation in environmental sanitation activities, such as “Green Sundays”
outnumbered male participants. Overall, women’s participation indicates that not only were
they beneficiaries of project interventions but also active stakeholders.

65.     Social Development. The project was found to have positive impact on health.
Findings indicated that households in treatment areas reported significantly lower incidences
of diarrhea and eye diseases, particularly among men and boys. Reduced health problems


3
  Impact evaluation was based on “intention-to-treat” (ITT) methodology to determine the project’s impacts. ITT
approach estimates the program impact from a comparison of those directly targeted by project interventions with
control group of community members in nearby outside of project scope.


                                                         18
were found to significantly lower health expenditures of household in treatment groups.
Although no statistical variance was noted between female participants in treatment 4 or
control groups, overall disease incidence rates was found to be lower in treatment groups.
Through the SRF, households were able to gain access to funds to construct or improve
household sanitation. Project activities have also strengthened community proactivity in
environmental sanitation issues. Many communes have adopted “Green Sunday” campaigns
and have incorporated them into routine community activities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
66.      The establishment of RWSSEs as joint stock companies has been very successful.
The enterprises were able to effectively support supervision of civil works construction. The
management of water supply schemes involves people’s committees (Provincial and
Commune levels) as well as community members (users) in all facets of operation, including
tariff setting. The active participation of the enterprises, local government representatives and
community members has allowed for establishment of tariff rates that are affordable for users,
while being well on-track to achieve full cost recovery. The enterprises have effectively
managed 87 schemes. In some of the provinces, enterprises have also assumed management
of NTP financed schemes. In total the enterprises are currently managing 89 schemes. As
their capacity continues to grow, there is a high likelihood that provincial level schemes will
be transferred under their management. The joint stock company enterprise model is now part
of the national government’s repertoire of promoted management mechanisms. This model is
now promoted for rural water supply management in other parts of the country.

 (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
67.      The project has resulted in several unintended outcomes. The establishments of
RWSSEs have demonstrated a positive model for rural water supply. Consequently it has
created a market of potential public-private sector involvement in water supply management.
Realizing that affordable service delivery can be effective with cost recovery has nominally
encouraged private sector entities to approach local governments regarding potential public-
private sector partnerships. Further, the introduction of EPC contracts have created demand
for more all-inclusive firms that have built in capacity to design as well as construct water
supply and sanitation infrastructure. Firms that brought in consultants to supplement their
current operations have since realized the utility of internalizing such capacity. As such
technical capacity of contractors has been improved through the implementation of this
project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
68.     The Project Completion Report compiled by CPO with contribution from each of the
four PPMUs highlighted the results of project implementation. The CPO commissioned an
independent evaluation of results and impacts of the project. The household survey assessed
the project’s appropriateness, effectiveness and efficiency. Additionally this evaluation
sought to assess sustainability and quantify impact of the project’s WSS interventions on
household welfare; with a focus on health, education and labor force participation. Both
quantitative and qualitative methods were utilized including informant interviews, focus
group discussions, field observations and household surveys. The methodology and findings
of the survey are also presented in Annex 5.


4
    Treatment group refers to participants who were directly targeted by RRD RWSSP interventions


                                                          19
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: low
69.     Four fully operational RWSSEs currently recover full O&M costs and are on track to
meet sustainability targets. Given the good standing of the four enterprises and the recent
launching of phase 2 as a Program for Results, there is every reason to believe that enhanced
capacity will be sustained in the long-term While most of the Project’s activities were
designed and implemented with sustainability considerations in mind, there are a few issues
that need to be considered to ensure the sustainability of the Project’s outcomes over the
long-term.

70.    At present, the project has established public sanitation blocks that are appreciated
and well utilized by community members. However, most of these facilities have poor O&M
oversight and are at risk of being unsustainable in the long run. Better management
mechanisms are needed to ensure facilities are adequately maintained.

71.      Hygiene promotion related to communal environmental sanitation needs stronger
efforts to sustain gains in behavior change. Despite commendable gains, household surveys
indicated that presence of solid waste disposal continues to be a problem. Efforts by
community groups and local governments to continue community engagement in
environmental sanitation are needed to uphold standards outlined by Community-Led Total
Sanitation principles.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
72.     The Bank performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The Bank team
provided the needed expertise and experience in the project preparation and appraisal process
and established good working relationship with government counterparts. The Bank team
also put lessons learned regarding Project’s design flexibility and balance of hardware and
software activities to good use. As noted in sections 2.3 and 3.1, the Bank did a good job in
helping to identify key Project components, which were fully aligned with the PDO, and the
key elements of the M&E framework. Several novel approaches were introduced, such as
new management models and implementation arrangements for sanitation financing, and
their challenges were well understood by the Bank team and taken into account in the project
design.

73.     A key project design weakness was that project preparation under-estimated unit
costs, as pointed out in 2.2, this coupled with economic recession that led to price escalations
has affected the project scope and timely completion of the originally envisaged activities.
Given that this was the first large scale operation of its kind in the country, there was limited
benchmarks for unit costs. Furthermore, the terminology used for some of the indicators in
the Results Framework was vague and required enhancement during AF stage. There were
discrepancies between the indicators in the main text and Annex 3 of the PAD, and 8 out of
the 12 PDO and intermediate outcome indicators did not have target values in the PAD.


                                               20
Despite these inconsistencies, the project level M&E system used by project to monitor
progress included an integrated mix of Bank and government indicators that were monitored
regularly from project effectiveness and were later enhanced and harmonized with Bank’s
Core Sector Indicators during AF process.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
74.      The Bank Performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank supervision
missions were regular, instrumental in identifying and helping to address critical problems.
Supervision missions were also effective as platforms for policy dialogues and learning tools.
Mission members made strong efforts to provide training, disseminate knowledge and
critically assess the pros and cons of various management models in consideration. The
prolonged period of dialogue regarding selection of management models contributed to initial
delays in implementation. In retrospect, these discussions yielded a successful outcome,
where an appropriate management model (joint stock companies) was selected to effectively
tackle challenges in RWSS sector and meet the needs of all stakeholders.

75.    The Bank team worked very closely and effectively with GoV counterparts and
showed flexibility in modifying implementation modality at MTR to adjust to the changing
economic situation. This was critical for achieving results. The TTL being based in Hanoi
added value to the overall management of the Project. Proximity to implementing agencies
(CPO, PPMUs and enterprises) allowed closer monitoring and intensive on-the-ground
implementation support, and also helped create trust.

76.     There was no formal QAG review of quality of supervision for this project. The MTR
served as a review tool, which helped restructure project along with provision of additional
financing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
77.     The overall performance of the Bank is assessed as satisfactory. The Bank team
played a critical role in supporting the CPO, PPMUs enterprises and communities and in
turning the Project around and making it a success. The limitation observed at quality at entry
caused some delays in implementation but had marginal impacts on the achievement of the
PDO.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
78.     Central government. Satisfactory. Under this project the “Central Government”
includes the recipient of the loan - Ministry of Finance (MoF) as well as pertinent line
ministries and departments who were actively involved in project preparation and
implementation such as Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), and
Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI). Inputs from Ministry of Education and



                                              21
corresponding departments at the national level were solicited with regards to sanitation and
hygiene activities.

79.     The performance of national government during preparation and implementation is
satisfactory. GoV provided counterpart financing and increased its contribution at AF stage.
The GoV also provided clear decrees and followed through with tariff setting, which
supported financial sustainability of enterprises. Significant improvements such as
government technical capacity, coordination and the mainstreaming of Project activities
within the national structure are testaments to the commitment that government entities
afforded to this Project.

80.     A few limitations that contributed to implementation delays include: (i) lack of clear
regulations on mobilization and utilization of the Official Development Assistance (ODA)
grant for each phase from MPI; (ii) lack of harmonization of appraisal and approval
procedures between the GoV and donors relating to concessional credit; and (iii) limited
experience and knowledge of handling procedures for ODA funds between central and
provincial governments.

81.     Local government. Satisfactory. The local government entities that were actively
involved in the project were the respective Provincial People’s Committees (PPCs) and
Commune People’s Committees (CPCs). CPCs were instrumental in engaging community
members in all facets of project preparation and implementation. During preparation, CPCs
actively contributed to dialogues and decision making for management model options and
approved the decision of Joint Stock Company as RWSSEs. During implementation, CPCs
effectively facilitated the land acquisition for water supply and sanitation infrastructure and
mobilized community members to supervise civil works construction of water supply
distribution lines. Proactive CPCs went beyond project expectations and institutionalized
environmental sanitation activities such as Green Sundays to continuous community events.
Performance of CPCs varied based on engagement and enthusiasm of elected members. In
some CPCs delays were experienced due to protracted land clearance processes and
collection of counterpart financing.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
82.      Central Project Office. Satisfactory. CPO was fully committed to the Project from
the conceptualization stage, and was instrumental in its successful implementation. The CPO
worked diligently to quickly build up its management capacities. In addition to obtaining
intensive fiduciary training and bringing on board pertinent personnel to fill capacity gaps,
CPO worked to bolster its technical and supervision capacity by engaging supervision
consultants to closely follow up with civil works contractors. These efforts dramatically
improved management capacity and supported PPMUs. Further, CPO played a critical
convening role in elevating the profile of this project and engaging high level government
officials in conceptualization, preparation and implementation of this project. The CPO
focused its activities towards achieving the PDO and played a very active role in adopting
novel implementation approaches such as inter-commune schemes and EPC contracts that
accelerated the pace of implementation and facilitated technical support.




                                              22
83.      Shortcomings were noted in fiduciary management. In instances where fiduciary
problems were discovered (most notably the case of misprocurement), once implications
were understood, CPO handled the matter with the utmost professionalism by notifying the
Bank and the Minster of MARD. By elevating the issue to the highest management level of
government, the Minister then promptly ordered an extensive review and the matter was
handled in accordance with Bank guidelines. Further, limited availability of technical designs
delayed implementation progress during initial phases. Given that this was the first program
at this scale that the government had implemented in the sector, implementation hurdles such
as fiduciary capacity that contributed to delay of preparation of technical studies in a timely
manner were not adequately assessed.

84.     Provincial Project Management Units. Satisfactory. The capacities of the PPMUs
varied depending on the existing government capacities. The four participating PPMUs were
established within the respective DARD offices and were responsible for implementation of
project activities at the provincial level. PPMUs quickly identified capacity gaps and engaged
specialists to support project management. PPMUs were the primary interface between
project stakeholders and government prior to the establishment of the RWSSEs. Throughout
project implementation the PPMUs provided close supervision of the quality of civil works
contracts. The PPMUs were also very supportive and responsive to the operationalization of
new implementation approaches (inter-commune schemes and EPC contracts). Given the
novel nature of these approaches in Vietnam, many implementation challenges came to light.
PPMUs were able to effectively liaise with contractors, local governments, enterprises as
well as CPO to facilitate implementation.

85.     Shortcomings noted in PPMU performance was occasional delays in settlement of
expenditure funds with the Vietnam Development Bank, which caused some delays in
disbursement of payments.

86.      Women’s Unions. Highly Satisfactory. The Women’s Unions were responsible for
management of Sanitation Revolving Fund as well as dissemination of Information,
Education, Communication materials related to sanitation and hygiene. The WUs leveraged
their established presence at household level through their vast grassroots network to
effectively combine hygiene promotion with sanitation financing. Prior to this project WUs
primarily played promotional and advocacy roles promoting government-led program in
health, education, water and sanitation, etc. Within the scope of this project, WUs also
managed all aspects of SRF, including vetting of loan requests, monthly follow up and
savings contribution as well as dissemination of promotional materials. The WUs
successfully generated demand for sanitation financing and facilitated increased community
contribution for water supply schemes. Their targeted programs combined with trustworthy
relationship with communities allowed the WUs to reach a large number of households. The
use of various approaches including positive peer pressure, created an enabling environment
for women to take on an active role in securing household level sanitation loans, choosing
sanitation technology options at household level, community level sanitation as well as
facilitating water supply household connections.

87.   There were initial teething challenges as WUs took on the management role of the
SRF given limited engagement in such activities. This primarily involved financial
management. WUs received targeted training, which was then carried out periodically by
WU’s through training of trainers to continually build management capacity.


                                              23
88.     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Enterprises. Satisfactory. The RWSSEs were
established almost 2 years into project implementation. Once established the RWSSEs took
on roles previously carried out by the PPMUs, which included establishment of water supply
and sanitation infrastructure. Like the PPMUs the capacity of the enterprises varies from
province to province. The enterprises collaborated effectively with CPO, PPMUs as well as
Ministry of Planning and Investment to plan proposed infrastructure, closely follow up with
contractors and liaise with community members to ensure adequate construction and smooth
handover. When faced with challenges of poor contractor performance, the enterprises
worked with MPI to add non-performing contractors to the national government’s blacklist.
Furthermore, enterprises collaborated closely with each other to share implementation
challenges and discuss troubleshooting mechanisms.

89.     Vietnam Development Bank. Satisfactory. The VDB was responsible for
disbursement of project funds into the respective PPMU and WU’s designated accounts.
VDB made transfers in a timely manner and worked with respective PPMUs and the Bank to
resolve fiduciary issues as well as repayment of funds related to misprocurement case. VBD
has highly regulated internal controls and requested PPMUs and WUs managing SRF to
adhere to these standards. At times, disbursements delays were reported but were primarily
due to the PPMU’s failure to adhere to VDB’s reporting guidelines. Performance of regional
VDB varied from province to province. Overall, VDB developed good working relations
with all PPMUs and WUs involved in project implementation. In some provinces, strong
VDB relations extended beyond formal correspondence to provide hands-on support to
rapidly correct reporting mistakes and expedite disbursements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
90.     The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Despite the shortcomings
presented in section 2.2, the project implementing agencies provided unconditional
leadership and its performance was commendable.

6. Lessons Learned

91.     Flexible Design. One of the key lessons this project illustrated was the need to have a
project design that focuses on end goals and is not too rigid in the implementation modalities
to achieve these results. For example, although the introduction of novel water service
delivery approaches, which expanded beyond government administrative boundaries (inter-
commune schemes), posed a series of technical and institutional challenges, it facilitated the
achievement of project objectives, and even afforded the project the opportunity to surpass
some targets in the results framework. This was achieved through review and revision of
implementation modalities to optimize development of water supply infrastructure and
reduce unit costs per capita. Cost savings from these measures were utilized to further expand
access to water supply services.

92.   Project costs need to be underpinned by stronger economic analysis, review of
macro-economic trends and comparisons with similar interventions in the region.
Underestimation of project unit costs coupled with impacts of economic recession caused a



                                              24
large financing gap. Notwithstanding that limited benchmarks existed for a program of this
nature at the time of preparation, unit costs should have incorporated a safety factor to
account for some unit cost deviations. However, even with detailed analysis and educated
projections of unit costs, impacts of large scale macro-economic shocks such as the one
experienced by Vietnam in 2008 cannot be forecasted.

93.      Joint stock company model provided successful balance between financial
sustainability and affordable service delivery of water supply and sanitation services.
Management of rural water supply infrastructure remains a challenge, not only in Vietnam
but globally. Within the scope of this project, both government and the Bank made concerted
efforts to understand the unique challenges facing the sector in Vietnam and decided on a
management model that meets the needs of all stakeholders. The selection of the joint stock
company model proved to be the most effective as it allowed community members to become
shareholders within the company. The decision to establish 4 JSC at provincial level also
proved to be ideal balance between decentralization of service delivery without incurring
problems with fragmentation and proliferation of management entities that could have posed
bureaucratic hurdles. Through this management model, community members have an
adequate voice to determine tariffs. This process is critical in helping the RWSSEs maintain
high levels of user satisfaction that is needed to recoup costs required for sustainable water
supply service delivery, while maintaining tariffs at affordable levels.

94.      Active community participation in planning, supervision and management of rural
water supply schemes is critical to success and sustainability of interventions. Community
and local government participation in all facets of project preparation and implementation
ensured sustained engagement and empowered citizens to voice concerns and needs
throughout the project lifecycle. Ownership was further instilled through community
ownership of developed infrastructure. The provision of community contributions (10% of
capital costs) coupled with community and local government’s active support for supervision
of civil works contractors helped cement the community’s stake in project.

95.     Integration of hygiene promotion with sanitation financing coupled with
management by community organizations effectively built strong demand and promoted
genuine behavioral changes. Improving sanitation services, particularly in rural
communities poses immense challenges, given the concerted efforts needed to bring about
meaningful behavior changes. In many interventions, governments and practitioners
grappling with how to deliver effective sanitation services often heavily subsidize
interventions to incentivize communities to take part in project or program activities.
Subsidies have provided mixed results and in many instances communities were found to
revert to old practices after removal of subsidies or financial incentives. As such this project
veered away from subsidy provision and took on a different approach, which strived to
trigger communities’ own demand for sanitation. This approach was operationalized by
leveraging the Women’s Unions extensive grassroots network and trusted presence within
communities. The combination of hygiene promotion with sanitation financing facilitated
meaningful behavioral change.

96.     Conservative disbursement schedule for initial year of project implementation and
fiduciary management capacity building activities during preparation could have alleviated
bottlenecks during implementation. In low capacity context, such as RRD RWSSP where it
was the Bank’s first large scale engagement in this sector, slower project start up should have


                                              25
been factored into implementation and disbursement schedules. This could have allowed for
a longer “teething” period where project staff could have gained familiarity with project
management, primarily fiduciary processes, which contributed to delays in preparation of
technical designs and engagement of civil works contractors. Capacity building for large
scale, decentralized programs of this kind should begin during project preparation to provide
upfront support to implementing agencies in critical areas such as financial management and
procurement, ahead of project implementation. This was remedied during implementation
through adaptive capacity building measures.

97.     Adaptive and targeted capacity building activities to all project stakeholders
enhanced awareness, engagement and ownership of project financed infrastructure. The
true challenge of rural water supply extends well beyond establishment of infrastructure and
rests primarily with institutions or entities that will carry out O&M. This project realized at
an early stage that capacity building at all levels is needed to put in place institutions that can
effectively sustain investments in water supply and sanitation. These activities highlighted
that investment in human capital (capacities) drastically enhanced all the stakeholders’
engagement in decision making processes and ultimately safeguarded their ownership of the
established infrastructure.

98.     Balanced emphasis on provision of water supply with sanitation is critical to
enhancing outcomes of interventions. Given the complexities of delivering sanitation
interventions, water supply activities often eclipse delivery of sanitation services, which
undermines the impacts of access to water supply. This project sought to ensure an adequate
balance where provision of water is supported with strong sanitation and hygiene
interventions. A lesson from RRD RWSSP was that this holistic approach of balancing
sanitation activities at varying levels (household and community) enhanced access to water
supply, which supported the realization of positive impacts to health improvements and labor
contributions.

99.     Public sanitation infrastructure needs to be better coordinated and addressed.
Lessons from RRD RWSSP implementation highlight the need for dialogue with Ministry of
Education to harmonize school latrine O&M and similarly with Ministry of Heath for clinics.
Establishment of latrines in public markets needs to be reassessed and suitable latrine designs
and institutional arrangements need to be put in place. Design of public latrines needs further
assessment to incorporate materials and technologies that can withstand high frequency usage
and require limited repair or replacement. With regards to institutional set up financing of
O&M for public sanitation blocks faces some challenges as the notion of government
subsidies for these facilities still prevails. This requires further sanitation and hygiene
campaigns like those for water supply and household sanitation to promote willingness to pay
and sustainability of these public facilities.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A




                                                26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                            Appraisal     AF Estimate in Actual/Latest
                                                                       Percentage of
       Components         Estimate (USD (USD millions) Estimate (USD
                                                                        Appraisal
                             millions)                     millions)

        Total Baseline Cost
Water and Sanitation                                                     63.52
Infrastructure                                                                                 98.18
                                                 42.00                                                        233.76%
Development
Hygiene and Sanitation                                                    0.46
                                                   1.73                                          2.06         119.08%
Behavior Change
                                                                          0.82
Capacity Strengthening                             0.89                                          1.12         125.84%
Support for Project                                                       0.47
Management and                                     1.26                                          3.95         313.49%
Evaluation
         Total Project Costs                     45.87                  65.27                105.31           229.58%
Physical and Price                                                        0.00
                                                   0.00                                          0.00            0.00
Contingencies
           Total Financing                                              65.27
                                                 45.87                                       105.31           229.58%
                 Required

(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal                             Actual/Latest
                                                                                                           Percentage of
                   Source of Funds              Estimate                               Estimate
                                                                                                            Appraisal
                                             (USD millions)                         (USD millions)
Borrower                                    0.84                                   12.36                 1,471.43%
Local Communities                           3.41                                   8.96*                 262.76%
International Development Association (IDA) 45.87                                  105.31                229.85%
*local community contribution is 10% of capital cost of water supply infrastructure, which accounted for 85% of total loan.




                                                             27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Water and Sanitation Infrastructure Development
Water and Sanitation Infrastructure Development. Achievements under this component were captured
through                           the                            following                         indicators:
(i) The number of people in project areas with access to “improved water sources”; (ii) the number of
additional people in project areas with access to “hygienic sanitation facilities”; (iii) the number of new
piped household water connections that have resulted from the project intervention; (iv) the numbers of
targeted rural communities that have functioning, well operated and maintained water supply scheme; (v)
the number of public sanitation facilities constructed; (vi) the proportion of designated poor households that
have access to water and sanitation facilities from the project; and (vii) the number of households that have
borrowed from revolving fund activities. The project surpassed all targets set out in the indicators for this
component. Loan recovery rates under for the SRF have been nearly 100%. The table below highlights
achieved targets:

Table 1: Results of Component 1
No    Content                              Unit          Hai      Thai         Nam          Ninh      Total
                                                         Doung    Binh         Dinh         Bình

 1    The number of water supply           Project          24       20           15          30         89
      projects completed and being
      operated
 2    The number of households             HH            59,291    74,255       76,559      45,060    255,165
      supplied with tap water
 3    The number of public latrines        Latrine          220      190         154          97        661
      completed and being operated
 4    The number of households             HH             8,776     8,033       13,135      14,002     43,946
      taking out a loan from the
      Revolving Fund
 5    The number water suppply and         Latrine        8,676    12,592       12,945      14,002     48,215
      sanitation facilities (constructed
      or renovated)

Table 2: Results of Sanitation Revolving Fund
        Provinces                   No. of               Number of              Loan          Credit Savings-
                                  Households         latrines renovated     recovery rate         group
                                                          and built
        Hai Duong                    8,776                  8,676              100%                   466
        Nam Dinh                     13,135                12,945              100%                   571
        Ninh Binh                    14,002                14,002              100%                   332
        Thai Binh                    8,033                 12,592              100%                   184
          Total                      43,946                48,215                                    1,553



Component 2: Hygiene and Sanitation Behavior Change
Achievements under component 2 were measured by the following indicator: The number of targeted
communes that can demonstrate a positive and sustained improvement in hygiene knowledge, attitude and
practice in relation to water supply and sanitation facilities. MTR design targets aimed at reaching 100
communes. The project effectively reached 169 communes through its comprehensive information,
education and communication campaigns. The campaigns, which were jointly administered by PPMUs as
well as Women’s Unions, covered a wide range of topics related to water, sanitation, personal hygiene as
well as community sanitation. These campaigns encompassed all forms of awareness training meetings,


                                                       28
school activities, TV programming, announcements through loud speakers as well as large posters on fixed
panels around the community. 135 communes (80% of total project population) have been pledged to
adhere to tenants of Community-Led Total Sanitation (CLTS). Communes that took part adopted
internationally recognized CLTS principles and committed to improving their commune’s sanitation. These
programs were integrated into school activities, health centers and village meetings. A pilot program,
“Green Sunday” was established to encourage participation of community groups in commune-wide
environmental sanitation campaigns. These efforts were aimed to promote improved hygiene and
environmental sanitation. Numerous communities have adopted the campaign and converted the event into
a continuous effort, where community members are encouraged to come out at regular intervals to help
clean the community’s public spaces.

No                         Activities              Hai Doung       Thai         Nam Dinh        Ninh Bình
                                                                   Binh
1               Project Communes                        39             50            37              39
2               Communes implementing IEC               20             10            19              19
                activities
3               Communes having media                   21             10            19              13
                committee
4               Communes having led-                    29             30            37              39
                sanitation program
5               Number of communicators                777            665            550             600

6               Number of trained                      777            665            550             600
                communicators (basic and
                supplementary training)
7               Number of teachers of                   60             62            64              62
                elementary school who were
                trained about hand washing
                with soap and clean water
8               Number of communes                     192            360            380          4 times
                implementing Green Saturday                                                       /month/
                Activities or monthly 24th                                                       commune
9               Number of meetings and                 288            305            407             30
                workshops on community
                behavior change
                communication
10              Number of announcements                493            530          2 times        4 times
                through loud speaker of                                            /month/        /month/
                communes                                                          commune        commune
11              Number of printed                      290            238            320            300
                leaflets/posters
12              Communicator handbook                  578            430            480             400


Component 3: Capacity Strengthening
Achievements under this component were measured through the following indicators: (i) the number of
RWSSEs that are financially viable; and (ii) the degree of user satisfaction within targeted communities
with services and advice offered to them on water supply and sanitation services. By the end of the project,
four financially viable enterprises were fully operational. The enterprises as well as all other stakeholders in
the project, including local governments and community members, participated in a series of capacity
building activities. These activities were comprised of tailored workshops, training courses and a study tour
to help each stakeholder maximize their involvement in project activities. For each of the enterprises,
courses to enhance: monitoring and evaluation; financial management; financial analysis and planning;
accounting systems; business plan development; management of financial risks; and enterprise laws were



                                                      29
given. For technical staff and operators, theoretical and hands-on courses were tailored to strengthen the
capacity of operation and maintenance as well as chemical treatments. Accordingly, all enterprises
established have a solid track record for professionalism, transparency and efficiency. Although project
design targets to achieve 60% connection rates per scheme were estimated; due to highly effective
community involvement and service delivery, the enterprises achieved a minimum connection rate of 85%
with some schemes covering up to 100% of population in its coverage area. Each enterprise assigned a
member of the PPC to receive complaints and grievances and report back in order to ensure limited
disruptions to service delivery. Furthermore, each enterprise has instituted a maintenance hotline, with
numbers printed on billing statements to facilitate communication with users. User satisfaction was
monitored regularly by enterprises through periodic surveys.

                  Activity                              Description                     Results
Establish Rural Water Supply and Sanitation     Establish 4 Water Supply        4 Water Supply Joint
Enterprises                                     Joint Stock Companies in 4      Stock Companies were
                                                provinces in phase 1            established and went
                                                                                into operation
Capacity building, and training for staff and   Bidding contract No             16 training courses, 19
provincial agencies on rural water supply       3.2/CPO/14                      workshops, 1 study tour
Improve capacity for the community              Organize stakeholders at        5 courses (142
                                                commune level                   participants, organized
                                                                                by Adcom)
                                                Organize stakeholder            Province:
                                                meetings at commune level       Nam Dịnh: 6
                                                Workshop on rights, interests   workshops (790
                                                and roles of commune            participants)
                                                stakeholders                    5 workshops (1,330
                                                                                participants)
Improve capacity for managerial officials of    Plan and monitor the project    1 course (28
Departments, Divisions and Joint Stock          progress;                       participants)
Companies                                       Enterprise financial
                                                management;                     1 course (15
                                                Enterprise financial analysis   participants)
                                                Organize financial and          1 course (12
                                                accounting system;              participants)
                                                Orient and develop business     1 course (15
                                                strategy;                       participants)
                                                Organize the enterprise and
                                                operation mechanism;            1 course (15
                                                Manage financial risk control   participants)
                                                Laws on enterprise.
                                                                                1 course (15
                                                                                participants)

                                                                                1 course (21
                                                                                participants)
                                                                                1 course (22
                                                                                participants)
Improve capacity for technical staff and        Operate and maintain rural      Province:
workers                                         water supply system             Nam Dnh: 31 courses
                                                                                (362 participants)
                                                Chemicals treatment             Thai Binh: 20 courses
                                                                                (115 participants)
                                                                                Ninh Binh: 35 courses
                                                                                (133 participants)
                                                                                Hai Doung: 16 courses



                                                   30
                                                                                (170 participants)
                                                                                3 courses organized by
                                                                                Adcom (118
                                                                                participants)
                                                                                1 course (39
                                                                                participants)

Organized study tours                          At Binh Thuan, Ba Ria -          1 study tour, for 28
                                               Vung Tau                         officials

Component 4: Support for Project Management and Evaluation

This component provided technical assistance to develop project management techniques, procurement,
finance and accounting, engineering, operation and maintenance, monitoring and evaluation, and provision
of equipment and vehicles for PPMUs. The project has achieved the following results:

    •   Provided continuous oversight of techinical design and feasibility studies of water supply schemes.
        Engaged additional supervision consultants to closely follow up with contrators to enhance
        construction quality.
    •   Provided continuous training to improve capacity of PPMU staff in terms of project management.
        Training included: financial managernt, procurement, technical assistance to operate and manage
        water supply systems.
    •    Procurement and disbursement training: coordinated trainings with WB specialists to improve
        capacity of PPMUs, enterprises, WUs
    •   Financial management: established financial reporting system and provided training to PPMUs,
        enterprises and WUs on reporting standards and guidelines to streamline quarterly reporting
        requirements.
    •   Land acquisition and clearance: worked closely with PPMUs, PPCs, CPCs to ensure proper land
        acquisition procedures. In cases where land acquisition was required, coordinated compensation
        processes.
    •   Environment: Water supply works of the project have complied with all environmental
        requirements of the government and the World Bank. The water supply facilities which are
        currently being constructed have been granted certificates for meeting environmental standards
        from the Department of Environment and Natural Resources in the districts.
    •   Monitoring and Evaluation: collected data for indicators approved in results framework and
        provided quarterly reports of progress.




                                                   31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Economic Analysis
1. Methodology
Economic analysis was conducted by comparing two scenarios: (a) those “with” the Bank
project and (b) those “without” the Bank project. Without project scenario assumes that the
Project area continues to have no access to piped water, and therefore relies water supply on
alternative methods such as bore holes, open wells, rainwater etc.

The concept of and the methodology for calculating direct benefit, consumer surplus and
public health benefits are summarized below.

Direct Benefit: Direct-use benefits measure the gain in society’s welfare from the
incremental increase in output at a lower price and its value that a consumer attaches to the
output that they receive. It can be measured by the amount a consumer pays for water after
the project has been commissioned. In this analysis, the financial revenues generated by the
subproject were used as the proxy.

Consumer Surplus: Consumer surplus is the additional benefit to society’s welfare arising
from a higher consumption with a lower price than the consumption and price in the
“without” case. The consumer surplus consists of two parts, one arising from the less costly
water supply, and the other arising from higher use of water with lower prices, compared to
alternative water supply options in “without” case.

In order to estimate the consumer surplus, alternative water supply options including possible
water supply cost and water consumption in without case needs to be identified. Those are
usually determined using information from various socio-economic surveys analyses. But it
is not practical to conduct such surveys at completion stage, and therefore, the analysis relied
on the latest estimation submitted by each water and sanitation service enterprises. Water
supply cost was reported as 12,000 VND/m3, depending on the types of alternative supply
options and conditions in each subproject. This value is consistent with the values reported in
other references.

Water supply projects have often been justified on the basis of perceived positive impacts on
public and private health, e.g., clean water supply reduces water-related diseases such as
diarrhea, worms and skin-infections. Also, people affected by those diseases lose income
when they cannot work and have to spend money for curing.

Quantification of this public health benefits is, however, not straightforward because of
several reasons including that (i) improved health cannot be achieved only by clean water,
but accompanied by health and hygiene awareness, (ii) health impacts are sometimes caused
by nutrition issues rather than safe water issues, and (iii) health benefit in monetary terms is
ultimately realized by increased productivity due to reduced number of sick days. These
benefits were not considered in this analysis, which is consistent with the methodology
applied at appraisal.

2. Results



                                              32
EIRR for each province is shown in the Table A3-1. EIRR at completion ranges between
13.0% and 17.2%, showing evident combination of direct benefit and consumer surplus.
The value of EIRR would change upward by including (i) the time saving of not having to
collect water and (ii) public health benefits. The value would change either upward or
downward by (ii) conducting a separate socio-economic analysis to identify more accurate
consumer surplus benefit. But it is fair to say this Project has achieved the expected value of
economic benefit.

Table 1: Results of Economic Analysis (EIRR)
                          At appraisal              At AF                  At completion
    Thai Binh               10.8%                   10.7%                     17.2%
    Nam Dinh                                        12.4%                     16.8%
    Ninh Binh                                       10.2%                     13.0%
    Hai Duong                                       11.0%                     16.9%


B. Financial Analysis
1. Methodology
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) for the water and sanitation service enterprise in
each province was estimated for the period 2006-2018, including 10-year service operation
during 2009-2018. The analysis relied most financial data on their business plan from 2012-
2016, in which actual financial performance up to today and future financial projection are
compiled in good shape. However, several modification or adjustment was also carried out in
order to compliment the missing data. The main methodology is summarized as follows;

Revenue: Actual water supply revenue excluding 10% Value Added Tax (VAT) for 2009-
2012 and projected revenue for 2013-2018 with the increase in water supply amount by 5%
p.a. and average water tariff by 10% p.a.

Operation and maintenance cost: O&M cost includes cost of materials, chemical and
electricity costs, labor cost, and general administrative cost. Actual value was used for 2009-
2012 and projected value was used for 2013-2018.

Repayment: The annual repayment schedule set out in the business plan for each enterprise
was used. Repayment starts in 2011 and increases gradually year by year.

Corporate tax: Effective corporate tax was assumed at 5%. But in reality there was no cash-
out due to tax payment because each company has recorded the net loss in its profit and loss
statement due to the burden of fixed asset depreciation over the project period.

Another important assumption is that (i) FIRR is calculated for recognizing the stream of
community capital as the equity of the enterprise, and (ii) the effect of subsidy (the
government contribution) is excluded from cash flow analysis.

2. Results
FIRR at both appraisal and completion is presented in the Table A3-2. At appraisal, financial
analysis was not conducted to whole communes, but to eight communes in the four
provinces. On the other hand, the analysis at completion has been conducted with water and



                                              33
sanitation service enterprise in each province, meaning all the 89 participating communes are
covered.

FIRR at AF are lower than the original (appraised) one due to the increase in investments
costs and for the purpose of 100% of the investment cost was considered in the analysis in
line with the Government policy of not providing any capital subsidy.

FIRR at completion is satisfactory level when compared to the AF stage, because of realizing
(i) the expected water demand and (ii) the average tariff which is moving toward the full
recovery of the operational and depreciation cost.

Hai Duong exhibits excellent FIRR because (i) investment cost per m3 supply is the lowest
among the four provinces, (ii) the highest unit sales revenue of 6,612 VND/m3 in 2013 has
already been achieved, and (iii) the spread between unit sales price and unit production cost
is the widest, indicating the operational cost has been efficiently managed.

FIRR of Nin Binh province is below the expectation because (i) the capital cost per
population was the highest among the four provinces, and (ii) the pace of the tariff increase is
slower than the other projects. The business plan of RWSSE in Ninh Binh shows the average
water tariff increased by only 4% over the past five years, which affected the operational cash
flow for those years, leading to a lower FIRR. But even if this was the case, the financial
position of the Ninh Binh RWSEE is expected to improve in line with the projected demand
increase and tariff increase.

Table 2: Results of Financial Analysis (FIRR)
    Province                     At appraisal                   At AF           At completion
                   60% initial   70% initial    85% initial
                    household     household      household
                   connections   connections    connections
Thai Binh                                                       4.85%               6.6%
       Viet Hung      8.0%          8.4%           8.8%
       Minh Tan       7.2%          7.5%           7.9%
Nam Dinh                                                        4.90%               4.5%
       Dai Thang      6.8%          7.1%           7.4%
       Xuan Phu       6.8%          7.1%           7.4%
Ninh Binh                                                       4.90%               3.5%
      Binh Minh       5.8%          6.0%           6.3%
        Gia Xuan      5.0%          5.2%           5.6%
Hai Duong                                                       4.85%              12.2%
        Dong Gia      5.0%          5.2%           5.6%
   Chi Lang Bac       6.8%          7.1%           7.5%

3. Household Sanitation Revolving Funds
Management of Sanitation Revolving fund was highly efficient. The funds have been well
managed by the respective Women’s Unions in each province. The number of household
which had access to this facility reached 46,907, exceeding the target of 40,000.
Approximately $10.23 million has been disbursed and the repayment rate was almost 100%.
Two households were pardoned from debt owed to SRF due to death of bread-winners in the
family. WU’s paid their remaining contribution out of interest accrued from management of
SRF.


                                                34
C. Conclusions
The economic analysis has evidenced that the Project provided sufficient economic
benefits to the consumers in the Project area by providing better access to clean water
with higher quantity and with lower price. The financial analysis shows the positive cash
flow to RWSSE expected at AF have generally been achieved, and this achievement will
be continued or even reinforced if the current pace of increasing demand and increasing
average tariff for cost recovery are maintained.

Criteria set during appraisal to meet financial viability have been fully met. The Project had
set out two conditions for entry of communes to help assure minimum project financial
viability. These are: (i) at least 60% of households within the proposed service area agree to
being connected; and (ii) monthly water consumption per household is estimated to be at
least 5 m3/ household per month. Financial assessment at completion has confirmed the both
two criteria have been successfully met in each Province.




                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
           Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
                         Sr. Water Supply and Sanitation
Richard Pollard                                             EWDEA Team Leader
                         Spec.
Alan Coulhart            Infrastructure Coordinator         EASUR
                         Water Supply and Sanitation Spec
Michael Seager                                              EWDEA
                         (consultant)
Hoi-Chan Nguyen          Senior Counsel                      LEGEA
Hoang Thi Hoa            Community Development Spec.         EASUR
Nilanjana Mukherjee      Sr. Community Development Spec.    EWDEA
Le Viet Hung             Financial Management Spec.          EAPCO
Nguyen Chien Thang       Procurment Spec.                   EAPCO
Philip Brylski           Safeguards Coordinator              EASES
Quang Ngoc Bui           Environment Safeguard Spec.         EAPCO
Vinh Quoc Duong          Social Safeguard Spec.              EAPCO
Mariko Ogawa             Finance and Economics Spec.         EASEG
Nguyen Huong Thi Giang   Program Assistant                   EACVF
Quality Team:
Parameswaran Iyer                                           EWDWS
William Kingdom                                             EASUR
Peer Reviewers:
Caroline van den Berg                                       EWDWS
Scott Guggenheim                                             EASES
Richard Myers                                               EASHD
Supervision
Dean A. Cira             Lead Urban Specialist               AFTU1 TTL
William D. Kingdom       Lead Water and Sanitation Spec     SASDU TTL
Sudipto Sarkar           Sector Leader                      EASWE TTL
Hoa Thi Hoang            Sr. Urban Spec.                     EASVS TTL
Quang Vinh Nguyen        Sr. Water & Sanitation Spec.        TWIEA
                                                            EASUR -
Thanh Cong Nguyen        Sr. Water Engineer
                                                              HIS
Cuong Hung Pham          Sr Water Resources Spec.            EASVS
Yoonhee Kim              Sr. Urban Economist                LCSDU
Robert J. Gilfoyle       Sr. Financial Management Spec.     EASFM
Cung Van Pham            Sr Financial Management Spec.      EASFM
Hung Viet Le             Sr. Financial Management Spec.      EASOS
                                                            EASTE -
Simon Lucas              Sr Transport Spec.
                                                              HIS
                                                            EASRP-
Nguyen Chien Thang       Sr. Procurement Spec.
                                                              HIS


                                         36
 Kien Trung Tran          Senior Procurement Spec.         EASR2
 Tran Thi Thanh Phuong    Sr. Environmental Spec.          EASVS
 Quang Ngoc Bui           Operations Officer               EASVS
 Hoai Van Nguyen          Procurement Spec.                EASR2
 Hoang Xuan Nguyen        Procurement Spec.                EASR2
 Huyen Thi Phuong Phan    Urban Spec.                      EASVS
Hisham Abdo Kahin         Senior Counsel                   LEGEA
 Mai Thi Phuong Tran      Financial Management Spec.       EASFM
 Elizabeth L. Kleemeier   Consultant                       TWISA
 Giang Thi Huong Nguyen   Program Assistant                EACVF
Habab Taifour             Young Professional               EASWE
Chris Banes               Consultant                       EASVS
ICR
Habab Taifour             Young Professional               LCSWS TTL
Hoa Thi Hoang             Sr. Urban Spec.                  EASVS
                                                                 Economic/financial
Daisuke Miura             Energy Spec.                     EASVS
                                                                 analysis
Hoai Van Nguyen           Procurement Spec.                EASR2
Hanh Thi Huu Nguyen       Financial Management Spec.       EASFM

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                                 27.55
  FY03                                                                 49.24
  FY04                                                                 87.63
  FY05                                                                234.12
  FY06                                                                 40.98
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                          Total:                                      439.52
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                 50.84
  FY07                                                                 62.34
  FY08                                                                 63.27
                          Total:                                      176.45




                                         37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Results of beneficiary survey and impact evaluation have been published separately with an
independent impact evaluation commissioned by the CPO at project closure. A full report is
available through Project folder. The following is a brief summary of methodology and
findings:

Project was appropriate in meeting needs of targeted communities. Irrespective of socio-
economic background, survey respondents indicated that the target communities were well
informed, 76% of household believed that the location and technology of water supply
systems was appropriate, and 70% believed that the project time scale was appropriate. The
project exceeded targets. It aimed at achieving 60% commitment rates, while in reality
community commitment to connect to water supply schemes exceeded 85% for each scheme.
The project was welcomed by local government and communities. In areas were land
acquisition was needed, procedures were facilitated by all stakeholders. Management of
water supply schemes by RWSSEs was highly appreciated and deemed appropriate in
engaging all stakeholders. Service delivery was highly regarded by users. Non-revenue water
(water losses) has gradually decreased to a range of between 19 -25%.

Project was effective in providing water supply and sanitation infrastructure, influencing
hygiene behavior change and increasing institutional and technical capacity of
stakeholders. Number of households with access to improved water sources increased 40
times due to project interventions from 30,000 in 2006 to 1,289,674 at project closure. This
achievement has surpassed design targets of 60% coverage to 80%. The survey indicates that
83% of household now use a tap (from schemes) as their main source of water. With regards
to sanitation coverage, 100% of households have access to improved sanitation facilities.
52% of households reported utilizing SRF to construct or upgrade latrines. The prevalence of
septic tanks from 2006 to project closure more than doubled from 39.7% to 80.4%. Survey
results also indicated that the percentage of low income households with access to septic
tanks is equal to that of other socio-economic groups. 82% of household noted their
household sanitation facilities are hygienic 5 . 78% of households surveyed indicated high
satisfaction with their household sanitation facilities. For public sanitation, 80% of
households in target areas are aware of the location of these facilities. Of those who reported
using public sanitation facilities, 77% reported their locations were satisfactory; 95%
indicated that public latrines have access to water; and 84% reported that they were private.
The intervention group surveyed users of latrines in markets, health clinics and public houses
and found that 24.8% of respondents had a negative attitude towards public latrines (highly
dissatisfied to dissatisfied), while 52% had no clear attitudes and 23.1% were satisfied.
Reasons sighted for negative attitudes included: (i) preference to utilize private latrine in
household; (ii) perception that public latrines are dirty or degraded due high frequency of
users; and (iii) need to pay for usage in some public facilities. Ownership of private latrines
and access to public toilets has completely eradicated open-defecation practices in project
areas. Survey respondents articulated negative perceptions of open-defecation. A positive
change in hygiene behavior was also noted. 92% of respondents indicated washing their
hands after defection; of which 72% indicated hand-washing with soap. Overall a large


5
  Hygienic latrines are deemed to have dry floors, odor free or limited odors, private, have water for flushing and
cleaning.


                                                           38
percentage of survey participants also indicated practicing hand-washing before eating,
returning from outside visits, after cleaning baby feces, before child breeding and before
preparing food.

Project was efficient in implementing water supply and sanitation interventions. Despite
initial delays caused by inflation, underestimation of unit costs and limited implementation
capacity, the project picked up the pace of implementation in 2008 and exceeded all project
targets by the closure date. Survey participants noted prolonged delays during the initial
stages of implementation but overall there is high level of satisfaction as previously noted.
The four enterprises are currently managing 89 schemes. As a sign of adequate service
delivery, water bill payment rates exceed 95% on a monthly basis. 80% of households now
have access to improved water supply sources and 100% of population has access to hygienic
sanitation facilities. 84% of survey participants noted that current water tariffs are acceptable
or highly satisfactory. With regards to water consumption, water usage increased beyond
project design estimates. On average, the volume of water consumed is 8.3 m3 per month and
90% of survey participants indicated that quantity of water provided is acceptable or highly
satisfactory.




                                               39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

CPO put together a comprehensive Project Completion Report (PCR) that compiled data and
inputs from PPMUs. This document is published separately in Project File given its length.
Below are pertinent excerpts that highlight Borrower’s PCR:

    2.   ASSESSMENT OF THE PERFORMANCE OF MAIN ACTIVITIES
                            Table 1: Assessment of the performance of the project
                            Indicators                            Ratings (1-5)
           Outcomes                                                         5
           Sustainability                                                   5
           Institutional development impact                                 4
           Bank performance                                                 5
           Borrower performance                                             5


Table 3 above rates the performance of the various aspects of the RRDRWSS Project on a scale of 1-5. A 1
represents very poor performance, whereas 5 indicates that the project performed very well in that
particular indicator. As the table shows, the project performed very well in achieving the desired outcomes,
sustainability, bank performance, and borrower performance, with each receiving a rating of 5. Institutional
development impact of the project was also rated highly, receiving a 4. Overall the performance of the main
activities of the project have achieved great results.

                 3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
3.1 Development Objective
3.1.1 Project Development Objective (PDO)
The development objective of the Project was to improve water and household level sanitation services and
the effective use of loans in four selected provinces in the Red River Delta in ways that are financially,
technically, socially and environmentally sustainable, thereby contributing to poverty alleviation in
participating rural communities via three forms of intervention in the field of water and sanitation:
infrastructure, sanitation and hygiene and sanitation behavior, and capacity building.
The specific objectives of the Project include:
    •    Policy development – piloting and improving the ability to refund; emphasizing the proper line;
         contributing to the completion of national strategy and RWSS policies in experience perspective;
         and representing the appropriate operation mechanism at the large-scale.
    •    Expand access to resources and improve the quality of life – piloting and adapting the large-scale
         investment process; piloting and completing the funding strategy and implementation, developing
         and completing the management models in the RWSS sector, reflecting the fact that the local
         society of the Red River Delta is densely populated and more consistent with the approach used
         for town water
    •    Regulatory Reform - Increasing capacity and accepting commercial orientation approaches in
         service delivery; building capacity to support and promote the water supply and sanitation services
         through government and non-government agencies, especially at the provincial and district levels;
         building capacity of water supply and sanitation management; and building capacity of effective
         coordination of National Target Program of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation.



                                                    41
3.1.2 Indicators
A set of indicators was used to evaluate the progress of the project, provide a unit of measurement, and
report on the results achieved from the start of project until the end of the project (2013) (See Annex E for a
table of indicators).
The project used the indicators set out in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the set of appraisal
and evaluation indicators developed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (which includes
a total of 26 indicators, 10 indicators adapted from the M&E indicators of rural water supply and sanitation
which are promulgated by Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in 2008 and 16 indicators
designed exclusively for this project).
Selected indicators were suitable for assessing how successful the project was at achieving the project
development objective (PDO). All indicators are aligned with the goals of the project, and Vietnam’s rural
water supply strategy, and therefore appropriate. The indicators do not need to be revised for the second
phase of the project.

3.1.3 Strategic context
Around 90% of Vietnam’s poor reside in rural areas of the Red River Delta region. In 2002 nearly 3 million
people in the Red River Delta were classified as poor. This accounted for around 17 percent of all the poor
in Vietnam. The four provinces included in Phase I of the Program were estimated to have poverty rates
ranging from 23% to 37%.
Community access to safe water and sanitation facilities in the rural area is among the lowest level in East
Asia. In 2000, an estimated 10% of rural households had access to safe drinking water. Fewer than 40% of
latrines in the Red River Delta are considered hygienic.

3.2 Design
The project was well designed. Each of the four components addresses one aspect of water supply.
Component one provided water supply and sanitation facilities, component 2 aimed to increase knowledge
and therefore demand within the community, component 3 and 4 focussed on increasing the capacity of the
water supply company and government for implementing water supply and sanitation programs. This
multi-pronged design was appropriate, allowing for the creation of demand while also increasing the
capacity for supply.
Budget allocation is considered to have been sufficient for achieving the goals of the project, and achieved
an appropriate balance between all aspects of the project.
3.2.1 Component 1 – Water and Sanitation Infrastructure Development
Component 1 was designed to address the growing rural/urban services gap by improving access to safe
water and sanitation facilities in selected rural areas.
This included:
             •     Building 89 centralized water supply schemes at both commune and cross-commune scale
                   to meet household water needs of approximately 1,274,000 people throughout 129
                   communes.
             •     Construction or renovation of 6326 public hygiene and sanitary facilities in schools and
                   markets, and health stations in project communes




6
    Source: CPO and PPMUs (as of May 2013)




                                                      42
             •     Implementation of the water supply and household sanitation revolving fund through the
                   Provincial Women’s Union to assist the construction or renovation of approximately
                   46,0007 household latrines or bathroom facilities.
                      Photo 1: Water supply station (Đại Thắng commune – Nam Định)




Selection of location of latrines: The selection of location follows the regulations of the Project:
             •     Households (via the Revolving Fund) are selected after their application appraisal by the
                   Women’s Union;
             •    Public latrines are constructed in important pubic areas such as schools, markets, culture
                  houses, or the offices of the Commune People’s Committees, and the health stations.
         Photo 2: A farmer using tap water (Đại Thắng commune – Nam Định)




Selection of location for centralized water supply schemes: The selection criteria include:
             •     The communes that have high demand in improving water supply and sanitation;
             •     The beneficiaries are willing to make a contribution of 10%, and agree with the full-
                   payment of water prices;




7
    Source: Reports of CPO and PPMUs (May 2013)




                                                      43
          •     At least 65% of households commit to connect to the water supply system. In a number of
                comments, 100% of households are willing to connect.
          •     The water sources are ensured in terms of quality and quantity; the exploitation of water
                sources is convenient and easy;
          •     Other conditions (the percentage of poor households, the percentage of households using
                tap water, the percentage of local people having relevant diseases, etc).

Public sanitation facilities were built in the important public areas, while private sanitation facilities were
built based on the needs of the households. This ensured that construction sites were appropriate.
Communes for water supply construction were based on community demand, need, and willingness to pay,
and also the location and quality of water resources. This ensured that the selection of communes was
appropriate.

The design of the water supply schemes as well as public hygiene facilities are required to meet the current
standards of Vietnam.

The Red River Delta rural water supply and sanitation project applied a demand-based approach and
emphasizes community participation in decisions related to water supply and sanitation, including using
socio-economic survey results and community consultation as the basis for proposing the project’s technical
solutions. The planning of sub-projects was based on the water supply and sanitation demand within local
communities, the communities’ willingness and ability to pay, technical requirements and local
consultations. This approach is considered to be appropriate to ensure that technological solutions are
matched to the needs of the local community.
The initial design of water supply was concentrated on single commune systems and the use of water tower
technology. This may lead to issues with the long-term viability in Hải Dương. While these facilities were
quick to implement, the higher initial fixed and variable costs associated with the operation of each
individual scheme. Intercommunal systems such as those implemented in Nam Định led to slower initial
progress, however it is believed that this will lead to benefits in the future.

Other than the choice of water tower for
single commune water supply, the
technology chosen was appropriate. Funding
for the operation of component 1 has been
fully allocated. PMU made a budget plan
based on activities and this plan was
adjusted according to the status of the
contract. The evaluation results illustrate that
the project has achieved a balance between
water supply and sanitation infrastructure.




                  Photo 3: Public latrine in the office of the Commune People’s Committee (Thai Binh)




                                                     44
3.2.2 Component 2: Hygiene and Sanitation Behavior Change
Component 2 was designed to provide recommendations for better hygiene practices and change people’s
personal hygiene behavior through improving their awareness and changing hygiene behavior such as
washing hands with soap, proper waste disposal practices, and proper and safe use of water supply and
sanitation facilities. Changing attitudes towards hygiene promotes the use of sanitation services in order to
optimize the efficiency of improved sanitation facilities and water. Moreover, changing attitudes towards
hygiene also helps people in households in the sub-project areas accept safe hygiene behaviours.
Activities of component 2 were:
         •   Performing household surveys;
         •   Formulating the Provincial total sanitation Plan;
         •   Formulating the total sanitation plan for participating communes (each commune has
             community total sanitation plan);
         •   Establishing communication groups in project communes;
         •   Organising training sessions for communicators;
         •   Holding communication meetings in the communities; and
         •   Conducting media campaigns and education activities in 120 communes (Painting in primary
             school, coloring in preschool, cultural night, radio broadcast, Green-Saturday).

Photo 4: Poster in the Water supply and Sanitation Enterprise (Ninh Bình)




Component 2 was appropriately designed to improve the hygiene practices in the community, and this is
shown by the success of the project in achieving this goal.

The ultimate goal of the Component 2 is to achieve the “Total sanitation-led commune”” in all communes
of the Project. This is not limited to construction/use of hygienic latrines but also involves disrupt the
spread of diseases in the communities via encouraging the community’s members to change their sanitation
behaviors, to use and maintain the hygienic latrines, to wash hands with soap, to protect the water sources,
and particularly to pay attention on keeping hygiene for children and project the environment.




                                                    45
Photo 5: Ms. Lan’s family uses septic-tank latrine constructed with the loan from the credit group in
2012 Hai Duong


3.2.3 Component 3: Strengthening the Capacity of Community and Local Government Institutions
and Management Entities
Objectives of component 3 were:
        •    Build capacity in communities for the planning and management of infrastructure projects;
             and
        •     Build the capacity of local authorities to encourage and support the community to implement
              the plans effectively, paving the way for new management methods for centrally-run water
              supply in the participating provinces.
Activities of component 3 were:
        •    Supporting the establishment of the model of water supply joint stock company in 4 provinces
             to perform post-investment management tasks on construction projects within the framework
             of the project; and
        •      Training to enhance the capacity of Central PMU and local PMU; Enhancing capacity in
               running businesses, managing operation of JSC; capacity enhancing for shareholders’
               representatives;
Support and capacity building within this component was sufficient and appropriate. Building the
accounting and financial skills of the people working on the ground, like the Women’s Union, early in the
project would help avoid problems in managing finances in the early stages.
3.2.4 Component 4: Support for Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Project management was focused at the provincial and lower levels. This reflects the decentralization
efforts of the Government of Vietnam and the support of the World Bank to make management work more
closely with the beneficiaries/water users.
The local and international consultants provided support for project management, procurement, consultancy
bidding, bid opening, and government sector reform. The international consultants were recruited to assist
the Central Project Office (CPO).
Activities of the consultants included:



                                                   46
        •    Managing the project and preparing procurement plans that comply with the procurement
             procedures of the World Bank;
        •    Preparing budget and finance estimations for sub-projects, the procedures for evaluation and
             approval of sub-projects;
        •    Monitoring, evaluating and setting up a database and monitoring system for the project; and
          • Implementing a strategy to promote the use of sanitary, change to hygienic habits;
The local consultants were recruited and primarily stationed at the provincial level. A number of local
consultants will also provide services for the CPO. The local consultants provided support for the following
activities:
        •    Information, Education and Communication for communities;
        •    Preparation of technical proposals for sub-projects (pre-feasibility study investment reports),
             including field surveys, technical design, surveys on willingness to connect to the water
             system and prepare invitations for bids;
        •    Support for bidding opening and contracting in accordance with the current procedures issued
             by the World Bank / Government of Vietnam;
        •    Provision of business support and support for organizational development to establish and
             support the new management-ownership models;
        •    Contract management and monitoring of the implementation; and
        • Project management, institutional capacity building and training.
The design of this component was appropriate.

3.2.5 Technical Assistance
Techical assistance provided across all provinces was good. One area that may require greater technical
assistance in the next phase is bidding management. This was a weak point in the first phase, and led to
delays. Greater technical assistance may help avoid these difficulties.
See Table 1 in Annex E for a summary of technical support provided in each province for the duration of
the project.

3.2.6 Implementation Schedule
In this phase of there were delays during the bidding process and implementation, which led to the
requirement for an extension of time. These delays were unforeseen in this phase, but may need ot be
considered for the next phase.

3.3 Assessment of quality
Previous projects investing in water supply and sanitation for the whole country in general and for the Red
River Delta in particular have not been performed in a synchronous manner. Most new projects only
focused on the construction of infrastructure without providing adequate attention to education and raising
the awareness of the community about water and sanitation issues. Consequently, some projects have
experienced low rates of connection to water supply infrastructure, low water use, low effectiveness and
lack the ability to recover capital investment.
Due to poor operational skills and the lack of a regular maintenance mechanism, many of these previously
installed systems have become degraded, lost revenue and suffered from high water high losses. The
service time has also been interrupted. There is no money to upgrade and repair the degraded system
because the water price is too low and is only enough to pay for the operator. That is because the water



                                                    47
prices were not properly calculated. The price excludes the cost of depreciation and periodic maintenance
expenses.
Furthermore, people in the community are not conscious of the importance of the water supply system, and
so feel no responsibility for efficiency when using water supply and sanitation facilities. Therefore,
investing in improving the efficiency of management, education, communication and capacity building for
the communities and agencies involved in the project is considered an effective solution to mitigate these
shortcomings and support for the effective operation of water supply and sanitation constructs.
This project aimed to avoid the mistakes made in the design of these projects.

3.3.1 Assessment of Development Objective
The objectives of clean water supply and community sanitation project have met the needs of the
community for clean water on a sustainable long-term basis;
Project objectives have met the appropriate priority in the field of water supply and sanitation project and
the National water supply and sanitation.

3.3.2 Assessment of Indicators
The Development indicators listed in Table 3 are appropriate with the development goals and specific
objectives of the project. These indicators were developed on the basis of indicators set by the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation National Target Program issued by MARD to measure in accordance with the nature
of the project.

In addition, the results of the final evaluation survey also indicate high satisfaction of people with the
quality of public facilities and water service. The people’s evaluation is positive: the satisfaction rate is as
high as 71%. Most of the surveyed households are satisfied with other factors such as water tariff, water
volume, and attitude of the enterprise staff. Notably, 77%8 of respondents showed satisfaction with the
water delivery service, particularly in comparison with the expenses. Regarding public latrines, overall half
of the respondents had positive evaluation while the other half held negative opinions.

3.3.3 Assessment of Design Quality
The design of the project was well suited to the objectives of the project and the needs of the community.
The use of four different but interlinked components that worked together to achieve the goals worked
exceptionally well for meeting the projects goals.
The water supply construction contractors were required to meet the design standards as set out in their
contract. In general the quality of design was sufficient, Water plants were designed with excess capacity to
supply water to the communes in the future. Design of individual plants was generally in accordance with
the specifications.




8
    Impact evaluation report for the RRD-RWSS Project, made by DEPOCEN.




                                                            48
                     Photo 8: Water supply station (Yên Từ commune - Ninh Bình)

At the beginning of the project, there occurred a number of issues with 8 communes in the first construction
phase, such as lack of hydrogeological information, poor choice of construction location requiring the
relocation of construction, and poor justification for the chosen water source. However, in the later phases,
these issues were resoved to ensure the project’s quality and progress.
The initial focus of design in three of the four provinces was on single commune water supply using water
towers. While this design is appropriate for single commune water supply construction of these facilities
proved complicated. Furthermore, water towers will not provide sufficient capacity for intercommunal
water supply systems. Pumping stations were more appropriate for intercommunal water supply systems,
and have proved more efficient and cost effective in the long run.
As the project proceeded these problems were reduced, as information became better and the focus of
design shifted away from water towers and towards multi-commune pumping stations.
The designs of the public sanitation facilities in schools and other public places are to a set standard on
design for school latrine issued by the Ministry of Education and Training. However, in a number of
facilities following the standard design, after completion it revealed that the design is inappropriate in terms
of functionality, lack of light, ventilation and privacy. In some cases the height is not sufficient, and the
materials for construction were poorly chosen. In many cases the design of the latrine facilities has not been
designed with sufficient capacity for the number of people that will be using them. This was resolved by
PPMUs in the later stage of the project and thus the constructed facilities are more convenient and
improved. Thus, this needs to be improved in the next phase as it could hinder the attempt to increase
hygiene and sanitation practices.

3.3.4 Assessment of Construction
Construction quality: The constructed facilities were checked and monitored by independent consultants
and construction was supervised by investors and the community. The construction quality meets the
requirements of the technical design and complies with the legal regulations on construction in Vietnam (as
Decree No.209/2004/NĐ-CP). Construction quality of schemes has generally been satisfactory, despite a
few initial construction problems.
Contractor’s capacity: Contractor’s were selected through a bidding process in accordance with the legal
provisions of Vietnam and the regulations of the World Bank. The compliance with WB’s regulations helps
to ensure the transparency in bidding, as well as the selection of contractors with adequate capacity. Most




                                                      49
of the selected contractors are well-known and experienced in the field of water supply, sanitation and
environment. The quality of the majority of contractors was very high and their work was satisfactory.
Although the bidding is strictly organized to find qualified contractors to deliver the project bidding
packages, there were still some issues during implementation with a number of packages, particularly those
implemented in 2007 – 2008 when the inflation was high. In all 4 provinces, the implementation period of a
number of packages was extended once or twice, and some were extended 3-4 times. The extension period
of many packages was equal to or even longer than the contracted implementation period. This could be
due objective reasons such as the recession, bad weather, technical changes, and legal procedures, etc. In
addition, another cause of delays was the financial capacity of some units directly implementing the
construction projects. Although the capacity of selected contractors who sign the contracts is ensured by the
processes in place, during implementation the selected contractors may re-assign their work to subordinate
units or enterprises with lower capacity to perform the work required. For the most part contractors
performed their work as required.

A few contractors had problems fulfilling the combined design and construction contracts. While design-bid-
build contracts are a possible alternative, it is believed that these types of contracts would be less efficient in
time and cost. For most of the construction, design-build contracts were successful and well implemented.
Due to the economic difficulties throughout Vietnam it is possible that a number of companies used the
money provided for the project to pay off their own debts, or used the money for purposes other than
project design and constructions.

Management of construction project: with the support of the supervision consultants, the technical staff
was assigned by the PMU to closely manage and supervise the implementation of the contract to guarantee
the construction’s quality as well as to coordinate with the consultants to solve the problems that arose
during the field work. In addition, the commune people’s committee assigned representatives of
organizations, such as the Vietnam Fatherland Front and the heads of the villages to participate in
community supervision of construction.

Assessment of infrastructure built from funding of the project: The project has increase the number of
rural people in all four provinces that have access to water supply and sanitation services. The successful
implementation of this project has benefited all four of the provinces through improvements in health and
the economy. Simultaneously, it has contributed to the achievements of National Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Program and National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy Towards 2020

3.3.5 Institutional arrangements
A Center Project Office was established by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD),
including experienced and high-qualified staff, with the assistance of national and international consultants.
The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DARD) took the general management role in the
project. A Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU) was established under DARD and staffed by the
Provincial Centre for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (pCERWASS). In the first few years, the PPMU
was in charge of managing the project. In 2007, a Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Joint Stock Company
(JSC) was formed in accordance with the Enterprise Law. After that, the operation and maintenance of the
centrally-run water supply infrastructure were transferred to the provincial JSC.

3.3.6 Evaluation of the rural water supply and sanitation joint stock company model


                                                       50
This is a new model in comparison with the current management models in the locality and throughout
Vietnam (5 models). A Joint Stock Company model was chosen as the appropriate model for the
management of the construction and operation of water supply and sanitation infrastructure for this project.
All 04 provinces have inter-communal water supply schemes. This model is characterized by the presence
of the beneficiaries (water users) as the stakeholders of the company.
The strengths of the joint stock model (as demonstrated in practice) are professional management, its
ability to cover operational costs and partly financial costs to the Government, water users as stakeholders,
high satisfaction rate, etc. This is a sustainable model, it is in line with Vietnam’s development objectives,
and it provides justification for setting tariff levels at a sustainable level.

Communication with government institutions was generally good, though in some cases the rotation of staff
in and out of key positions within several departments created some coordination difficulties. Providing a
better transition during these periods would reduce difficulties. The business model of the joint stock
company appears to be more sustainable than other methods of implementing water supply projects.
Keeping the management board small was effective, and avoiding bloat and keeping the enterprise efficient
is vital to the model.

3.3.7 Evaluation of the Sanitation Revolving Fund
All Provincial Women's Unions have complied with the “Manual Guide for the Household Water Supply
and Sanitation Revolving Fund." The management units were set up at the provincial level (Provincial
Management Board consists of 7 officers) and at commune level (commune management Board consists of
3 people), and have the responsibility to manage and operate the revolving funds from the province level to
commune level in the project area. Communes also set up credit and savings groups (2 people / village) that
are in charge of guiding and encouraging households through the processes of borrowing and repayment of
the principal, interest and savings.

The monitoring teams greatly appreciated the role of the Women’s Union in leading and conducting
revolving fund activities. The activities of the project in general and the activities of the women’s unions in
particular have had an impact on the awareness and behavior of people on safe water and sanitation in rural
areas; many households, which didn’t take out loans built their own sanitary toilets; the percentage of
households using hygienic toilets has increased by 20-30% from the incidence at the start of the project.
The project activities have improved the quality of people's livelihoods and the sanitation condition in rural
areas, contributing to the promotion of the movement “All people unite to build a cultural life”, the
National Target Program on new rural areas, and the movement "no poverty, no violations of the law and
social evils, no violence, no third child, no malnutrition and school dropouts, clean house, clean kitchen,
and clean alley” launched by the Vietnam Central Women's Union.

3.3.8 Assessment of Cost
The financial resources for the Project: The project was funded by a loan received from the World Bank
and the Counterpart fund of Vietnam. It also received contributions from the communities as the
beneficiaries of the project. This project is quite unique in receiving funding from the community to help
fund infrastructure projects.
Funding for piped water supply schemes: 45% was allocated by the Government from World Bank loans,
45% was provided as loans offered by the Government from funds provided by the World Bank loans, 10%




                                                     51
was contributed by the community. When the works are completed, the operating unit is required to repay
the government loans (45%).
For public water supply and sanitation: 100% is allocated by the Government from World Bank loans. The
beneficiaries shall bear 100% of the operational / maintenance cost.
The activities of components 2,3, and 4: the Government allocated 100%.
Cost of the project: The cost of the project was impacted by many factors, including:
         •   Inflation during project implementation;
         •   Increase the level of water used by people from 40 liters / person / day to 60 liters / person /
             day;
         •   Pre-feasibility report did not cover the cost of public latrines; the investment cost provided in
             the report is lower than the actual one; and
         • The scope of the project was expanded leading to increased costs.
Evaluation of the additional funding: The Agreement on additional funding helped accomplish the
project objectives. In addition, the localities effectively used the savings from the bidding fund to expand
the services to 40 communes (about 600,000 people), resulting in an increase of 70% of the initial target for
beneficiaries.

3.3.9 Assessment of financial and bidding management arrangements
Bidding management contributed to the project’s achievement of 88% disbursement, with an expected 95%
disbursement by the end of the project, and 100% completion of contracts. Quality of project procurement
and quality of most contractors was high.
However, there still exist a number of obstacles:
    •    The capacity of staff of the Central Project Office and the localities is limited concerning the
         management of bidding and project management. As a result, the implementation of the project
         was much slower than originally planned and mistakes were made. For example, bidding package
         No 1.4 of CPO and package No TBO4 of the PPMU of Thái bình were re-bidden.
    •    In a number of bidding packages, the procurement plan did not match with reality, and thus asked
         for an extension at least 01 time. Some packages required several extensions.
    •    Using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) to procure contracts for the design and construction
         of water supply facilities is new and is not well-known.

3.3.10 Evaluation of the financial management mechanism
The project has complied with regulations of the WB and the Government of Vietnam. The reporting and
auditing were implemented periodically in accordance with the regulations of WB. The reports provide up-
to-date and sufficient information. However, there were many differences in expenditure principles of the
WB and those of the GOV that were not clarified at the beginning of the project, causing difficulties for
borrowers.

The project has complied with the terms of the Development Credit Agreement, the guidance of the World
Bank and was managed in accordance with the Financial Regulations of the Government of Vietnam.

7.1.2 Bank’s support and monitoring
Since 2001, representatives of Vietnamese Government, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural development,
and World Bank have made great efforts to prepare capacity for establishment and organization of the



                                                     52
project. The World Bank also supports the Government in developing rural water supply system,
particularly in the Red River Delta region.

During the implementation of the project the WB always monitored progress strictly to ensure that the
project was implemented effectively, the reasons for the projects interference were appropriate and the
necessary adjudications were approved and realized in a timely manner.

7.2 Borrower Performance
7.2.3 Vietnam’s Government
After 10 years of implementing the Government's National Target Program for RWSS and with the
participation of all ministries and sectors at the central level and provincial level, significant success has
been achieved in relation to the objectives of the NTP phase 2.

The results of the project have greatly contributed to the achievements of the Government of Vietnam. In
the past 10 years, thanks to the great efforts of the whole society and the effective support of international
organizations such as the WB, ADB, UNICEF, DANIDA, AusAID, DFID, the Netherlands, JICA, and
others, the improvements in the field of rural water supply and sanitation have contributed considerably to
the achievement of millenium development goals and the improvement of the rural living conditions, and
motivated socio-economic development through the whole country. At the end of 2012, the percentage of
people in the rural area served with hygienic water reached 80%. The proportion of households having
proper latrines is around 56%. About 81% of schools have safe water and hygienic latrines and 91% of
health stations are served with safe water.
During the implementation of the project, the capacity of the stakeholders of the Government, especially
those at the local level of participating provinces, has been enhanced significantly.

7.3 Conclusion
In general, the effectiveness of operations of the organizations that were responsible for the preparation and
implementation of the Red River Water Supply and Rural Sanitation Project has been quite positive. From
2001 onwards, the agencies of the Government of Vietnam, such as the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and Investment, Ministry of Construction,
Vietnam Development Bank (VDB) and World Bank representatives have focused a lot of effort on
investing in capacity building and organizing projects.

Now, the project has been evaluated as successful, effective, and has contributed to the implementation of
the National Strategic Objective on clean water and rural sanitation, partly thanks to the great effort of the
units who implemented the project. In addition, it's necessary to mention the tight coordination of the
related ministries in studying and revising the Circular, the Decree, and the guidance of the Government on
regulations management and use official development assistance towards improving efficiency, simplifying
and synchronizing the financial management procedures of ODA to meet the new requirements and
regulations of existing laws.




                                                     53
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                    54
  Annex 9. Revised Results Framework

  Updated Results framework from Additional Financing Project Paper.

                                                                                    Ust ofP•·ojtc-t
PDO                             Projtc-t Outcomt IndicatOI''i                       Outc-omt
                                                                                    Information
                                •   The number of people in project areas with
                                    access o ' impro ·ed water o l! es · and
                                    hygiene sanita ·on facir ties. and e number
To impro e '·ater and               of these tare poor.
ho tsehold lt ·el sanitat ·on
sen ·ces and their effecti e    •        e percenmge of people in pro·ec are.as
                                     ~oritb acce>s to 'impro ·ed ' ·ater sources.   To mcmitor achie ·ement
 tse in se ected provinces ·
wa 'S tha are finan 'ally,      •   The number of e N piped househo d \Vater        of the PDO
                                      onnections that ba e resul ed from e          To me~U--ure
technicall} and
                                    project intervention                            impro ·em        in ervice
environm tall r sustainable
                                •   The number ofRWSSEs establis ed. and the        pro\rided and progre~s
thereby contr ·b tting to
                                      man ial viabi ·ty of the enterprises.         to ~orards meeting
pove r allevia .on in
parti ipating rural             •        e percentage of peop e · projec            objectives
commmities                            omnnmes vho ha ·e ad pted safe hygiene
                                    and sanitation bebavioJS, based o
                                    Pat!icipa ory assessment and Kno Nledge.
                                    Attitude. and Prn ti es            S ·e '

                                                                                    Use of Inte•·mediate
Inttrmediate Outc-ome-;         Intermediate Outcome Indicator-s
                                                                                    Outcome llonitoriug
                                •   The number of people · project areas with
                                    access o impro ·ed water sour es."
                                •   The n~ber of additional people in p oject
                                    are.as ~th acce s to ''hygiene sani tion
                                    facilities. ·
                                •   The number of ew piped househo d ' ·ater
                                     onnections that ba e resulted fro.m e
For Component One
                                    p oject · te ·ention.                           Torno ·tor
Targeted .rural ommunes
prog;res ·vely ve new or        •   The numbers of targe ed rural communities       imp ementation progress
                                    that a e ftmctioning. \Ve operated and          Used as inputs in
~ oved' ·ater supp r, e\ ·
                                    maintained wa er suppl 'scheme.                 di ogue ~orith
or 11DpTO ·ed sanitatio
fa ili ·es.                     •   The number of public sanita ·on facili ·es      imp ementing age cies
                                     onstru ed.
                                •   The proportio of designated poor
                                    ho       olds that have access o ~orater and
                                        ·tatio fa ili ·es from the project
                                •   The number of ouseholds that ba ·e
                                    borrowed from re ·olving fund a ti ·ties.

For Component I wo
                                •   The number of geted comm1        mes that can   Tomo ·tor
Targeted rural omm1   me            demonstrate a posi · ·e and sustained
                                                                                    imp ementation progress.
populations progress \rely          impro em in rgiene knowledge attitude           Used as inputs in
                                    and practic.e in re tion to \Vater supply and
ba e adopted safe h rgiene             ·tatio fa ili ·es.                           dialome with implanting
beha ·or and are eifecti ·ely                                                       agencies, GO .
The Pro·ect eeds to u grade



                                                     55
                                                                                 Use of Pr-oject
PDO                             P roject Outcome Indicator<;                     Outcome
                                                                                 Information
the acco ling ofu\ are o
generate the · erim finmcial
reports from the anti ipated
higher demands of e AF
us~ \l.i S infrastm ·  rure
for Component Three:
RWSSEs, comm ·ty
Go ·ernm and o er
imti tiona! entities at         •      e number ofRWSSEs that are financiall ·   To monitor
conumme, district and                iable.
                                                                                 Areas'· ere capa 'ty
provincial le in olved in
                                                                                 b rilding of in ·o ved
the projec pro1rre-s ·\'ely     •   The degree of user satisfaction ,..,; thin   enterprises needs to be
ha ·e the capa ·ty and              targeted commmtities Nith seni ces and       targeted o:r capacity
capability top ay appropria e       advi e offered them o water ~upply and
                                                                                 building approaches
roles · support of all stages       sani tion services.                          improved
of sustainab e water suppl '·
sanitation and improved
h •2iene and apa ·ty
b rilcliM~
                                                                                 Tomo · or
                                •   Numbe of contracts awarded in accordan~      Progress in p o •iding
                                    with agreed Procureme t Plan                 and effecti enes.s of.
for· Component Fout·:
                                                                                 project managem and
Each PPMU and the CPO is
                                •   Degree of adheren e to schedules for         techni al assistan~
progress\ •ely able o
                                    procurement and implementation               inputs
suc~s.sfull manage    d                                                          Need for TA and rate of
suppo the projec (and
similar ones)                   •   Exten to which satisfa Ol)' o\rersigh and
                                    quali ' contra are achieved, as confinned
                                    througJl supervision and indepe dent




                                                     56
                                         Arra ngements for Result Monitoring
                                                        Target Yalu~s                       D at a C ollec-rioo aod R eporting
                                                                                      f requeocy           D at a      R6poll~i_bl~
    K..y lnt~ nn.
                .di:   t~   Bas.e.lin~   ~ fid-t~rm 3    .\f~ITR          Comp~oD         an d         CoUec-tiou        for Thlt:t
       Indic-ator~                         (! 009)         (! 011)         . • 013)     & ports       ln~ trum~nb       CoUec-rioo
Comll:!!,rtem 1 :
#people in project
areas with acces.s ro
                                                                                                                     CPO,
 'im;>roYed water            30,000       500 ()()()       00,000
sources '
                                                                           950,000                  Repo             PP1fU,
                                                                                      Qu;uterly     from             based on
                                                                                      andannua      pa1ncipatieg     Monit01mg
Pen::entage of   se
uiho are poor in               N..i\           6             _o              _o
                                                                                                    pt01i'Ul'l:.ti   report and
                                                                                                                     e>-aluarion
projed ;ueas atteSs
                                                                                                                     report
 o improve water
sources
# people in project
areas with acces.s ro
 'im;>roYed sanitation       15000         30 ()()()       00,000          600,000
facilities

F of new piped
   usehold water
co!lllleC'tions that are
                               NA          45 000         300000           850,000
resu.lting fro the
projec inten-ention

# household borrow
fi'Olll revolving fund
                                           - ,000         30000              ,000
ro impro•-e sanitation          0
                                             hh             hh               hh
facilities

# o public somitation
facilities constructed          0            190              -o            300

Comll:!!,nenr 2:
F of targeted
COIDllllllleS that em
       n.strate a
                                                                                                                     CPO, PPMU
positive and sustained
                                                                                                    Reports          based on
imprm-ed in hygiene
                                                                                      Qu;uterl '    from             progress
knowledge,                     N..i\           5             50               00
                                                                                      and ann       pai"ticipating   report and
po      tio
                                                                                                    ptO'\"lDCE!S     e.-aluation
progressn         have
                                                                                                                     report
adopted san; hygiene
beh;n-ior and re
effectn - usm,o    ;>

v..rss mfta..--tludure
Comll:!!,nenr 3:
# of water utilities                                                                                Reports          CPO, PPMU
  \VSSs en elprises)            0             4              4                4
                                                                                                    from             based on
that  proJec
                                                                                      Qu;uterly     pai"ticipating   progress
supporting
                                                                                      andomnua      ptO'\"lDCE!S     report and
                                                                                                    and              e>-aluation
Pen::entage of                  0             5              50               00
                                                                                                    RWSS.Es          report
RW SS.Es thai are
financially viab!e




3
    The mid-term re iie /iJ carried out from October 19 to November 3. _009.


                                                                     57
                                                    Target Y:tlues                       D:~ta     Collection and Reportin,g
                                                                                    f requen('y          Data        Re-pon~ ible
                                                3
 Ke}· lntennedi.'lte    Ba~eline   :\fid-term        .\f :\ITR       Completion         and            Collection      forDn
      lndi~ator s                     (! 009)          (! Oll)         (! 013)        Reports        lnstrume11ts     Collection
Degree of u:;er
 satisfaction within
targeted                                                                                             Reports         CPO. PP.
e:o=u:nitie:. mth                                                                                    from            based on
~n;ie:e:. and ad\ ~e                                   fully            F           Quarter!   r     partiopa.ting   progre;:.
                          NA       Sat:i:ifactory
offered them o                                      Satisfactory     Sansfa oty     and ann          pn n "'inee5    report and
water 5Uppl and                                                                                      and             enluahon
samtatio sen1.ces                                                                                    R\\i'SSE.s      report
 certificate

Comf!:!!.nertr 4:
S.msfactmy m-eJ:iigbt                                                                                Repom           CPO. PP.
and qualiiy contro                                                                                   from            based on
are aclne1.--eci as                 Moderate            Fully           F           Qu;uterl         pmiopa.ting     progre;:.
~onfumed through
                           -       satisfactory     Sa: . ctory      Sans factory   and ann          piOYIDC6        report and
supernsion and                                                                                       and             e\     hon
independent                                                                                          R rssEs         report
momtorinl'!;




                                                              58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 38963


                                                                                             C HI N A
                       VIETNAM
 RURAL WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                      Ha
                                                                                                                         Giang                  Cao Bang                                                            VIETNAM

         AND                                                                     Lai Chau Town
                                                                                                  Lao Cai
                                                                                                                   4                        5


SANITATION PROGRAM                                                                    1
                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                             Bac Can


IN THE RED RIVER DELTA                                                                  2
                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                            Yen Bai
                                                                                                                                Tuyen
                                                                                                                                Quang
                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                          Thai
                                                                                                                                          Nguyen
                                                                                                                                                10 Lang
                                                                                                                                                      Son


                                                                                                 Son La               Viet Tri 12                      14
                                                                                      Dien                                           Vinh Yen Bac Giang
                                                                                                                         11                                        15
                                                                                      Bien Phu       6                      HANOI              Bac Ninh
                                                                                                                                            17 Hai Duong Ha Long
                                                                                                                      Hoa Binh       16 18 19               Hai Phong
                                                                                                                              21            Hung Yen 20
                                                                                                                                  Ha Nam 22 23
                   NEW PROJECT PROVINCES                                                                                                            Thai Binh




                                                                                                                                                                   elta
                                                                                                                                                Nam Dinh
                                                                                                                                 Ninh Binh      25




                                                                                                                                                                 rD
                   RRD1
                                                                           LAO                                                             24




                                                                                                                                                                ve
                                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                26                       dR
                   RED RIVER BASIN BOUNDARY                                                                                                           Re
                                                                                                                                         Thanh Hoa

                                                                         PEOPLE'S
                   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                   27                                              Gulf

                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                         DEM. REP.                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                 Vinh                                 To n k i n
                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                              Ha Tinh
                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                         28




                                                                                                                                                                Dong Hoi
                                                                                                                                                       29



                                                                                                                                                                           Dong Ha
     PROVINCES:
                                                                                                                                                                     30
       1   Lai Chau                  31    Thua Thien Hue                                                                                                                             Hue
       2   Dien Bien                 32    Da Nang                                                                                                                              31
       3   Lao Cai                   33    Quang Nam                                                                                                                                        32      Da Nang
       4
       5
           Ha Giang
           Cao Bang
                                     34
                                     35
                                           Quang Ngai
                                           Kon Tum                      T HA I LA ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tam Ky
       6   Son La                    36    Gia Lai                                                                                                                                          33
       7   Yen Bai                   37    Binh Dinh
       8   Tu Yen Quang              38    Phu Yen                                                                                                                                                                Quang Ngai
       9   Bac Can                   39    Dac Lac                                                                                                                                                         34
      10   Lang Son                  40    Dac Nong
                                                                                                                                                                                            35
      11   Phu Tho                   41    Khanh Hoa
                                                                                                                                                                                                Kon Tum
      12   Vinh Phuc                 42    Binh Phuoc
      13   Thai Nguyen               43    Lam Dong                                                                                                                                                                 37
      14   Bac Giang                 44    Ninh Thuan
                                                                                                                                                                                       Pleiku
      15   Quang Ninh                45    Tay Ninh                                                                                                                                                36                        Quy Nhon
      16   Ha Noi                    46    Binh Duong
      17   Bac Ninh                  47    Dong Nai
      18   Hung Yen                  48    Binh Thuan                                                                                                                                                                38
      19   Hai Duong                 49    T.P. Ho Chi Minh                                                                                                                                                                    Tuy Hoa
      20   Hai Phong                 50    Ba Ria-Vung Tau                                                                                                                                        39
      21
      22
           Hoa Binh
           Ha Nam
                                     51
                                     52
                                           Long An
                                           Tien Giang                                               CA M B O DIA                                                                                  Buon Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Thuot            41
      23   Thai Binh                 53    Dong Thap                                                                                                                                   40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nha Trang
      24   Ninh Binh                 54    Ben Tre                                                                                                                                   Gia Nghia
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Da Lat
      25   Nam Dinh                  55    An Giang
                                                                                                                                                         42 Dong                                                  44
      26   Thanh Hoa                 56    Vinh Long                                                                                                          Xoai                                43
      27   Nghe An                   57    Tra Vinh                                                                                       45                                                                             Phan Rang-
      28   Ha Tinh                   58    Kien Giang                                                                                                                                                                    Thap Cham
                                                                                                                                            Tay Ninh             47
      29   Quang Binh                59    Can Tho                                                                                             Thu Dau46                                          48
      30   Quang Tri                 60    Hau Giang                                                                                             Mot        Bien Hoa
                                                                                                                                                    49                                             Phan Thiet
                                     61    Soc Trang                                                                                         51          Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                              53
                                     62    Bac Lieu                                                                    55       Cao Lanh           Tan An          50
                                     63    Ca Mau                                                                Long Xuyen               52 My Tho
                                                                                                                              Vinh Long                           Vung Tau
                                                                                                                             59                    Ben Tre
                                                                                                                            Can Tho      56       54
                                                                                                              Rach Gia
                                                                                                                                                                      lta




                                                                                                                       58       60                Tra Vinh
                                                                                                                                 Vi Thanh    57
                                                                                                                                                                     De




                                                                              G ul f
                                                                                                                                     61 Soc Trang
                                                                                                                                                                 ng




                                                                               of                                                62
                                                                                                                                                                ek
                                                                                                                                                                o




                                                                                                                                            Bac Lieu
                                                                            Thail and                           Ca Mau                                      M
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                        63
                                                                                                                                                                            0         50         100       150      200 Kilometers
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                        0               50              100             150 Miles
acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOVEMBER 2011
