 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14644

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 07/01/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P077287                                                   Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Vn-red River Delta            Project Costs (US$M):        US$ 45.87 million
                         Rural Water Supply
                         And Sanitation Project
  L/C Number:            C4115                        Loan/Credit (US$M):         US$ 45,87 million US$ 105.31 million
      Sector Board:      Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                              09/15/2005
                                                                 Closing Date:         06/30/2011          06/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Water supply (60%); Sewerage (18%); Sanitation (14%); Sub-national government
                           administration (5%); Central government administration (3%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (40% - P); Other human development (40% - P);
                           Administrative and civil service reform (20% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Vibecke Dixon              John R. Eriksson       Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Project Objective is to “assist the Borrower in improving water supply and household and community level
sanitation services and their effective use in the Project Provinces in ways that are financially, technically and
environmentally sustainable, thereby contributing to poverty alleviation in Participating Communes” (Development
Credit Agreement, p 17).

The formulation of the PDO in the PAD is slightly different but it conveys the same intention; “The development
objective of the Red River Delta Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RRDRWSP), which is Phase 1 of the Program,
is to improve water and household level sanitation services and their effective use in four selected provinces in the
Red River Delta in ways that are financially, technically, socially and environmentally sustainable, thereby contributing
to poverty alleviation in participating rural communities.” (PAD p ii)

This ICRR relates to the formulation of the PDO in the legal agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  The ICR contains inconsistencies with regard to the planned, additional and actual costs for the project components.
The component figures presented on pp 3-4 include only the original planned amount (although including borrower
contribution without specifying it), and exclude information about the additional financing or the actual cost for each
component. The figures presented on pp 3-4 in the ICR are consistent with the figures presented in the PAD’s Annex
5, table 1, column 1 “Total Cost”, where borrower and community contributions are included.

The ICR's Annex 1, table 1 provides some figures for project costs per component and the project total. The figures
presented there exclude borrower and community contribution (without specifying that) and represent the Bank
contribution only. The figures are thus inconsistent with the figures presented on pp 3-4. The table includes the figures
for Additional Funding per component and for the project total, but the figures for the original and additional costs are
not added up to provide information about the total funds allocated for each component and for the project in total; i.e.
the table lacks a column where the figures from the first two columns would be added up. IEG has in the following
calculated the total IDA contribution per component based on the figures provided in the ICRs Annex 1, Table (a), on
page 27. The total appraised and additional funds allocated for Component 4 was US$ 1.73 million. The ICR however
reports (in table (b) on page 27) that the actual cost of this component was more than double; US$ 3.95 million. The
ICR provides no information as to how, why or when these additional funds for component 4 were allocated or
reallocated between the components.

Table (b) in the same annex, page 27, does not mention the additional US$ 8.13 million provided by the Government
of Vietnam at the time of the restructuring (as stated on page 4, para 16 of the ICR). The “Percentage of Appraisal”-
columns of the two tables ((a) and (b), page 27) do not make sense, as the percentage of the actual cost of each
component has been calculated compared to the appraisal amount only, and ignores the additional funding. The
actual cost of the project would amount to approximately 94 percent of the appraised and additional financing costs
(IEG calculates total appraised and estimated additional cost = US$ 111.15 million. Given that total actual cost = US$
105.31 million, it would be equivalent to approximately 94 percent of appraised plus additional cost, not almost 2300
percent as stated in table (a).

The figures in the following represent Bank funding and do not include the borrower contribution, as the ICR does not
provide sufficient information regarding borrower contribution per component.

The project has four components:

Component 1: Water and Sanitation Infrastructure Development : (Appraisal US$ 42.00 million, Additional
US$ 63.52 million, Total Appraised and Additional US $ 105.52, Actual US$ 98,18 million):
This was to improve people’s access to safe water supplies and hygienic sanitation facilities in selected rural areas.
25-30 communes were expected to develop improved water and sanitation infrastructure from each of the four
participating provinces. (PAD p ii-iii, ICR p 3).

Component 2: Hygiene and Sanitation Behavior Change : (Appraisal US$ 1.73 million, Additional
US$ 0.46 million, Total Appraised and Additional US $ 2.19 million, Actual US$ 2.06 million):The component would
provide a range of hygiene and sanitation promotion interventions aimed and optimizing the effective use of improved
water and sanitation infrastructure, and the adoption of safe hygiene behaviors in all households within the project
areas through commune and school-based programs (PAD p 3, ICR p 4).

Component 3: Strengthening the Capacity of Community and Local Government Institutions and Management
Entities (Appraisal US$ 0.89 million, Additional US$ 0.82 million, Total Appraised and Actual US $ 1.73 million,
Actual US$ 1.12 million):
This was to address deficiencies in fund transfer, institutional capacities, and the effectiveness of decentralized
investment through training and technical assistance. Capacity building activities were to support Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation (RWSS) Enterprises established under the project. Capacity level activities were also to support
provincial government line agencies, commune-level government and commune-level water development groups and
cooperatives (PAD p 3. ICR p 4).

Component 4: Support for Project Management , Monitoring and Evaluation (Appraisal US$ 1.26 million, Additional
US$ 0.47 million, Total Appraised and Additional : US$ 1.73 million, Actual US$ 3.95 million):
To manage financing and technical assistance for the establishment and functioning of Provincial Project
Management Units (PPMU) and a Central Project Office (CPO) within the National Center for Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation (NCERWASS) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) (PAD p 3, ICR p 4).


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project Cost:
Original project costs were US$ 45.87 million. The project was restructured on 03/10/2010 and an additional US$
65.27 million was provided for the project. The total Bank contribution was thus US$ 111.14. Total Actual costs were
US$ 105.31 million. There is no mention of a cancellation of the Bank credit in the ICR to account for the discrepancy
between total Bank contribution and actual costs. However, since the legal agreements were written up on XDR, and
the ICR states that the Revised Amount (of XDR 68.41 million) equals the Disbursed Amount (XDR 68.41 million, Fact
sheet, table A.), it is plausible that the discrepancy in US$ between planned/revised and actual costs might be due to
currency fluctuations.
Financing:
There was no external financing apart from the borrower contribution.

Borrower contribution :
Borrower contribution was originally planned to be US$ 840 000.- (PAD pp 35-38, Annex 5, tables 1 and 2). An
additional US$ 8.13 million was provided by the Government of Vietnam in the restructuring (ICR p 4, para 16). The
actual borrower contribution at closure was US$ 12.36 million (ICR page 27, Annex 1 table b).

Dates:
The project was approved 09/15/2005, effective on 05/31/2006, and restructured on 03/10/2010. The reasons for the
restructuring were (i) high inflation from 2008-2009 led to sharp price escalation of building materials, and unit costs
thus exceeded those estimated at project appraisal (estimated to be US$ 35 per unit, actual cost was US$ 98 per
unit); (ii) increase in water demand (from 40 to 80 liters/person/day; and (iii) expansion of project scope and water
scheme capacities (from 60% to 90% connection rate) (ICR p 4 para 16). The original closing date was 06/30/2011
and the actual closing date was 24 months later; 06/30/2013 to allow for procurement and implementation using
additional financing and to compensate for delays caused by weak fiduciary capacity during the initial stages of
implementation that subsequently delayed preparation of the feasibility studies and technical designs (ICR p 4-5 para
17).


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High
The Objectives of the project are highly relevant and in line with both National and Bank strategies and policies at
appraisal and this continued to be the case at closing. The project is in line with national development objectives as
stipulated in Vietnam’s “National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy up to year 2020”. It is also in line with
the priorities in the Bank’s CPS for 2012-16. The Government’s Socio-Economic Development Strategy (SEDS) for
2011-20 defines three breakthrough areas: (i): promoting human resources/skills development (particularly skills for
modern industry and innovation), (ii) improving market institutions, and (iii) infrastructure development. The CPS
supports the three breakthrough areas of promoting human resources, improving market institutions, and advancing
infrastructure development. The water sector (clean water supply, sanitation and water resources management) is
thus seen as very consistent with Government and Bank strategies. (CPS 2012-16, pp, ii, iii, 6, 11, 12, 17, 18, 20, 23,
25, 27).

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial
The Project Development Objective was to “assist the Borrower in improving water supply and household and
community level sanitation services and their effective use in the Project Provinces in ways that are financially,
technically and environmentally sustainable, thereby contributing to poverty alleviation in Participating Communes”.

The project components did reflect this well as they all were necessary and sufficient to achieve the objective; water
supply and sanitation infrastructure, hygiene and sanitation education, capacity building and project management and
M&E.

Quality of the Results Framework
As formulated in the PDO, the project’s overarching development objective “to contribute to poverty alleviation” was to
be achieved through two outputs; “improved water supply” and “improved sanitation,” in turn leading to an outcome of
“their effective use”. However, the causal chain between Bank funding, outputs and intended outcomes is not clear
and convincing in the formulation of the objective, as there is a logical leap between the inputs and outcomes on one
side: “clean water supply/sanitation and its effective use” and the overarching development objective on the other
side: “poverty alleviation”. It is not clear from the formulation of the objective or from the results framework how clean
water supply is to lead to poverty alleviation; there is just an underlying assumption that clean water supply, sanitation
and hygiene education automatically will lead to poverty alleviation.

The PDO indicators and the intermediate outcome indicators (ICR fact sheet, PAD pp 27-29) are mostly output-based
and if they were the only indicators used to monitor and evaluate the project, they would not have provided sufficient
information about whether the project achieved its objective of contributing to poverty alleviation.

The ICR does not explicitly discuss the issue of attribution, i.e. to what degree the achievements were due to the
project intervention only or whether there might have been alternative explanations for the positive outcomes.
The project as planned (in the PAD and in the original legal agreement) did not provide sufficient resources for the
project to reach its targets. However, with the restructuring, the additional financing facilitated good achievement of
the revised targets, the project even overachieved on several of them.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The logical results chain employed in the ICR was as follows;

Inputs (ICR p 3-4 paras 11-15):
Funds to
·        construct water supply facilities;
·        provide sanitation facilities;
·        deliver hygiene education; and to
·        provide technical assistance, capacity building and project management.

Outputs (ICR fact sheet tables (a) and (b)):
·        Improved water supply (number of pipes/number of people/households with access to clean water);
·        sanitation facilities (number of toilets and number of people/households/schools with access to new
          sanitation facilities); and
·        hygiene education delivered (number of people who have received hygiene education).

Intermediate outcomes (ICR fact sheet tables (a) and (b)):
·       Effective use of new water supply;
·       effective use of sanitation facilities; and
·       improved hygiene practices. (Percentage of people in project communes who have adopted safe hygiene,
        and sanitation behaviors, based on participatory assessment)

Final outcomes: (Reported in the end evaluation, cited in the ICR p 18 para 63, p 18-19 para 65)
·        Improved health; and (reduced incidence of water borne diseases)
·        improved household economy (reduced days of absence at work and school and reduced health
         expenses)
Overarching Development Objective :
·        Poverty Alleviation (due to improved health and improved household economy)

The indicators identified at appraisal and the ones added on during the restructuring were heavily output-focused
(number of people with access to improved water supply and sanitation and number of people to receive training in
hygiene practices, etc.), with only limited attention to intermediate outcomes (one indicator measures changes in
hygiene practices). The evaluation conducted at the end, however, endeavored to also measure the intermediate and
final outcomes that would be expected from this project related to improved health (and improved household
economy) due to a reduction in the incidence of water borne diseases., Although neither the project’s results
framework nor the final evaluation measured actual changes in the participating households’ economies, given that
the final evaluation found a higher labor force participation rate and lower days off among men owing to water-borne
diseases, it is plausible that the project would have contributed to wealthier and more stable household and local
economies.

The three intermediate outcomes identified in the PDO were:

Effective use of new water supply facilities : Substantial
Outputs:
o          Four Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Enterprises established and fully operational, financially viable
           with business plans and high tariff recuperation rates (95%), (no targets set at appraisal, no baseline,
           revised target was 4 RWSSEs established and financially viable).
o          255,000 new piped household water connections that have resulted from the project intervention, (no
           target was set at appraisal, no baseline, revised target was 200,000).
o          1.2 million people with access to improved water sources (i.e. 80% of people in project areas); this
           surpassed the revised target by 13.5%.
Outcomes:
o          169 targeted communes demonstrate a positive and sustained improvement in practice in relation to
           water supply facilities.

Water quality was measured both at source and at HH level.

Effective use of sanitation facilities : Substantial
Outputs:
o          960 000 people in project area with access to hygienic sanitation facilities, surpassing the revised target by
           160%;
o          44 000 households borrowed from the revolving fund to improve their sanitation facilities (revised target
           was 40,000);
o          661 public sanitation facilities constructed, more than double the revised target.
Outcomes:
o          88.4 % of people in project communes have adopted safe sanitation behaviors (revised target was 100%);
o          169 targeted communes demonstrate a positive and sustained improvement in hygiene knowledge,
           attitude, and practice in relation to sanitation facilities. The revised target was 100; and
o          135 communes (80% of total project population) have pledged to adhere to tenants of “Community-Led
           Total Sanitation” (CLTS); they have adopted internationally recognized CLTS principles and committed to
           improving their commune’s sanitation (no revised target) (ICR p 15 para 56)

Improved hygiene practices : Substantial
Outputs: The ICR does not report on output targets for this objective (there is no output indicator in the summary
           sheet for number of people trained, for example).
Outcomes:
o          88.4% of people in project communes have adopted safe hygiene and sanitation behaviors (revised
           targets was 100%).
o          169 targeted communes demonstrate a positive and sustained improvement in hygiene knowledge,
           attitude and practice in relation to water supply and sanitation facilities (revised target was 100).

The ICR also shows that the project put in place water supply and sanitation infrastructure that is financially,
technically and environmentally sustainable (as formulated in the PDO) (ICR p 16 para 57, and PDO indicator 4,
Intermediate Outcome Indicator 8,).

The achievement of these three outcomes (effective use of new/improved water supply facilities, effective use of
new/improved sanitation facilities and improved hygiene practices) are rigorously demonstrated in the ICR. The end
evaluation indicated that these intermediate outcomes led to the achievement of the final outcomes (though this
linkage is left out of the PDO formulation) of improved health and household economy due to a reduction in the
incidence of water borne diseases. This independent impact evaluation found a statistically significant impact on labor
force participation. Men in treatment areas were found to have lower number of days off work due to water-related
illnesses. Findings also show some positive impacts on reduced number of days off work to care for ill children. The
project was found to have a positive impact on health. Findings indicate that households in treatment areas reported
significantly lower incidences of diarrhea and eye diseases. Reduced health problems were found to significantly
lower health expenditures of households in treatment areas (ICR pp18-19, paras 63-65 and Annex 5, pp 38-39).

The ICR, including the reporting from the end evaluation, documents that the project through its inputs, outputs and
outcomes contributed to improved health and household economy in the participating provinces due to a decrease in
incidences of water borne diseases. The end evaluation points to the connection between improved health and
improved economy in that it both demonstrates how improved health led to a reduction in days off work as well as a
reduction on health expenditure. It is therefore plausible that this project contributed to the overarching development
objective of poverty alleviation in the project areas.

Attribution
The ICR does not explicitly discuss the issue of attribution, i.e. to what degree the achievements were due to the
project intervention only or whether there might be alternative explanations for the positive outcomes.

Although the ICR reports that the end evaluation used an ITT (Intention-To-Treat) methodology, and that comparisons
were made between treatment groups and comparison groups without treatment, it is not clear whether the evaluation
also had access to and made use of before-and-after data. For example, when reporting on incidence of water borne
diseases, the finding reported is only that the incidences are lower in the treatment area than in the non treatment
area. There is no information (in the ICR) as to what the situation was in the two areas prior to project intervention.
The same is the case when reporting on women’s labor force participation; (ICR p 18 para 64): “…now in 48% of
[participating] households women are equally important in earning income as their husbands”; there is no information
as to what the percentage was prior to the project interventions, nor what it is in the non treatment areas.

Despite these few weaknesses, IEG finds that the achievements of the outputs, outcomes and objectives of this
project is relatively well documented in the ICR.


5. Efficiency:
  Substantial
An economic rate of return analysis for water supply and sanitation infrastructure showed positive economic impact
that was higher than anticipated at appraisal (ICR p 16, para 59). An economic analysis at completion stage was
conducted for the water and sanitation infrastructure component (Component 1), which accounted for approximately
92% of the Bank financed costs at appraisal, and approximately 95% of the total bank financed costs at completion.

The Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) at appraisal showed an anticipated EIRR of 10,8% (ICR p 17, para 59). At
completion, the CBA indicated an EIRR between 13% and 17,2% in the four participating provinces (17,2%; 16,8%;
13%; 16,9%) (ICR Annex 3, p 33, Table 1). It is clear from these results that the project-wide EIRR estimated at the
time of the ICR would have been above the EIRR estimated at appraisal. Thus the simple average EIRR at ICR time
for the four project provinces is 16.0. Even though this is an approximation since the result is not properly weighted
(e.g. by provincial populations), it is shown in part "a" below.

The ICR states that the value of the EIRR would increase even further if (i) the time saving of not having to collect
water and (ii) public health benefits – would have been included in the calculation.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                     10.8%                                    92%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      16%                                     95%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The Relevance of Objectives and Design was found to be Substantial. While the treatment of attribution in the ICR
is weak, the three project objectives were rated substantial for their achievements. Efficiency was rated Substantial as
the IERRs for each of the four project areas were found to be high, and higher than the anticipated overall IERR at
appraisal.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   As pointed out in the ICR (p 20 para 69), the four Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Enterprises (RWSSE) are fully
operational and are currently recovering full O&M costs and are on track to meet sustainability targets. There are,
however, a few smaller challenges. Most of the public sanitation blocks have poor O&M and are at risk of being
unsustainable in the long run despite high appreciation and utilization by community members, and hygiene promotion
related to communal environmental sanitation needs stronger efforts to sustain gains in behavior change related to
solid waste. Despite these moderate risks, the capacity and enhanced skills of the four RWSSEs are likely to be
sustained in the long term.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. In the ICR (p 20 para 72), the Bank team is reported to have
provided appropriate expertise and experience in the project preparation and appraisal phase and to have
established good working relationships with government counterparts. Detailed assessments and analysis were
carried out during project preparation to ensure that project components would strike an appropriate balance
between water, sanitation and hygiene activities. The Bank team were flexible and constructive in their approach.
The preparation of the project was sound in that it incorporated all major important components to ensure its
success; provision of clean water supply was coupled with hygiene education and provision of finance for new or
improved sanitation facilities.

There are also some weaknesses, however; the M&E framework was weak and the identified indicators (both in
the PAD and the revised ones) were heavily output-based. The most relevant indicators to measure achievement
of the PDO (poverty alleviation) were lacking in the framework (such as improvement of health and household
economy, decrease in water borne diseases, etc.), and these were not introduced during the restructuring either.
Many of the indicators were vague, and as the ICR points out (p 11 para 38 and p 20 para 73), there were
discrepancies between the indicators in the main text and Annex 3 of the PAD, and only 4 of the PDO and
intermediate indicators had target values in the PAD. This may have caused confusion and lack of clear direction
for the M&E of the project. These shortcomings are considered to be moderate.

The Bank team also underestimated unit costs which contributed to the need for additional funding. The
restructuring and additional financing provided the project with more than double the originally allocated funds.
The original credit was for US$ 45.87 million and the additional finance was for US$ 65.27 million. In the
restructuring, revised targets were set for most of the indicators. Many of these targets were considerably
over-achieved. This raises the question of to what degree the project was well planned and implemented, since at
project approval, financial projections significantly underestimated project costs. However, with substantial
additional financing, new targets were set, which were substantially over-achieved.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
       Bank supervision missions are reported to have been regular and instrumental in helping to address critical
problems (ICR p 21 para 74). 11 supervision mission were undertaken during project implementation between
2006 and 2013 (ICR fact sheet table G.) They were effective as platforms for policy dialogues and learning tools.
The Bank team is reported to have worked closely and effectively with GoV counterparts and showed flexibility in
providing additional financing following the MTR to rectify previous miscalculations and to adjust to the changing
economic situation. The fact that the TTL was based in Hanoi is reported to have added value to the overall
management of the project, as proximity to the implementing agencies helped create trust and allowed for closer
monitoring and implementation support.

The M&E Framework was adjusted following the MTR, but the main weaknesses (lack of relevant indicators to
measure intermediate and final outcomes) were not remedied, and this is considered to be a moderate
shortcoming.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government of Vietnam (GoV) is reported to have been committed to the success of the project (p 22 para
79); it provided counterpart financing and increased its contribution when the Bank provided Additional Financing.
The GoV also provided clear decrees and followed through with tariff setting, which contributed to the financial
sustainability of the enterprises.

The local government entities that were actively involved in the project were the Provincial People’s Committees
(PPCs) and the Commune People’s Committees (CPCs). The CPCs is reported to have been instrumental in
engaging community members in project preparations and implementation. During implementation, CPCs
effectively facilitated the land acquisition for water supply and sanitation infrastructure and mobilized community
members to supervise civil works construction of the water supply distribution lines. Proactive CPCs went beyond
project expectations and institutionalized environmental sanitation activities such as Green Sundays to permanent
community events. The performance of the CPCs varied based on engagement and enthusiasm of the elected
members. In some CPCs, delays were experienced due to protracted land clearance processes and delayed
collection of counterpart funding (ICR p 22 para 81).

Some limitations are reported to have caused implementation delays (ICR p 22 para 80), such as: (i) lack of clear
regulations on mobilization of the Official Development Assistance (ODA) grant for each phase from the Ministry
of Planning and Investment; (ii) lack of harmonization of appraisal and approval procedures between the GoV and
donors relating to concessional credit; and (iii) limited experience and knowledge of handling procedures for ODA
funds between central and provincial governments.

Another drawback was the expansion of rural roads that caused disruption to established water supply networks
(ICR p 10, para 36). This indicates poor planning and coordination between different government bodies.
Throughout the course of the project implementation, parallel efforts by the Government of Vietnam in rural
development led to enormous rural road expansion which severely affected the implementation of the project by
complicating the distribution of network construction (which closely follow rural roads). Where distribution
networks were previously laid, they were forced to be relocated to accommodate the road expansion. In addition
to causing technical complications this also raised financial issues, including how to cover the additional costs
associated with the extra work to relocate water distribution networks. After long dialogues, a combination of local
and provincial government support financed the additional works, as it would have been unfair to hold contractors
accountable for these changes.

Furthermore, unclear institutional arrangements led to weak Operation and Maintenance of the public sanitation
facilities (as reported in the ICR p 10 para 37). The Operation and Maintenance of the public sanitation facilities
were generally very poor with many of them in serious risk of being unsustainable in the future. In some
communities, local governments or other institutions hired caretakers for these facilities but long term financing of
O&M of public sanitation facilities remains a challenge.

Despite these weaknesses, the Government is reported to have improved performance significantly during the
project period with regard to government technical capacity, coordination and the mainstreaming of project within
the national structure, which, according to the ICR (p 22 para 79), demonstrated the commitment that government
entities gave this project. The shortcomings are considered to be moderate, and the rating for Government
Performance is therefore set to Moderately Satisfactory.


   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Central Project Office is reported to have been fully committed to the Project from the early stage and was
instrumental in its successful implementation (ICR p 22 para 82). The CPO is reported to have quickly built up its
management capacities through intensive fiduciary training and recruitment of skilled staff to fill the capacity gaps.
The CPO further strengthened its technical and supervision capacity by engaging supervision consultants to follow
up closely with the civil works contractors. According to the ICR, these efforts dramatically improved the CPOs
management capacity and supported the Provincial Project Management Units. The CPO played a critical role in
engaging high level government officials in the project. The CPO played an active role in adopting implementation
approaches that accelerated the implementation pace and facilitated technical support.

There were some shortcomings in fiduciary management. In instances where fiduciary problems were discovered
(like misprocurement), the CPO is reported to have handled matters professionally by notifying the Bank and the
Minister of MARD. Further, limited availability of technical designs delayed implementation progress during the
initial phases.

The capacities of the PPMUs varied depending on the existing government capacities. However, the ICR reports
that the PPMUs identified capacity gaps and engaged specialists to support project management (p 23, para 84).
They supervised the quality of the civil works contracts, liaised with contractors, local governments, enterprises
and the CPO to facilitate implementation. There were occasional delays in settlement of expenditure funds with
the Vietnam Development Bank and this caused some delays in disbursements. The Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Enterprises (RWSSEs) were established almost two years into project implementation and took on the
role previously carried out by the PPMUs (ICR p 24 para 88). The capacity of these enterprises varied from
province to province. The enterprises collaborated closely with each other to discuss implementation challenges
and possible solutions.

The Women’s Unions (WU) were managing the Sanitation Revolving Fund and provided Information, Education
and Communication materials related to sanitation and hygiene; combining hygiene promotion with sanitation
financing. According to the ICR (p 23 para 86), the WUs successfully generated demand for sanitation financing
and facilitated increased community contributions for water supply schemes.

The Vietnam Development Bank was responsible for the disbursement of funds into the respective PPMU and
WU’s designated accounts. Overall, VDB developed good working relations with all PPMUs and WUs involved in
project implementation. In some provinces, they also provided hands-on support to correct reporting mistakes and
expedite disbursements.
Comment on the overall Borrower Performance Rating: Since the shortcomings are considered to be moderate,
the rating is Moderately Satisfactory. According to the Project Team, the implementation difficulties experienced
were mainly during the first four years of the project when the Government and the Implementing agencies, after
making strong efforts to surmount a steep learning curve, performed very well during the latter parts of the project
period.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E design at appraisal was relatively vague and most of the identified indicators were output-based, even the
PDO indicators. The most relevant indicators that would allow for measurement of the actual intermediate and final
outputs that could lead to achievement of the PDO were missing (like e.g. incidences of water borne diseases for
measurement of changes in health and household income). Although some indicators were adjusted and added
during the restructuring, these were also mostly output-based and did not rectify the main weakness with the M&E
Framework. Also, of the 12 indicators identified in the PAD, only 4 of them had target values.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   A combination of project and government indicators was used to monitor the project. The CPO coordinated the
M&E work and conducted verification missions to ensure data quality control. According to the ICR (p 11 para 39), the
communities were involved in the monitoring of progress during implementation and village level groups reported to
PPMUs and RWSSEs on the status of the constructions as well as on the utility and effects of the hygiene and
sanitation activities. The Project Team (meeting 04/27/15) informed IEG that in addition to the indicators reported in
the ICR, the water quality was regularly measured, both at source and randomly at household levels. Despite the
relatively weak design of the M&E framework, IEG concludes, from the information in the ICR and from the meeting
with the Project Team that the monitoring of this project during implementation held a relatively high standard
throughout.

The end evaluation measured the intermediate and final outcome indicators that were missing early in the project and
managed to provide sufficiently convincing evidence to show that the project achieved its intermediate and final
outcomes (although unarticulated in the PAD) of improved health and household economy in the participating
provinces – due to reduced incidences of water borne diseases.

In light of the end evaluation, the project’s causal chain becomes clear and convincing. The inputs (provision of clean
water supply, sanitation and hygiene education) were necessary and sufficient to lead to the outputs (improved water
supply and sanitation facilities, and x amount of people who have received hygiene education). This again led to (as
indicated in the evaluation) the intermediate outcomes of efficient use (of the new water supply and sanitation facilities
and changed hygiene practices) and the final outcomes of improved health and household economy (reduced number
of absence days at school and work due to water borne diseases) which in turn would plausibly contribute to the
development objective of poverty alleviation.


 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR reports that the M&E system was used by CPO, PPMUs, Enterprises and the Bank Task Team to track
project implementation and results (ICR p 11 para 40). Results and progress of the project were occasionally
highlighted on relevant websites and in a newsletter. According to the ICR, information collected through M&E
activities helped guide project implementation and provided useful insights for project restructuring. Data collected to
project progress was reviewed by the National Target Program (NTP) to better understand achievements and
bottlenecks in implementation and to draw lessons relevant to the government’s NTP activities. M&E results were also
used to help the PforR (Results Based Rural Water Supply and Sanitation under the National Target Program) assess
interventions and set reasonable targets for their Key Performance Indicators.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial
11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was a category B project and triggered OP/BP 4.01 – Environmental Assessment for its potential
construction and operation adverse environmental and safety impacts related to construction of water supply and
sanitation infrastructure. Environmental Assessments and Environmental Management Plans concluded that overall
the project would have positive environmental and public health impacts.

The project also triggered the following social safeguards: (i) OP/BP 4.12 – Involuntary Resettlement related to land
acquisition for construction of water supply and sanitation infrastructure; and (ii) OP/BP 4.20 – Indigenous Peoples,
due to the presence of a small number of ethnic minority groups (primarily Moung) in one of the 120 targeted
communes. A Resettlement Action Plan was prepared and disclosed and a Strategy for Ethnic Minority Development
Plans was prepared in accordance with BP 4.20 standards (ICR p 12 para 41) to ensure that identified indigenous
people in the area would benefit. Participatory methods were used during project planning, and equitable choices
were provided to ethnic minorities to avoid adverse impact through land acquisition. The overall community
participation approach helped ensure that ethnic minority rights were included in the overall infrastructure
development

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management
Financial Management performance was mostly acceptable to the Bank albeit with some delays in submission-.
Audited financial statements and audit reports were of acceptable quality and generally submitted on time. The audit
opinions for the initial years were qualified due to ineligible expenditures, internal control weaknesses, and delays in
collection of community funding. However, project performance improved and financial management performance
were rated Satisfactory by the Bank for the last couple of years of the project implementation.

Procurement
In general, procurement was acceptable to the Bank and improved during the project implementation period (ICR p 13
para 47). Delays in procurement were primarily caused by limited procurement capacity at all levels of project
implementation during the initial stages; this issue was remedied with targeted capacity building.

A case of misprocurement was documented in November, 2010, relating to a contract package. The contract was
investigated and misappropriated funds were reimbursed to the IDA account.

Due to competitive bidding processes, transparency was enhanced and a cost savings of 20% of the amount
budgeted for total works contracts was achieved. Funds from the cost savings were used to expand the project scope
and to increase the number of beneficiaries.


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR does not report on unintended impacts. The results reported in the ICR on p 19, para 67, are all outcomes
that should be expected to happen in such a project (i.e. creation of a market for potential public-private sector
involvement in water supply management, creation of demand for more all-inclusive firms that have built in capacity to
design and construct water supply and sanitation infrastructure, and the improvement of contractors’ technical
capacity).


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory               Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low          Moderate               Risk to Development Outcome is rated
                     Outcome:                                                   Moderate, due to challenges related to
                                                                                the sustainability of the public sanitation
                                                                                units.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory               Moderately             The Bank is considered to have
                                                         Satisfactory           performed generally well, and the
                                                                                shortcomings reported are considered
                                                                               to be moderate.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         The Borrower’s performance was
                                                            Satisfactory       relatively weak in the first few years of
                                                                               the project but improved significantly
                                                                               towards the end of the project period.
                                                                               The shortcomings reported are
                                                                               considered to be moderate.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The integration of hygiene promotion with the provision of sanitation financing can substantially increase the
demand for improved sanitation facilities. The integration of improved water supply and sanitation facilities in
tandem with appropriate hygiene education has great potential to contribute to improved health and household
economy (due to reduction in the incidence of water borne diseases; reduced work and school absence).

Balanced emphasis on provision of water supply with sanitation is critical to enhancing outcomes of interventions.

A flexible project design that focuses on the end goals and is not too rigid in the implementation modalities has
good potential to facilitate achievement of project objectives.

Project costs need to be underpinned by strong economic analysis, review of macro-economic trends and
comparisons with similar interventions in the region.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The quality of evidence presented in the ICR is generally good and is drawn from a variety of sources and methods.
The quality of the analysis is also good, despite minor weaknesses. The lessons presented are very well formulated
and are based on evidence and analysis. Despite some inconsistencies with regard to the planned, additional and
actual costs for the project components, as explained in section 2c of this ICR Review, the ICR is generally well
written and contains detailed and sufficient information for IEG’s review, and is therefore rated Satisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
