Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2660 
Operation Name 
Fiscal Management and Competitiveness Development Policy 
Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (45%);Central 
government administration (35%);General industry and trade 
sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P101335 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 8, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 10, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
December 19, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Political Developments 
 
Peru is strengthening and consolidating its democratic political system.
 Following the 
Fujimori regime and a brief transitional government, the administration of former President 
Toledo governed a country at peace and with economic growth during 2001-2006. Despite many 
political difficulties and a generally low public approval rating, Toledo faced no major threats to 
his democratic authority, and was able to not only complete his mandate in office but also to 
muster enough support in Congress to undertake several reforms and to maintain disciplined 
control over economic policy. By the end of Toledo’s term, it appeared that a majority of 
Peruvians had come to see the benefits of a stable, democratic political system.  
 
President Alan García won the second round of presidential elections in June 2006
 
by 53 
percent against 47 percent for Ollanta Humala, a former military officer
.
Humala failed to 
convinc
e
a
majority of voters, who preferred the platform of García, despite the memories of his 
difficult first presidential term in the late 1980s. At the same time, the narrowness of García’s 
victory and the success of Humala in Peru’s poorer regions—especially the southern Andes—
points to dissatisfaction of many Peruvians with the thus-far limited improvements for the poor 
after recent years of economic growth.  
 
President García faces a fragmented Congress, which will require building coalitions to 
pass legislation
.
His 
Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana
 (APRA) party has 37 seats, 
compared to 44 for Humala’s 
Unión por el Perú
 (UPP) and 39 divided among five other parties. 
UPP has said it will strongly defend their candidate’s platform, meaning it will likely form the 
core of opposition to García’s agenda, requiring APRA to seek coalitions with the other parties. 
García’s first cabinet, led by Prime Minister Jorge del Castillo and Finance Minister Luis 
Carranza, is a mix of APRA members and well-respected technocrats, with a record six women 
in ministerial posts.  The latest poll numbers show García’s public support between 60 and 70 
Page  2
percent. The first major test for the new government will be the November 19 elections for 26 
regional presidents and all 1,832 municipal governments.  
 
Economic Developments 
 
In the past four years, Peru has had one of the best-performing economies in Latin 
America
,
surpassed only by Venezuela
—an oil exporting country—and Argentina—which is 
coming out of a deep recession.  Based on sound macroeconomic policies and strong demand for 
Peruvian commodity exports, GDP grew 5 percent on average in the four years since 2002, and 
reaching a remarkable 6.4 percent in 2005.  This growth has been all the more impressive 
considering the external shock of the region in the early 2000s as well as the political instability 
that prevailed during the Toledo administration.  
 
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators (% change) 
 
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006e 
Annual GDP growth rate 
3.0 
0.2 
5.2 
3.9 
5.2 
6.4 
6.6 
Inflation rate (CPI, end of period) 
3.7 
-0.1 
1.5 
2.5 
3.5 
1.5 
1.5 
Overall Public Sector Balance/GDP 
-3.3 
-2.5 
-2.2 
-1.7 
-1.0 
-0.3 
0.6 
Public 
Sector 
Debt/GDP 
45.7 46.1 46.9 47.5 45.1 37.8 
32 
Exports (FOB); change p.a. 
14 
1 
10 
18 
41 
35 
31 
Imports (CIF); change p.a. 
9 
-2 
3 
11 
19 
23 
26 
External Current Account/GDP 
-2.9 
-2.3 
-2.0 
-1.6 
0.0 
1.4 
1.1 
Source: 
BCRP, Revised
 Marco Macroeconómico Multianual 2006-2008.
 
Growth has been led by an upswing in exports, which rose 26 percent annually on average 
in 2002-2005, and the external current account posted a surplus of 1.7 percent of GDP in 
2005
.
This increase was driven in good measure by the boom in commodity prices, particularly 
for mineral exports, as well as the coming on line of new mining and hydrocarbon projects.  
Although mining production account for over half of all Peruvian exports, non-traditional 
exports have grown rapidly, 20 percent on average annually since 2000, particularly in 
specialized agricultural products such as asparagus, grapes and avocados.  Other export sectors 
such as fisheries and textiles have also posted significant gains in recent years.  Private 
investment, encouraged by the growing economy and sound policies, has also helped fuel 
growth, rising nearly 14 percent in real terms during 2005.  
 
Fiscal and monetary policy has been well-managed during recent years, with steady 
declines in public sector deficits and low, stable inflation rates
.
The combined public sector 
deficit has come down every year since 2001, falling from 2.5 percent of GDP in 2001 to 0.3 
percent of GDP in 2005, lowering public debt from 46 percent of GDP in 2001 to 38 percent of 
GDP in 2005 (of which 28 percent is foreign and 10 percent domestic), and down to 32 percent 
of GDP by October 2006.  These gains came from increases in revenue from mining taxes, as 
well as from cuts in public investment spending.  Tax collection for the combined public sector 
will reach 15 percent of GDP in 2006, low by international standards and below the 18 percent of 
GDP collected in the mid-1990s.  This indicates that improvements in broadening the tax base 
and increasing collections remain needed.  Year-end inflation for 2005 was 1.5 percent, at the 
low end of the target range of 1.5-3.5 percent.  Fiscal consolidation has continued in 2006, with 
the non-financial public sector expected to report a surplus of 0.6-0.8 percent of GDP, only the 
Page  3
second budget surplus in 40 years.  Tax revenue is estimated to reach 15 percent of GDP in 2006 
(Figure 1), pushed particularly by increases in income tax.  
 
Figure 1. Central Government Tax Revenue (% of GDP) 
 
While Peru’s macroeconomic performance has been very good in the past few years, 
poverty remain high
.
The national poverty rate dropped two percentage points between 2002 
and 2004, and half the population (51.6 percent) lives in conditions of poverty.  However, since 
2003 per capita incomes of the poor and the rates of poverty and extreme poverty have started 
showing improvements, especially in rural areas, driven by broadening economic growth. 
Average incomes of the poorest tenth of the population rose 33 percent between 2001 and 2004, 
while the incomes of the wealthiest tenth of the population remained level over the same period. 
Growth has had the most impact on extreme poverty rates, especially in rural areas. Extreme 
poverty declined from 24 percent to 19 percent between 2001 and 2004 nationally, but rural 
extreme poverty fell from 50 percent to 40 percent over the period, while urban extreme poverty 
declined from 10 percent to 8 percent.  Although no poverty numbers are available after 2004, 
recent improvements in employment in urban areas indicate that the growth of 2005 and this year 
(Figure 2) are having further impacts on poverty.  Income inequality also remains relatively high, 
with the Gini coefficient improving slightly from 0.52 to 0.50 during the same period.   
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed DPL is intended to be the first in a series of four loans supporting the GoP’s reform plan to 
improve the functioning of Peru’s public sector institutions and business environment.  The loan focuses 
on two broad areas of policy reform: 
·
Efficiency and Quality of Fiscal Management 
·
Competitiveness 
In each of these areas, the GoP has committed to a detailed series of important policy changes as part of 
an integrated strategy to progressively reform fiscal administration, public spending and the business 
climate in ways that will lead to specific results that have a broad impact on growth and will be difficult 
to reverse.
 
12.2
12.4
12.0
12.8
13.1
13.6
14.9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
2000  
2001  
2002  
2003  
2004  
2005  
2006  
Source: 
Central Bank and projections from MMM 2007-2009 MEF.
%
G
D
P
Page  4
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Link to Country Partnership Strategy and Other Bank Operations 
 
This programmatic series on improving fiscal management and competitiveness is at the 
core of the CP
S’s proposed assistance program, and is envisioned as part of the country’s 
base-case lending scenario
.
The CPS foresees several thematic “clusters” forming the basis of 
the Bank’s partnership with Peru, and this proposed loan series directly addresses aspects of: 
maintaining macro stability; accelerating growth; widening the base of growth; justice; 
governance; and decentralization.  Policies which form part of the FMCDPL series include, 
among other reforms, simplifying and improving tax collection, controlling sub-national debt, 
implementing incentives for greater sub-national revenue creation and judicious use of natural 
resource revenues, promoting results-based budgeting, expanding e-governance procedures and 
specialized commercial courts, and moving forward with budget-neutral, capacity-based 
decentralization of government services.  All of these directly promote the goals stated in the 
CPS.  
 
The proposed operation also fits into a series of Bank operations that support the 
Government’s reform agenda
.
It was developed jointly with another multi-year DPL series for 
the social sectors and a Health APL, which address issues of improved service quality and 
results-based management, as well as the on-going Accountability for Decentralization TAL, 
which also focuses on the social sectors.   Because of the importance of monitoring indicators in 
the social sectors, the Bank team working on the social DPL series will work closely with the 
team on this loan to ensure that the monitoring and evaluation component supported by this loan 
bring together both the overall budgetary and fiscal goals of the MEF as well as the sectoral 
improvement goals in the line ministries.  Actions under this loan will be supported by the on-
going Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal Decentralization TAL, designed to improve 
fiscal planning, expenditure efficiency, and decentralized public investment.  The on-going 
Justice Reform Project will help support implementation of improvements in the conciliation 
system, which form part of the competitiveness component of this loan.  In addition, the 
FMCDPL is complemented by three technical assistance projects, one by the IFC in Cajamarca 
and the second under the EITI in Cuzco that aim to build capacity at the municipal level for 
management of natural resource-based revenues and investments, and a third by the IFC on 
administrative simplification in provincial municipalities.  
 
Lessons Learned 
 
The experience of designing and implementing previous loan projects in Peru on policy 
reforms, in particular the three-stage Decentralization and Competitiveness DPL 
(DECDPL) series, provided important input in the design of this programmatic series
.
The 
aim of this programmatic series regarding decentralization was to establish a conceptually 
coherent and fiscally sound foundation on which to build a decentralized system of governance 
in Peru, a process that will take a number of years.  The DCDPL series helped ensure that Peru 
began the process of decentralization in a deliberate, well-conceived manner, strengthening fiscal 
responsibility and administrative efficiency at all levels of government and avoiding the pitfalls 
seen in other countries of deteriorating public services and confusion of responsibilities. In 
Page  5
parallel, significant legal, institutional and administrative initiatives were undertaken to enhance 
competitiveness, many with a strong focus on promoting growth in non-traditional exports and in 
economic activity outside the capital region.  The results and pending agenda from the DECDPL 
series informed the design of aspects of this proposed loan series.   
One key lesson from the DECDPL series is the importance of choosing reform areas 
carefully and not pressing for the government to make too many changes too fast
.
Complex 
and technical processes like e-government and the devolution of service delivery to the sub-
national level need critical time for development and implementation, or capacity constraints will 
impede progress. Moreover, time is also needed to overcome the resistance of groups that may 
feel threatened by the uncertainty brought about by changes and the accountability brought about 
by result-oriented reforms. Because the GoP is moving ahead with the devolution of resources 
and service delivery to sub-national governments, this operation will focus only on fiscal 
management aspects of decentralization, and specific sectoral issues regarding oversight and 
service delivery will be addressed in other operations. 
 
Design of the DPL and Analytic Underpinnings 
 
The proposed FMCDPL
 series responds to the GoP’s request for Bank support to their 
public sector institutions and competitiveness reform program
.
This operation is intended as 
the first in a series of four loans, one per year, each marking progressively advanced stages in the 
reform program. The two broad areas addressed by the operation are:  
 
·
Efficiency and Quality of Fiscal Management 
·
Competitiveness 
 
In the view of both the GoP and the Bank, these two areas are mutually reinforcing and, if 
reforms advance as planned, will offer a significant payoff in terms of economic growth, 
social development and poverty reduction
.
Strengthened fiscal management is a desirable end 
in itself, to maximize limited public resources, but also supports country competitiveness by 
generating confidence in the private sector on overall macroeconomic stability and the ability to 
undertake long term investments and planning.  As well, greater country competitiveness will 
only improve the fiscal situation, by generating increased tax revenues and decreasing the need 
for government intervention to stimulate economic growth.  In view of governmental priorities, 
the first proposed loan will focus more on fiscal management, while later loans in the series will 
be more weighted toward competitiveness. 
 
This proposed DPL series takes into account lessons learned during past programmatic 
operations in Peru, as well as current best practices in policy-based lending to well-
performing middle income countries
.
1
As such, the FMCDPL emphasizes up-front actions 
based on a well-defined reform program.  This loan is 
motivated by Peru’s laudable performance 
in recent years in consolidating its economy, and the clear desire of the new administration to 
move into the next stage of reform by improving the efficiency and impact of governance 
institutions and public resources.  The programmatic approach is intended to support the 
government with a reliable source of low-cost financing linked to its budgetary cycle.  
1
Including Peru’s DECSAL and PSRL series, and the 
Development Policy Lending Retrospective
,
July 7, 2006. 
Page  6
The Bank team selected a sub-
set of specific policies within the GoP’s program to support 
with the FMCDPL series which it considers will have the most impact, based on the Bank’s 
diagnostic work
.
Among the principal pieces of research and analysis used in the preparation of 
this loan are: the policy notes collection for the new administration collected in the volume 
Per
ú:
La Oportunidad de Un País Diferente—Próspero, Equitativo y Gobernable
,
Public Expenditure 
Review, Country Financial Accountability Assessment, Country Procurement Assessment 
Report, Investment Climate Assessment, Poverty Assessment, Country Economic Memorandum, 
and sector specific studies such as Municipal Debt, Microconstraints to Growth, and 
Environmental and Social Impact of the Mining Sector. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The loan is expected to be disbursed in a single tranche of US$[100-150] million.
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
[100-150]
 
Total 
[100-150]
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Government of Peru and the Bank have agreed to monitor progress in the DPL 
program regularly, including the annual reviews of the CPS progress
.
The Sectoral Loans 
Coordination Unit (UCPS) in the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the main counterpart 
agency for the proposed loan, which will be in charge of M&E for the loan and for collecting the 
appropriate data to follow the proposed indicators.  The UCPS will also coordinate with the Bank 
to collect baseline numbers for numerical indicators.  Other important agencies are the Central 
Bank of Peru, the Government Tax Agency (SUNAT), Office of the Prime Minister (PCM) and 
Ministry of Trade (MINCETUR).  
 
The Bank will monitor actions and review progress of the implementation of the proposed 
operation using the different sources, among them:  
 
·
Fiscal Transparency Reports 
–
MEF, 
www.mef.gob.pe
·
Leading Indicators Reports – MEF, 
www.mef.gob.pe
·
Central Bank of Peru, Reports and Research Publications, 
www.bcrp.gob.pe
·
SIAF – MEF,
 www.mef.gob.pe
·
Instituto Nacional de Estadistica (INEI), 
www.inei.gob.pe
·
Investment Climate Survey 
·
Credit Rating Agencies Reports – several sources 
·
World Bank Governance Indicators 
·
Doing Business Indicators 
·
Indice de Gestión Gubernamental
 
–
Universidad del Pacifico  
·
Ciudadanos al Dia – Reports and Technical Notes, 
www.ciudadanosaldia.org
Page  7
·
Government Tax Agency SUNAT 
–
www.sunat.gob.pe
·
IMF and IADB reports
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
In the short term, the DPL will have the twin benefits of: 
·
Strengthening the GoP’s fiscal position with timely budget financing at reasonable terms; and  
·
Supporting the GoP’s public sector and competitiveness reform agenda. 
In the medium and long term, reforms supported by the proposed loan series will solidify Peru’s overall 
fiscal framework, greatly improve the efficiency and quality of public sector spending, and reduce 
bottlenecks to faster economic growth.  This will in turn result in budgetary savings that can be directed 
toward priority poverty programs; more and higher quality public services for the citizenry; and more 
sustainable and broad-based growth.  
Political Risks
 include a slowing of reform momentum, especially if the November local elections are 
unfavorable to the administration and the divided Congress becomes less cooperative. Reforms to 
promote results-based management could generate opposition from politically active interest groups, such 
as public employee unions.  President García has launched a high-profile series of actions for his first 180 
days in government as a way to quickly demonstrate his determination to move forward on reform.  
Government officials are re-engaging with the 
Acuerdo Nacional
,
a
group of political parties, civil society 
and community groups, academics and NGOs who came together in 2002 to help generate a consensus on 
a
broad national agenda.   
Social risks
 relate principally to resource extractive industries, which have been accused by community 
residents near some mines and oil wells of polluting, leading to protests, particularly in remote areas with 
limited state presence.  Government policies supported by this operation to improve the flow of resources 
from mining and hydrocarbon royalties to local governments are intended to help with this problem.  
Economic risks
 include Peru’s vulnerability to a drop in the international commodity prices, in particular 
minerals, which form a large share of exports. A slow-down in the U.S. economy or the failure for the 
U.S. Congress to ratify the Peru FTA could also impact exports. Political pressures could lead to a 
deterioration of fiscal accounts should the GoP attempt to placate opposition with increased public 
spending.  The high level of dollarization of the banking system could become a problem in the event of a 
currency devaluation.  These risks are mitigated by growing non-traditional exports as well as a 
broadening of export markets through trade agreements.  The Government’s disciplined fiscal 
performance in the past several years has greatly reduced country risk and lowered interest rate spreads, 
meaning the cost of rising international interest rates will be lower than previously. Dollarization is also 
being reduced by an increase in local-currency debt.
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impact 
 
The proposed loan would help reduce poverty by supporting the implementation of 
reforms to improve the transparency and quality of public spending and the provision of 
public services, and promoting broad-based economic growth through strengthened 
competitiveness
.
Numerous studies by the Bank and other institutions have pinpointed 
inefficiencies in public sector management, the lack of accountability and results-focus on public 
spending, and an inadequate government focus on obstacles to competitiveness are the most 
significant bottlenecks to economic growth having a greater impact on poverty and inequality.  
Page  8
As well, further steps to promote strengthened fiscal management at the decentralized level and 
to improve the redistributive impacts of fiscal transfers will increase the effectiveness of fiscal 
resources, devolving spending authority to lower levels of government that are more aware of 
local needs.  This will allow resource expenditure to be more tightly focused on addressing the 
varied needs different regions to improve the provision of public services.  Improving the 
distributional impacts of fiscal transfers, including natural resource income, will also help redress 
the large disparities between the coastal, mountain, and jungle regions.  The policies supported 
by this loan series will likely face isolated resistance among specific sectors (such as regions 
who don’t want to reduce their transfer income, or public sector employees resistant to results-
oriented budgeting), but these policies are broadly supported on a national level and are not 
expected to generate widespread social opposition. 
Social tensions have been an issue in isolated areas related to natural resource extraction, 
which is indirectly addressed in this loan series, and the GoP is taking actions to address 
these problems.
 
The new administration has for the first time created a Conflicts Unit in the 
Presidential Council of Ministers, a high-level office for negotiating conflicts as they arise. The 
unit works hand-in-hand with the 
Defensoría del Pueblo
 (Human Rights Ombudsman) to create 
a
space for dialogue with disaffected groups.  A first result has been the peaceful negotiations 
with the Achuar indigenous group in Loreto, which has protested pollution and lack of social 
benefit from oil production in their region.  The negotiations led to a decree mandating that a 
portion of the oil 
canon
 for Loreto be specifically dedicated to ethnic groups in the region, as a 
way to finance projects to improve their living conditions, and also commitments by the oil 
company to undertake environmental rehabilitation.  The work of IFC’s Technical Assistance 
Facility on improving the use of mining 
canon
 use around the Yanacocha gold mine has also 
been successful in illustrating how the industry can benefit local communities.  As part of the 
CPS, the Bank is planning a series of environmental DPLs to help strengthen the GoP’s ability to 
address the environmental impact of resource extraction industries.  
Peru’s greater integration into the world economy will provide greater opportunities for 
economic growth, but may also lead to economic dislocation in some sectors, and the GoP is 
working to ameliorate that impact
.
One of the flagship programs of the new administration is 
Sierra Exportadora
,
a
package of measures designed to promote greater economic opportunities 
through trade and market integration to poorer, heavily indigenous Andean mountain.  Proposals 
include directing significant technical assistance, infrastructure investment, and credit to boost 
export-oriented agriculture, forestry and artisan produce based on local knowledge and 
specialties.  The Bank’s Sierra Development Project, proposed as part of the CPS, would support 
aspects of 
Sierra Exportadora
.
As well, increasing the efficiency in government spending as a 
whole will free greater resources to be dedicated to redistributive social programs such as those 
to re-train those affected by lower tariff barriers and for poor, underprivileged people, including 
ethnic groups which have historically faced discrimination and scant opportunities for 
advancement.  The 
Juntos
 conditional cash transfer program, which is expected to be scaled up 
during this administration, will be important to achieving these goals. 
Environmental, Forest and Natural Resource Aspects 
 
The policies supported by this DPL operation, which focus on reforming economic and 
social policies and institutions on the macro level, are not expected to entail any significant 
direct impact on the environment.
 
Some policies will likely prove positive for environmental 
Page  9
management, particularly aspects related to improved monitoring and evaluation for government 
expenditure, including environmental expenditure (see para. 32).  This will allow the GoP to set 
clear environmental priorities, to coordinate with environmental authorities on developing 
indicators to evaluate the impact of spending on achieving these priorities, and to ensure that all 
sectors follow legal norms related to the environment.  The fiscal space created through making 
the budget and expenditure process more efficient could also serve to strengthen under-funded 
environmental spending.  As well, the decentralization of SNIP could lead to improved 
environmental assessment of investment projects, taking into account local conditions instead of 
employing uniform criteria for the entire country.  
However, it will likely be the case that in the medium and long term, further trade 
liberalization and economic activity in Peru
—though desirable for growth and poverty 
reduction—will lead to greater infrastructure development and resource extraction, that 
will affect the environment
.
The Bank recently completed a Country Environmental 
Assessment, highlighting shortcomings in Peru’s institutional framework for environmental 
protection and sustainability. It also pointed to the need to not only continue focusing on 
protection natural areas such as tropical forests, but also mitigating the serious health impacts 
and high costs of environmental degradation, particularly related to air and water contamination.  
As a result of this study and the ensuing dialogue with GoP, the Bank is preparing two 
environmental DPLs in coming years.  Principal topics to be addressed in the loans will be 
reordering the institutional and legal oversight for the environment, both at the national level—
possibly through the creation of a new, single authority—and at regional and municipal levels.  
Decentralized environmental oversight of the mining sector will be a priority, as well as 
adjusting spending priorities to achieve concrete results in reducing air and water contamination.   
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Rossana Polastri 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: 5357+259 
Fax:  
Email: Rpolastri@worldbank.org 
Location: Lima, Peru (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
