Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7419-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Fiscal Management and Competitiveness  
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 16, 2007 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7419-PE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 16, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF PERU 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of:  (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars 
(US$200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end 
Fee not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:  
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by th
e
Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
2.10. 
The Borrower’s Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s Director of 
Public Indebtedness, and any person whom he or she shall designate in writing, is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article II of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
Page  4
3
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section 
I
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion 
of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the 
Program. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
expire on June 19, 2008.
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
Page  5
4
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 Jr. 
Junín 
319 
 Lima, 
Perú 
 Facsimile: 
    (511) 
426-8500 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Luis Carranza Ugarte 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marcelo Giugale 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
A. 
The Borrower has met its 2005 macro-fiscal objectives as evidenced in its multi-
annual macroeconomic framework for 2007-2009 (
Marco Macroeconómico 
Multianual
 2007-2009) which, 
inter alia
,
evaluates the macroeconomic 
performance achieved in 2005. 
 
B. 
The Borrower has presented to its Congress a draft of the Sanctions Law which 
has the objective of, inter alia, creating the Fiscal Policy Committee, increasing 
sustainability and transparency of fiscal policy, as well as strengthening the 
monitoring and enforcement of fiscal rules, as evidenced by: (1) Presidential 
Letter (Oficio) No. 054-
2005
dated April 17, 2006, addressed to the Borrower’s 
Congress; and (2) Legislative Opinion (Dictamen) No. 13/2006-PE prepared by 
the Borrower’s Comisión de Presupuesto y Cuenta General de la República on 
the draft Sanctions Law, dated September 21, 2006. 
 
C. 
The Borrower has taken significant steps to improve its tax system by inter alia, 
having: (i) prepared a cost-benefit analysis of the elimination of existing sectoral 
and regional tax exemptions, dated October 9, 2006; (ii) enabled internet-
registration for the single taxpayer identification number (RUC) as evidenced by 
the Borrower’s Resolution (Resolución de Superintendencia) No. 123-
2006/SUNAT, dated July 21, 2006; and (iii) made the RUC database available to 
the public through the internet, as evidenced by the Borrower’s Resolution 
(Resolución de Superintendencia) No. 075-2006/SUNAT, dated May 19, 2006. 
 
D. 
The Borrower has published and implemented a public debt management strategy 
for the period 2006-2008, based on cost and risks analysis, in order to promote, 
inter alia, the sustainable development of its domestic debt market, as well as 
reducing its exposure to currency and external shocks, as evidenced by:  (1) the 
Borrower’s Programa Anual de Endeudamiento Público y de Administración de 
Deuda 2006-2008 dated August, 2005, and accessible to the public through 
MEF’s official web page; (2) the Borrower’s Letter (Oficio) No. 673-2005-
EF/10, dated November 8, 2005; and (3) the Borrower’s Ley No. 28563 dated 
July 18, 2005.  
 
E. 
The Borrower has: (i) adopted an action plan to strengthen budget-reporting and 
planning; (ii) initiated the process to migrate towards a treasury single account 
(TSA) and a Budget Classification System; and (iii) aligned its budget 
classification system to international standards as well as to perform automatic 
Page  8
7
accounting by SIAF, as evidenced by:  (1)
 the Borrower’s Vice Minister of 
Finance Letter (Memorando) No. 032-2006-EF/11.01 dated October 18, 2006; 
(2) the Borrower’s action plan for the updating of budgetary classifications dated 
October, 2006; (3) the Borrower’s Law of the National System of the Treasury 
(Ley General del Sistema Nacional de Tesorería), published on March 22, 2006; 
and (4) the Borrower’s Law of the National Accounting System (Ley General del 
Sistema Nacional de Contabilidad) published on April 12, 2006.  
 
F. 
The Borrower has initiated the implementation of a results-based budget 
management system including a relevant set of performance indicators, as well as 
a
monitoring and evaluation system for public expenditures, in order to improve 
control and impact of public spending on a national, sub-national and sectoral 
levels, as evidenced by:  (1) MEF’s Directive (Directiva) No. No.030-2006-
EF/76.01 dated June 7, 2006, and approved by MEF’s Resolution (Resolución 
Directoral) No. 013-2006-EF/76.01) published on June 11, 2006; and (2) MEF’s 
Letter (Oficio) No. 587-2006-EF/UCPS, dated November 10, 2006. 
 
G. 
The Borrower has carried out significant efforts to expand and deepen 
international trade by, inter alia, signing and ratifying in its Congress a free trade 
agreement (the FTA) with the United States of America, as evidenced by:  (1) the 
Borrower’s Legislative Resolution (Resolución Legislativa) No. 28766 published 
on June 29, 2006; and (2) the Borrower’s Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) 
No. 030-2006-RE, published on June 30, 2006. 
 
H. 
The Borrower has reduced from 7% to 4% tariffs imposed on capital goods in 
196 tariff lines (partidas arancelarias) and published national guidelines to tariff 
policy as evidenced by: (1) the Borrower’s Ministerial Resolution No. 005-2006-
EF/15, dated January 12, 2006; and (2) the Borrower’s Supreme Decree (Decreto 
Supremo) No. 150-2005-EF, published on November 12, 2005. 
 
I. 
The Borrower has created a “Ventanilla Unica”, one-stop shop, with the 
objective of establishing uniform procedures for authorization and control of 
imports and exports subject to non-tariff measures, as evidenced by the 
Borrower’s Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 165-2006-EF dated 
November 2, 2006, and published on November 3, 2006. 
 
J. 
The Borrower has launched a strategy of electronic government, has approved 
the Borrower’s Digital Agenda, and put in place an electronic portal for the 
provision of public services, enabling further transparency to public sector 
processes, as evidenced by:  (1) the Borrower’s Ministerial Resolution No. 274-
2006-PCM dated July 25, 2006; and (2) Letter (Oficio) No.606-2006-PCM-SGP 
of the Borrower’s Prime Minister’s Council, dated October 31, 2006; (3) the 
Borrower’s Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 032-2006-PCM, dated June 
20, 2006; and (4) the Borrower’s Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 031-
2006-PCM, dated June 20, 2006. 
Page  9
8
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a Single Tranche.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in US Dollars)
Single Tranche 
 
200,000,000 
Front-end Fee 
 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
200,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On 15 October 2013 
 
5.5% 
On 15 April 2018 
 
94.5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Page  11
10 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  12
11 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Budget Classification System” means the Borrower's 
Sistema de 
Clasificación 
Presupuestario
,
a
system designed to strengthen transparency, accountability and 
efficiency in the public sector financial management and accounting system. 
 
2. 
“Digital Agenda” means 
Plan de Desarrollo de la Sociedad de la Informaci
ón
en 
el Perú
,
the Borrower’s digital development plan as approved on June 20, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
Page  13
12 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
4. 
“Fiscal Policy Committee” means 
Comité de Coordinación de Política Fiscal
,
the Borrower’s Coordination Committee on Fiscal Policy as referred to in the 
Sanctions Law (as hereinafter defined). 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans” dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Law on Electronic Signatures” means the Borrower’s 
Ley de Firmas y 
Certificados Digitales 
No. 27269, the Borrower’s legislation regulating the use of 
electronically registered signatures. 
 
7. 
“Law of Transparency and Fiscal Responsibility” means the Borrower’s 
Ley de 
Responsabilidad y Transparencia Fiscal
,
published on November 27, 1999, as 
amended. 
 
8. “MEF” 
means 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance. 
 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve fiscal management and competitiveness reforms in the Borrower’s 
economy, so as to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty 
and set forth or referred to in the letter dated November 9, 2006, from the 
Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during its execution. 
 
Page  14
13 
10. 
“Sanctions Law” means 
Ley que constituye el Comité de Coordinación de 
Política Fiscal y establece sanciones por el incumplimiento de las reglas fiscales 
contenidas en la Ley de Responsabilidad y Transparencia Fiscal
,
the Borrower’s 
Law that creates the Coordination Committee on Fiscal Policy and sets forth 
sanctions for non-compliance with fiscal regulations as contained in the Law of 
Transparency and Fiscal Responsibility.  
 
11. “SIAF” 
means 
Sistema Integra
do
de
Administración Financiera del Sector 
Público
,
the Borrower’s integrated financial administration system for the public 
sector, established and operating pursuant to Vice Ministerial Resolution No. 
005-97-EF/11 dated January 11, 1997. 
 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans” dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
Page  15
14 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
