Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
Report No. P-3121-COB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR A
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
September 17, 1981
This report may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing the views of the World Bank.
The World Bank does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



(tRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT     =           CFA Francs (CFAF)
US$1                          CFAF 250 1/
CFAF 1,000        =           US$4,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACCF      CAR's river transport          Agence Centrafricaine des
agency                         Communications Fluviales
ATC       Congolese transport            Agence Transcongolaise des
agency                         Communications
CFCO      Congolese railway              Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean
OCB       Congolese Timber Marketing    Office Congolais du Bois
Board
SCEVN     Congo-CAR river navigabi-      Service Commun d-Entretien des Voies
lity maintenance organiza-    Navigables
tion
SOCATRAF  Mixed economy company          Societe Centrafricine de Transports
managing the ACCF              Fluviaux
VNPTF     River transport branch of      Voies Navigables, Ports et Transports
ATC                            Fluviaux
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio of FF
1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is presently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Republic of the Congo
Beneficiary:         Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC)
Amount:              SDR 14.6 million (US$17 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    Twenty years, including five years of grace, at an
annual interest rate of not less than 10 percent.
Project
Description:  The objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to ensure that
ATC efficiently provides river transport services to meet
present and medium-term demand from northern Congo, southern
Cameroon and the Central African Republic; (ii) to establish a
national transport planning mechanism; and (iii) to assist the
Office Congolais du Bois (OCB) in improving its timber marketing
operations.
The project would consist of three main components: (i) float-
ing equipment and spare parts, (ii) civil and mechanical works
for port facilities, waterways and a training center, and (iii)
technical assistance for project supervision, training, ATC
management improvements, transport planning and OCB operations.
Benefits
and Risks:    The main benefits of the project would be to alleviate the
constraints on river transport services and thereby facilitate
the growth of the forestry sector in northern Congo. The
overall rate of return is estimated at 17 percent. The pro-
ject's main risk would be a potential delay in the growth of
timber production, which would make premature the purchase of
floating equipment. To avoid this risk, procurement of such
equipment would be subject to prior review by the Association of
production plans of existing and new timber concessions in the
north Congo and the expected traffic demand deriving therefrom.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
(exclusive of taxes and duties)
US$ million           Foreign %
Local   Foreign   Total   of total
Floating and Other Equipment                      2.30    14.20    16.50         86
Civil and Mechanical Works                        0.84      1.62      2.46       66
Technical Assistance                              0.64      3.56      4.20       85
Total Base Costs                             3.78    19.38    23.16        84
Physical Contingencies                            0.28      1.22      1.50       81
Price Contingencies                               0.92      2.50      3.42       73
Total Costs                                  4.98    23.10    28.08        83
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                                -       17.00    17.00
ATC                                               3.88       -        3.88
Government                                        1.10      6.10      7.20
Total                                        4.98    23.10    28.08
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                                          2.3      7.9      5.3      1.5
Cumulative                                      2.3    10.2    15.5    17.0
Economic Rate of Return: 17 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3196-COB, dated September 17, 1981
Maps: IBRD 15099R and IBRD 15275



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT .4SSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO FOR A
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of the Congo for the equivalent
of SDR 14.6 million (US$17 million equivalent) to help finance a River Trans-
port Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms; US$15.0 million
equivalent would be relent to the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
(ATC) for 20 years, including five years of grace, at an annual interest rate
of 10 percent. The remainder of the Credit, US$2.0 million equivalent, would
finance the cost of consultant services to the Government and the Office
Congolais du Bois (OCB). The Congolese Government would contribute US$7.2
million equivalent to the project, of which US$6.8 million equivalent would be
passed on to the ATC as a capital grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report entitled "People's Republic of the
Congo-Economic Trends, Current Issues, and Prospects" (Report No. 2213-COB)
was distributed to the Board on June 8, 1979. Its conclusions and the findings
of more recent economic missions are integrated into this report.
Structure and Potential
3.        With a population of about 1.5 million which is highly urbanized and
unevenly distributed over an area of about 340,000 km2, the Congo occupies a
strategic position on a transport corridor that reaches into Central Africa
and provides access to the Atlantic Ocean at the country's second largest
city, Pointe Noire. The growth of per capita GNP, which was modest prior to
1972, accelerated with the increase of oil production since that year, and by
1979 had reached US$630 (Bank Atlas estimates). Because of inadequate regional
economic and social integration, this increased income level is not well
distributed.
4.        The economy has been heavily dependent on agriculture, forestry,
import substitution manufacturing, transit transport, trade and public sector
services. Agriculture employs about 40 percent of the economically active
population, though it has been declining as a share of GDP and now directly
accounts for less than 15 percent. Timber production, which provided the bulk
of exports during the late 1960s and the early 1970s and was a major stimulant
for the transport sector, declined in the mid-1970s and grew only moderately
until recently when signs of recovery began to appear. Mining became a
significant contributor to the economy in 1972 with the production of crude
oil. The level of gross value added in mining rose from 3 percent of GDP
in 1972 to more than 10 percent in 1974, when production reached a peak and
was followed by a sudden fall. The public enterprise sector, with about 65
establishments, dominates modern sector agriculture, manufacturing and services.



- 2 -
5.        Given a rich natural resources endowment and an already very
high adult literacy rate, the country's development potential is promising,
although there are numerous constraints in the short-and medium-term. Agri-
cultural and northern forestry resources remain largely unexploited. Little
is known about the Congo's non-oil mineral wealth, and the increasingly
valuable petroleum potential is not yet fully explored. A substantial hydro-
electric potential remains unrealized. The country's river-rail-port trans-
port system, operated by the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC),
needs further improvement and expansion to benefit the country as a whole and
its neighbors. The country's deteriorated road network presents major con-
straints to resource development, but could be improved at relatively low
cost. The importance of regional integration of this sparsely populated
country has been clearly established by the Government, and the development of
mineral and forestry resources, as well as the achievement of a higher rate of
self-sufficiency in agriculture, would be followed in pursuing this overall
objective; this strategy will also require the building of a transport
network by making efficient and equitable use of resources.
Past Performance
6.        During the 1960s real GDP grew approximately 4 percent a year.  The
Government gradually expanded the public sector while attempting to improve
private smallholder agriculture. Public investments were mostly financed with
concessional external assistance from various sources, but there was also a
surge of private investments in forestry and in import substitution manufac-
turing.
7.        The present Government that came to power in 1968 put emphasis on
the role of the State in the economy. At the same time the discovery of an
offshore oil deposit enhanced resource prospects. The Government took over
many existing enterprises and engaged in new ventures financed mainly by
suppliers' credits. The agricultural strategy shifted to the promotion of
state farms, much to the detriment of private smallholder agriculture. Private
investments (except in the petroleum sector) stagnated as the most obvious
investment opportunities in manufacturing were exhausted, and the business
climate became uncertain for foreign and domestic private investors. This
rapid expansion of the public sector proved to be less successful than hoped.
Public enterprises did not have enough working capital or skilled staff
to maintain operational efficiency and financial autonomy even when projects
themselves were well conceived. Overemployment in these enterprises only
further drained their resources.
8.        Government financial support of public enterprises as well as the
expansion of public sector employment, led to an unsustainable rate of current
public expenditure and insufficient allocation of resources for investment.
The rise in oil production in 1973/74 together with the quadrupling of oil
prices brought a temporary respite in the country's overall financial situa-
tion. During this period, current budgetary revenues doubled as compared to
1972, exports nearly tripled, and the terms of trade improved sharply.



- 3 -
9.        In 1975, at the time when the Government was launching a new ambi-
tious development program for 1975-77, extraction problems brought about a
25 percent drop in crude oil production, which then remained modest until 1978
when a new oil field was put into production. Other adverse developments also
weakened economic performance: the flooding and consequent abandonment of a
potash mine in 1977; several industrial public enterprises ran into difficul-
ties because of the lack of sufficient project preparation or due to managerial
failures; and a decline in forestry production owing to depressed external
demand, the depletion of the most easily accessible forests in coastal areas,
and a perceived deterioration in the investment climate for private logging
firms following Government measures to take over log marketing. As a result
of these developments, real GDP fell by an average 2.5 percent a year during
1975-77, and only recovered in 1978 as oil production once again expanded.
10.        From 1975 to 1978 the deterioration of the economy brought about a
crisis in domestic and external finances. The impact was particularly severe
on public finances. Although the Government managed to cut budgetary invest-
ments, it was not successful in bringing about significant reductions in
public consumption. During this period, Treasury deficits averaged about
27 percent of the current budgetary revenues, or about 7-8 percent of GDP.
After exhausting most financing sources--including substantial new borrowing
from bilateral sources and the oil companies--domestic and external arrears
accumulated rapidly, reaching about CFAF 60 billion or about 100 percent of
budgetary revenues at the end of 1978. The Treasury's liquidity position was
further weakened when public enterprises withheld taxes as a response to
the Government's failure to pay for services rendered.
11.       Up to 1972, the balance of payments was about in equilibrium
as the growing current account deficit was offset by rising capital inflows,
in particular, direct investment from abroad. The oil boom substantially
improved the country's financial position in general, and a large overall
balance of payments surplus was achieved in 1974. Subsequently, the overall
balance steadily deteriorated owing to depressed exports, import price infla-
tion, rising interest payments on the public and other external debt, and
stagnating capital inflows. In 1978, when the country was in deep financial
crisis, the current account deficit reached CFAF 47.6 billion (excluding
public transfers), or 24 percent of GDP. As capital inflows were insuffi-
cient to cover this deficit, the negative overall balance was financed by
accumulating arrears of payments and by drawing down the reserves both of the
Central Bank and of the commercial and development banks.
12.       At the end of 1978, the outstanding external debt (excluding undis-
bursed amounts) was estimated at CFAF 159.5 billion (US$763 million), or 80
percent of GDP. On the basis of public debt servicing obligations (excluding
already accumulated arrears), the overall debt service stood at 14 percent of
exports, while the Government's debt service obligations accounted for 19
percent of 1978 budgetary revenues. By the end of the 1975-78 period, about
25 percent of the public debt service obligations stood in arrears, amounting
to a total of about CFAF 14 billion (US$65 million) in both principal and
interest. The outstanding debt (including undisbursed) is estimated to
have risen to CFAF 207 billion (US$990 million) by end-1980, though the debt
service ratio is estimated at a rather modest 11 percent.



-4-
13.       As the Congo's creditworthiness abroad  worsened, the borrowing
terms hardened and it became increasingly difficult for the Government to
obtain development finance on conventional terms applicable to countries with
resource prospects as good as the Congo. Although the Government was able to
reschedule a significant part of its debt service with bilateral donors
throughout 1976-80, thereby realizing a substantial reduction in the amount of
accumulated arrears, public debt servicing obligations are still expected to
rise at least in absolute terms in the next two to three years.
Programs for Stabilization
14.       Throughout 1975-78, the Government attempted to adjust for shortfalls
in revenues by reducing its investment outlays, cutting subsidies to public
enterprises, lowering the retirement age of civil servants, and imposing
special taxes on salaried employees. To improve financial administration and
provide for some investment financing from domestic resources, the Government
began to earmark resources for investments. In 1978, the Government initiated
a two-year investment program of CFAF 130 billion (initial estimates) aimed at
rehabilitation of the public sector, completing ongoing investment programs
and launching a minimum number of new ventures. While the program could not
be carried out in its entirety owing to delays in project preparation and
implementation, it enabled the Government to focus on critical issues in
rehabilitating the public enterprises such as improving financial management.
To restore the productivity of relatively large industrial public enterprises,
the Government is seeking and has had some initial success in arranging
management contracts in industries, such as cement production, with foreign
firms.
15.       A set of financial stabilization measures were undertaken within the
framework of the 1979 IMF Second Tranche Standby Program. The program aimed
at reducing the overall level of public arrears by limiting new external debt
commitments with maturities of less than 15 years to the total of CFAF 8
billion. Government's actions to meet these objectives included the resche-
duling of CFAF 7.4 billion of debt service obligations with bilateral donors
and oil companies, compressing public demand, stepping up the collection of
tax arrears owed by public enterprises, and implementing selective tax in-
creases. By the end of this program period, the accumulated external arrears
have been noticeably reduced, and the Government succeeded in keeping new
foreign commercial loans within the limit agreed in the program. By the end
of December 1980, gross international reserves had been restored to a level of
seven weeks' equivalent of goods and non-factor services imports.
Most Recent Developments
16.       The progressive rise in crude oil prices since 1979 has had a dual
effect on the Congo's resource position. The immediate financial consequence
was a doubling of the export value of each batrel produced. This resulted in
a substantial reduction in the overall balance of payments deficit and windfall
budgetary revenues. Higher prices have also accelerated the exploration and
development of deposits previously considered marginal because of high develop-
ment costs. Current investment plans of oil companies call for developing



-5-
new fields between now and 1983, and available exploration data suggest
that prospects for the continued investment in oil production thereafter
remain reasonably favorable. Should this preliminary assessment prove
accurate, oil production could rise steadily until 1984, achieving a level
more than double the 1978 output and gradually decreasing thereafter. Con-
sequently, the country should now be in a much better position to further
improve its financial situation as well as consolidate and carefully expand
public investment. There will be in the meantime a continuing need to liqui-
date the financial liabilities inherited from the past and to keep tight
reins on public consumption.
17.       The country's ability to absorb its rapidly increasing revenues and
lay the foundation for a sustained growth of the economy outside the petroleum
sector, is now becoming the most important issue. The Government's capacity
to introduce and execute an effective economic and social development program
will depend, inter alia, on its ability to: (i) improve the quality of its
development planning; (ii) identify and execute economically efficient public
sector investments; (iii) create a favorable environment for private investors--
which the Government officially welcomes--within the limits of the country's
long-term objectives; (iv) restrain current budgetary outlays including
subsidizing public enterprises losses; and (v) adopt prudent and rational
policies regarding external debt. Unless the resource allocation process of
the public sector is greatly improved over a relatively brief period of time,
there is a risk that some of the Government's newly found resources be used to
finance non-productive projects and wasteful public consumption. The Govern-
ment recognizes these constraints and risks, and is identifying ways to
improve these aspects of the country's development strategy.
18.       Compared to 1975 when the Government stepped up the investment
programs for development by assuming increases in petroleum related revenue,
the approach currently adopted is distinctly more cautious. For the 1981
fiscal year, the growth of current expenditure, especially wages and salaries,
is less than that of overall current revenue. The scheduled external debt
service takes up about 18 percent of the budgetary expenditure, while 2
percent is allocated, for internal debt service. Initial estimates for the
1981 budgetary contribution to investment expenditures are large (CFAF 28
billion), but the composition of the Investment Budget (1981) has somewhat
changed from that of the 1974/75 period. The public investment program
includes, as priorities, health and regionally distributed infrastructure,
along with rehabilitation of the public enterprises. Public enterprises as a
whole are still receiving sizable budgetary transfers, though the creation and
expansion of such enterprises are strictly controlled.
Medium-term Prospects
19.       Since 1980, the financial recovery and the more pragmatic Government
attitude to external economic relations in general, resulted in the relative
softening of borrowing terms, e.g. lower spreads over LIBOR, from abroad and
gave rise to active negotiations of direct foreign investment in several
sectors. A new 5-year development plan for 1982-1986 is currently under
preparation. The exact contents of the plan are still under review by Govern-
ment, but the principal underlying objectives are: (i) the diversification



- 6 -
of economic activities in order to achieve a less vulnerable long-run develop-
ment path, and (ii) a more balanced regional development. The principai
source of financing will be the country's renewed petroleum revenues. with
regard to external borrowing, the sheer size of the existing debt makes it
difficult for the country to have much reliance on the continuous net inflow
of financial resources. The outlook regarding the creditworthiness of the
country crucially depends on the assessment of uncertainties of petroleum
sector production, the Government's ability and willingness to prepare devel-
opment programs which are realistic and prudent, ana its performance in
managing the public finance, particularly in restraining growth of tne current
budgetary outlay. Although the resource prospects of the Congo are improving,
the backlog of public sector financial liabilities and current programs to
rehabilitate public enterprises will require a large infusion of resources and
considerable time for implementing a needed recovery program. The prospects
for sustained increases in import prices, and social pressures that could
oblige the Government to allocate a higher proportion of its oil income to
public consumption, make advisable a prudent stance as regards the country's
creditworthiness for new loans on conventional terms. In summary, a suDstan-
tial part of foreign aid should continue to be provided for the tiae Deing on
concessionary terms until further review reduces uncertainties in the oil
sector. There is evidence that the relative weight of tne country's deDt
service burden is being reduced, and that the continued improvement in public
sector financial management is likely to take place. Tne country's overall
creditworthiness will continue to be closely monitored by the Bank.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ThE CONGO
20.       The Bank Group's commitments in the Congo now amount to US$l32.6
million from three Bank loans (US$76 million) and ten IDA credits (US$56.6
million). Ten loans and credits totalling US$84.2 million have been fully
disbursed. These commitments have been designed mainly to assist tne country's
efforts to improve its basic transport infrastructure, better exploit its
natural resources, and upgrade the educational system. Rail and road transport
represents the largest share of past commitments (61 percent), followeo
by mining and petroleum (26 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Loans and Credits up to July 31, 1981, as well as notes on tne execution
of ongoing projects.
21.       In addition to the Second Railway project where progress is gen-
erally satisfactory (see para. 27), ongoing projects consist of: a livestocK
project which aims at improving the Congo's self-sufficiency in meat produc-
tion; an education project wnich focusses on improving the quality of tne
educational system and reorienting it to meet the country's manpower needs,
and a petroleum technical assistance project to improve sector management
and strengthen the Government in its dialogue with oil companies. Project
performance audit reports in the transport sector have been issued tor the
First Railway Project and the two highway projects. Shortialls against
traffic forecasts and Government's inability to provide local funds were
signaled as key problems by these audits. Procurement conditions have been



-7 -
built into the proposed project to help ensure against overinvestment if the
projected transport demand is not realized. With the improved financial
resources can be exploited, and services provided to neighboring countries can
be improved. In addition to the proposed river transport project, the Govern-
ment and IDA are preparing a third highway project which will contribute to
reinforce the links between rural areas and domestic and international markets,
and will feed into the trans-equatorial transport system.
23.       The Government and IDA are also preparing a forestry development
project in the Northern Congo. To reinforce the Government's ability to
monitor activity in the sector and increase the benefits to the country
derived from log production and processing, the proposed project would
contain technical assistance components.
24.       The Bank is also exploring ways by which it can assist the Congo
in implementing its new rural development strategy which focusses on restor-
ing productivity in the smallholder sector.
25.       Throughout 1976-80, gross international public capital inflows
(including debt refinancing and budgetary support) amounted to about US$700
million. At the end of 1980, the outstanding disbursed and undisbursed debt
stood at US$990 million, of which 10.3 percent (US$102 million) was held by the
Bank and IDA. The Bank's and IDA's share in the public debt service is
estimated at 5.5 percent for 1980, and at an average 3.5 percent over the
1980-85 period.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
26.       Endowed with navigable rivers and a favorably located seaport on the
Atlantic Coast, the Congo has developed an extensive transport system of major
importance to the region comprised of the Central African Republic (CAR),
Cameroon, Gabon, and southern Chad. In recent years, more than three-quarters
of the freight carried between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire has been transit
traffic, mainly manganese from Gabon, timber from Cameroon and CAR, and
imports to CAR; for most of this traffic the Congo route provides the only
access to the sea. The Transgabonese Railway, now under construction and
likely to be completed in the late 1980s, will be the main and most advanced
alternative route, though it will cater only to Gabonese traffic.
27.       The Congo's regional transport system includes the ocean port at
Pointe Noire, the river port at Brazzaville, the CFCO railway linking these
two ports (about 510 km), and river transport services on the navigable sec-
tions of the Congo and Oubangui rivers (about 1,120 km). The Agence Transcon-
golaise des Communications (ATC) operates this system, and also provides river
transport services with its fleet of cargo and passenger vessels which carry
CAR traffic and timber from Cameroon and North Congo. The CFCO is at present
working close to capacity. The realignment of 88 km between Loubomo and
Bilinga had to be refinanced in mid-1980 by the World Bank Group and co-
financiers on the basis of revised cost estimates (Credit No. 1047-COB). It
is now expected to be completed in mid-1983, enabling the railway to meet



-8-
higher traffic demands in coming years. The realignment works are advancing
favorably except in the long tunnel where difficult terrain and water inflows
are causing delays. Although the project is behind schedule, the revised cost
estimates remain valid due to substantially more rapid progress being made on
other major aspects of the works. ATC operating and financial performance has
also significantly improved. The proposed river transport project would
alleviate the constraints on river services and help achieve an optimal
utilization of the railway's increased capacity.
28.       The Congo has a highway network of about 11,000 km.  About 3,000 km
provide all-weather service (including 550 km of paved roads), while the
remainder is secondary and forestry roads. At present, largely because of
their poor condition, roads carry only a small proportion of total traffic,
about 70 percent of which is timber. Maintenance has been seriously neglected
owing to a shortage of funds and inadequate management and training in the
responsible organization. However, after an eight-year suspension the Govern-
ment reinstated the Road Fund in 1979, which is now expected to make substan-
tial contributions to road maintenance. A Bank-financed project to improve
the road maintenance system is under preparation.
29.       The air transport network consists of eight airports, of which three
have paved runways, and about 30 minor airfields. The runway at Brazzaville
airport is being strengthened for handling wide-body jets, which offer the
lowest international freight rates and which are expected to become the main
aircraft flying the Congo-Europe route during the 1980s. A Government-owned
company, Lina Congo, provides scheduled domestic services, and a private
company provides charter services.
30.       Responsibility for preparation and implementation of transport
policy and coordination of investments is divided among the Ministry of
Planning, which has overall responsibility for economic planning and the
investment budget; the Ministry of Public Works and Land Management, which is
vested with detailed planning and execution of road projects and maintenance
of the road network; and the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, which
is responsible for preparation and enforcement of transport policies and
elaboration of the sector investment plans, as well as to oversee the opera-
tions of ATC and the domestic airline. The Ministry of Transport, which was
only created in 1978, has been unable to play an active role in overall sector
policy-making, investment planning and coordination as it lacks qualified
staff. The proposed project would therefore help strengthen the Ministry's
planning capability.
Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC)
31.       The ATC is headquartered in Pointe Noire and has 7,240 employees,
about 100 of whom are expatriates. The Ministry of Transport chairs ATC's
14-member board, which includes representatives of other ministries, unions
and the party. The board meets two or three times a year and operates satis-
factorily. At the board's recommendation, the council of ministers appoints a
general manager who is responsible for day-to-day operations. The current
general manager is assisted by an expatriate technical director, provided by
the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). The general manager is also



-9-
assisted by headquarters staff who prepare budgets, plan investments, provide
administrative services and general staff training. The Minister of Finance
nominates the financial controller. ATC is divided into three operational
sections: the Atlantic Ocean port of Pointe Noire (PPN), the CFCO railway,
and the Voles Navigables, Ports et Transports Fluviaux (VNPTF) for river
ports, river transport, and maintenance of navigable channels. Each section
has a separate manager assisted by an expatriate technical director.
River Transport
Organization - VNPTF
32.       The VNPTF section of ATC is operationally independent with head-
quarters in Brazzaville from where it operates the river ports of Brazzaville,
Mossaka and Ouesso, and river transport services on the Sangha, Oubangui and
Congo as well as the Cuvette rivers, a total of about 5,000 km of waterway
(see Map IBRD 15275). A Congolese director manages VNPTF, assisted by
a French technical director. VNPTF has three main operating divisions for
river ports, maintenance of the navigable channels stretching north from
Brazzaville toward Cameroon and the CAR, and river transport services. A
training division has been recently added which will train mechanics and
navigators. The VNPTF has staffing and management problems, stemming among
other things from lack of clear lines of authority and general overstaffing.
Under the Second Railway Project, ATC and the Government agreed to take a
number of important steps to improve overall personnel management and re-
establish managerial lines of authority; progress in this regard has been
generally satisfactory. In addition, the proposed project contains provisions
that address operational and staffing deficiencies in the VNPTF (see para.
44). Attached to VNPTF is the bi-national (Congo-CAR) Service Commun d'Entre-
tien des Voies Navigables (SCEVN) which maintains the navigability of the
Sangha and Oubangui Rivers (see Map IBRD 15099R). SCEVN is also headquartered
in Brazzaville, and has a liaison office in Bangui; it employs both Congolese
and Central Africans and a French expatriate technical staff. The quality of
SCEVN work is good.
Operations - River Ports
33.       Brazzaville serves as the terminal point for both the railway and
the river transport system. The port includes a marine workshop where the ATC
fleet is maintained and repaired; passenger, fuel, timber and cargo quays and
a log port; parking areas for the river fleet; storage areas and railway
spurs. Recent siltation of the upstream entrance to the log port is inhibiting
operations, and the proposed project therefore provides for a study of the
problem. ATC has agreed to employ consultants to carry out the study by June
30, 1982, and to implement its recommendations after appropriate review
and consultation with the Association (Section 3.06 of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 10 -
34.       The port of Ouesso, strategically located at the confluence of the
N Goko and Upper Sangha rivers, is the base of ATC-s timber fleet for the area
and a key to efficient handling of timber traffic. Improvement of its facili-
ties and management is required to improve micro-pusher productivity. The
proposed project would finance improvements in the existing slipway and
workshops to ensure proper vessel maintenance (see para. 43). ATC is taking a
number of steps, partly with German bilateral technical assistance, to improve
port operations at Brazzaville and Ouesso. In addition, ATC would appoint by
June 30, 1982, an experienced resident/port operations supervisor at Ouesso
(Section 3.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Operations - River Transport
35.       ATC-s river operations are difficult because of the long distances
involved, communications problems, a short navigation season, and the variety
of loading points and traffic demand volumes. Fleet dispatching and control
takes place from Brazzaville. There is substantial scope for better coordi-
nation between convoy scheduling and customer loading demands, which would
improve fleet utilization as well as ATC-s quality of service. The project
provides financing for consulting services to study the problem and recommend
methods for programming the rotation of the fleet and systematizing the
dispatching system, which may include computer simulation of the river
operations. ATC has agreed to prepare a fleet rotation plan by June 30, 1982,
including availability and rotation time targets for major fleet elements with
specific productivity goals (Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
Improvements in the assembly of log rafts and better loading equipment utilized
by timber producers would also lead to more efficient operations. ATC agreed
to introduce not later than June 30, 1982, surcharges for faulty log raft
assembly and slow barge loading (Section 3.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
Traffic
36.       ATC is responsible for transporting with its own fleet all river
traffic originating in the Congo. Cameroon and CAR international traffic
is apportioned by inter-Government agreement between ATC and the Agence
Centrafricaine des Communications Fluviales (ACCF). A small quantity of
timber is moved by private transporters, and SCEVN transports general cargo
and timber when its equipment is not engaged in river maintenance works.
While the ACCF has been unable to carry its share of the traffic in recent
years due to poor maintenance and operations, it is possible that SOCATRAF, a
mixed-ownership company set up in mid-1980 under the management of a private
French transport group to operate the ACCF fleet on a long-term lease, may
recapture this traffic.
37.       In 1980, the ATC transport fleet carried a total of 224,000 tons,
of which nearly 65 percent were rafted logs, high-quality, non-floatable logs
and sawn timber in barges. Total timber handled at the Brazzaville port was
350,000 tons in 1980, and is expected to grow at an average 11 percent a
year through 1986. Much of this increase would take place in and after
1983 due to stepped up timber production in northern Congo by both existing
companies and new forestry concessions. World prices for tropical timber are



- 11 -
expected to continue to rise, thereby encouraging forestry companies to raise
output. In accordance with covenants in the Second Railway Project (Credit
1047-COB) the Government completed an agreement with a West German firm in
July 1980 for the exploitation of a new concession area, which is expected to
evacuate about 90,000 tons a year by 1986. Three additional forestry units
are immediately available in the Ouesso area; and negotiations are under way
between the Government and three forestry groups for their exploitation.
Of these, the first one is already at an advanced stage of preparation;
a letter of intent has been signed with one of the technical partners,
and a decree permitting the establishment of a mixed enterprise is being
drafted. Recruitment of key staff is also underway. In forecasting traffic,
it has been assumed that one of these units will start production in 1983
and a second one in 1985. In order to help ensure the realization of these
additional units, the project includes assistance to the Office Congolais du
Bois (OCB), the state log marketing organization which has in the past proved
to be a deterrent to investment and growth of the forestry sector.  The
Congo's new timber production is to be evacuated by ATC, while most of the
CAR increase will be taken up by SOCATRAF.
38.       As a result of overall higher timber production as well as an in-
creased proportion of timber being processed in concession areas, ATC river
transport traffic is expected to more than double between 1980 and 1986.
While the ATC has sufficient fleet to transport rafted logs until at least
1985, it is short of equipment to meet present demand for barged timber.
Therefore, the proposed project includes provisions for ATC to meet demand
foreseen until at least the end of 1984.
39.       Practically all passengers arriving and leaving the Brazzaville port
are carried by ATC's river transport services operating on the Sangha, Oubangui
and Congo rivers. Traffic grew at an average annual rate of about 13 percent
in the early seventies, reaching about 41,000 by 1978; but, due to a reduction
in ATC's passenger fleet, has declined to about 38,000 in 1980. The lack of
suitable passenger transport capacity also gives rise to inefficient barge
operations. The proposed project would therefore provide a new passenger
pushboat. ATC is also acquiring a second passenger vessel under German
financing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The objectives of the proposed project would be (a) to ensure that
ATC provides efficient river transport services to meet present and medium-
term demands from northern Congo, the CAR and southern Cameroon; (b) to
establish a transport planning mechanism; and (c) to improve management and
operations of the timber marketing organization, OCB, the key agency in the
vital forestry sector. The project would build on assistance granted to ATC
under the Second Railway Project to expand the capacity of the CFCO railway
which should be completed in 1982. In particular, the project would augment
river transport capacity to enable it to handle expected growth in production
and evacuation of timber resources in this region, also an important justifi-
cation of the railway project. The project was prepared by the ATC with the



- 12 -
assistance of Bank staff. The first mission of the Association to consider
the project took place in September 1979; it was appraised in June 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington on June 8-12, 1981. The Congolese
delegation was led by Hilaire Mounthault, Minister of Transport and Civil
Aviation. Key events and special conditions are listed in Annex III. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3196-COB of September 17, 1981) is being circu-
lated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description
41.       Meeting the proposed project's objectives would require:  (a) new
floating equipment; (b) repairs and improvements in port facilities, additional
training facilities, and river training works; and (c) supporting technical
assistance.
42.       Equipment.  The following floating equipment is included in the
project:
(a)  fourteen new 300-T barges, two 200-T mixed fuel/timber barges, two
400HP line pushers, and one 400HP tugboat at the Brazzaville port
would be used to (i) transport sawn timber and high quality
non-floatable logs from forestry concessions, (ii) satisfy demand
for fuel in the north, and (iii) aid in barge manoeuvers at the
log-port;
(b)  one passenger pushboat on the heavily-travelled routes between
Mossaka and Brazzaville;
(c)  miscellaneous equipment: spare parts to improve current ATC opera-
tions and ensure better integration of river fleet; and
(d)  a main-frame computer for ATC's Pointe Noire headquarters, and up to
two smaller computers for the CFCO railway workshop and the VNPTF,
together with peripheral equipment (line printers, consoles, disk/
tape drives, etc.), to provide the hardware for ATC'S data processing
needs through 1984.
43.       Civil and mechanical works.  These include:  (i) expansion of the
marine workshop in Brazzaville to assemble the fleet equipment procured under
the project; (ii) enlargement of the river transport training center in
Brazzaville; (iii) rehabilitation and upgrading of the ports of Ouesso and
Mossaka to improve vessel maintenance and repair; (iv) construction of beaver
dams and groins to block redundant tributaries of the Lower Sangha with trees
and brush, and train the main channel in order to increase the main river
flow during low water and extend the navigational season; and (v) dredging and
other training works of the entrance channel to Brazzaville log port.
44.       Technical Assistance.  Consultants would be employed under the
project to: (a) supervise construction and assembly of the new fleet (31
man-months); (b) design and supervise construction of beaver dams, groins and
dredging of the entrance channel to Brazzaville (24 man-months); (c) train ATC



- 13 -
mechanics for maintenance and repair of pushers on the river (36 man-months);
(d) review VNPTF's organization, management, human resource plan, and river
transport operations (36 man-months); (e) complete ongoing tariff studies, and
assist in implementing a cost and financial accounting system (37 man-months);
and (f) review ATC's data processing needs, prepare bid specifications,
evaluate equipment bids, and assist in implementation of agreed data processing
plans (8 man-months).
45.       Other Technical Assistance  The project also includes technical
assistance to (a) establish a central planning and coordination unit in the
Ministry of Transport (108 man-months), and (b) to prepare a detailed analysis
of the organization, policies and operations of OCB, the timber marketing
organization, and implement improvements on the managerial and technical
levels (70 man-months).
46.       Project Implementation.  ATC and VNPTF are competent to execute
the main project components with the assistance of consultants. Implementation
is expected to be completed by December 1984. The Ministry of Transport and
OCB would be responsible for execution of the transport planning assistance
program and the timber marketing improvements respectively.
47.       The execution of river training works would be carried out by force
account by SCEVN during high water when the dredger fleet is otherwise idle.
ATC would maintain separate accounts for these works.
48.       Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated at US$28.1
million equivalent. The project would be exempt from taxes and duties. Local
costs amount to an estimated US$5.0 million equivalent (17 percent of total
costs) and foreign costs to US$23.1 million equivalent (83 percent). Final
cost estimates for civil works and equipment are based on bids received in
June 1981. The cost of resident and short-term consulting services is based
on 350 man-months of services at US$11,500 per man-month including fees,
subsistence and international travel, at mid-1981 prices. Physical contingen-
cies have been calculated at 7 percent for equipment and 15 percent for civil
works. Price contingencies have been calculated for local currency expendi-
tures at 12 percent a year; foreign currency expenditures at 10.5 percent in
1981, 9 percent in 1982, 8 percent in 1983, and 7 percent in 1984. The price
contingencies provide for 12 percent total increase in project costs over the
implementation period.
49.       Financing Plan.  The Government and ATC together would finance about
39 percent of total project costs, with the Government providing about US$7.2
million equivalent (27 percent) and ATC US$3.88 million equivalent (12 per-
cent). The proposed IDA Credit would finance the remaining project costs.
The Government financing for ATC components of the project would be provided
as a capital grant to ATC. This financing plan would maintain an adequate
capital structure for ATC. The provision of funds by the Government would be
spelt out in a Financing Agreement acceptable to IDA, execution of which would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
50.       The proposed Credit would finance 73 percent of the total foreign
exchange costs or 61 percent of total project costs. The Government would



- 14 -
retain about 12 percent (or US$2.0 million equivalent) to finance technical
assistance to the Ministry of Transport and to OCB; the remaining 88 percent
(or US$5.0 million equivalent), representing the portion of the proposed Credit
to be used to finance the ATC project components, would be onlent to ATC for
20 years, including five years of grace, at an annual interest rate of 10
percent, under the Financing Agreement to be concluded between the Government
and ATC.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       All rehabilitation and upgrading of the river ports and floating
craft and equipment provided under the proposed Credit would be procured under
international competitive bidding procedures following Bank guidelines. Four
300T timber barges and one 400 HP line pusher would be ordered for delivery
in 1982. The mixed barges, tugboat and other spare motors and miscellaneous
equipment would also be procured for deliveries in 1982. The remaining ten
300T barges and one line pusher would be ordered in two annual lots in 1982
and 1983 subject to prior review and approval by IDA. For this purpose, ATC
would present to IDA information on production plans of existing and new
timber concessions in the north Congo, the delivery status of production,
equipment, and a well-justified forecast of transport demand to be satisfied
by ATC no later than June 30, 1982 for those barges and the line pusher
to be delivered in 1983, and no later than June 30, 1983 for the remaining
barges to be delivered in 1984 (para. A.3 of Schedule 1 to the draft Project
Agreement).
52.       Bidding documents for the computer purchases totalling US$0.3
million would specify the need for compatible software to minimize reconver-
sion of existing applications, flexibility to expand and provide new capabili-
ties in the future, and for adequate after-sales service.
53.       The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed against the total foreign
exchange costs of data processing equipment and technical assistance, 53
percent of the total foreign exchange costs of the floating equipment, and 67
percent of total costs of civil and mechanical works (representing the esti-
mated foreign exchange component). Disbursements from the Credit account
would be fully documented, except for river training works which would be made
on statements of expenses certified by the Director of VNPTF.
Environmental Impact
54.       The river training works on the Lower Sangha river are not expected
to measurably alter the river basin or its environment. The works would be
carefully monitored during the implementation period and actions taken as
required to minimize any detrimental impact on the environment.
Financial Evaluation
55.       ATC's uneven operating performance, rising debt service and lower
than expected transport demand in recent years resulted in a deterioration of
its financial position, reaching a low point in early 1979. The Government
injected CFAF 4 billion in working capital in early 1980, which permitted ATC



- 15 -
to clear overdue debt service and supplier payabies, as weil as reduce short-
term bank borrowings to appropriate levels. Organizational improvements,
introduction of an incentive scheme in all sections, and tightened management
control have led to higher productivity and have boosted staff morale.  better
inventory control has resulted in timelier maintenance ot equipment ana nas
improved fleet availability on the CFCO and the river transport sections. ATC
has consequently fulfilled most of its 1980 budget targets for traLLic and
operations. The financial impact of these improvements 'has oeen significant.
Preliminary results show that ATC's 1980 cash flow from operations exceeded
budget estimates by about CFAF 1.8 billion or about 31 percent, and its net
working capital increased at year-end by about CFAF 4.5 million. ATC's
financial position was thus sound at end-1980.
56.       ATC nonetheless faces a difficult financial future.  Its annual
debt service burden is projected to increase from CFAF 4.65 Dillion in i9bu
to CFAF 7 billion by 1982 and peak at nearly CFAF 10 billion by 19d6.
Financial covenants for the Second Railway Project (Credit 1047-Cub) ana the
proposed project (Section 4.07(a)(ii) of tne draft Project agreement) require
ATC to maintain a working ratio of 65 percent from 1982 onwards so as to
generate sufficient cash from operations to maintain adequate worKing capital,
finance about 30 percent of its annual investment needs, and cover its debt
service. ATC is also required to achieve an annual rate of return ot 5
percent on net fixed assets in use (Section 4.07(a)(i) of the draft Project
Agreement). These two covenants determine the evolution of KfTC tariffs and
ensure that the ATC system recovers, through appropriate user charges, a
substantial part of the cost of major investments made to increase capacity
and improve service. For 1982, the Government approved a tariff increase
of 9.5 percent following agreed criteria (Section 4.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement, and Sections 4.03 and 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement)
and will provide CFAF 2,688 million towards ATC's realignment debt service to
ensure ATC's working capital targets. This cash injection would more than
adequately compensate for the increase in the working ratio from tuie targeted
65 percent to a projected 68 percent in 1982. ATC's tariff studies, to be
completed in 1982, will evaluate the impact of different recovery formulae
on potential transport demand which will be used in future years.  A change in
the working ratio target would be considered at that time should this be
indicated by the studies' conclusions.
57.       ATC traffic is expected to grow by an overall average of 5-6 per-
cent a year. The main growth would occur in the river transport section
(about 10 percent a year), largely as a result of the provisions in the
proposed project. Working expenses are estimated to increase uy about 1J-l4
percent a year, mainly because of inflation (10 percent a year). Under these
assumptions and in order to attain the rate of return and worKing ratio
targets, ATC would need to effect overall average tariff increases oL about
13 percent in 1983 and under 10 percent in the remaining years of tne forecast
period. This would represent a growth of about 6 percent a year in real
terms through 1983.



- 16 -
58.       In addition to the working ratio and rate of return covenants ypara.
56), ATC would:
(a) not undertake additional borrowings it its expected deDt service
coverage ratio is less than l.2s (Section 4.04 of tne draft Project
Agreement);
(b)  consult with the Association prior to undertaking any investments
over CFAF 400 million (Section 4.0i of the draft Project Agreement);
(c) prepare its tariff proposals for the following year, in accordance
with the financing criteria stated in para. 56 above, by July 31
each year for review by the Government and IDA (Section 4.0b(a) of
the draft Project Agreement);
(d)  limit use of overdraft facilities to CFAF l,uGU million (Section
4.10 of the draft Project Agreement); and
(e) revalue its fixed assets annually tnrough an appropriate inaexation
formula satisfactory to IDA, and carry out detailea engineering
re-evaluations at least once every five years (Section 4.U7(D) of
the draft Project Agreement).
Economic Evaluation
59.       An economic analysis has been made of all main project components
that can be evaluated separately--the equipment for timber transport, the
passenger pushboat, rehabilitation of Ouesso workshop and river training works
of the Lower Sangha--and the analysis demonstrates that these investments are
economically sound.
60.       New equipment for timber transport is destined to serve such demand
through about 1984. It will help improve operational efficiency ann increase
capacity needed to evacuate the additional timber production whichl will be
generated from the expansion of existing and newly established forestry con-
cessions. It is also an essential complement to the CFCO railway's expansion
under the Second Railway Project as no alternative route exists for such
evacuation. The impact of a transport capacity constraint leading to losses
in value added from frustrated timber production was analyzed in detail in
1980 for the supplementary financing provided under the Second Railway Proj-
ect, and reflected a 13 percent economic rate of return. The present analy-
sis, limited therefore to assessing the project rate ot return to ATC,
found that it would also yield a satisfactory 12 percent return tor this
component.
61.       As in the case of timber, there are no transport alternatives to
the river passenger service to be provided by'tne project's passenger vessel
between Brazzaville and the city of Mossaka. Besides replacing several
smaller, slower and unsafe units wlhich were taken out ot service in 1979,
additional benefits would arise by using the vessel as a push Doat for timber
barges, and for regular transport of smoked fish from tthe Cuvette area to
Brazzaville, where it receives a high wholesale price of CFAF 9OU/Kg. 'l'e
economic rate of return of the passenger ship is estinated at 22 percent.



- 17 -
62.       The rehabilitation of the repair tacilities at Uuesso would remedy a
main factor hampering efficient utilization of ATC's river transport tleet anid
in particular benefit the micropushers that haul the log rafts from Ouesso to
Brazzaville.  This should permit substantial savings in purchases or new units.
The economic rate of return for this investment is estimated at 14 percent.
63.       The river training works are expected to provide year-round naviga-
tion on the Lower Sangha river for fully laden barges. They would also enable
craft to take advantage of the better navigation conditions existing upstream
on the N'Goko river which are otherwise constrained by the Sangha.  The main
benefit of the proposed river training works would be aoout a 35 percent
increase in utilization of barges carrying timber. In view of the low invest-
ment costs consisting essentially of incremental running expenses of SCLVN's
equipment during its current idle period, the economic rate of return tor the
investment is estimated at 64 percent.
Overall Project Return, Sensitivity and RisKs
64.       The project's overall economic return is estimated at a satisfactory
17 percent. Cost estimates of equipment are based on oid prices, and tneretore
are not expected to change. Benefits are largely based on existing traffic
levels and are unlikely to be subject to large variations.  Should there be a
10 percent shortfall in benefits, the economic return would still be an
acceptable 15 percent. The project's main risk is a potential delay in
expected new timber production, which would make premature the purchase ot
related equipment. To avoid this risk, procurement of ten timber barges and a
line pusher would be subject to prior review and approval by the Association
(para. 51).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of the Congo and the Association, the draft Project Agreement Detween the
Association and the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications, and tne Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
66.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of annex
III. A special condition of effectiveness would be the execution of a Finan-
cing Agreement between the Government and the ATC with terms ana conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para. 49).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 17, 1981



- 19 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
CONGO, PEOPLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO, PEOPLES REP.                REFERENCE GRt)UPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
LAND AREA (THOUsAND SQ. KM. )                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             342.0                                     HOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTIURAL     149.7                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$7                    230.0        340.0      630.0                  794.2                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        124.5        171.3      213.2                  707.5                    1324.1
POPULATION ANUI VITAL SIATISTlCS
POPULATIUN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   969.5          1197.8    1497.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.5            38.3       44.3                   27.7                      64.2
POPULAlION PRUJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MHLLIONS)                            2.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              7.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2130
PUPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                           2.8          3.5        4.4                   55.0                      34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         7.0          8.0        9.7                  130.7                      94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                            41.0         42.2       43.4                   46.0                      40.7
15-b4 YRS.                            55.8         54.6       53.4                   51.2                      55.3
65 YRb. AND ABOVE                      3.2          3.2        3.2                    2.8                       4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.6          2.1        2.5                    2.8                       2.4
DRBAN                                 1.0          4.7        4.1                    5.1                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        45.5         45.0       44.5                   46.9                      31.4
CRUUE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        27.0         21.7       18.4                   15.8                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9          2.9        2.9                    3.2                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
FOOD AND NUTRITIUN
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71'100)             94.0        100.0       79.0                   89.9                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      92.0         98.0      103.0                  92.3                      107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             34.0         36.0       44.0                   52.8                      65.8
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          14.0         14.0       16.0                   16.1                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        41.0         31.3       26.6                   20.2                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT  BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2           42.5       46.9                   50.8                      64.1
INFANT HORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..           ..         ..                     ..                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       17.0                   27.4                      65.7
URBAN                                  ..           ..       40.0                   74.3                      79.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..        0.0                   12.6                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TUTAL                                  ..          6.0        9.0                     ..                      59.9
URBAN                                  ..          8.0       10.0                     ..                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..          6.0        9.0                     ..                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN            16431.7      10946.4    7294.7                 13844.1                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1510.0       1054.2      799.3                 2898.6                    1288.2
POPULA1lON PER HOSPIIAL BED
TUTAL                               220.0/c      220.0Ld   200.5                 1028.4                      471.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..      285.9                  423.0                     558.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      169.3                3543.2
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         22.8./.
BOUUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TUTAL                                 4.5           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..        5.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.7           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                 4.Ole         ..       11.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..



ANNEX I
-20 -                                               Page 2 of 5 pagco.
TABLE 3A
CONGO, PEOPLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO, PEOPLES REP.            REFERENCE CROIPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE ib   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMIERICA E CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                78.0        130.0     156.0                  73.7                   101.7
MALE                103.0        147.0     163.0                 96.8                    103.0
FEMALE               53.0       114.0      148.0                 79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  4.0         20.0      69.0                  16.2                    35.3
MALE                  6.0        28.0       85.0                 25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                2.0        12.0       53.0                 14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 28.0          10.0       6.5                   5.3                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           53.0         62.0      53.0                 36.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                         20.0         33.0      40.0                 23.6                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.6        50.0/d      ..                    ..                    80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         12.5      14.4                 32.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.3         54.3      61.9                 69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1          1.5       2.5                  8.0                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCU'LATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   1.0         0.7        ..                 20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       0.9                  0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABCOR FORCE (TEOUSANDS)      373.6       432.8     516.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  36.1         35.4      35.8                 36.7                     22.6
AGRICULTURF (PERCENT)             51.7         41.8      34.7                  56.6                    35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                16.8         21.5      25.5                  17.5                    23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                38.5        36.1      34.5                  37.2                    31.8
HALE                                 50.2        47.5      44.9                  47.1                    49.0
FEMALE                               27.3        25.2      24.4                  27.5                    14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1         1.3       1.4                   1.3                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEIIOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                381.2                       ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                 156.2                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                 334.3                   513.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     190.0                 137.6                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 rcfer to any year between ;959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1967;  /e Data for City of Pointe-Noire only.
may, 1981



- 21 -                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINIfTIONS 00 SOCIAL INDlCATORSh
N-oau   Al thogh o,h. dat  ar  d-t  f-osooegenerally judged the  -us au-toeteit- sod te Iab                      t should also be notd tAut they say- othaute--
eauoelo  oeaeh      smseuSoh  lrkn .t..d.o..e.ddefifte i-u  aed  -nep-t -sd by dotf t.ereI  .uo..t.  to toleotog b  data   She Oasa.-     ne
bhsnstereoon garoyearo  sOS otneomsooooonegenopat tleaobjsttoounotyaed  109 nonoeteygroubnbeuusuhsrhtghstsoeragetutnsehnOatheononseytraay~Middl.I...  Id 1
of ohs ll",to  o., oc0   Soay   o   'Coel  otlo-Ot iltEyoreses' 5royhes                rdl   uos North Ito oo  Endboy s  us   beob                hroseote-I      ne
fuiooooo l    I.,atsa        .eos .eeer   .r.uy dat  the.vrge   t ..     tu.a.t.n ttbtd anh,ar - m              o   uhtdraoa.   to   ny ns
aod totnontoesmaonornoa  heeoeroadtnnoosoree    fntdoaotanhe.feeoeaeaanoseolrset.gthsntlyaIdal
00141 ARto  loho.....d ny-s.                                                                      -hn            Ple_0     nojaalBl     -oo1thr   n   --1 - bor-1-lr          0sf
Ttl-fTal. a.t..     na f-  ntaug .ar  a..aa.d lo as-d  -aea                                   ea, d  ..t all  -oorte  ho otte  retrae  ab o  hea..atal beds
~roralnoat-lsnOateoSagnonlro-a  -naus-deeynytyeptenebyoabhltyhlrtnd yeo..... ena  tdperaloe-d h-pytosonI
tor renyn  Pt---es   a-o  and kothohe  ga-den  or o  hOe faloe; 1919 dat.                      hehtlilit-e  rnes   heyisf   ressat -uteee  ye--eaty shafte
by at Inset co  phyatia-n.  e-btlith.ette  p-rodlug ttoenpolysl I_so-
heyyE tF~_APoo (OSO  - GN0 proretr epatfo-.. a. at ...    eat ...   e  rrtsi   osl-                 I" "aIhr  "I ntInnlot .  R-a  h-altel,%  hour ...... 1u,nde heateb
-nla-dhrbaue-n    -ntu do-n W-hdta SrllYs AAtt-(1977-Phts;lh.odseoaorerrtyrnentuttrhahaotnhro
1970. end S~9flara.                                                                              sedir-1ssseo  . os,sdult,  htitoh otter ti-pah--
datton end  -riode   l belted rahgtotse-dt-I foo..hoI        .   oe starts
tNEAGY_ONIfo TIffOn yrn .SoOIoA - n,tool  roooro   f -osnera  ener  os --gylyttyooa o har buttlo  to-1oda aOtn  y-_rrlyalgese                                             stes
snd ltgnIle,peerol         --n oao .alg-sdhyfr-nrsaadgo                 ere_ tlelso-'--                                                             . aurrlrohuhoaorrthsnoe s dOoalndma-ee-y
trioty)  rott  rn  of on....        naeo  y       _ siha; 19tf,1970, aed 1979                       __nee. iSpotl_d he-ofo1a tee Cirtoded only o-d-e t-t
dat.-                                                                                           h~datste  re    -y l led - fa...l  -obee of odeni.tn-  to or Otobages
tros hasittal  doolded hy rho nosbt  of teds.
POyULAfTI0N All 01101.A STATIST1C0
Snot  orlatro  ood-ea  ybooaotl   A. ot fuLly 0; 196O, 1970, -od 01979            toOlSnG
bOat y rolntot Oporenrf toral - tatto   f -eb- onI'll yAoaoo                             house.hol, raeso      oto   loIndo               h,at  those Ifolegt  .aster
differe-t detbtittno I of borhnarto  toy after  ronyrablty ofdtasd  IhI  Ao    l.I  ore  ortdt   ayt   a   o   hetutdedt
an_ng  _to_h_e; none~, 0970no  1979 dons                                                        she.. b  hotd tn f    rtrolyoyts
yooaon  oyk   000 - 2--rotot  yoyla te  OTO sontoe  are hosed on I'll                her  ft ese      oer -nn  Or al-ca,W           o  t  rotdteetoa
toe-, sad ft neO  lute  -eye--y a-bhfistog tt 77.5 years   The toe-                          tene tonat dueltiega    beent fey to Oteteg  -ueee  as per-esege
ethers tnets-rllotyra-tatt-ttanthnea              I._      i~   -I. Ostsusnontlen             -ttns.1nt-b,andr. -rIdnslliotreoe-p-ni-y,
t.arb  -_ rome   Os he._uas_re  o_  ot these asi      uhoaue   f no-eltty               EoUltITfNt
natnno.n.tae-.oboe Is a-hoend rely otte  terolty tees  dettso                                   ytsa        ...y       ..e.-se  nylotioer;jmessl1y  holdsotde   ged h-t
the1 neylnsset Ito' of ren4tht ropond_tto. rats. a... taoh tesshnYea bot adjoted ftcdIfferet _Enghe of yrtar   duar,e for
of n-ose  rtl rrt_     l  eurly.  The   ___loso   .PeynOti_  -t-ius                             ieertsthonrnsld-ratesne-lls-t sn earnd 1ff p-_te
-sof stod   tnthe basIs of the yee hs .hea. eretosof  hoh yPytabn                              stoneI-  sas  Pore are hblo- orson O  nffitibt -oha-i age.
In nbhya  1001  and the tot  of deolfs of te_itltyea_etoe_plan-                               S- ndey s-b-I  - otn.1 talemanf. tetat  - C....aed as about; m"eI a
ales he. b-e ts-r hd.                                                                          -asuely ef 12 to 17 yeat  of age: I.....pssd-ee  tessse- sst11y
rers;  too.- NOdrote  ryo-onon      synrekilunees  90O0 h--ss) of                          ""tataus  -netlsa  rerneelfsrnay  - ne-nneehnthunns
to-ataren   1960...Y  and 197 9 dt.                                                              InrOad nHe btalleett,  suheyo                      setbopreldpe-
Pere.Oo.aoto-orllo            -oo      odnsb... ferantal Iralod                                   sntyots               ...sssh   of  _noedary tuesitentta
nob; 1960, 1970 .ad 1978 -I.a.                                                               ynt-srsetusi -I oetnaeo. ad eonay  .Ttlsedusen ld
rn      S--u  e  trrtr    Cthen -iblbdree  10-14 years..  notAi.g-ste  (Oh-                 pohsry sed aenuedary           d iees d  edd by nambes of  -h-bse  Ostlhe
Syonrl.  ndnrlr              --t ynondons-)a  yrsaofsne d--sav.a-....acndEglaal,
loto ;.16, 191 on  1979 dana.                                                              AdaItlh 1thean  sate  etnl -t LIterate adabo  (this to reed aed ate
Poo -sto _eoh         --r ooso      oa  - atona  gnash  -trs  ef totl ntd-                    sapse-stegs ef stel adult pya.feelin aged 11 years aedaee
yeee     .--ioin  foe 1950-hO, 1960-70, end 1970-79.
Pnoano    rnt   atpoe rort) - onhs-l-nAat. ge-uh -s-  of -bhae yeyo-                         COSnllTrION
laOo  fr15-00. tub1-7, And1970-79.                                                    Fasee   ass feet thousand            Ialtno    P..-.as.sge  oats .a..Ps,  mte
O_t forth barn - Snho adl - atnal lIre batts Pee th..a. ad of nt-yseneetate   ta  ebeego ,                                       Persat;  -1rd-s embeta-os. h..sase
inyleeon  1960,_1970, end 1909 dara.                                                         ilittaryn-htnle..
96a0tnu  lg, 1970, and 0979 dass.                                                       henadeases. to genteel yob!lttc    P -er   oesd o   eas tseae    a
Gee"P""",;           hr-nrsaase  o   agtrsaetsool   ea   titnsdentne   eooaof edt   ee  thee " relteee I f  add
elloty rates; usuetl.  torn-year aesrogee sdt.g is 1960,197f,. sd 1979.             setnoote   blsedltnlg
Fa nol    - Aoottn-Irros    raltbaeds) - atonl sashesI   -tsespnr                        V5 ten-t-es  less ebho-sd scltu)-T eso                     for b-eedrt t s
bthtt-routro  de_tr_  otd-t sopo of -seo-l tautly PIlos.teg p-ragram...  ge                              blal yhtt   ytrhttaad peplea;estadi          elfne  59  -eesee-
pehi tialle  actdpetmoely en -se-dtsg ges_es   nes    t ICs. r isd-ee
foOD als  5TOI~TIN                                                                                   obe  duy  uf.111~111 besIsr  a   sotteebseeel
loden  f SendFeadooton pe .tartn  (1969-71-1fO) -Iuds.oef yes -syt-  -nsa              Steam  -s-1  eenaner ttsC-tsate  Ya-Case.d on the  -ube- of
Irdo     ot o fltoed  -otedOte-   yoedaoniee  -nold-s seed andted  sod                   elek-s  ald d-iolg the year, istbudleg sdstssoeeeanodctasert_           s
So on  oedar year baao.  Oo-editnt-s--e  yrnsaey ga. eg  egcaead cobile attI..
tea notelodId').  Ag-great  -rd-ohts  of snob... otunr  Is base d u                        LaR FOunt
neO Oaesspeednoer yrOoe -ietgb; 1961-hO, 1970, sad 190'9 dsos.                      Tntel Labor jrom   Ih.u..edel - b...s.mitalty  -ti-n  P-505  Isladieg
?erra--naeoelt  folre   en of             of-Itesol-Cmane   isaedfre od   anspoyd  ateatntd  .h.oe.                                                   e.stdss   n
enrg    qoinatent ofntfu   ,p1taaalbeloatyyeopt                                            eeogPoOtiat nf all age.. Ctutosl   ela   ssrs   e
tee du-   brftble  _oypl_s  -ptylas .. dmslot -edartton  oae             esst aesp-cbi; 1960, 1970 ted 1979 dehe.
nyn t,ad otenges in snok.  ssaypoesoueafalted                       -eds.Yna,etee   - Female Osbe feet  as pe--etgs at total lebee feere
SoeiO    edt  Lad p--rtatg, and  leseeo  disecbati        q.Reitre               AgRi-tul-e le-non  - fa.ls  fecsI  trtg,  aen    banegsd
seelta aen  eatl tote  bycyfse    ncheaeholned   o   eca   cl-ta g as   -I pesege                                             ...ona   Ise  fen;10.170ad10%aa
cloy        _  -    db e- slbroedno  b...lc-opas ieeal - ts ..rt .e bde I e-thta  s-tndsroOsos    - bbs  er  In  eseg f                     osseeta19tee,d meafsdtans
sod  -e  derOor -ro  y             -oaho. nd  lasugit  e-en to  eaeset                        aed            -etcot,    e  aed gas as Peroest..ge of total labor fuo-; iggo,
es.. hold lene; 1961-hf  09I11.  au,_1d11d 197  en.                                         197t ad 1979 dabs.
an una eaenlo af ronneOn Oseane ner dayl ~~~~~P-- roet  roter  et -fPer" natn  Perteleslsett   cess-Isa,mt.sdfmssPcllslt
-supyl  of  en  ye 'day.  flat s-pyly of tend is deft ed as shuns   be-                    a-teTtyeasme ptd m   ea,ml,td feml_                           aorfrsa
nenenne_ t!,on all     . no Irs    -anblihsd by 0S00 peinds fee milse                        soses    of stsl., male sed f-nal   peaase   attlgereartep
_aeeo  h   ee   ft total y      -t  e  day An dO grams at anIml -ed               0969, 191.ad  97  daa.Ths  ac  hated en  L'.ut  peclolpatlas  ase
euls_ yre..   nt~ sttfohi   10 grass should be  natpato   These egssd-                       ielt  og age-se  _tutcso  yI h              ntsih, sed leegi els  n..sd.
ends se  beer then th,:s nI7    sao f        etal yra1eeln1.,-i  and 20 grams sf             tessetae   n  fee  sann. l mn. ee
001_1 P__iet  ae as _osg _      tc ehe old ~_peeo.d by yOui In he Shoed                    Onen-te Dseend-nor - os-satin  of petolseier aed- 10 and 61 aed ne.r
OnIld fred tu-ne; 1961-6b. 1910 and 1977 date.n                                                     .tbt_tul.Ober fot.-
Par neytra tr           Plyt f..oyfO   ton  anmalae   pas -betel` anoly of tt-d de-
clued 6mg. enOsla endyle  On grates yetdy; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dt.-                   INOM  DIYTRIBUTLOt
trOts data deotoed free 1105 tables; 1900, 1970 and 1919 data                                  et -b2ep-,,Ptsedbotd40s-.
HEALTHnPCunoS eARGET GatPS 
lIfe Oyartory so  Oent  eans)    Antrss  ab-r ofterof life  -smaie                 The foe11       snmaesse  ey p-enmt  essence  at- -Poner.ty lenols
as, 010th; lOtf, 1970 -eO 1979 den.tadeol   e  oepse    "lhneosefeealsc_ots-
of ogs Per htb...sd tIos blthO..                                        1Ahealate poneety ihoae teetO ..                             bsei I Ineeeelbeta    lr  a            -Nsa
at es  t  nteCaatonrronatenolntoO   tta,  rbn   edtost-  ta-               utlitisn-lly adequat  diet pine  -tustl  not tod sqlem sis  e
o-tee supplyloode   -eted tuef-                 oteaecutre fed~ hoC  -n-emotd                   a~ffordable.               l -L-            slb     .d-
psoreuhagee of she In esepartlos psyobsatnee.  IssuleusPna1tIesao0ohhlteo                                         Utb. loI i.d.I 
fososo  utaudynr Io-e-d nu"t mr  ohn 100 ts--a foemh.... may be                           le-1  ilth edj--teu  fs  hilghor out of  tnhmg Is urbanases
n.osid-rd as ate            -..bt   e    ....boates   f that house.  I ruralaes1            Efatatmae  PFsu.ishos felsa dAb  telssP.           tce_ L_Ys   PIcenee   - abs
dn to  h..t r  spendI  douproya..lenate port of the day to f-ohlsg the                          pser.
fasoly euneer os-bede.                                             I.-
breaoloee  oye:.Psecuo  cnnalutnt, uran  asd ue.                                
lue  On ytatl-t-ona.                                                                                                                                Cayl190
facboootrerthslro- btuenin  liolded hyo. abee at pee-ilolg physi-
PeulrinOt nren  T-ren  -routenduetded by  -ashe  of praetiolCg
oaIeaad fsle ge-dua-tuea-.-ep-tta-I se..nase.d ...sistatre.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979 (estimates)                                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
Blns. CFAF        %                                          1967-72           1972-74           1974-77          1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                  201.4        100.0                                           4.8               9.9               -3.2             2.9
Gross Domestic Investment              45.0         22.3                                           1.8              17.1              -13.6            26.9
Gross National Savings                 14.8          7.3                                         -2.1               29.5              -25.3            14.7
Current Account Deficit               -30.2         15.2                                          5.4              -8.5                 9.1            -3.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                  86.2         42.8                                          8.3               36.6               -2.1            -1.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                 120.2         59.7                                          6.4               12.3                2.8            -2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added in GDP, 1976                                Labor Force  /                          V.A. per Worker
CFAF mlns.         %                                Thousands       7.                        CFAF thousands
Agriculture                           24,284.8          14.6                                210         38.0                              115.6
Industry incl. mining                 63,774.6         38.3                               )             6  0
Services                              60,052.8         361                                )361        ) 62.0                             343.0
Unidentified and Unallocated          18,213.8         11.0                                 ..
Total/Average                  166,326.0        100.0                                 571        100,0                             291.3
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Billions of CFAF)                              Est.                          % of GDP (Average)
1967    1970    1972       1974    1975    1976       1977     1978     1979    1980                   1967-72      1973/74     1975/76
Current Receipts                 12.8    16.7    18.9    40.1    44.3    47.8    50.4    60.0    55.6    87.5                            22.0         26.0        28.2
Current Expenditure              13.0    16.2    20.5    39.3    46.6    48.5          57.4    70.1    58.0    67.0                      21.8         26.0        31.1
Current Surplus                   -.2       .5    -1.6        .8    -2.3       -.7    -7.0   -10.1    -2.4        20.5                     .2          0          -2.8
Capital Expenditures               .7      1.0      2.5      7.1    18.2       8.5      2.5      5.0      9.4    16.9                     2.0          4.4         4.8
External Assistance (net)         ..       ..       ..       2.6      1.9    -2.8    -2.9          .8    -5.7       3.1                   -.8          1.2         -.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                           1972     1973     1974    1975      1976     1977    1978    1979    1980    1981 (March)
(billions of CFAF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                              15.9    18.5    25.6    29.1    33.9    34.5    36.9    44.9    61.4    71.7
Bank Credit to the Government (net)                 2.4      3.4      4.6    10.1    13.7    18.8    21.9    21.3    22.4    16.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (net) 2/             17.6    19.9    22.9    29.3    38.0    38.9    39.4    45.6    56.0    61.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                  16.1    16.7    17.2    16.9    20.4    19.2    18,6    22.3
Consumer Price Index (1975 = 100) 3/               78.0    80.7    85.1   100.0   107.2   122.7   135.1   148.3   162.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index 3/                           9.8      3.5      3.7    19.8       7.2      14.5   10.1       9.8      9.4
Bank Credit to the Government (net)               ..     41.7    35.3   119.6    35.6          37.2   16.5    -2.7        5.2
Bank Credit to the Private Sector (net) 2/  ..            13.1    15.1    27.9    29.7         2.4      1.3    15.7    22.8
1/ Total labor fDrce;  unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
2/ Includes public enterprises.
3/ In the absence of a general price index, this refers to consumption patterns of higher income families.
New price indices have been introcdced for 1979, and they are not compatible with older indices.
(Old series are shown for 1979 and 1980.)
Not available.
August 1981



- 23 -
Page 5 of S p.,grs
TRADE PAYMENTS ANDS CAPITAL. FLOWS
(BilRions of CFAF)
RALONCE IF PATYm2V"                   1967      1972      1974     1975      1977      1978      1979      1990       R3C         ORDED MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1967-78 PERIOD AVERAGES IN BILLIENS 0 CFAF3
(esotleees)                                                 A-ounts.
Eoports of Goods, NFS                 17.9      29.3      75.0     59.0      85.7      86.2    120.3    192.5                                              1967-72   197]/74   1975-78    1967-72   1973-76
Iaports of Goeds  tNFS               -32.8    -53.6    -83.9   -104.9   -122.7   -120.0         124.0    148.9
Rose.rce GRp (defIcit -)             -14.9    -24.3    - 8.9   - 45.9   - 37.0   - 34.0    - 3.7           43.6                Erode P11                     6.3       2103       37.1          7.2       61
nvoerttmnt Incotgand                                                                                                         Agrdiu1t-rIl Producst          1.6        3.2        3 4         01.b        h.2
Itl-rCot                           - 1.9    - 2.1    - 4.5   -  6.8   -  8.9   - 12.9    -20.4    -22.0                     Oth-rs 3/                      3 6       -1,8        ,           40 6
Oth-r F-ctor ServIce                    .7        .4    -  .7         .3   -  0.3       0.3        .7    - 1.0                      Total                   13.8       41.4       57.6        100.0 1.0.1
Pojoato Tososfeos                    -  .9    - 2.6    -12.3   -  5.3   -  5.7   -  0.9         - 6.7     , 7.0
tslsoce.on Corsets A-ccuot           -17.0    -28.6    -26.4   - 57.7   - 52.0   - 47.6    -30.2           13.6               EXTERNAL 0667  DECENBER 31  1980
PobIlo Transfers                       2.6       5.0       4.5       7.4       5.4     10.5        8.0     12.0
DI tect Forelgs T-ve toas              5.7      18.7      17.1     22.1      32.2       6.9       2.5                          PolI0 Debt,   l.  Ga-td                                            911
Net M & Ll BsooooSag                   1.7       5.4      16.2       9.5       8.4     32.7      11.6                           o              PoRval Deb  t
Di.b---nnt                       .                                                                  -13.6                No-G---nted Pri,7a- Debt 
A,srt[atlor                      . .                                                            J                        Total Oststuodifg 6 Ditboesed                                       915.5
Other Capital ole.                     3.1       .3,     - 2.9      10.5   -  2.5   -  3.4        4.8                         TDet  O.lstuadig toelodiRg Uadiebrured                             990.0
Esters sod tm.ssios                  _3-        -4.9    -6.1         1.7       3.9   -   .9         3                            R      1   S
Incredse SEe R-e-e                   -  .8    -  .7        2.4   -  3.4   -  4.6   -  1.0         6.3      12.0
Gross R.ser-es (eod of ydar) 1/         .6       2.6       5.4       3.2       3.4      2.4       8.7      21.7                Pubi  Debt, i-l. G---d                                               11.3
Net Rts.rees (ted of yeas) 1/           .7       0.4       3.8   -   .9   -  7.1   -  7.7    - 3.0          5.9                Total  ratetud iog Oaor Dbt1.3
Fuel sod Selotad Naterluls                                                                                                     TRIG/ISA LENOING (lutes 5 acerb) INullEsostst dDD-l
loports  2/                         ..        ..        ..      ..        .RDIDA LENDING (                                                            t mthl (illt          f US
of ohlchi ehroleoa                    ..        ..        ..       ..
taporta                               .1       1.1      33.7     25.6      39.2      48.1      73.2    141.5                                                                                rBRD       IDA
of uMleb:  Pet-rloum                     .1      1.1      33.7      25.6      39.2     48.1      71.2    b41.5
Udtdltburaed                                                    9.5       265.
Ooestaedlaa tool. Urdibars-d                                  51.1       E7.7
1/ Sueq-n det  Ecals  da l'Afrique CEt--ale ad I.ttaeattioal PloFs.tul Stu               IMF.los,  IP.
2/ Cacimuted.
3/ E-clodos ro-sp-rt of diu.eod. CEmptises test-oil, eies-ol sad ether p-tdu-st usd utretorded reports.
Not  -estlabl-
lee 1991



- 24 -
ANNEX I I
Page i of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of July 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                          USM millions
Credit          Fiscal                                 (Amount less cancellations)
Number           Year      Borrower   Purpose          bank      IDA 1/  UndisDursed
Ten loans and credits fully disbursed                  68.00    16.25
435-COB         1973       Congo       LivestocK         -        5.60    0.75
1349-COB        1977       Congo       Education II   8.00          -      4.66
971-COB         1979       Congo       Petroleum          -       5.00    3.90
1047-COB        1980       Congo       Railway II         -      30.00   21.09
Total                      76.00    56.85   30.40
of which has been          30.38      0.08
repaid
Total now held by
Bank and IDA               45.62    56.77
Total undisbursed           4.b6    25.74   30.40
I/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln No. 1349-COB   Second Education Project:  US$8 million Loan of 1H1ay 7, 1977;
Effective Date: November 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides for strengthening of educational planning and
creation of a primary teacher college, an education publications unit, a
technical teacher training department and a forestry school. Project imple-
mentation is about two years behind schedule due to delays in contract awards
for civil works and equipment procurement. However, construction of all four
project institutions is now proceeding satisfactorily, and the Government has
obtained additional external assistance to cover cost overruns. The appoint-
ment of additional technical staff is expected to improve supervision of
construction and procurement.
Cr. No. 971-COB   Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project:  US*5.U million
Credit of April 11, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, li9U;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for technical assistance to the Rinistry
of Mines and Energy, and airmagnetometric survey of the Cuvette Basin, aimed
at attracting oil companies, a feasibility study of a secondary recovery
pilot project on the Emeraude oil field, and other studies. A. D. Little, tne
management consulting firm, has completed the diagnostic study of dydro Congo
and has submitted an Evaluation Report on the organization of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy. Implementation of recommendations contained in this
report has begun, and, under a follow up study, ADL has commenced its review
of the finance, marketing, and production functions of Hydro Congo. The
airmagnetometric survey of the Cuvette Basin has been completed and the
interpretation of the field data was delivered to the Ministry of Hines and
Energy in August 1981.
Cr. No. 435-COB   Livestock Project:  US$5.6 million Credit of November 2, 1973-
Effective Date: April 11, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is designed to increase beef output and surplus ureedin6
cattle and to provide training and applied research. The tar6et for the herd
size to be achieved under the project has been revised downward from lU,000
head. Final purchases of breeding stock will be made this year. Revenue from
sales will be lower than anticipated and, on the basis of revised projections,
will not exceed operating costs until 1983. Considerable progress has been
achieved on the training and research components and in establishing a ranch-
ing system suitable to the country. The building program still has to be
completed. A new director, satisfactory to the Association, was appointed in
September 1980.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Cr. No. 1047-COB -Second Railway Project: US$30.0 million
Credit of June 19, 1980; Effective Date: April 24, 1981
Closing Date June 30, 1983
The project provides for completion of civil works on the realign-
ment of the CFCO railway, purchase of machinery for maintenance of earthworks
and consulting services for supervision and contract management. The works
are progressing favorably except in the long tunnel where difficulties are
being experienced due to difficult terrain and water inflows. Improved
construction methods have been discussed and a new estimate of costs and
additional delays in construction has been carried out. Completion of
tunnelling works cannot now be reasonably expected before March 1983 and
completion of all works before June 1983, about 15 months behind schedule;
commissioning of the realigned section would then follow in July/August 1983.
However, in view of substantially more rapid progress on all other works, the
total cost estimate still remains valid. The operational performance of ATC
has improved significantly in the past 18 months and action plan targets for
1980 were all met. Progress is also well advanced on attracting new investors
in the forestry sector, of vital importance to attaining the project's expected
economic benefits.



- 27                          ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:                             1 year
(b)  Project prepared by:                                          ATC
(c)  Date of first Association mission to
consider the project:                                        September 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:                        June 1980
(e)  Negotiations completed:                                        June 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                                 December 1981
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government and ATC have provided assurances on the following
principal items:
(i) ATC would adhere to agreed financial conditions and achieve specific
financial targets (paras. 55-58);
(ii) ATC would, by June 30, 1982;
(a)  prepare and thereafter implement the recommendations of a
study on siltation in the Brazzaville log port (para. 33);
(b)  employ an experienced supervisor for its Ouesso port operations
(para. 34);
(c)  prepare and thereafter implement a fleet rotation plan (para.
35); and
(d)  introduce surcharges for faulty log raft assembly and slow
barge loading (para. 35); and
(iii) ATC would, by December 31, 1982, prepare a study of cost-based
tariffs and initiate appropriate action for its implementation in
consultation with the Association (para. 58);
A special condition of Credit effectiveness would be the execution
of a Financing Agreement between the Government and ATC with terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association (para. 49).






I B R D 15099R
l 14                \                    1 1>, 16'            SETMBE
--R b                                                      RAL  AFRICAN  R  UBLIC
A F R I C A        Xteesohotsr[e                                                                             3 >                    4    r       S
Se.W.       - -how,n -w                                                 /                                   R
bo,ld.h,,k sh   - MIS ~
~~~~~~)~~~~ ~ $r/ }nWltf\              ,\                        A        {    
<) ' ~~~AMERO)ON 804  .<
;2- <f Kg\.(f
__,E~_________                    _                                                                     I                                       N    OAA
2'                                                                                     / 4 qRouonli  ;   t      + A  Donato      
-2'
ZAIRE
m   tM nf            \              * /of'Jz7Cs +ATEf Ux/ ~~~PEOPLEt'S REPUBLtC OF CONGO
NCen_ ~,SMrlrrdl~ _ X$OL \>  g >1 \TRANSPORT NETWORK
-4~~~0 4n6                       BO rA YI~KL                                KIfII5                           0tQoEYO v,    ., /ndfor. ODp
Bo-                                              InPf rLoti tfsl boEf nfsY r iUS
G  0    N                                                     N         D                                    15
CCt f7t  \  /    fs   L   n    '5  R   E                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILkS
12-  GoI,oMCeffXfDoPI                 W=4fy                                                                               B
\   I         Z  t                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y






IBRD 15275
t87                  1 )          20-             m                   22 SEPTEMBER 1980
C E N T R,A L                      A F R I C A N                    ti  R E P.
LG, VOEauoBossembele, 
|                                               \%~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Palonb     <                            J
Ber       \                   T                        BANGU)                                                     ;       Xrb 
4-         0~~~~~~~~~~~
Berberoti  .\
\5 Noks                    LokaSo af                                                                                       4
\-XNla                            r* 9Anmba
\. linSola            M u,mpou tou
CAMEROON                            Bay                                                                      C  Netou   G O
I I MOA I ROA                               RIVER TRANSPORT
MoIo*noo            '> Bonrg ui)                                                    N\ETWIORK
Alo,r Moloundoui                                                                                NETWORKl
N'Goola a                       Oa bo                        ngo
Ov>o                   Ep$na~ O         dmpfondoa                         U       Civil Works under the Project
Ouesso%   EpenaNOs I /| o                                 Novigoble Rivers
S AN HA                                                                                       O Other Rivers
>   %   %iJ    z/   g           /                        -  -  Regionol Boundaries
MobenzaI-0                                               International  Boundaries
) S .. ~~~~Pikoundo  A\ -.1
E \                       .7Vumb
To                   MaEoio                                            /   LumLmbosh,                                                                         9
REGION  DE ZA  CUVETTE
*^_)            t~~~ouYou           Y         %,%         /
z                                     Ld  M    Prongo                        4
o  2           Boundp  4m2
Oko *   ar            <      Massoa fil9tukoul6la
[2) /t   RE P. OF  THE   7ounda
-2- 5                        t            .Xt                  t                                                                                              2-
REGIONVDfPArAA                      /o
CONGO 0                                                                                                                 2,2T
,__                                                                                                              NIGERIA   /        >_... ?
(CENTRAL AFRICAN  REP
CAMEROON               .- 
_4-1            MalukugA                          0              100             200             300      4PEOPLE
BRAZZAVILLE     IM ms /f,dI                                                                 I                                 . 
/   BRAZZAVIEMbomou /s/ond  |YKILOMETERS                                                A B O N    OH        Z A  I R E
Th,s map hao been prepared by the World Banok staff eoolosiveey for the o--cen-ece  r .-._ CONGO
l   o                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~of the readers of the report to v,hich it is attached TheP denominations used and thea    
*  Jf                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~boundarnes shown on this matp do not insyly, on the part 51 the World dank ass its  f@Zo:evl
affiliates, anydudgment us the legal status of any terr,t.r. or any endorsement or . \7p4reo
0_m  acceptance of such bounodren.                                A -tt ic
16j)                               18-                                20 -           CtNGOLA\ _



