Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE    UPi   (    eReport No. 3196-COB
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
September 17, 1981
Western Africa Projects Department
Ports, Railways & Aviation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1                 =        CFAF 250
CFAF 1 million       =        US$4,000
FISCAL YEAR OF ATC
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
Metric                        British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                   =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m2)            =     1.31 cubic yards (cu yd)
1 kilometer (km)              =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =       0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =     2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY - GLOSSAIRE
ACCF       CAR's river transport           Agence Centrafricaine des
agency                          Communications Fluviales
ATC       Congolese transport agency    Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
BADEA     Arab Bank for Economic           Banque Arabe pour le Developpe-
Development in Africa           ment Economique de l'Afrique
BDEAC     Central African                  Banque de Developpement des
Development Bank                Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CAR       Central African Republic         Republique Centrafricaine (RCA)
CCCE      French Bilateral Aid             Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
Agency                         tion Economique
CFCO      Congolese railway                Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocearl
COMILOG   Private mining company in        Compagnie Miniere de l'Ogooue, Gabon
Gabon
EEC       European Economic                Commission des Communautes
Community                       Europeennes (CEE)
FAC       French bilateral aid agency   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED       European Development Fund        Fonds Europeen de Developpement
GTZ       German technical assistance   Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
agency                          Zusammenarbeit
KfW       German Aid Agency (FRG)          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OCAM                                       Organisation Commune de l'Afrique et
de Madagascar
OCB       Congolese Timber Marketing    Office Congolais du Bois
Office
OCI       Congolese Office for             Office Congolais de l'Informatique
computer activities
PPN       Port of Pointe Noire             Port de Pointe Noire
(part of ATC)
SCEVN     Congo-CAR river navigability  Service Commun d'Entretien des Voies
maintenance organization        Navigables
SOCATRAF  Joint Government/private         Societe Centrafricaine de Transports
company managing the ACCF       Fluviaux
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SOFRERAIL French Society for Railway    Societe Francaise d'Etudes et de
Studies and Operations          Realisations Ferroviaires
UNDP      United Nations Development    Programme des Nations Unies pour le
Program                         Developpement (PNUD)
VNPTF     River transport branch of        Voies Navigables, Ports et Transports
ATC                             Fluviaux



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........................................    1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................    2
A.   The ATC System ....................................    2
B.   Highways ..........................................    2
C.   Aviation ..........................................    3
D.   Transport Planning ................................    4
E.   Bank Group Assistance to the Section ...............    4
III. ATC ...........      .........................................    5
A.   Organization, Management and Staffing ....       .........    5
B.   River Operations ..................................    8
C.   Traffic ...........................................   10
D.   The Capacity of ATC's Timber Fleet .13
IV.  THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT.14
A. Investment Plan 1980-86 .14
B. Objectives .14
C.   Detailed Project Description .15
D.   Cost Estimates and Financing Plan .18
E.   Procurement and Disbursement .21
F. Project Implementation .22
G. Environmental Impact .22
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION .23
A. Introduction .23
B.   Recent Financial Performance and Current Financial
Position .24
C. Tariffs and Costs .25
D.   Future Financial Performance .28
E. Sensitivity Analysis .33
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .33
This report has been prepared by Messrs. E. Vernigora (Port Engineer),
R. Venkateswaran (Financial Analyst), and H. Levy (Economist).



Page No.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....    ..........    39
TABLES
Table 3.1:  Voies Navigables et Transports
Fluviaux:  Organization Diagram .........     42
Table 3.2:  Operating Targets .......................    43
Table 3.3:  River Navigability by Barges ............    44
Table 3.4:  Port of Brazzaville Traffic:  Actual
1973-1980 and Objectives for 1984
and   1986   ................................  45
Table 3.5:  ATC-River Transport Traffic 1973-1980 ...     46
Table 3.6:  Forecast of ATC River Transport Demand,
1981-1986   ...............................   47
Table 3.7:  Forecast of River Transport Demand:
From Northern Congo Timber ....    ..........    48
Table 3.8:  Forecast of ATC River Transport Demand
for Timber in Barges ....     ................    49
Table 4.1:  Barge Requirements for Timber Transport       50
Table 4.2:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements by
item  for  1981-1984   ......................  51
Table 4.3:  Schematic Implementation Schedule for
Project   Items   ...........................  52
Table 4.4:  River Fleet Investment Plan, 1982-1984 ..    53
Table 6.1:  Economic Rates of Return ....    ............    54
Table 6.2:  Passenger Pushboat:  Costs and Benefits       55
Table 6.3:  Equipment for Transport of Timber:
Costs  and  Benefits   ......................  56
Table 6.4:  Rehabilitation of Ouesso Workshops:
Costs  and  Benefits   ..... ..................  57
Table 6.5:  Training Works Lower Sangha River:  Costs
and  Benefits   ..............................  58
ANNEXES
I.  River Transport Routes, Infrastructure,
Equipment   ......................................   58
Table 1: ATC River Fleet by Line and Commodity .   61
Table 2:  ATC Ports and River Transport
Equipment   ..............................  64
Table 3:  Voies Navigables Fleet ....    ............   65
II.   ATC Investment Plan 1980-86 ...............    67
Table 1:  1980-1986 Investment Plan .69



-iii -
Page No.
III.   ATC Financial Position and Prospects .70
Table 1:  Audited Working Capital Position
1974-1979 .81
Table 2:  Audited Fixed Asset Account 1974-1979                 82
Table 3:  Audited Income Statements 1974-1979                   83
Table 4:  Historic Statement of Source and
Application of Funds 1974-1979 .84
Table 5:  Audited Balance Sheet 1974-1979 .85
Table 6:  Forecast Fixed Asset Account 1980-1986                86
Table 7:  Estimated and Forecast Working Expenses
1980-1986 .87
Table 8:  Estimated and Forecast Income Account
1980-1986.                                           88
Table 9:  Debt Servicing Requirements 1980-2001                 89
Table 10: Estimated and Forecast Statement of
Source and Application of Funds
1980-1986 ............................... .          90
Table 11: Forecast Balance Sheet 1980-1986 ..........           91
Tables
12A-E: Summary Forecast Statements of Source and
Application of Funds 1980-1986 ...........          92
MAPS
1.   Transport Network (IBRD 15099R)
2.   River Transport Network (IBRD 15275)
3.   Port of Brazzaville:  General Plan (IBRD 15276)
4.   Forestry Concessions (IBRD 15277)






PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      During appraisal of the Second Congo Railway Project involving
the realignment of the Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean (CFCO) railway, it was
recognized that attention would have to be focussed on development. of northern
Congo forestry potential and on rehabilitation of the Agence Transcongolaise
des Communications (ATC) river transport operations which provide the main
"upstream" complement to the CFCO railway. As a first step, the Bank assisted
the Government in reviewing the forestry sector and preparing a feasibility
study on exploiting northern Congo forestry potential.  As a result a forestry
development project is now under preparation. The forestry feasibility study
also identified the needs of ATC's river transport operations. Thereafter, two
studies of ATC river transport operations were prepared: one by IJNICONSULT,
financed by German technical assistance, in parallel with a second by Bank-
financed consultants (SOFRERAIL--France) to ATC as part of their review of all
aspects of ATC operations. After review of the transport studies and at the
request of the ATC and the Government, a Bank mission visited the Congo in
September 1979 to identify and prepare the proposed River Transpo-rt Project.
The German aid agency (KfW) also identified a project covering a part of ATC's
equipment and technical assistance needs. The proposed IDA project focussed
on ATC's river transport investment plan through 1984, and has taken into
account the financing to be provided by the KfW.
1.02      The proposed project arising from these studies would cost a total
of US$28.1 million equivalent, including assistance to the Ministry of Trans-
port for setting up a planning and coordination unit, and technical assistance
to the Office Congolais des Bois (OCB), the timber marketing agency, to
improve management and operation. Foreign exchange costs amount to US$23.1
million equivalent; the ATC project components comprise 91% of total project
costs.
1.03      The project would be the fifth lending operation to ATC, and would
continue the rehabilitation and expansion of the ATC transport chain by
strengthening what is currently the weak link. Its success depends on many
of the same factors upon which the CFCO realignment is itself founded, i.e.
effective development of north Congo forestry, improvement of ATC's organiza-
tional and financial structure and re-establishment of that organization as an
aggressive, efficient transporter. Key conditions relating to forestry sector
development under the fourth operation (Credit 1047-COB) are being met
now.



II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The ATC System
2.01      The backbone of Congo's transport system is the Transequatorial
Route, which consists of the ocean port of Pointe Noire, the river port at
Brazzaville, the CFCO railway (510 km) linking these two ports, and the
navigable sections of the Congo and Oubangui Rivers (about 1,120 km). The
state-owned ATC operates this system as well as river ports and river trans-
port services on the Sangha and N'Goko rivers and feeder river routes in the
Cuvette Region, together accounting for about 5,000 km of waterways. The
other major links in the primary network are a 285 km railway owned and
operated by COMILOG (Gabon) for the transport of manganese ore to the CFCO
railway at Mont Belo; the Loubomo-Gabon road (about 250 km); and the Sangha
river, which is navigable over about 690 km and is served by the ATC and the
Agence Centrafricaine des Communications Fluviales (ACCF), the CAR-owned river
transport company. ATC provides a regional transport system, providing
services to CAR, Cameroon, Gabon and, to a limited extent, southern Chad. In
recent years more than three-quarters of the rail freight carried between
Brazzaville and Pointe Noire has been transit traffic, mainly manganese from
Gabon, timber from Cameroon and the CAR, and upstream imports to the CAR. For
most of this traffic the Transequatorial Route is the only access to the sea
and will remain so for many years: the Transgabonese railway, now under
construction, is the main and most advanced alternative route but will only
cater to Gabonese traffic when it is completed, probably in the late 1980s. A
substantially more expensive, but faster route to the sea via Cameroon is used
for high value CAR commodities; a route via Kinshasa and railway connection to
the Zairian port of Matadi has been used occasionally to carry petroleum to
the CAR but at much higher transport costs than the ATC. The CFCO line is
presently operating close to capacity, which is severely limited by an 80 km
mountainous section. Construction of a realigned section is underway with
World Bank Group and co-donor financing. It is expected to be completed in
1983 and should remove the major capacity constraint on the CFCO.
B.   Highways
2.02      The Congo has a highway network of about 11,000 km, of which only
about 3,000 km (including 600 km of paved roads) provide all-weather service.
The classified road system--8,500 km--is administered and maintained by the
Regie Nationale des Transports et des Travaux Publics (RNTP) in the Ministry
of Public Works and Land Management. The most important roads are those from
Brazzaville north towards Ouesso (about 850 km, of which only about 235 km are
paved and the rest gravelled or earth and not passable in the rainy season)
and west to Kinkala (about 85 km, paved). The rest of the system consists of
secondary and forestry roads, located in the area between Brazzaville and
Pointe Noire. Only a small proportion of traffic is carried by road, and
about 70% of this is timber traffic in the south, thus traffic volumes are
light. Except for a road carrying timber from Gabon to the CFCO railway at
Loubomo, the only roads carrying substantial traffic are those serving the
cities of Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. About three-quarters of the network



- 3 -
carries less than 10,000 tons of freight/year. The Government is plannin6 to
substantially imnprove and expand the road network, witn financing stemming
from projected increases in Governnent s oil revenues.  The hi6hest priority
is the construction, presently underway, of a paved road from Brazzaville
northward beyond the Lefini river to Owando, on the way to Ouesso. With the
exception of its terminal at Ouesso on the Sangha river, the road between
Ouesso and Brazzaville will be separated from the Congo and Sangha rivers by
200-300 km of swamp and therefore would not serve the area covered by ATC
river transport services.
2.03      Despite the existence of an adequate public works agency, the hi8h-
way network is in bad condition as a result of poor uaintenance arisin6 from
a shortage of funds. The latter stems from the discontinuation of the Road
Fund in 1971 and the Government s meager budget allocation to highway mainte-
nance; the Road Fund was reestablished in 1980. The Bank Group is preparing
a highway maintenance project to carry out emergency maintenance ancu repairs
on the gravel roads and to resurface about 40 km of the paved roads from
Brazzaville to the north.
2.04      The road vehicle fleet is estimated at about 1,OOU, of which 65X0
is cars and the rest trucks and other commercial vehicles.  Muost of the
trucks are singly owned by their operators. The contribution of road users to
road financing--in the form of import duties on gasoline, vehicles and spare
parts--is very small and not sufficient to cover recurrent highway maintenance
expenditures. Diesel-powered vehicles, the main users of roads, are exempt
from fuel taxes.  Prices of transport fuels, however, are not subsidized.
At end-1980, the retail price at Brazzaville was CFAF 165/liter for premium
gasoline and CFAF 115/liter for diesel, and both were within the range of
prices of a petroleum importing country in the CFA zone. The level and
structure of road user taxes remain politically sensitive issues.
C.   Aviation
2.05      Although the country has 20 airstrips (including the international
airports at Brazzaville and Pointe Noire) for multi-engine propeller planes,
domestic aviation plays a very limited but key role. The national carrier
(LinaCongo) has a fleet of five aircraft, of which one is an 50-passenger jet
and the rest are smaller turbo-prop and propeller aircraft. The airline nas
a twice-daily service between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire (with a stop at
Loubomo) and one to three flights weekly to twelve cities. The company-s
financial condition is poor due to inefficient financial management practices
and Government reluctance to increase passenger tariffs. Recently, a technical
cooperation agreement was signed between LinaCongo and the French international
airline UTA to improve mianagement and technical operations; the Government
also intends to permit a tariff increase of nearly l00/, to bring air tariffs
on the Brazzaville-Pointe Noire route in line with costs of providing the
service. Most flights on the Brazzaville-Pointe Noire route are full. A small
private company provides charter services with a small fleet inciudin6 a small
jet and several small (five to nine passengers) propeller aircraft, and its
services are in high demand despite a significant price differential over
those of LinaCongo.



-4-
D.   Transport Planning
2.06      Responsibility for preparation and implementation of transport
policy, coordination and investments is (iivided among four ministries. The
Ministry of Planning has overall responsibility for national economic planning
and the preparation of economic development plans. The Ministry of Finance
is responsible for the financing of these plans and of specific projects.
The Ministry of Transport is theoretica:lly responsible for preparation and
enforcement of transport policies and the elaboration of the transport part
(excluding highway infrastructure) of national development plans; it also has
direct control of all transport companies including the ATC, the domestic
airline LinaCongo, and others. Responsibility for elaboration of plans and
execution of road projects and maintenance of the road network is vested in
the Ministry of Public Works and Land Management.  The Ministry of Transport,
which was created in 1978 following a Government reorganization, has not been
able to take an active role in sector coordination and planning due to lack
of qualified staff. This situation has not been critical so far since little
transport coordination has been needed in the face of the ATC system's pre-
dominance, the small highway network and almost total lack of funds for road
maintenance and construction. With the expected substantial increases in
Government revenues, along with the Government's intention to embark on major
highway investments, there is a pressing need for a strong planning unit
at the Ministry of Transport. Under the proposed project, funds would be
provided for technical assistance for three years for the creation of such a
unit. The technical assistance for the unit will consist of: (a) two experts
full time for three years, one being a transport economist to deal with
economic policy and investment planning aspects and the other an engineer
to deal with technical questions of transport infrastructure and operations;
and (b) short-term experts to study specific problems. Terms of reference
for the unit were agreed at negotiations.
E.   Bank Group Assistance to the Sector
2.07      The Bank Group has contributed to improvements in the sector through
six Loans and Credits: First Railway Project (Credit 297-COB, US$6.3 million,
1972); Second Railway Project (Loan 1228-COB, US$38.0 million, 1976); Second
Railway Supplementary Credit (Credit No. 1047-COB, US$30.0 million, 1980);
Road Engineering Project (Credit S6-COB, US$630,000, 1969); Highway Improve-
ment Project (Credit 189-COB, US$1.5 million, 1970); and Highway Maintenance
Project (Credit 274-COB, US$4.0 million, 1971). In addition, the Bank approved
a US$5.0 million EEC Special Action Credit to ATC in 1980 for technical
assistance and spare parts. Audit reports have been done for the First Railway
Project and the two highway projects. According to the audits, the Highway
Maintenance Project suffered major implementation problems, mainly because of
Government inability to provide local funds. In the railway project, purchase
of wagons was found to be premature due to shortfalls in forecast traffic.
The Government's performance in providirng local funds has been better on the
Second Railway Project and is expected to be fully satisfactory in the proposed
project in light of the substantial improvement in Government revenues.
Appropriate measures are included in the proposed project to avoid premature
procurement of equipment. No other conclusions or recommendations relevant to
the river transport project are presented in these audits.



- 5 -
III. ATC
A.   Organization, Management and Staffing
General
3.01      ATC is headquartered in Pointe Noire and has 7,240 employees, of
whom 100 are expatriates. It is administered by a 14-member board; the
Minister of Transport is chairman, and members include representatives of
other ministries, the unions and the ruling political party. The board meets
two or three times a year and operates in a satisfactory manner.
3.02      A general manager, appointed by the Council of Ministers at the
board's recommendation, is responsible for day-to-day operations. The general
manager is assisted by a technical director, who for the present is an expert
provided by France. A financial controller is nominated by the Minister of
Finance. The headquarters staff, directly answerable to the general manager,
prepares budgets, plans investments, and provides administrative services and
general staff training. ATC is divided into three operational sections:
(a) the Atlantic Ocean port of Pointe Noire (PPN); (b) the CFCO railway; and
(c) the river ports, river transport and maintenance of navigable channels--
Voies Navigables, Ports et Transports Fluviaux (VNPTF). The sect:ions have
separate managers assisted by expatriate technical directors provided by
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). Attached to VNPTF is the b:i-national
(Congo-CAR) Service Commun d'Entretien des Voies Navigables (SCEVN) which
maintains the navigability of the Sangha and Oubangui Rivers (see Map IBRD
15099R).
VNPTF
3.03      VNPTF's headquarters are in Brazzaville from where it operates the
river ports of Brazzaville, Mossaka, Ouesso and river transport services on
the Sangha, Oubangui and Congo as well as the Cuvette Rivers, a total of about
5,000 km of waterway (see Map IBRD 15275 and Annex I). While functionally
part of ATC it is operationally independent. A Congolese director manages
VNPTF; he is assisted by a French technical director who has held responsible
positions in river transport in Congo for several years. VNPTF's three main
operating divisions are: (a) river ports, (b) river transport services
and (c) river maintenance. A training division was recently added which will
train mechanics and navigators. (The VNPTF organization chart is shown as
Table 3.1).
3.04      VNPTF is plagued by staffing and management problems, stemming from
lack of clear lines of authority, unwillingness to accept responsibility and
general overstaffing. While this is symptomatic of the ATC organization as a
whole, it appears to have its worst manifestation in the VNPTF. Under the
ongoing realignment project, ATC and the Government have agreed to take a
number of important steps to improve overall personnel management, re-instill
staff discipline and re-establish managerial lines of authority. Satisfac-
tory performance on these commitments will be maintained as covenants under



the proposed project as well.  As an integral part of their comiimitments, ATC
is also preparing an overall manpower plan for the 1982-86 period to De
submitted to the Association for its review before June 30, 1962. dowever, in
view of the substantially different nature of river transport operations from
those of the CFCO, a consultant familiar with port and river transport opera-
tions should review that part of the manpower plan pertaininb tGo VNPTF and
recommend specific changes in its organization together with yPpropriate and
detailed job descriptions for all positions. This review should also focus on
the future role of VNPTF in river transport. It should review the possible
role of private transporters and ensure that the future "Contrat Plans" (see
para. 5.13) will be related not only to continuing ATC's all encompassing
role, but equally to selectively serving certain markets and providing certain
services that can be best handled cy ATC as a public transport entity. During
negotiations ATC agreed to hire such a consultant, to present his report to
the Association not later than June 30, 1982, and to implement such recom-
mendations as may be agreed upon with the Association by a mutually acceptable
date.
3.05      River Ports.  The Congo's main river ports are Brazzaville, Ouesso
and Mossaka. The management of each port is responsible for aaily operations,
navigation and maintenance. The management of Brazzaville is also responsiDle
for dredging the rivers in the Cuvette region, the channel in Stanley pool,
and the entrance channels to the general cargo and log ports. Brazzaville is
by far the most important river port, serving as the terminal point for botn
the railway and the river transport system.  It includes a marine workshop
where the ATC fleet is maintained and repaired; passenger, fuel, timber and
cargo quays; a log port; parking areas for the river fleet; storage areas; ana
railway spurs.
3.06      Ouesso is strategically located at the confluence oi the N Goko and
Upper Sangha rivers. In recent years, however, its potential has been under-
used as port facilities have deteriorated. It is of paramount importance that
the port functions smoothly to handle the timber traffic comin6 downriver. To
ensure that it does, the port needs a well-qualified technical specialist to
manage the port and to train local staff to replace him (para. 3.17). In addi-
tion to overall port management, his other duties will be to provide continuity
in supervising maintenance of floating craft and to coordinate transport needs
with forestry companies; at present, local maintenance staff are supervised by
a qualified mechanic who only occasionally visits from Brazzaville, and no
mechanism exists for coordination of timber transport needs.
3.07      Mossaka is located on an island at the confluence of the Sangha
and Congo rivers. It is of secondary importance and serves mainly as a
transit point for barge convoys, log rafts ane passenger ships on the Oubangui,
Sangha and Cuvette rivers. The port needs minor rehabilitation and upgradin%
so that it can more effectively serve its transit function.
3.08      River Transport Services.  River transport services are controlled
from the Brazzaville headquarters where accounting/statistics, fleet dis-
patching, stevedoring, marine workshops, stores and security operations are
centered. A qualified and experienced French technical assistant provides



- 7 -
supporting services to a Congolese manager. At the working level, French
technical assistants provide satisfactory guidance to the local staff in all
sections except accounting/statistics and stevedoring. French expatriate staff
employed directly by VNPTF to supervise these latter activities performed
these functions adequately until their retirement last year. These gaps now
need to be filled as soon as possible to ensure that the VNPTF services do not
deteriorate and cause serious bottlenecks in the transport chain. ATC is now
finalizing the selection of a technical expert financed by the German technical
assistance agency (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit--GTZ)
to supervise stevedoring at Brazzaville port; this specialist will serve for
18 months. ATC has also sought through FAC a qualified accountant to oversee
the VNPTF accounting/statistics section; some candidates have been examined
and a selection should be made in the next few months.
3.09      Fleet dispatching is controlled by an experienced French expatriate
who, unfortunately, lacks suitable local counterpart staff. In addition, he
is temporarily overseeing stevedoring which overloads him beyond hlis capacity.
Fleet scheduling is vital to the efficient operation of the organization and
deserves a complete study of the methodology employed and the staff required
to provide this function. Provision is made in the proposed project for a
complete study of the situation by management consultants (para 3.17).
GTZ has also agreed to finance the services of an operations expert for
a 24-month period to help in day-to-day operations and relieve the sole
technical expert of some of his burdensome tasks.
3.10      The marine workshop functions satisfactorily.  It has sufficient
capacity for present needs and with the proposed investments, it will be
capable of handling the new additions to the fleet. GTZ is also financing the
services of a shipyard consultant for a six month period to make operational
improvements. VNPTF employs a competent mechanic (financed by the Bank under
the ongoing CFCO realignment project) in charge of training; he is assisted by
a Congolese counterpart. Four local instructors trained by this expert in
turn train local mechanics for the marine workshop. Progress to date appears
to be satisfactory. Under the proposed project these training services will
be extended to include mechanics on the river fleet. This requires extension
of the expert's contract up to 1984 and construction of a new fully equipped
building to complement the training establishment already provided under the
Second Railway Project. Continuation of the expert's contract was agreed
with ATC during negotiations. GTZ has agreed to finance the services of a
specialist for 24 months to train river pilots. An old 150 T barge is now
being suitably refurbished by ATC to serve as a training vessel.
3.11      River Maintenance.  River maintenance, beaconage and improvements
in the navigability of the Sangha, N'Goko, Oubangui and Lobaye rivers is
carried out by SCEVN, whose headquarters are in Brazzaville; it also has a
small liaison/coordination office in Bangui. SCEVN employs 174 Congolese
and Central Africans and 12 French expatriates. River navigation works are
carried out by 10 teams that are engaged in (a) hydrography, (b) beaconage,
(c) supporting services, (d) dredging and (e) rock excavation. The quality of
work done by SCEVN is good. Maintenance of the Congo River is performed by
Zaire.



-8-
B.   River Operations
3.12      ATC is responsible for moving all river traffic in the Congo.
Cameroon and CAR traffic is apportioned by inter-Government agreement between
ATC and ACCF as follows:
a)   CAR traffic
(i) general cargo and timber - 80% ACCF, 20% ATC
(ii)  bulk fuel                  - 100% ACCF
b)   Cameroon traffic
(i)  on Upper Sangha R.         - 50% ACCF, 50% ATC
(ii)  on N'Goko R.               - 100% ATC
The above apportionment notwithstanding, a small quantity of timber is moved
by private transporters from the N'Goko river and SCEVN transports general
cargo and timber from the Sangha and Oubangui rivers during high water when
its equipment is not engaged in river maintenance works.
3.13      In recent years, the ACCF has been unable to carry its share of the
traffic due to poor maintenance and operations, and some Chad and CAR traffic
has been rerouted through Cameroon by land to Douala port. Of the remainder
ATC is now carrying about 35% of CAR traffic instead of the agreed 20% and
100% of Cameroon traffic on the Upper Sangha. In mid-1980, the CAR Government
established a mixed-ownership company, SOCATRAF, with a French private trans-
port group to manage and operate the ACCF fleet on a long-term lease. There
are now signs that the ACCF may recapture its share of the CAR and Cameroon
traffic.
3.14      ATC river operations consist essentially of moving general cargo
and fuel upstream and sawn timber and logs downstream. General cargo, sawn
timber, high quality logs and sinkers (non-floatable logs) are transported by
barge while logs are floated downstream in rafts pushed by micro-pushers.
3.15      ATC handles virtually all passenger traffic on the Sangha and
Oubangui rivers. Passengers are accommodated either in ordinary or self-
propelled barges or, in some cases, barges modified in passenger or passenger-
cargo configurations. At present convoys are not specialized but consist of
a mixture of passenger and cargo barges. The result is relatively poor
passenger service and undue delays in cargo movements arising from frequent
stops to discharge passengers. Procurement of a passenger push boat under
the project should resolve this problem on the Sangha line.
3.16      Log traffic originates at river collection points where foresters
assemble log rafts in accordance with seasonal river navigation limitations.
Micro-pushers move the logs downstream to the Brazzaville log port for dis-
sessembly and loading on trains by private companies. Barge traffic moves by
convoy on the Oubangui from Bangui or on the Sangha from Ouesso in the north



- 9 -
to Brazzaville. At Ouesso southbound convoys are assembled from individual
barges loaded by foresters located on the Upper Sangha and N'Goko rivers. On
the Oubangui river sawn timber is loaded at Bangui port, trucked from sawmills
nearby on the Lobay river. On arrival in Brazzaville, barges are parked at
the island of M'Bamou from where they are moved individually to the general
cargo port where the cargo is unloaded into storage facilities or directly
onto trains for shipment to Pointe Noire.
3.17      Present river transport operations are not systematically organized.
Arrivals and departures are random and there is poor co-ordination between
convoy scheduling and customer loading demands. As a result pushers are
sometimes tied up for long periods waiting for barges to be loaded. In
other instances convoys are scheduled before foresters are ready t-o load.
Dispatching of the fleet takes place from Brazzaville, dependent on the
skill of a sole experienced expatriate. Distances are great, communications
uncertain and control of individual fleet units on a day-to-day bilsis verges
on the impossible. There is scope for improving this situation by programming
the rotation of fleet units and systematizing the dispatching system. The
project provides financing for consulting services to study the problem and
recommend a system for rotating fleet elements and a proposal for improving
dispatching on the basis of a daily traffic plan, which may include computer
simulation of fleet location. With such information, it is anticipated
that ATC will prepare a fleet rotation plan before June 30, 1982, including
availability and rotation time targets for major fleet elements with specific
productivity goals (Table 3.2) for each classification (i.e. pushers, barges,
micro-pushers, etc.). During negotiations, ATC agreed that it will prepare
such a plan and implement it in 1982 after consultation with the Associa-
tion. ATC also agreed to recruit by June 30, 1982, an experienced expatriate
to manage its Ouesso base and assist in co-ordinating fleet movements in
accordance with foresters' requirements. In the meantime, ATC expects to use
the services of the port operations expert financed by GTZ (para. 3.08) to
make periodic visits to Ouesso until proper resident facilities can be built
to maintain a permanent manager.
3.18      In addition to system-wide organizational problems there are a
number of operational factors inhibiting the optimum operation of ATC's
services, as follows:
(a) recent siltation of the upstream entrance to the Brazzaville
log port has necessitated the use of the general cargo port for
handling logs or approaching the log port from downstream against
the current. Both solutions are costly and time-consunLing;
(b) faulty raft assembly or poor navigation leads to grouncings with
inevitable loss of logs and operating time;
(c) micro-pusher productivity is low (4,000 m3 of logs per year) due
to inadequate vessel maintenance up-river and a short 8-month
operating season (4 months of full operation and 4 mont:hs at
reduced capacity); and



- 10 -
(d) some forestry barge users lack appropriate loading equipment
which results in delays in barge-loading and, ultimately, in
convoy movement delays.
3.19      The proposed project provides for a study of the log port siltation
problem and ATC agreed at negotiations to implement the resulting solution
after appropriate review and consultation with the Association to be carried
out not later than June 30, 1982. The project will also improve the existing
slipway and workshops at Ouesso to provide upstream vessel maintenance facili-
ties. ATC agreed at negotiations to introduce surcharges for faulty raft
assembly and slow barge-loading operations in consultation with the Associa-
tion not later than June 30, 1982, and to provide additional training to ship
captains with high accident records. Provision is also made under the project
for dredging and river training on the Lower Sangha, under consultant supervi-
sion, to attempt to extend the river navigation season.
3.20      All of the foregoing measures will assist in increasing fleet
availability and hence productivity, thus serving to minimize operating costs
and fleet investment requirements on the river service while maximizing the
quality of service under the conditions prevailing.
3.21      River maintenance, beaconage and improvements in the navigability
of the Sangha, N'Goko, Oubangui and Lobay rivers are carried out the SCEVN.
(Duration of navigation on the rivers varies from place to place and season to
season (Table 3.3)). Beaconage and buoyage are carried out by two teams three
times a year. Dredging of alluvial materials is done by two suction dredgers,
one on the Oubangui and the other at the confluence of the N'Goko and Sangha
rivers. Rock dredging is concentrated on the Oubangui river around Zinga,
where systematic rock dredging is improving navigability. A FAC-financed
study is underway to determine the feasibility of further permanent river
training works on the Upper Sangha.  Experimental river training works,
financed by FED, are being executed on the Lobaye river, which may be useful
in assuring safe navigation on the river.
C.   Traffic
Freight
3.22      The port of Brazzaville is the link between the CFCO railway and
the navigation system made up of the Congo, Oubangui, Sangha and N'Goko rivers
that serves the Congo, CAR and southeast Cameroon. Traffic upstream from
Brazzaville consists essentially of imports for CAR and supplies to northern
Congo brought via Pointe Noire; traffic downstream to Brazzaville is mainly
timber exports from the Congo, CAR and Cameroon. Past traffic at Brazzaville
port is shown in Table 3.4 and analyzed below.
3.23      Upstream traffic from Brazzaville has been declining slowly due to
deterioration of river transport services which has led to diversion of
traffic to the more costly but faster and more reliable routes via Douala



- 11 -
and to an increase in imports by air. General cargo traffic loadebd at Brazza-
ville port in 1977-1979 averaged 67,000 tons/year, or 5.3% lower than the
average traffic during 1973-1975. Petroleum imports via Brazzaville have
declined due to stagnation of CAR's economy and the deteriorating service
offered by the ACCF, which has a monopoly of petroleum imports to the CAR.
While about 60,000 tons/year were handled at Brazzaville during 1973-75, the
port handled only 52,000 tons/year during 1978-80, or a drop of 1'3%.
3.24      Downstream general cargo traffic to Brazzaville, essenti'ally
exports from CAR and Chad, has also been suffering from poor servi'ce. Tim-
ber, the main traffic item, has fluctuated since the early 1970's at around
300,000 tons, except for a sharp fall in 1975 following a market slump. It
made a strong and continuous recovery until 1977. During the last two years
foresters curtailed production due to railway capacity constraints from
Brazzaville to Pointe Noire. These problems have been remedied and the CFCO
carried a record timber traffic of 666,000 tons (including 359,000 tons from
Brazzaville) in 1980.
3.25      ATC's river transport traffic has generally followed the pattern
of movements at Brazzaville port (Table 3.5). ATC's upstream river transport
traffic dropped from an average 31,100 tons during 1973-75 to 29,300 tons
during 1977-79 or a decline of 6%. Downstream general cargo traffic has also
decreased steadily following a reduction of exports by Chad and t'he CAR and
diversion to the Douala route. While total timber traffic at Brazzaville has
stagnated, ATC's log traffic in rafts increased from about 62,000 tons/year in
1973-74 (excluding the abnormally low 1975 traffic) to 106,000 tons/year in
1977-79 at the expense of ACCF's traffic, as a result of increases in Congo's
and Cameroon's timber production and decline in CAR's. Some 20% of the rafted
logs are handled by private operators. Due to transport capacity constraints
and low productivity, ATC's haulage of timber in barges remained practically
constant at around 30-34,000 tons.
3.26      General cargo forecast.  Overall general cargo traffic at the port
of Brazzaville (Table 3.4) is forecast to grow from an average of 111,000 tons
in 1978-1979 to 156,000 tons in 1986, or about 5% yearly. This goal is
expected to be achieved as a result of the creation of SOCATRAF (para. 3.13)
which has already substantially improved service and operating capacity. It
is expected that shippers will now be induced to return to the lcwer cost
route via Pointe Noire. Because of the expected improvement in ACCF service,
ATC river transport of general cargo is forecast (Table 3.6) to remain at
present levels, and to gradually decrease its share of inter-coun.try traffic
from over 30% in 1979 until reaching the statutory 20% by 1982-83.
3.27      Timber forecast.  Timber traffic at Brazzaville port is forecast to
increase from 312,000 tons in 1979 to 631,000 tons in 1986--an average annual
growth rate of about 11% (Table 3.4). Much of this growth would take place in
and after 1983 due to higher production in northern Congo (from 91,000 tons in
1979 to 136,000 in 1982, and reaching 267,000 tons in 1986).



- 12 -
3.28      The production forecast is based on projected increased activity by
companies already established in the area as well as by new forestry conces-
sions (Map IBRD 15277). World prices for tropical timber reached peak levels
in 1980 and are expected to continue increasing, thereby encouraging forestry
companies to step up output. In compliance with the Credit Agreement (Credit
1047-COB) for the completion of the CFCO realignment, the Government completed
an agreement with a German firn in July 1980 for the allocation of a new
corncession; the firm expects to evacuate some 90,000 tons per year by 1986.
Three additional forestry units are immediately available in the Ouesso area
and negotiations are underway between the Government and three companies for
the allocation of concessions. The first of three is now in a relatively
advanced stage of final feasibility and a protocol d'accord has been signed
with one of the two foreign partners. A decree establishing the proposed
mixed enterprise Societe Congolaise des Bois de la Sangha (SCBS) is now being
drafted.  A detailed concession agreement will be drafted immediately there-
after. In the meantime, the Government is preparing to seek through interna-
tional tender fully qualified and experienced expatriate manageinent and
technical assistance teams to run the logging and sawmilling operations of the
proposed SCBS. In forecasting traffic, it has been assumed that the first
new unit wili start production in 1983 (possibly with Bank Group financing) and
a second one in 1985. All the new Congo timber production is to be evacuated
by ATC river transport (Tables 3.7 and 3.8), while most of the CAR increase
will be taken up by the SOCATRAF. In summary, ATC river transport would
increase its movement from about 34,000 tons of timber in barges (sawn timber
and high quality and non-floatable logs) and 106,000 floated tons in 1977-79
to 65,000 tons and 174,000 tons, respectively, in 1984, and 91,000 tons and
221,000 tons, respectively, in 1986, as a result of overall higher timber
production as well as an increased proportion of timber processing at the
site. Procurement of ten timber barges and one line pusher under the proposed
project will be linked to increases in existing production and the coming on
line of new production and contingent on evidence submitted to the Bank
Justifying additional equipment needs (see para. 6.23).
Passengers
3.29      Passengers at Brazzaville port increased steadily from about 23,000
passengers in 1973-74 to about 41,000 passengers in 1977-78, or an average
annual rate of about 13%. Practically all this traffic is carried by ATC's
river transport fleet operating on the Oubangui, Congo and Sangha rivers.
ATC also provides local transport services in the Cuvette area. Traffic at
Brazzaville declined in 1979 as ATC's fleet was reduced by five units following
the loss of two passenger barges and the writing-off of three unsafe units,
Long distance passengers account for about 80% of total passenger demand. Most
passengers are small traders and fishermen (particularly from the Mossaka-
Ouesso area) carrying their production to Brazzaville.  The volume of smoked
fish carried in passenger ships is significant: In 1979, some 1,000-1,500
tons were brought to Brazzaville, about a third of it from the Mossaka area.
The quality of ATC river passenger transport services is very poor due to lack
of adequate equipment. This is a serious problem as most trips are long: an
average trip Brazzaville-Mossaka takes three days, and Brazzaville-Ouesso
about ten days.



- 13 -
3.30      ATC's, as well as Brazzaville port's passenger traffic demand is
forecast to grow from 41,000 passengers in 1978 to 49,000 passengers in 1984,
and 53,000 passengers in 1986 (Table 3.6). ATC will be able to meet the
increased demand due to a new passenger ship financed by KfW, expected to
be put into service by 1984 between Brazzaville and Ouesso, and another pas-
senger ship, to be financed under the proposed project, which will operate
a shuttle service between Brazzaville and Mossaka. Passenger service does not
pay its own way because the Government wishes to keep tariffs low for social
reasons. Therefore Government will be asked to agree to provide ATC with
an operating subsidy covering ATC's losses on passenger transport services
(para 5.12).
D.   The capacity of ATC's timber fleet
3.31      The existing ATC fleet is sufficient to satisfy demand for rafted
logs until at least 1985. Its 38 micro-pushers serving the timber traffic
could carry at today's efficiency about 150,000 tons/year, compared to a
demand of about 108,000 tons in 1980; with the improvements in utilization
expected under the project they could move up to about 200,000 tons, which
would be enough to carry the forecast traffic through 1985. Therefore, no
purchase of micro-pusher equipment is envisaged under the proposed project.
3.32      On the other hand, ATC has a shortage of equipment for barged
timber. Its 17 timber barges which are in satisfactory condition can handle
today less than 30,000 tons, a situation that has forced the ATC to utilize
for this traffic its general cargo barges, most of which are old, in poor
condition and are of inadequate design to integrate into timber convoys. The
ACCF fleet of timber barges, which is relatively large, is in very poor
operational condition due to poor maintenance and SOCATRAF has assigned high
priority to rehabilitating them; however, it expects the process to be slow
and their goal is to be able to carry the proportion of traffic that is
allocated to the CAR company under its international traffic agreements with
Congo. The capacity of private transport operators, including a substantial
part by SCEVN equipment used for commercial purposes, is expected to remain
constant at best. The KfW is financing the purchase of two mixed barges
(oil/timber) to be delivered by mid-1983. The provision of two additional
mixed barges under the proposed project, the four 300T timber barges to be
procured under the project in 1982, together with an expected increase of 18%
in barge productivity over 1980 levels (see Table 3.2) will allow the ATC to
meet the projected demand for 1982, although it will have to rely on using its
general cargo fleet for this purpose until barge deliveries are completed.
The additional 10 barges and a line pusher also to be procured under the
project under phased delivery (para. 4.05 and 4.17) should allow ATC to carry
all demand foreseen until at least end-1984. A detailed analysis of barge
requirements is presented in Table 4.1.



- 14 -
IV. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   Investment Plan 1980-86
4.01      ATC prepared a five-year (1980-84) investment plan (Annex II), to
which it subsequently made some minor revisions and extended the plan to 1986
to align with the national plan period 1982-86. Investment levels shown for
1985/86 are, however, only indicative and ATC has not made an attempt to
forecast detailed requirements beyond 1984. Other than completing the CFCO
realignment, the plan focuses on renewals and investments needed to carry
expected increases in traffic. Besides the river transport investments that
comprise the proposed project, the other major investments cover the continua-
tion of the long overdue rehabilitation program of the permanent way between
Mont Belo and Brazzaville (310 km), thus permitting full benefits to be
derived from the realignment. Total investments under the plan, excluding
the realignment project, amount to CFAF 47.6 billion (US$190.4 million)
including physical and price contingencies. About 52% or CFAF 24.9 billion
(US$99.6 million) represents renewal of facilities and equipment and the
remainder new investments, particularly in river transport equipment, light
locomotives, port warehousing and terminal areas. The investment plan is
based on operating targets set for each of the ATC operating sections and has
been prepared in consultation with the Association.
4.02      Financing for the 1981 portion of the investment program has already
been obtained. ATC is discussing with potential aid sources the financing of
investment needs for later years. Given the need to control ATC's future debt
service burden, consultation with the Association would continue to be required
for every investment over CFAF 400 million equivalent as specified under the
Second Railway Project and its Supplementary Financing (Credit 1047-COB,
approved June 1980).
The Project
B.   Objectives
4.03      The proposed project has a two-fold primary purpose:  first, to
ensure that, as far as possible, ATC transport facilities meet the existing
transport demand on the river systems of northern Congo, southern Cameroon
and CAR effectively and economically, with main emphasis on the needs of the
timber industry on which the economy of the region depends. Secondly, to
further ensure that ATC will have adequate capacity to meet anticipated
medium-term growth in the economy, again focussed on timber cutting and
processing. Two ancillary, though important, goals are to assist the Govern-
ment to establish a transport planning mechanism, aimed primarily at improving
the selection and evaluation of investment projects and proposing policies
oriented towards optimizing resource allocation, and to assist the OCB in
improving its management and timber marketing organization and operations
with a view to rendering it capable of playing a vital role in the future
development of the forestry sector.



- 15 -
C.   Detailed Project Description
4.04      To meet the proposed project objectives, investments are required in
new floating equipment and training facilities and financing is required for
repairing and upgrading port facilities, for river training works, and for
technical assistance in a number of areas. The project items are outlined
below and described in detail in paras. 4.05 through 4.11 and in Table 4.4.
I.   ATC Project Components
A.   Equipment:
1. Floating equipment and spare parts including 14 log and timber
barges; 2 mixed fuel/timber barges; 1 self-propelled pontoon;
2 high-speed launches; 2 400-HP line pushers; 1 400-HP tug boat;
1 passenger pushboat; and miscellaneous equipment;
2. Main frame computer and peripheral equipment.
B.   Civil and mechanical works:
1. Repair, rehabilitation and upgrading of port facilities at
Brazzaville, Ouesso and Mossaka;
2. Training building at Brazzaville; and
3. Construction of dams and groins for river training.
C.   Technical assistance for supervision, training, management and
technical studies.
II.  Government Project Components
Technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport for transport planning and
to the OCB for improvement of management and operations.
4.05      Details of the various items are as follows:
A.   Equipment
1.   Floating equipment
(i) Fourteen 300-T barges will be used to transport sawn timber
and high quality, non-floating logs from forestry concessions
to Brazzaville. These barges, one meter wider than those
already in use, will provide an effective capacilZy to transport
up to approximately 280 tons of logs and/or sawn timber at high
water levels. An analysis of yearly barge requirements, taking
into account the traffic demand forecast, the existing fleet
and expected improvements in barge utilization, is shown in
Table 4.1. Based on the forecast, four timber barges will be



- 16 -
provided in 1982 to replace general cargo barges unsuitable for
transport of timber and to provide the additional capacity for
handling projected increases in timber production from existing
forestry concessions. The 'balance to meet foreseeable demand
through 1984, would be ordered in two annual lots of five.
However, provision of these 10 barges depend on firm undertak-
ings with respect to new forestry concessions (para. 6.23).
(ii)  Two 200-T mixed fuel/timber barges will allow regular delivery
of fuel to the foresters on the upstream trip and will trans-
port sawn timber on the downstream trip to Brazzaville. This
equipment will overcome a deficiency in ATC's current capacity
to transport fuel. The barges will have a capacitv of 240 m3
for fuel and 200 tons of sawn timber at high water levels.
(iii) One lOT self-propelled pontoon with a ramp will transport
heavy equipment to destinations where no quays for unloading
general cargo or hea-vy equipment exist. This equipment will
obviate the need to construct loading facilities in the Cuvette
Region where they are not justified. The pontoon will be
pushed in a barge convoy on long hauls and rely on its own
propulsion on short trips.
(iv) Two light, high-speed control launches will help control
river fleet movements and provide assistance when repairs
are required in mid-stream. One launch will be stationed at
Ouesso and one at Mossaka.
(v) Two 400-HP line pushers are required to replace a worn-out
pusher and to provide increased pushing capacity for the new
barge units. One pusher will be ordered for delivery in 1982,
and the other will be procured with the 1983 timber barge order
conditional upon justification through increased timber traffic
(para. 6.23).
(vi) One 400-HP tug boat for the port of Brazzaville will replace a
tug being taken out ofi service and will be used to move barges
in the port and to and from the island of M'Bamou.
(vii)  One passenger pushboat will provide much needed capacity on
the heavily-travelled leg between Mossaka and Brazzaville.
This vessel will double as a pusher for cargo barges between
Brazzaville and Mossaka, relieving the regular pusher fleet of
short-haul movements, and at the same time generating income
to partly offset the deficit ooeration on passenger transport.
(viii) Miscellaneous equipment includes a stock of replacement
motors in various sizes, outboard motors for use in small
craft to control and coordinate operations locally over short
distances.



- 17 -
2. Main frame computer and peripheral equipment
ATC's data processing needs are considerable--particularly if effi-
cient transport operations are to result and if good accounting and
financial control and information systems are to be effectively
implemented. Under the ongoing railway project, a Bank-financed
consultant has prepared a comprehensive medium-term data processing
plan for ATC. The main applications would initially be in account-
ing and financial record keeping, rail traffic dispatching and
planning, rail spare parts inventory management, river transport
fleet scheduling, and maintenance scheduling on rail and river
transport (see para. 5.03). The data processing plan is predicated
on ATC managing its data processing requirements independently of
the existing monopoly of the Office Congolais de l'Informatique
(OCI). The poor quality of present OCI services, its unreliability
and its basic unsuitability to ATC needs, makes it imperative that
ATC be fully autonomous in its data-processing facilities and
services. ATC is now discussing with OCI and the Government a
working arrangement under which OCI may operate ATC owmed equipment
for ATC's exclusive use, with ATC responsible for system and program
development, and work scheduling. These arrangements are expected
to be finalized shortly, and ATC will present to the Association,
for review and comment, the draft agreement between OCI and itself.
The proposed project component would finance the purchase of a main
frame computer at the Pointe Noire headquarters, and two smaller
computers to be installed in the CFCO railway workshop and in
Brazzaville at VNPTF, together with peripheral equipment (line
printers, consoles, disk/tape drives, etc.). The phasing of the
computer purchases and the training of ATC staff would be spread
over a two-year period.
B.   Civil and mechanical works
4.06      It will be necessary to expand the Brazzaville marine workshop in
order to assemble the fleet elements procured under the project without
upsetting the regular maintenance work. These works will mainly consist of
construction of transversal rails at the slipway, which will also be equipped
with carriages and jacks for moving vessels laterally.
4.07      The training center in Brazzaville will be enlarged by providing a
building equipped to train mechanics who will repair pushers in transit on the
rivers.
4.08      The proper functioning of the port of Mossaka, an important stopover
point for all the transit traffic, requires rehabilitation and upgrading of
the existing superstructure, and the construction of appropriate staff accom-
modation.
4.09      Ouesso, at the confluence of the N'Goko and Sangha rivers, is well
placed to coordinate the transport demands of the foresters with ATC fleet
movements and to assure vessel maintenance and repair. Under the project, the
existing slipway and workshop equipment will be rehabilitated and upgraded.
Additional housing will be built to provide sufficient accommodation for the
resident staff.



- 18 -
4.10      Using methods employed successfully in similar circumstances else-
where, an attempt will be made to block redundant tributaries of the Lower
Sangha with trees and brush (beaver dams) to increase the main river flow
during low water to extend the navigational season. Local materials will also
be used to act as groins to train the main channel. Initially, dredging may
be required to prevent channels downstream from construction from being
blocked. These works will be carried out by SCEVN when the fleet is idle.
The project would finance the foreign costs associated with these works
including the services of a specialist experienced in this work.
C.   Technical Assistance
4.11      ATC will employ suitably qualified and experienced consultants under
the project to (a) design and supervise construction and assembly of the new
fleet, (b) design and supervise construction of beaver dams, groins and dredg-
ing of the entrance channel to Brazzaville, (c) train ATC mechanics for mainte-
nance and repair of pushers on the river, (d) review VNPTF's organization,
management, manpower plan, and carry out river transport operation studies,
and (e) carry out the tariff and cost studies and assist in implementation of
the computer system.
4.12      The project also includes (a) technical assistance Lo establish a
planning and coordination unit in the Ministry of Transport, and (b) manage-
ment and technical assistance to the Office Congolais du Bois.
4.13      Total consultant man months are estimated as follows:  for ATC,
design and supervision - 55 m/m, training - 36 m/m, organization and financial
studies - 81 m/m; for technical assistance to Government - 108 m/m; and OCB,
70 m/m.
D.   Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
4.14      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$28.1 million; local
costs amount to an estimated US$5.0 million equivalent and foreign costs to
about US$23.1 million equivalent (82%). Cost estimates for the proposed
project in 1981 prices are summarized below and detailed in Table 4.2. The
project would be exempt from taxes and duties.
4.15      The final cost estimates for the civil works and equipment are based
on the bids received in June 1981. The cost of all consulting services and
technical assistance is based on 350 man-months of services and is estimated
in 1981 prices at US$11,500 per man-month including reimbursable expenses.
Physical contingencies for equipment at 7% and civil works at 15% have been
provided for. Price contingencies have been calculated for local currency at
12% a year, in 1981 through 1984, foreign currency at 11.6% in 1981. 9.9% in
1982, 8.8% in 1983 and 7.7% in 1984. Overall, the price contingency element
allows for cost increases in the project averaging 12% over the implementation
period. This is considered reasonable given the bids received and the rela-
tively short delivery time for most equipment except the timber barges.



- 19 -
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
% of
in CFAF million        in US$ m:illion       Total
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Cost
ATC PROJECT COMPONENTS
A. Equipment
River Fleet                  575   3,465   4,040   2.300  13.560  16.160  57.6
Data processing                -       86      86       -    0.344   0.344   1.2
B. Civil and Mechanical Works
Repair, rehabilitation and
upgrading of port infra-
structure at Brazzaville,
Ouesso and Mossaka           159      258     417   0.636   1.032   1.668   5.9
Brazzaville Training Center  14         26      40   0.056   0.104   0.160   0.6
Dams and groins on the
Sangha river                  32     122      160   0.152   0.488   0.640   2.3
C. Technical Assistance           89      453      542   0.356   1.812   2.168   7.7
Total Base Costs ATC           875   4,410   5,285   3.500  17.640  21.140  75.3
GOVERNMENT PROJECT COMPONENTS
Ministry of Transport             46      251      297   0.184   1.004   1.188   4.2
OCB                               24      187      211   0.096   0.748   0.844   3.0
Total Base Costs Government   70        438     508   0.280   1.752   2.032   7.2
TOTAL BASE COSTS               945   4,848   5,793   3.780  19.392  23.172  82.5
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                        70      304     374   0.280   1.216   1.496   5.3
Price                          229      625      854   0.916   2.500   3.416  12.2
Total Contingencies            299      929   1,228   1.196   3.716   4.912  17.5
GRAND TOTAL               1,244   5,777   7,021   4.976  23.108  28.084 100.0



- 20 -
4.16      Financing Plan.  Under the existing Credit 1047-COB covenants, and
in view of an already high debt service burden, ATC must provide out of
internal cash generation at least 50% of its annual depreciation provision
towards financing new investments and renewals so that a ratio of about 65%
new borrowings and 35% equity financing is always maintained (Table 10 of
Annex III). The proposed financing plan reflects this provision.
CFAF      US$       % of
million   million   total
Requirements
Project costs - ATC                    6,428     25.7       91.6
- Government              593      2.4        8.4
Total requirements                   7,021     28.1      100.0
Sources
ATC Project Component
ATC internal cash generation           971      3.9       13.9
Government                          1,713        6.8      24.4
IDA                                 3,744      15.0       53.3
Subtotal                            6,428      25.7       91.6
Government Project Comopnent
Government                              87      0.4        1.2
IDA                                    506      2.0        7.2
Subtotal                               593      2.4        8.4
Total Sources               7,021      28.1     100.0
of which:  ATC                971       3.9       13.9
Government      1,800       7.2       25.6
IDA             4,250      17.0      60.5



- 21 -
4.17      The proposed IDA Credit of US$17.0 million equivalent would finance
61% of the total project costs. Of the total amount of the proposed Credit,
88% or US$15.0 million equivalent would be onlent to ATC at an interest rate
of 10% for 20 years including five years' grace. The Government's share of
the financing plan for the ATC project components would amount to US$6.8
million equivalent, representing 37% of the total estimated foreign exchange
cost of the river transport fleet; it would be made available to the ATC
as a capital grant. The remaining portion of the IDA Credit, or US$2.0
million equivalent would finance the full foreign exchange costs of technical
assistance to the Government, i.e., Ministry of Transport, and OCB. The
Government's share of the financing for these components would be US$0.4
million equivalent or the estimated local cost component. Thus, for the
project as a whole, the proposed IDA Credit would finance 73% of foreign
exchange costs or 61% of total costs, the Government would finance 27% of
foreign exchange and 21% of local costs or 26% of total costs and ATC would
finance 79% of local costs or 14% of total costs. The Government and ATC
would conclude a Financing Agreement covering the onlending of t'he relevant
portion of the IDA Credit and the provision of the Government's share of the
financing plan. Execution of a satisfactory financing agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
4.18      Except for certain replacement motors and spare parts where stan-
dardization is desirable, all floating craft and equipment, and civil works at
Brazzaville, Ouesso and Mossaka, for the rehabilitation and upgrading of the
river ports under the project will be procured under international competitive
bidding procedures following Bank guidelines. Timber barges will be procured
under a single contract, covering confirmed orders for deliveries in 1982, and
options for the barges to be delivered in 1983 and 1984. One line pusher
would be procured for delivery in 1982 and the other one will be subject to
the same conditions as for the barges to be ordered for 1983 delivery. The
barge and line pusher options would be taken up or cancelled according to a
satisfactory review of the needs by IDA information for which would be pre-
sented by ATC no later than June 30, 1982 for the 1983 orders and June 30,
1983 for the 1984 orders (para. 6.23).  Bidding specifications for the computer
purchases will include availability of compatible software to minimize recon-
version of existing applications, and more importantly the availability of
adequate after-sales service in the Central African region. As these purchases
are part of a long-term program, flexibility to expand and provide new capa-
bilities in the future will also be emphasized. ATC has hired a suitably
qualified and experienced consultant to prepare bid specificaticns and assist
in bid evaluations.
4.19      The proposed IDA Credit would finance 100% of the foreign exchange
costs of technical assistance and training and the data processing equipment,
67% of the total costs (representing the estimated foreign exchange component)
of civil and mechanical works, and 53% of the total costs of floating equipment
(see table below). The estimated annual rate of disbursement for the total
investment is shown in Table 4.2. Disbursements from the credit: account
should be fully documented except for river training works which should be
made on statements of expenses certified by the Technical Director of VNPTF.



- 22 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Contribution
Bank FY and quarter ending             per quarter       cumulative
--------US$ million-------
FY 1982
March 31, 1982                         1.352               1.352
June 30, 1982                          0.636               1.988
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                     1.988               3.976
December 31, 1982                      2.472               6.448
March 31, 1983                         2.496               8.944
June 30, 1983                          0.948               9.892
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                     1.512              11.404
December 31, 1983                      2.428              13.832
March 31, 1984                         0.784              14.616
June 30, 1984                          0.728              15.344
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                     0.864              16.208
December 31, 1984                      0.704              16.912
March 31, 1985                         0.088              17.000
F.   Project Implementation
4.20      ATC/VNPTF is competent to implement the project with the assistance
of consultants. Project implementation is expected to take four years and
the project is scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1984. Table 4.3
shows the estimated implementation schedule by the main components. The Min-
istry of Transport and OCB would be responsible for their respective compo-
nents.
G.   Environmental Impact
4.21      Training works on the Lower Sangha consisting of beaver dams and
groins should not alter the river basin to any measurable degree; consequently
the environmental effect of these works is not expected to be significant.
This conclusion shall be verified during the four years of construction and if
necessary, suitable improvements would be proposed to minimize the environmen-
tal impact of these works.



- 23 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Introduction
5.01      ATC is financially autonomous and operates on a commercial basis.
The operating sections--i.e. CFCO, Port of Pointe Noire, the Port: of Brazza-
ville and other river ports, and River Transport--have individual budgets
and investment plans, as do the two administrative units--ATC Headquarters
(Direction Generale) and VNPTF. In principle, the operating seclions must
cover their expenses through their own revenues, and must cover a proportio-
nate share of the administrative overhead of the headquarters staff and the
VNPTF staff. In practice, as will be discussed below, this has not been the
case. The sections are also financially interdependent: surpluses in one
section are to be used to cover deficits in another. The arrangements appear
reasonable in view of the interdependence of the whole ATC transport system.
5.02      ATC-s accounting and financial costing system is being transformed
to accord with the OCAM accounting plan which has been adapted from the
French enterprise accounting plan and is now being implemented in all the
OCAM member countries. Consultants financed under the Second RaiLlway Project
have completed the design of an integrated cost and financial accounting
system under the OCAM Accounting Plan. ATC is now seeking through interna-
tional tender, services of an experienced accounting firm to imp:Lement the
design and to work with a French technical assistant programmer ln developing
testing and finally implementing the full system by 1982. The services of the
external consultant would be financed under the proposed project., Cost
studies have been carried out by Bank-financed consultants (Sofrerail) on the
CFCO and the River Transport operations. However, the absence of a well-
designed costing system has hampered the reliability of the cost:Lng studies
and ATC will need to update its cost-tariff information once the cost account-
ing system is implemented.  Funds are included under the proposed project to
ensure that this work is carried out in 1982.
5.03      The final development of ATC-s accounting system has aLso been
hampered by a lack of adequate data processing equipment and services. Under
the ongoing railway project, consultants have developed several important
sub-systems to handle ATC purchases, inventory control, budget control and
accounts payable. However, their correct application to ATC operations is
stifled by the ill-adapted data processing system run by the Government
monopoly OCI. OCI services are at best marginal and frequent breakdowns are
the rule rather than the exception. In addition to the traditional accounting
applications, ATC's requirements for data processing are substanlial, both in
Pointe Noire and in Brazzaville (para. 4.05). The Bank-financed consultant
services to ATC management have prepared a comprehensive data processing plan
for ATC. It is an essential element of improved accounting and f-inancial
reporting and control. The proposed computer purchases under the project
address a first phase of ATC's future needs. In view of the OCI monopoly oln
data processing services in the Congo, ATC is now discussing with OCI and the
Government a working arrangement under which ATC would have compLete control
of its data processing needs and will use OCI staff to operate ATC owned
equipment.



- 24 -
5.04      At the organizational level, ATC has finally recruited a senior
financial officer financed by French technical assistance, to serve as director
of the new Division of Financial, Commercial and Economic Planning Services.
Data processing operations and services, as well as budgeting, financial plan-
ning and controls, are now managed by this division. The accounting and book-
keeping services continue to be headed by a French expatriate, who is the ATC's
Statutory Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Two Congolese assistants--one
at Brazzaville and one at Pointe Noire--are being trained to eventually take
over the position of Chief Financial Officer. Other Congolese accounting
staff occupy key middle level positions and are undergoing training both
on-the-iob and through periodic programs overseas. This staff is of high
quality and potential and with additional experience will provide a sound base
for ATC's financial management needs.
5.05      ATC's budgeting and cost control procedures are generally satisfac-
tory. A Government controller oversees and approves all financial transactions
and carries out spot audits. ATC's tight financial position of recent years
has necessitated close planning and control of cash flow. A management
committee meets monthly to review actual cash position and to discuss cash
management strategy. Billing procedures in the CFCO and Port of Pointe Noire
are well-controlled. In the River Transport section, however, record keeping
has been less than satisfactory, and poor billing practices, stemming from
incorrect manifests, hamper efficient bill collection and follow-up. Over the
past eight years ATC has had its accounts regularly audited by a qualified
independent audior (FIDEURAF--a French audit firm). Audit reports are gene-
rally satisfactory and ATC follow-up of audit recommendations adequate. ATC's
external auditor has recently carried out a detailed evaluation of all internal
procedures relating to billing and accounts receivable in the CFCO; a similar
exercise will be carried out for the River Transport Section during 1981. The
auditors have proposed some reorganization to improve internal audit procedures
and have proposed training needs for Congolese staff with sound potential.
During negotiations, agreement was obtained that ATC will carry out, in agree-
ment with IDA, recommendations made by the auditors in this regard. In view
of the inadequate supervision of accounting operations at the VNPTF, ATC
has agreed to select and appoint a technical assistant to be stationed in
Brazzaville to oversee all financial matters and to particularly strengthen
billing procedures at the VNPTF. ATC has screened potential candidates in
this regard. ATC also agreed to effect annual revaluations of all fixed
assets in use by appropriate indexation and to carry out at least once every
five years or as frequently as it may deem necessary, more detailed engi-
neering revaluations, so that the asset base accurately reflects current
value, and depreciation changes are modified annually in line with general
inflation.
B.   Recent Financial Performance and Current Financial Position
5.06      The ATC system as a whole has suffered an operating deficit in four
of the past five years, mainly due to a rapidly increasing interest burden on



- 25 -
CFCO operations. Cash generation, however, remained positive, with system-
wide working ratios between 70 and 80. However, this was not Enough to cover
the growing debt service burden, provide cash for ATC's share cf the 1974-78
investment program excluding the CFCO realignment project, and maintain a
positive working capital. Thus, ATC's working capital deteriorated rapidly
commencing in 1976, and continuing into early 1979. Arrears in payments to
suppliers threatened ATC with delays in buying urgently needed spare parts,
and the resultant inefficiencies had repercussions throughout the transport
system. Overdue debt service payments reached CFAF 2 billion, and ATC produc-
tivity fell to an all time low. In March 1979, following Government and ATC
management changes and in response to continued pressure from the co-donors on
the realignment project, ATC performance picked up rapidly from about mid-1979,
and at the same time Government provided cash advances in order to meet
current debt service obligations and prevent the accumulation of debt service
arrears. In early 1980, Government finally provided ATC with CFAF 4 billion
as working capital, as a result of which by June 30, 1980, ATC had no arrears
on debt service payments, had cleared its overdue supplier accounts and had
substantially reduced its commercial bank overdrafts. The working capital
which was a negative CFAF 2.8 billion in early 1979 had improved to a positive
CFAF 1.9 billion by mid-1980. With increased operational efficiency in the
latter part of 1979 and 1980, ATC's cash and liquidity positioln on December
31, 1980 was a healthy CFAF 10 billion and the net working capital level was
CFAF 2.9 million.
5.07      Summary financial indicators of ATC performance are presented
in the table below and detailed in Tables 1-5 of Annex III.
5.08      Total system-wide operating revenues increased by an average of
12.8% a year--mainly due to average tariff increases of 12.6% a year during
the 1974-1979 period (see Annex III, para. 4), total traffic carried remaining
more or less stagnent. However, as total ATC working expenses increased by
an average of only 11.6% a year, the working ratio imprcved from 74% in 1974
to 70% in 1979. Net operating revenue nearly tripled from 1974 to 1979;
however, interest charges rose four-fold over the same period, thus resulting
in an operating deficit in 1979. The performance of ATC's river transport
section was considerably worse. Operating revenues only rose 10.3% a year
despite an increase in freight traffic on the river transport system of about
2.5% a year, and an average annual tariff increase of 12.6% a year. This
lower-than-average increase in revenues mainly reflected distortion in the
tariff structure and the changing composition of river traffic with a decline
in high value exports from the CAR and Chad and in upstream traffic to CAR,
due to the unstable economic and political conditions in those countries, and
due to diversion of much of the high value general cargo traffic to other
routes (see Table 3.2, which shows a steady decline in general cargo carried
on the river).
5.09      ATC's balance sheet at end-1979 still showed its poor financial
condition prior to the Government's working capital aid. The net working
capital was a negative CFAF 1.6 billion. It's capital structure, however,
was sound--with a long-term debt equity ratio of only 0.74 (43:57 debt: equity
ratio). This was mainly due to ATC obtaining about 20-30% of its capital



- 26 -
A T C  SUMMARY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1974-1980
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENItING DECEMBER 31
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978         1979      , 1980
INCOME STATEMENT
:. TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                       9531.       10445.      13597.       14099.      15240.       17408.      21973.
2. OF WHICH RIVER TRANSPORT                        1182.       1211.        1667.       1824.       2118.        1932.       2392.
3. WORKING EXPENSES                                7016.       8773.      10037.       11217.      10739.       12126.      15558.
4. OF WHICH RIVER TRANSPORT                        1171.       1399.        1543.       1693.       2002.        1939.       2504.
TOTAL DIEFRECIATION                            1701.        1729.       1759.        1937.       2286.       2988.        3247.
o. OF WHICH RIVER TRANSPORT                         154.        186.         192.        170.        270.         327.        353.
'. NET OFEF'ATING REVENUE                           814.        -57.        1801.        945.       2215.        2294.       3168.
3. OF WHICH RIVER TRANSFORT                        -143.       -374.         -68.        -39.       -154.        -334.       -465.
I. INTEREST CHARGES                                 631.        705.         870,       1308.        1748.       2429.       2551.
::D.NET OFERATING SURPLUS(DEFICIT)                   183.       -762.         931.       -363.         467.       -135.        617.
:1. AVG NET FXD ASSETS IN USE                     30024.       35938.      38118.       41929.      49885.       54023.      57567.
:2. OF WHICH RIVER TRANSPORT                        1708.       2044.       2020.        2648.       3612.        3695.       4007.
RATE OF RETURN ON AV NFA(X X 10)                 27.          -2.         47.          23.         44.          42.         55.
:4. OF WHICH RIVER TRANSPORT                         -84.       -183.         -34.        -15.         -43.        -90.       -116.
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
zOURCES
*. NET CASH GENERATION                            2721.        1718.       3354.        2412.       3950.        5725.       5251.
2. LONG TERM BORROWINGS                           3017.        2575.       8505.        5931.     .13083.        8520.      12358.
3. TOTAL SUBSIDIES                                 1196.       1529.        3119.       1314.       4509.         625.       4602.
4. OTHER SOURCES                                               1532.         123.
;'FLICATIONS
INVESTMENTS-EXTERNALLY FINANCED                3922.       3956.       10723.       6584.       16952.       8211.       11340.
'-.             INTERNALLY FINANCED                829.         916.       1246.        1626.       1887.        1695.       1532.
7. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                              1613.       1952.       2322.        3276.       3856.        4438.       4583.
8. YARIATIONS +(-) IN WORKING CAPITAL                63.        128.         977.      -1671.       -169.         995.       4563.
.ALANCE SHEET
_SSETS
1. CURRENT ASSETS-CASH                              174.        400.         481.        535.        625.        1040.       1396,
2.                  RECIEVABLES                    3962.       2945.       3386.        4106.       4332.        6612.       9198.
3.                  STORES                         1439.       1720.       2252.        2536.       2787.        2560.       2678.
4. FIXED ASSETS-NET IN USE                       34774.       37099.      39134.       44722.      55044.       52999.      62134.
'.          WORK IN PROGRESS                      5812.        6446.      13356.       13270.      29898.       36561.      44784.
'ABILITIES I EQUITY
-. CURRENT LIABILITIES-PAYABLES                    4875.       2473.       2386.        4205.       4119.        6250.       5973.
7.                        OVERDRAFT                 492.       1241.       1335.        1870.       2002.        1557.       1602.
S.             -OVERDUE MATURITES                    25.       1040.        1110.       1485.       2175.        1962.        691.
9.             -CURRENT MATURITES                  1375.       1211.        1765.       2012.       2171.        2029.       2794.
:'. NET LONG TERM DEBT                             8377.        9869.      16368.       20084.      30900.       37553.      47114.
:1. TOTAL EQUITY                                  30695.       32635.      35723.       36589.      52242.       50599.      63393.



- 27 -
expenditures as capital grants, thus continually improving its equity Dase
while undergoing a rapid increase in long-term deDt outstandirLg. The Dalance
sheet at end-1980 is expected to show a substantially improvec. picture Dotn as
a result of improved traffic performance in 1980 and the working capital
injection by Government.
C.   Tariffs and Costs
5.10       Throughout the 70's ATC's tariffs were generally below tull costs
for the major traffic categories. A notable exception was the COi'iIL0G
manganese traffic which covered its costs, although tnte Dasis of the cost
allocations set for COMILOG could no longer be considered valid.  The use of
line capacity on the CFCO by the manganese traffic effectively preempted
development of other higher valued traffic, i.e. timber, unless the high cost
realignment was carried out. During negotiations on the Supplementary credit
for the CFCO realignment, it was agreed that ATC and the Government would
jointly review with Gabon and COMILOG the oasis for tariff setting ana incor-
porate fully the benefits accruing to CONiILCOG as a result of the reai4nmenlt
and other capital improvements. The other major traffic category--i.e.
timber--did not cover costs throughout the 197Us. Tne differential is hign on
the CFCO--with certain classes of timber covering on the average only 7Wo oi
total costs. On the river transport, rafted logs apparently cover 85-95/. of
costs while barged logs only cover about 8U% of their costs. These estimates
are in 1980 prices which reflect a surge in operating expenses due to recent
fuel increases and increases in maintenance charges.
5.11       ATC's budget proposal for 1981 shows the following relationsnip of
estimated costs by traffic category and actual (1980) tariff levels for the
ATC system as a whole.
Average           X
Traffic                                    Tariff/tk          cost/tk        coverag,e
(CFAF/tk)         (CFAF/tk)
Timber                                      12.92              19.61            b6
Petroleum products                           18.90             16.19           116
Essentials (foodstuffs, cereals)            13.70              19.09            71.7
Flour                                       12.30              17.35            70
Cement                                      13.31              15.26            67
Cotton                                      16.85              24.93            68
Other merchandise                           24.63              19.09           129
The above assessment was made on the basis of a costing study carried out
by SOFRERAIL, in 1978/79. The consultants analyzed 1977 and 1]976 operating
cost data almost exclusively for the CFCO and the river transport section.
The figures were then updated by ATC to a 1980 base and reflect recent asset
revaluation. Despite the statistical deficiencies, the table provides a good
picture of the relative profit/loss picture by major traffic categories. It
also explains why operating revenue on CFCO and River Transport is forecast to



- 28 -
grow at a slower rate than the growth in traffic, which reflects a more rapid
increase in timber as opposed to other general cargo traffic. The ATC tariff
structure has not yet made the adjustments to reflect the changing traffic
composition, despite average tariff increases of 12-13% a year in the past
five years. Some tariff increases were applied selectively on timber, Dut
rapidly increasing working costs, higher annual depreciation ana i-inancial
charges have eroded whatever differentiaLs were applied in the past few years.
5.12      Passenger tariffs on the CFCO and River Transport are estimated to
cover about 75% of average cost per passenger kilometer. However, this figure
does not indicate the discrepancies existing between different passenger
traffic classes. For example, on the CFCO, third class passenger tariffs
provide only 69% of marginal costs and 38% of total costs of the services,
while all traffic classes cover fully the marginal costs but only 54% of total
costs. While these figure refer almost entirely to CFCO traffic, they are
worse for River Transport. Within the limitations of availability of accurate
and reliable cost data, SOFRERAIL estimated that on the river transport
system, passenger revenues covered only 58% of costs on the Oubangui and
Sangha services, and about 32% on the Cuvette services. While some of the
deficiencies may be attributed to poor control by ATC, the presence of a large
number of non-paying passengers, and other factors, Government reluctance to
permit more than the average tariff increases has contributed largely to the
growing differential between revenues and cost on ATC river passenger services.
With the urgent need to replace an aging fleet, ATC is faced with even higher
unit costs for passenger transport. The Government has agreed that such
improvements in services and the attendant cost increases should not be borne
by other traffic categories, and that the difference between revenue and cost
on those services, which ATC must provide out of social/regional aevelopment
considerations, will be fully compensated by the Government. ATC is now
preparing a draft Contrat-Plan spelling out its service obligations and
identifying the per passenger subsidy that would be paid by the Government
in return. During negotiations, the Contrat-Plan was reviewed by the Associa-
tion, and it was agreed that actions related to subsidies for ATC's operations
would be taken only after ATC completes cost and tariff studies as provided
below.
5.13      At negotiations, ATC agreed to complete by December 31, 1982, the
cost studies for all its operating sections, and implement a cost accounting
system that would permit it to determine costs by each major category of
traffic, serve as an accurate basis for tariff and rate setting, and justify
any government subsidies for specific services as agreed under its future
Contrat-Plans with the Government. A schedule for implementation of revised
tariffs based on the studies would also be presented no later than December 31,
1982, for review by the Association.
D.   Future financial performance
5.14      The projection of ATC financial performance through 1i986 has been
prepared on a consolidated basis for all of ATCo It is based on the traffic
forecast prepared for the present project as well as for the Second Railway
Project.  The projections consider the e.isting covenants under Credit



- 29 -
1047-COB, which were designed to ensure ATC liquidity, and satisfactory debt
service coverage particularly over the next 10 years when the impact of ATC's
high debt burden will be most critically felt. Annex III details all the
assumptions in the projections.
5.15          Forecast  income  account.   ATC's average  traffic  growth  in  the next
six years is assumed to be between 9.8% for River Transport, 7.7% for River
Ports, and 5.4% on the CFCO and Port of Pointe Noire. The variations from
year to year are considerable particularly as timber traffic growt:h is
expected to occur in spurts. On the average, in 1980 tariffs, ATC's operating
revenues are forecast to increase at 5.52% a year or about the rate of
growth of CFCO traffic (see Table 8A in Annex III). The increase in
river transport revenues in 1980 tariffs is expected to average 9.14% a year
with a slow buildup in the initial years. This is due to the changing
composition of river traffic with 1981 expected to be a slow growt:h year due
to lack of capacity and the reentry of ACCF as a viable transporter which
will recapture its allocated traffic share (see para. 3.13). Working expenses
are forecast to grow at about 13% a year on the basic assumptions shown in
Annex  III, para.  10.   The forecast  income account  is summarized  below:
BUDGET/ FORECAST INCOME ACCOUNT 1981-1986
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985         1986
__ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -
OPERATING REVENUES(AT PROPOSED NEW TARIFFS)
TARIFF INCREASE ASSUMPTION -                                 95.        119.         87.         66.         77,
RIVER TRANSPORT                              2550.       2873.        3878.       4653.       5507.       6509.
RIVER PORTS                                   647.        729.         897.       1072.       1257.       1488.
C F C 0                                     17396.      19717.      22987.       26206.      29161.      32877.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                         3985.       4517.        5356.       6171.       6971.       7955.
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                     24581.      27837.       33120.      38105.      42898.      48833.
WORKING EXPENSES
STAFF                                        6593.       7407.        8181.       9039.       9963.      10990.
FUEL                                         2798.       2972.        3625.       4388.       5304.       6397.
OTHER MATERIALS                              2941.       3767.        4369.       5037.       5802.       6672.
OTHER CHARGES                                3005.       2905.        3328.       3807.       4344.       4957.
DO ATC/DVNPTF OVERHEAD                       1463.       1828.        2026.       2237.       2471.       2726.
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - -- - - - - - -   . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - - -
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                       16800.      18879.       21528.      24507.      27884.      31742.
TOTAL DEPRECIATION                            3566.       3786.        5014.       6226.       6456.       6680.
 _________ - --   --- -- -   -- -- -   .   _______ __   _____ _ _ _ _ _
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                     20366.      22665.       26542.      30733.      34340.      38422.
 _________ - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   --- - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - -
NET OPERATING REVENUE                         4215.       5172.        6578.       7372.       8558.      10411.
INTEREST CHARGES ON LT I MT DEBT              2911.       3140.        3399.       3544,       3574.       3449.
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   -- - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -
NET OPERATING SURPLUStDEFICIT)                1304.       2032.        3179.       3828.       4984,       6963.
EXCEPTIONAL REVENUES(LOSSES)                  -108.        2560.       -108.       -108.       -108.       -108.
NET ACCOUNTING SURPLUS(DEFICIT)               1197.       4592.        3071.       3720.       4877.       6855.
AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE              63005.      65960.    107547.       147444.    147800.    147925.
RATE OF RETURN ON AVG. NFA(X X 10)               67.         78.         61.         50.          58.         70.
WORKING RATIO -X
1. WITHOUT  TARIFF INCREASE                     68.          74.         73.         70.         69.          70.
2. WITH PROPOSED TARIFF INCREASES                6S.         68.         65.         64.          65.         65.



- 30 -
5.16      Under the Supplementary Credit 1047-COB and under the proposed
project, the key financial targets for ATC are, (a) the working ratio, set at
68% in 1981 and 65% in each year thereafter, and (b) the rate of return on
revalued net fixed assets in use set at 5%.  The former target has as its
rationale the need for ATC to generate sufficient cash out of operations to:
(a)  meet its working capital needs, i.e. to maintain adequate cash
and spare parts inventory levels to be financed out of no more than
three months of accounts payable, limit accounts receivable to aoout
60 days of annual revenues, and not exceed prudent short-term Dank
borrowing limits;
(b)  finance at least about 30% of investment needs so that future debt
service is held to prudent levels and adequate funds for routine
renewals of fixed assets are available on time; and
(c)  meet most of its heavy debt service burden which is expected to rise
from the 1980 level of CFAF 4.6 billion to CFAF 7.3 billion in l983
and CFAF 9.9 billion in 1986, mainly as a result of the extraoruinary
burden of the CFCO realignment debt.
The rate of return target was selected to ensure that an adequate level of
user charges was set and maintained so that future increases in investment and
renewal costs could be properly anticipated and economic benefits arising
from ATC's investments be satisfactorily realized. This tariff level may,
however, not recover fully the extraordinary costs of the CICGO realignment as
it could be economically and financially counter-productive to do so, it
tariffs were raised to a level where they might frustrate traffic. In order
to permit ATC to nonetheless maintain adequate cash and working capital
positions, the Government had agreed under the Supplementary Credit 1047-COB
to provide cash coverage for a part of ATC's realignment debt service. Under
the proposed project, the Government would continue its commitment to relieve
at least a part of ATC's debt burden in future years should it become necessary
(Section 4.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). As a result,
in some years ATC could increase tariffs at a rate lower than indicated in the
forecast tables, which assume full cost recovery, and still meet the working
capital targets, provide an adequate contribution towards renewals and
investments, and cover the major part of its debt service. The precise nature
of ATC's future tariff increases would be based on tariff and cost studies
which ATC would complete in 1982 and whlich would review the impact of different
cost recovery policies on potential demand.
5.17      It is in this context that ATC's 1982 budget and tariff increase
proposals were accepted by Government in September 19bl and an effective
weighted average 9.5% increase in ATC tariffs effective January 19b2 was
obtained. While ATC's projected revenue and working expense budget tor 1I6Z
under the new tariff regime shows a working ratio of 68/o alainst the target
65%, it is nonetheless acceptable in view of the Governments agreement to
provide cash cover for the realignment debt service and to clear arrears owed
ATC by Government and parastatal agencies. Further projections beyond 19b2
show that in order to meet its financial targets under prudent revenue and



- 31 -
cost assumptions, ATC would need to effect a tariff increase ot about 13/. in
1983, and under 10% in the years thereafter.  Assuming aniual generai infla-
tion levels at about 10%, and taking into account the 1981 and i962 tariff
increases of 12.3% and 9.5%, these levels of average tariff increases amount
to about 2% increase in real terms during 1981 and 1982 prior to the commis-
sioning of the CFCO realignment, and to a further 3% in 1983 to retlect an
adequate return on the large increase in the asset base in that year. beyond
that period, tariff increases below the general inflation level would be
adequate to maintain ATC's financial position and meet the target ratios. The
impact of these tariff increases on the major export commodity, timoer is
about 3% in real terns during 1981 and 82, with CFCO and ArTC river transport
costs amounting to about 30% of total production costs of the average timber
species. Sensitivity tests have been carried out under varying traftic and
cost assumptions and are discussed in para. 5.20 below and detailed in Annex
III.
5.18      Forecast source and application of funds.  The main dEterminant of
ATC cash needs during the next few years is ttie high level of debt service.
Table 9, Annex III, details the evolution of ATC debt service through tne year
2001 together with all the assumptions on existing debt and new debt to oe
contracted in 1980 through 1986. Ail new investments are expected to De
financed at least 30% out of earnings, reflecting the Credit i047-COb covenant
stipulating that at least 50% of annual depreciation provisions snould be set
aside for reinvestment purposes. The remaining 70% of capital investments
are expected to be financed by 75% long-term debt and 25)X capital grants--
reflecting all the traditional sources of ATC investment financing--i.e. FED,
FAC, Government.  The working capital requirements have been reassessed
realistically and prudent limits set forth in Credit 1047-COB covenants.
These considerations lead to the forecast source and application ot funds
statement, summarized below and detailed in Annex III. Under the existing
Credit 1047-COB financial covenants, ATC may not undertake additional long-
term borrowings in any year if its cash generation over the prior 12 months is
below 1.25 times the maximum debt service arising from the exisl:ing and
proposed new borrowings in that year.  However, in view of the ongoing con-
struction of the CFCO realignment, it has been agreed in the Cresdit coveniants
that the Government would cover any ATC cash shortfalls arising from the high
realignment debt burden, the maintenance of the working capital targets, and
the provision of internal funds towards investments. In 1962 tne expected
shortfall arising from a lower than forecast tariff increase would amount to
about CFAF 2.0 billion and would be covered by the Government. The maximum
debt service coverage ratio would be 1.02 in 1981 and 1.15 in li82, and would
reach the target in 1983. However, as the Credit 1047-COB covenants also
stipulate that ATC seek the Association's approval for any investment exceeding
CFAF 400 million, the lower debt service coverage woula be acceptable in the
next two years.



- 32 -
SUMNARY FORECAST STATEMENT OF
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS 198-1986
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1981         19B2          1983         1984          1985         1986
SOURCE
1. NET CASH GENERATION(1981 TARIFFS)                      7781.         6543.        5506.         4104.        2338.          211.
2. LONG TERM BORROUINGS-WQRKING CAPITAL                    495.
3. LONG TERM FINANCING-INVESTMENTS
(LOANS/CREDITS/GRANTS)                             14778.        16970.        11296.        2703.         3538.         3530.
TOTAL SOURCES                                            23054.       22513,        16802.         6BG7.        592;.         3741.
APPLICATION
1. INVESTMENTS(INCL. REALIGNMENT)                        18337.       21117.        15825.         5816.        6016,         7030.
2. DEBT SERVICE  (EXISTING DEBT)                          5017.         4733.        4408,         4034.        3927,         3766.
3. DEBT SEPVICE  (NEW BORROWINGS)                          509.          917.        1497.         1955.        3011          3990.
4. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                     5526.         5650.        5905.         5989.        6938.         7756.
3. MIN. INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL                        357.        -1670.        2312.         2219.          831,        1013.
TOTAL AFFLICATIONS                                       24219.       25097.        24045.        14024.       14585.        15799.
6. NET CASX/UIRKING CAPITAL NEEDS                         1165.         1584.        7243.         7217.        8658.        12057.
7. IMPACT OF PRFPOSED TARIFF  INCREASES                                2415.         6086.         9494.       12676.        16880.
.......... ........... .......... .......... ..........  .........  ,  
9. NET ADDITIONAL   NEEDS                                 1165.                      1157.
FINANCIAL TARGETS
TARIFF INCREASE NEEDED TO ACHIEVE                                         95.         119.           87.           66.          77.
FINANCIAL TARGETS IN EACH YEAR
WORRING RATIO--C
I. WI THOUT  TARIFF INCR.                                   68.           74.          732           70.           69.          70.
2. WITH   TARIFF INCR.                                      68.           68.          65.           64.           65.          65.
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO-%
MAXIMUM DEBT SERVICE ARISING FROM
EXISTING  DEBT AND PROPOSED NEW
AGDITIONAL DEBT INCURRED  IN EACH YEAR                   6906.        7800.         9192.         8705,        8788.         9055.
1. RATIO WITHOUT   TARIFF INCR.                            120.          118.          99.          121.          141.         15.
2. RATIO 'ITH   TARIFF INCR.                               120.          149.         142.          156.         171.          189.
RATE OF RETURN IX X 10)1 N
REVALUED AVG. NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE                       67.           76.           61.          50.           58.          70.
LONG TE RM DEBT/EOUITY RATIO(X)                             73.           84.           89.          87.           78.          70.
5.19                Forecast balance sheet.  The ATC forecast balance sheet under
the base hypotheses is summarized below and detailed in Annex III. If
ATC maintains prudent working capital and borrowing limits the overall
capital position would continue to remain satisfactory.
9UDGET/ FORECAST BALANCE SHEET 1981-1986
IN C F A P MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
198I        1982         1993        1984         1985        1986
ASSETS
1. TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                       6952,       8643        10239.       13216.      20666.      27174.
TOTAL NET FIXOD ASSETS IN USE            63873.       68045.    147044.       147840.     147758.     tIMoSa.
WORK IN FROGRESS                        57817.       70975.       2790.        1584.       2026.        2045.
II. TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                     121690.    139020.    149834.    149424.    149784.    150134.
Ill. OTNER ASSETS                             1369.       1261.        1153.       1045.         938.         930.
TOTAL ASSETS                               130011.      148924.      161226.     165705.      171388.     178138.
LIABILITIES AND EOUITY
I. TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                  1265.       5123.        5503.       6923.        8448.      10103.
I.TOTAL NET LION  TERM DEST                  52573.      65452.       72366.       74028.      71348.      49358.
III. OTHER LONB  TERM LIABILITIES              100.         100.        100.         100        100.         100.
IV. TOTAL LIABILITIES                        57938.      70675.       78969.      81051.       79896.       79561.
V. TOTAL EAPITAL  I RESERVES                 45e26.      50418.       51409.        57209.     62055.      &6A40
VI. SUBSIDIES FIR INVESTMENTS                26247.      27847        287AM.       27446.      29407.       29437.
VII. TOTAL EOUITY                            72073.      78265.       82218.      84655.       91493.       98578.
TOTAL LIABILITIES S EQUITY                  130011.     148940.      161227.     165706.      17188.       17823.



- 33 -
E.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.20      ATC financial performance is highly sensitive to traffic levels
and control of working expenses.  The main element of uncertainty with regard
to traffic lies with the development of forest resources in north Congo and
renewed forest exploitation in the CAR following the recent periou of insta-
bility. ATC working expenses, particularly future price increases in diesel
fuel, are also uncertain--only partly controllable by AIC management. It is
for these reasons that a number of sensitivity tests were carried out. They
are detailed in Annex III and the main results presented as Tables 12 A
through C in the same Annex.
5.21      The average tariff increase needed in 1983 would vary between 13
and 16, the former under the base traffic and working expense assumptions
(see Table in para. 5.18 and Tables 10 and 12-A in Annex III), the latter it
the key timber traffic were to grow at only half the projected rate, if
transit timber traffic remained stagnant, and if fuel prices were to increase
30% in each year (as opposed to 21% assumed in the base hypotheses). hlowever
under these conditions, ATC's debt service coverage would be below the
target 1.25 in 1982, meaning thereby that ATl  could only undertake tihe
needed additional borrowings if the Government provided the casht advances to
ATC in those years to cover the projected cash shortfalls. As t:his is an
agreed covenant under 1047-COB, the minimnal deut service coverage in 1982
and 1983 would be an acceptable risk.
VI. ECONilIC EVALUATION
6.01      The economic analysis of the project consists of separate evalua-
tions for all main components which may be analyzed indepenaently, namely,
the passenger pushboat, the equipment for transport of timber, the renabili-
tation of the workshops at Ouesso and the river training works. Thie analysis
utilizes 1980 prices and all monetary values exclude taxes. A summary of
the economic returns is presented in Table 6.1.
Passenger Pushboat
Investment Objective
6.02      The proposed equipment will be the main carrier serving travelers
on the Brazzaville-Mossaka line, the highest density passenger section of tile
ATC river system. The population of Mossaka and its hinteriand,1 consistini
mostly of fishermen, do not have other means of transport to Brazzaville,
except for unscheduled air service by LinaCongo to a small airport across the
river from Mossaka. A road being constructed north of Brazzavi-lie towards
Owando will pass some 250 km away from Mossaka but a highway connectioln to
this city is not planned, as the area between the road alignment and Mlossaka
is swampy and road construction would be extremely expensive.  Che proposea
passenger pushboat will be designed as a passenger ship capable also of pushing
timber barges to maximize its utilization.  Trhe purcthase of a ship for passen-
gers only was analyzed and discarded as being a less efficient investment (see



- 34 -
para. 6.06). The proposed passenger pushboat for delivery in 1983 to serve
the Brazzaville-Mossaka line, and a similar type ship financed by the KfW for
delivery in 1984, which will serve the Brazzaville-Ouesso section are expected
to help ATC to make up for several unsafe passenger units which were taken out
of service in 1979. In that year, passenger traffic fell by more than 15%
below the traffic in the preceding years due to lacK of equipment. Costs
and benefits for the economic analysis are described below and summarized in
Table 6.2.
Benefits and Costs
6.03      In the absence of alternative means of transport, the net revenues
to ATC from its passenger and freight traffic and the value added of produc-
tion, mainly fish, to be carried by the ship are taken as the benefits of the
proposed investments. The net revenue is, however, a conservative proxy
estimate of passenger traffic benefits, as it excludes consumer surplus, and
because of very low passenger tariffs. The ship is expected to make 34 round
trips per year between Brazzaville and iMossaka (27 during the nine montis of
high and medium waters and seven in low water) and to carry 5,500 round-trip
passengers/year. In the 27 round-trips during medium and high water, it will
also be used to push six barges loaded with an average 180 tons of timber
each, yielding some 25,000 tons/year. The annual net revenue from passenger
and timber transport are estimated at CFAF 85.1 million during the first five
years and at CFAF 71.1 million thereafter due to higher maintenance costs.
6.04      The Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) 1/ estimated that some
400 tons of smoked fish were transported on this route by the ATC in 1976.
Fishermen themselves market the fish at Brazzaville and to avoid theft, they
carry it in passenger rather than in freight vessels. The project's ship is
expected to carry about 300 tons of fish per year when it starts service in
1983. 2/ The same FAO report 3/ indicates that the average wholesale price
of smoked fish at Brazzaville port is CFAF 900/kg, a high price which is
explained by the fact that the fish is extremely dry, about 4 kg of fresh
fish needed for every kilo of smoked fish. Allowing CFAF 225/kg for input
costs (smoking, transport, opportunity cost of labor) the value added from
fish transported in the proposed ship would amount to CFAF 207 million in
1983. Value added from other products (mainly wildlife) are estimated at
CFAF 6 million/year.
1/   Draft report on fishing in the Cuvette area, prepared by an FAO expert
in June 1980.
2/   A moderate 5% annual growth in production is assumed.
3/   A fisheries development project based on the above report is expected
to be financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), and may lead to substantially higher increases.



- 35 -
6.05      The cost of the passenger pushboat is estimated at CIFAF 915 million
in 1980 prices. 1/ Consistent with quantified timber revenue Denefits, the
cost of the associated timber barges, at a unit cost of CFAF 6L million/bar6e,
is included in the economic analysis.
Economic Returns
6.06      The economic rate of return for the proposed investment in passenger
pushboat (and barges) is 22%, which is satisfactory. The economic analysis
also compared the proposed investment with an investment consisting of a
specialized passenger ship and a convoy of pushers and barges to carry the
timber.  The latter alternative would allow a slightly better utilization of
the ship; its investment and operating costs would be lower, bult would involve
the investment and operating costs of an additional pusher. At a 12% discount
rate, the proposed passenger pushboat and barges would result in net present
value savings, compared to the alternative investment, of CFAF 2U0 million
over the life of the projiect and would therefore be the optimal investment.
Equipment for Transport of Timber
Investment objective
6.07      The new fleet for transport of timber is destined to serve ATC's
present transport demand as well as additional demand until around 1984,
expected to be generated from expansion of production of present forestry
installations and from new concessions. The new fleet will be used to carry
sawn timber as well as sinkers and high-value logs, the latter because of
the reduced travel time and lower losses when transported on barges rather
than in rafts. The equipment comprises 14 timber barges of 300 tons each
(4 of which will replace obsolete equipment and rationalize operations), 2
mixed fuel/timber barges (fuel upstream and sawn timber downstream) and 2
line pushers (one for replacement).
6.08      The proposed investment follows the capacity expansion of the CFCO
railway line which is expected to be completed in 1983. The increased capacity
will remove transport bottlenecks and allow development of new forestry areas
and increased production in existing installations, mostly in northern Congo.
As no alternative route to the ATC river system exists for the evacuation of
timber, the proposed equipment is an essential, although comparatively minor,
complementary investment to the railway project. Without it, the increased
timber production could not be realized. The impact of a transport capacity
constraint in value added losses from frustrated timber production was
analyzed in detail under the supplementary railway Credit and resulted in a
13% rate of return for the US$167 million investment. The purpose of the
present analysis is, therefore, limited to analyzing the ATC's return on the
proposed river transport investment.
1/   Including the costs of two extra barges assumed needed on a stand-by
basis under the passenger pushboat/barge configuration.



- 36 -
Benefits and costs
6.09      The benefits to ATC are the net revenues it will derive from the
new traffic throughout its system, that is, river transport, the CFCO railway
and the port of Pointe Noire. Timber at Brazzaville port is handled by pri-
vate companies and does not provide additional revenues to the ATC. From an
analytical point of view, the equipment included in the project can be con-
sidered as equivalent to two river convoys, each consisting of a pusher, seven
timber barges and a mixed fuel/timber barge, although, in practice, several
variations may exist in this basic configuration to account for actual opera-
tional requirements. The carrying capacity of each convoy is estimated at
18,200 tons of timber and 2,100 tons of petroleum per year. This assumes that
a timber barge will carry 2,350 tons/year, or 500 tons more per year than the
target for the whole of the ATC fleet in 1982 because the new barges have some
15% higher capacity than the existing equipment and because the transport
distance for the new timber production will be shorter than that currently
applicable and under significantly better navigation conditions. Based on the
expected proportion of sawn timber and barged logs, and a 6% real increase in
tariffs on which ATC's financial projections are made (para. 5.17), total
gross revenues per convoy would amount to CFAF 173.5 million/year. Eacn
convoy is expected to generate net revenues to ATC's river transport component
of CFAF 109.4 million/year during the first 5 years and CFAF 100.3 million/
year during the remaining 15 years, due to an increase in maintenance costs.
6.10      The contribution to net operating revenues for the rest of the AT0
chain are estimated from the tonnage carried by each convoy at CFAF 32.6
million/year for the CFCO and CFAF 6.8 million/year for the port of Pointe
Noire. This is based on gross revenues/ton of CFAF 6,235 and CFAF 432 and
marginal costs of CFAF 4,444/ton and CFAF 58/ton, respectively, for the CFCU
and the port of Pointe Noire.
6.11      The costs of a convoy are estimated at CFAF 1,054 million, of which
CFAF 360 million is for a pusher, CFAF 569 million for seven timber barges and
CFAF 125 million for the mixed fuel/timber barge. The analysis includes the
replacement after ten years of the mechanical equipment of the pusher.
6.12      A summary of the costs and benefits is presented in Table 6.3.
Economic returns
6.13      The rate of return for the proposed investment is estimated at 12/.
The returns might not be achieved for the equipment providing additional
capacity if the projected new demand does not take place. To avoid this risk,
procurement of equipment will be linked to evidence of increased timber pro-
duction.
Rehabilitation of Ouesso Workshops
Investment objectives
6.14      The main factor hampering the efficient utilization of ATC's river
transport fleet is the lack of repair facilities at Ouesso, particularly for



- 37 -
the operation of the 25 micro-pushers that haul the rafts from Ouesso to
Maluku, the stacking area for Brazzaville port. Micro-pushers that break-
down in the Ouesso area need to be sent to Brazzaville for repairs, wasting
some 20 days in the trip and additional days for waiting and repair at the
overloaded Brazzaville marine workshop. The lack of appropriat:e workshops and
equipment also prevent the ATC from doing emergency repair at Ouesso for the
rest of its fleet. The purpose of the proposed investment is to remedy this
problem. The rehabilitated marine workshop would also play an integral part
in increasing control of ATC operations in the Sangha area froma Ouesso.
Benefits and costs
6.15      The main benefit of the proposed investment is an increase in the
utilization of ATC's fleet of micro-pushers, thereby avoiding the need for
additional investment as well as the additional operating costs of such equip-
ment. ATC's micro-pushers, operating between Ouesso and MaluKu, are presently
carrying 4,000 tons/year/unit and this figure is expected to increase to 5,000
tons by 1982 and 6,000 by 1984. It is estimated that most of the initial
increase in the utilization of the micro-pushers will stem from the operation
of the new workshops and that subsequent performance improvements will De due
to a better control of operations from Ouesso, training of navigators and,
more gradually, the execution of river training works. An analysis of micro-
pusher needs is presented in Table 6.4. It shows that with the proposed
workshop, the needs for future investment would only start in 1985 (four new
micro-pushers, and an additional three in 1986), while without this invest-
ment four new units would need to be purchased in 1983 and six more in i965.
The increases in operating costs with the additional fleet if the rehabilita-
tion of the workshop is not carried out is estimated at CFAF 2.1 million
considering fixed costs only, as it is assumed that the increased fleet in ttne
"without case" would only compensate for the lower availability and would not
increase direct operating costs.
6.16      The cost of the rehabilitation of the workshops is estimated at
CFAF 216 million.
6.17      A summary of costs and benefits is presented in Table 6.4.
Economic returns
6.18      This component of the project is estimated to have a, rate of return
of 14%. Additional potential benefits of the Ouesso workshop in addition to
savings in long-haul micro-pusher investments and operating costs (such as
possible service to the ACCF fleet, providing relief and generating better
service at Brazzaville workshop, and the possibility of providing emergency
repair service to barges and line pushers) have not been quantified.
River Training Works
Investment objective
6.19      One of the main constraints hampering efficient uti]ization of ATC's
river transport equipment, as well as other fleet operations in the area, is



- 38 -
the limitation on navigation during certain periods of the year. The Congo
river, the link between Congo's river network and the port of Brazzaville, is
the only one which can be navigated year-round without constraints. The Lower
Sangha river, a tributary of the Congo, allows four months navigation at 100%
load and five months at about 50%, or a total equivalent of 6.5 months at full
load. Upstream of the Lower Sangha River is the N'Goko river, which has a
better and longer period of navigation, but whose utilization is hampered by
navigation constraints downstream. A recent consultant's study indicates that
river training works, consisting mainly of "beaver dam" type works, coula make
the Lower Sangha river navigable at full loads year round at a relatively low
cost.
Benefits and costs
6.20      The main benefit of extending the navigation season of the Lower
Sangha river would be an increased utilization of barges on the N'Goko river--
as well as on the Sangha--which at present is limited by the Lower Sangha
draft level. While the transport of rafts benefits from the extended naviga-
tion period of the N'Goko by stacking at Ouesso until the river downstream
of this point becomes navigable, this is not possible with sawn timber and
non-floatable logs carried on barges due to the high cost of transshipment and
storing involved. The Lower Sangha's year-round navigation at full load that
is expected to result from the proposed works will therefore allow the maximum
possible utilization of the N'Goko. The net gain would be the equivalent of
2.5 months at full load, compared to today's 6.5, or a 38% increase. This
will lead to improved utilization of equipment serving six forestry units
upstream of Ouesso (three operating in Cameroon and three concessions avail-
able in Congo) and one downstream of this city. The demand for ATC river
transport from these concessions is estimated to be 38,000 tons in 1985 in-
creasing to a ceiling of 81,300 tons in 1991. On the basis of 2,350 tons/barge
without the proposed investment and a 38% gain in barge productivity with the
proposed works, the river training works would avoid purchase of an equivalent
4.5 barges in year 1985, and of additional purchases in subsequent years (see
Table 6.5).
6.21      The proposed works would be relatively inexpensive, with costs
consisting essentially of the incremental running expenses of SCEVN's equip-
ment during its current idle period (fuel, maintenance, crew), estimated at
a total of CFAF 166 million spread over 1982-84.
Economic Return
6.22      The economic rate of return is estimated at about 64%.  A risk
exists, however, that despite the studies carried out, the works may not bring
about the expected improvements in navigation. As improvements should become
noticeable soon after the works are started, it is planned to closely monitor
the proposed works' impact on river navigation conditions. If satisfactory
improvements are not achieved, the works will be stopped at the end of the
first year and the total loss would be about CFAF 40 million.



- 39 -
Overall Project Return, Sensitivity and Risks
6.23      The economic return for the complete investment project is 177.,
which is satisfactory. Since the costs of the individual components have
been determined from recent bids which will remain valid until after Board
presentation, they are not expected to change. Benefits, which are largely
based on existing levels of traffic, are unlikely to differ substantially
from the estimates. Under a 10% shortfall in benefits, the return for the
individual components would range from 58% for the river training works to
10% for the equipment for transport of timber and the Ouesso workshop; tne
return on the whole project would drop to 15%. These results are acceptable.
The project's main risk is a potential delay in the materialization of new
timber production, which would make premature the purchase of equipment for
transport of this new production. To avoid this risk in over-investment,
procurement of this equipment (excepting four barges, one line pusher and
the two mixed barges which are needed immediately for replacements and ratio-
nalizing operations) will be subject to prior review by the Association of
forestry companies' statements including their production plans, details of
delivery status of their logging and sawmilling equipment, and a five-year
forecast of their transport needs to be satisfied by the ATC. ]:nformation
for these reviews would be presented by ATC to the Association no later than
June 30, 1982 for 1983 needs and March 31, 1983 for 1984 needs.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO&IIENDATION
7.01      The following items were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations
and incorporated as covenants in the Credit and Project Agreements, as
appropriate, to supplement those already covenanted under Credit: 1047-COB;
With the Government:
a detailed work program for the consultant services for the new
planning unit to be established in the Ministry of Transport
(para. 2.07).
With ATC:
(a)  That it will engage a consultant, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association, to review the VNPTF manpower plan and
present his report to the Association not later than Jlune 30,
1982, and implement such recommendations as may be agreed upon
with the Association by a mutually acceptable date (para. 3.04);
(b)  That it will extend the contract for the expert mechanic now
being employed under the realignment project up to 1984 to
train mechanics (para. 3.10);
(c)  That it will prepare a fleet rotation plan by June 30, 1982
on the basis of a consultant's study, including availability



- 40 -
and rotation time targets for major fleet elements with specific
productivity goals for each classification and that it will
implement the said plan in 1982 after consultation with the
Association (para. 3.17);
(d) That it will recruit by June 30, 1982, an experienced engineer
to manage its Ouesso base and assist in coordinating fleet move-
ments in accordance with foresters' requirements (para. 3.17);
(e) That it will employ consultants to carry out a study of the log
port siltation problem for review and consultation with tne
Association not later than June 30, 1982, and implement tne agreed
solution thereafter (para. 3.19);
(f) That it will introduce surcharges on foresters for faulty raft
assembly and slow barge-loading operations in consultation with
the Association not later than June 30, 1982, and will provide
additional training to ship captains with high accident records
(para. 3.19);
(g) That it will carry out recommendations made by independent auditors
concerning internal procedures, billing and accounts receivable in
CFCO and river transport (para. 5.05);
(h) That it will complete cost studies for all its operating sections,
implement a cost accounting system by December 31, 1982 and by
that same date present a schedule for implementation of cost-based
tariffs for review by the Association (para. 5.13); and
(i) That it will submit evidence satisfactory to the Association on
production plans of existing and new forestry companies justi-
fying its projected transport needs prior to placing firm orders
for delivery of ten (10) 300T timber barges and one (1) line pusher;
such evidence should be submitted no later than June 30, 1982 for
five (5) barges and the line pusher to be procured in 1983 and no
later than March 31, 1983 for the remainder (para. 3.28 and 6.23).
7.02      The following is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit that:
The Government and ATC have signed a Financing Agreement on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 4.17).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit to the Government of
the People's Republic of the Congo in the amount of US$17.0 million on standard
IDA terms, of which US$15.0 million equivalent to be onlent to ATC at a 10.0)'.
interest rate for 20 years including five-years' grace.



Table 3.1
- 41 -
PEOPLE'S REPUB LIC OF THE CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Voies Navigables et Transports Fluviaux (VNPTF)
Organization Diagram
ATC
GeneraS  Manager
Assistant Technical G.M.
Assistant Technical Director                                                    Shared with
I  4                                        I  ACCF of CAR   I
CAR  Planning                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~River
Medical  Representativeand Major                           Trining              River Transport           River  ot                Navigation
Works                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MaintSen ance
(SCLVN)
| Gove rnment
Re presen tative                                                                                    Admin istralon,_
AccoungAccounts                                                                                                           Operations
IMarine   ~      :;Min ten ante
Opera tons of                                                                                                                  1
Pointe Notre                                                                                 _     eration s an d    -    iPort masters
World Bank - 22174



- 42 -            CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
OPERATING TARGETS                        Table 3.2
1980          1982           1984
A. Productivity
Micro Pusher
Average tonnage of logs pushed   4,OOOT          5,OOOT   5,000 to 6,OOOT
by each unit annually
Line Pusher (400hp min)
Average tonnage of logs and       8,500T         9,500T        11,000T
sawn timber on lugs pushed
by each unit annually
Timber Barge (300T nom)
Average tonnage of logs and       1,7000T        1,850T         2,200T
sawn timber transported
annually by each unit
B. Availability of material during
the navigation season (June-Dec)
Micro Pusher                         80 L         83%            85%
Line Pusher                         82%           84%            86%
. Average Rotation Period
Xrazzaville/Ouesso
Line Pusher                          24 days        22 days        18 days
Barge                                26 days        23 days        22 days
NOTES: 1. The above improvements in operation do not take into account the river
training works on Lower Sangha and are on the basis of the average hydraulic
conditions on the river.
2.  The improvements shown in the table are based on the following considerations:
a.  An expatriate will take charge of the operations at Ouesso which will
be rehabilitated and upgraded.
b.  Authority will be exerciesed and respected at all levels.
c.  Bonuses will be given to those performing above the norm.
d.  The river traffic will be supervised with the help of control launches
and mechanical assistance will be provided to the floating craft in trouble
e.  Timber convoys will arrive and depart at regular intervals and pushers
will move continuously without losing time for convoys to assemble.
This will be done prior to the arrival of the pusher.
f.  Passenger/pusher ship will assist in moving barges between Brazzaville
and Mossaka.
g.  New tariff surcharge will induce most foresters to equip
themselves to load barges efficiently without delays.
h.  Training of navigators and mechanics.
/1 Does not include transit time between Ouesso and Brazzaville for repairs.



Table 3.3
43 -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
River Navigability by Barges
Jan  ) Feb       Mar     Apr    May    Jun         Jul                       O Aug    ISep t   I Nov   Dec
UPPER SANC HA, N.oa-Bayan-ga
doq' oin ii
Depth of water  mn .                                                                           1       |1.80 m
Iaroe lod  I             t         UPPER SANGHA, Bayanga-Kabo  (135km)
Barge load                                                                                             1     a@wg        ||
Depth of water (mrin )                             I        I                I ii.20 rlm   u I I                         1.20mt
|arge 'oad  UPPER SANGHA, Kabo-Ouesso  (52kmi
Barge ioad                                                                                                              l  D   _ >_ 
Depth of water (mmj                                         i1.40 mmt                                                    1 .40 m8
Bare  |d         1  N'GOKO, N'Gabala- Mc loundou  i51 km)
Barge load                                                  131r2||||4 j|!I }l                      _ IIlE
Depth of water (min.)                                        120m-                                     1.80  +I          1.20 mt
N'GOKO, Moloundou-Kika  (65km)
Barge load                                         a.a.it ls"   iu        i ihiilss h !                            _        _main!    m
Depth of  iater (mi.)    1.20 int                               1.20Im                                1.80 i
N'GOKO, Kika-Ouesto |76kml 
Barge load                 .t             trIiuShu            m                         mssm.ui m       i
Depth of water (min.      1. 40mt               1.20 mrt             1.80 int         1.20m           1.80mt
LOWER SANGHA, Ouesso- Mossaka (500km)
Barge load                s * * *                 * s 4                                                  mi        m     i_
Depth of water (min.)    1.20 m +j                                       1.40 mt              j        1.80 mt-
OUBANGUI/CONGO, Bangui-Mossaka (735km)
Barge load.                .. lime., a  |            |        *umumu!"t_         _ 'm                          ai
Depth of water (min.)    1.20 m                          1.20 m   1.40 m  |BOm
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -I  i_ _   I _   I                I        j   o   
Note: l1J The above information represents average conditions of river navigability for barges, which is based only on the depth of water
and may change from year to year depending on precipitation.
12) Variation in water levels on the N' goko are very sensitive to preci pitation; they may rise and fall over short periods of time
even when the river is non-navigable.
(3) No navigation restrictfons on Congo, Mossaka-Brazzaville (465km).
(4) Minimum underkeel clearance for barges; 30 cm.
Symbols:          _     100%      280T barge: 250T logs, 220T sawn timber
AI~A          60% -280T barge: 1 50T logs and sawn timber
55ie555555    40% -280Tbarge: IOOT logs andsawn timber
lorld Bank - 22172



CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
PORT OF BRAZZAVILLE TRAFFIC
Actual 1973-1980 and Objectives for 1984 and 1986
('000 tons/pass)
1973     1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980     1984      1986
-------------Actual--------------------------   (Budget) (Plan's Objectives)
FREIGHT
Loading
General Cargo               75.4     66.1      73.6      65.5      67.1      73.8      62.9     62.5      68.0      71.0
Petroleum products         62.4      61.4      55.7      43.8      53.1      53.0      40.1     50.0      49.0      49.0
Total                     137.8    127.5    129.3       109.3    120.2    126.8    103.0    112.5    117.0    120.0
Unloading
General Cargo              50.3      66.4      90.0      81.0      64.2      50.3      35.9     39.5      76.0      85.0 1   4
Timber                    298.3    343.7    105.8    310.1    334.2    330.3    311.5    330.0    519.0 1/ 631.0 1/
Total                     348.6    410.1    195.8    391.3    398.4    380.6    347.4    369.5    595.0    716.0
TOTAL FREIGHT    486.4    537.6    325.1       500.6    518.6    507.4    450.4    482.0    712.0    836.0
PASSENGERS                    22.7      24.3      28.7      41.7      41.1     41.8      33.4      42,0      49.0      53.0
1/ Figures based on detailed forecasts by forestry units, prepared after the Plan had been issued. The Plan's
forecast was 540,000 tons for 1984 and 600,000 tons for 1986.
Source: ATC Plan de Redressement (July 1980).
August 1980



- 45 -
Table 3.5
CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
/11
ATC-RIVER TRANSPORT TRAFFIC 1973-1980
(000 tons/pass)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/2
FREIGHT
Upstream total       32.3    29.3    31.9    25.0    30.6    30.1    27.3    30.9
Downstream
Logs, in rafts       57.7    64.8    20.1   110.7   134.7    94.9    89.7   108.0
Logs & sawn tim-    34.4    29.5    23.3    38.0    35.9    29.8    33.9    36.0
ber in barges
General cargo/3      19.6    19.7    21.9    18.1    16.9    13.1    11.7          8.4
Total          111.7   114.0    65.3   166.8   187.5   137.8   135.3   152.4
TOTAL FREIGHT    144.0   143.3    97.2   191.8   218.1   167.9   162.6   183.3
PASSENGERS
Upstream             14.6    15.4    21.9    21.9    23.7    21.6    16.0    n.a.
Downstream           13.4    15.7    20.3    19.7    17.4    20.2    18.9    n.a.
TOTAL PASSENGERS  28.0    31.1    42.2    41.6    41.1    41.8    34.9    42.0
/1 Excludes petroleum products in bulk during period 1973-1978.
/2  Budget estimate.
/3  Excludes merchandise carried as accompanied baggage on passenger ships
such as fish, animals, fruits.
Source: ATC
August 1980



CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
Forecast of ATC River Transport Demand, 1981-1986
1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
(Actual) (Budget)   ---------------------Forecast--------------------
FREIGHT ('000 tons)
Upstream (from Brazzaville)
A. In Barges
Petroleum in bulk                    4.4       4.9       5.4       5.9        6.5       7.1       7.8       8.5
General cargo                       26.0      26.0      26.0      26.0      26.0      26.0      26.0      26.0
Total Upstream                             30.4      30.9      31.4      31.9      32.5      33.1      33.8      34.5
Downstream (to Brazzaville)
A. In Barges
Timber                              33.9      36.0      38.0      39.4      49.1      64.6      73.5      91.1
General cargo                       11.7       8.4       8,0       8,0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0
Total barges                  45.6      44.4      46.0      47.4      57.1       72.6      81.5      99.1
B.  Logs in Rafts                          89.7    108.0    113.0    125.8    160.3    174.4           204.8   221.2
Total Downstream                          135.3    152.4    159.0    173.2    217.4    247.0           286.3   320.3
TOTAL UPSTREAM AND DOWNSTREAM        165.7    183.3    190.4    205.1    249.9    280.1            320.1   354.8
PASSMNGERS  ('000)                              34,8      35.0 1/  35,0       45,0      47,0      49,0       51,0    53.0
1/ The budget estimate of 42,000 in 1980 is unrealistic as there will be no capacity increase over
1979, and, therefore, a level similar to 1979 has been adopted. New capacity is expected for
1982 only.
Source:  Reports by SOFRERAIL et al (Sept. 1979), UNICONSULT (Sept. 1979) and World Bank
Group estimates.
August 1980



CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
FORECAST OF RIVER TRANSPORT DEMAND
From Northern Congo Timber
('000 tons)
1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
(Actual) (Budget)   --------------------Forecast---------------------
A.) Total River Transport Demand             90.8      91.5    113.3    136.0    176.0    204.8    243.8    275.8
Logs, floated                            76.5      74.5     95.1    114.3    146.7    162.2    194.8    212.0
Logs, barges                              5.6      6.0       6.9       8.2      11.3     11.8      15.2      16.5
Sawn timber, barges                       8.7     11.0      11.3      13.5      18.0     30.8      33.8      47.3
Total barges                       14.3      17.0      18.2     21.7      29.3      42.6      49.0     63.8
/1
B.) ATC River Transport Demand-              38.2     41.5      54.3      68.1    108.1    133.1    167.4    195.7
Logs, floated                            26.9     27.5      39.6      50.4      82.8     94.5    122.4    135.9
Logs, barges                              2.6      3.0       3.4       4.2       7.3      7.8      11.2      12.5
Sawn timber, barges                       8.7     11.0      11.3      13.5     18.0      30.8      33.8      47.3
Total barges                       11.3      14.0      14.7     17.7      25.3      38.6      45.0     59.8
C.) ATC River Transport Demand for
Barges - Breakdown by Forestry Co.
i.) Total
Boissangha                         11.3      14.0      14.7     17.6      19.5      19.5      19.5     19.5
CIB                                  -         -        -        0.1       3.1       6.3       8.1      9.9
New Unit 1                                     -         -        -        2.7      12.8      14.7     17.6
New Unit 2                           -         -        -         -         -         -        2.7     12.8
Total                         11.3      14.0     14.7      17.7      25.3     38.6      45.0      59.8
ii.) Increment over 1980
Boissancgha                          -         -        0.7      3.6       5.5       5.5       5.5      5.5
CIB                                  -         -        -        0.1       3.1       6.3       8.1      9.9
New Unit 1                           -         -        -         -        2.7      12.8      14.7     17.6
New Unit 2                           -         -        -         -         -                  2.7     12.8  H
Total                           -         -       0.7       3.7      11.3     24.6      31.0      45.8
X
/1  Deducting CIB own carrying capacity estimated at 4,000 ton/year for barges and over 80,000 ton/year for rafts. W
Source: ATC and World Bank Group estimates.
July 1980



CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
Forecast of ATC River Transport Demand
for Timber in Barges 1/
('000 tons)
1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986
(Actual) (Budget)   --------------------Forecast---------------------
Brazzaville Port
CAR 2/                                       32.3      35.5      39.0      43.0     47.3      52.0      57.2      62.9
Cameroon 3/                                  47.9      44.0      45.0      46.1     47.3      48.6      50.1      51.7
Congo                                        11.3      14.0      18.2      21.7     29.3      42.6      49.0      63.8
Total Brazzaville Port                     91.5      93.5    102.2    110.8    123.9    143.2    156.3    178.4
ATC River Transport
Total Brazzaville                            91.5      93.5    102.2    110.8    123.9    143.2    156.3    178.4   .
Minus                                                                                                                    x
SOCATRAF 4/                                          17.5      27.2      34.4     37.8      41.6      45.8      50.3
Private transport 5/                                 37.0      37.0      37.0     37.0      37.0      37.0      37.0
ATC                                   33.9      36.0     38.0      39-.4     49.1      64.6      73.5     91.1
1/  Sawn timber and high quality and non-floatable logs.
2/ Assumed growth of 10% year from 1979 volumes, mainly from increases in Slovenia production and
a potential new company to replace the closed Lybian concession.
3/  Assuming no increase in barged logs from 1980 level and 10% yearly incrase in sawn timber from
expected 10,000 tons in 1980.
4/  Assuming gradual increase in SOCATRAF traffic until reaching the statutory 80% of CAR traffic.
in 1982.
5/  Including traffic by barges from the Service Commun des VoiesNavigables.
Source: ATC and Bank Group estimates.
co
August 1980



- 49 -
Table 4.1
CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
Barge Requirements for Timber Transport
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
1. Transport demand for timber
by ATC barges ('000 tons)
(see Table 3--Traffic)                 39.4    49.1    64.6    ,73.5    91.1
2. Average productivity/timber
barge at beginning of previous
year (tons)                           1,700   1,850   2,000   2,200   2,200
3. Number of barges beginning
of year                                  19       211   24+4    31+4    32+4
4. Capacity available beginning                          (mixed)
of year ('000 tons)                    32.4-li  38.9    52.0    ,72.2    74.4
5. Additional capacity needed
during year ('000 tons)                 7.0    10.2    12.6       1.3    16.7
6. Supplied by increase in barge
productivity ('000 tons)                3.2      3.9     4.8       -        -
7. Net additional capacity
needed                                  3.8      6.3     7.3      1.3    16.7
8. Supplied by-4 -mixed barges (4)
(KfW+IBRD Projects)    -        3.5       -       -        -
-new 300T timber
barges                  4.3     2.8      7.8      1.3    16.7
9. Number of additional new 300T
timber barges needed by end
of year                                   4        3        7       1       16
/1 Capacity available is net of about 7,000 tons annual capacit:y that is
presently being carried by a variety of other fleet--which should be
rediverted to more rational uses during 1981 and 1982. Thus, by 1983,
all this fleet capacity will no longer be used for timber a:Lthough it
could be used in case of unusual demand. Number of old barges will
drop back to 17 in 1983.
/2 New timber barges arrive into service progressively. No additional
productivity increases are assumed for the mixed barges due to the
inherent terminal delays that would occur with the petroleum traffic
they are also designed to handle. Mixed barges arrive two by end-1982/
early 1983, and two by mid-1983. In the first year, all four new
timber barges are expected to be delivered by mid-year, providing
about 1,100 tons/barge on the average during the year.  In [Later years,
deliveries would be made prior to the navigation season.



Table 4.2
_ 50 -
GCNGO RIVER TRANSPORtT
Estleata Schedule ot Dlsbbrsaen-ts by Ita for 1981-1984
ILFAF rl I1loesI
1961                          1982                          1983                          1984                       1981-1 9B4               of
LtCCI   Foelgn    Total       Lo      FereIgn    T.ota      Local   ForeIgn    Total      La I orlgn    Total            Locl   FT e-lgn    TotaI     Total
RICer Fleet
2CCT  atlbr barge                        -       56.5      56.5      55.1     291.8     346.9      69.2     347.4      416.6     80.2     278.8      359.0    204.5     974.5   1,179.0       16.8
2CeT lual/flear barge                    -       43.0      43.0      44.8     172.5     217.3                                                                  44.8     215.5      260.3       7.7
Self-propelIed pentgon alth rp           -       19.5      19.5      25.1      78.0     103.1                                                                  25.1      97.5      122.6       1.7
Ccntrol lauc.h                           -       27.9      27.9       4.8     111.9      116.7                                                                  4.8      159.8     144.6       2.0
4CC V.P. IIee pusher                     -       65.1      65.1         -     212.5     211.5      43.4     264.1      307.5     50.2      113.7     163.4     93.5      654.0     747.5      10.6
4GO H.P. port pasSer                     -       57.2      57.2      35.9     228.6     264.5                                                                  35.9      285.8     321.7       4.6
Ne. Eng I-es
140 H.P. Beaudol actor                  -          -         -         -      22.9      22.9       9.5      22.9       32.4                                    9.5       45.8      55.7       0.8
2GO  H.P. Poyaud eator                   -        7.2       7.2       2.0      14.4       26.4      2.0       7.2        9.2                                    4.0       28.8      32.8       0.5
SO0 H.P. Poyaud actor                    -        8.8       8.8       2.0       8.8      28.8         -         -          -                                    2.0       17.6      19.6       0.3
1.1 spare parta                          -        1.6       1.6      0.4        4.6       5.0       1.2       2.9        4.1                                    2.6       9.1       10.7       0.2
Pessenger Fleet
Sl 1-prope I lad passenger/pastIr
180 saraT                              -      160.8     163.8        -      204.7     204.7    132.5      448.7     581.2                                   172.5     827.2      949.7      13.5
Tool5 /I                                 -       22.7      22.7      16.8     228.3     145.1                                                                  16.8      151.0     167.8       2.4
Outbotrd boats cnd actors                -        5.7       5.7         -      22.7      22.7                                                                     -       29.4      28.4       0.4
TCTAL FLEET                              -      479.0     479.0    186.9   1.500.7   1,687.6    257.8   1,093.2   1,352.0    170.3        392.1      522.4    575.0   3,465.0   4,040.0       57.5
Physlca-  cortlege-clas                -       55.5      33.5      13.0     104.9     117.9      17.9      36.4      94.3       9.1      27.4       36.5     40.0     242.2      282.2       4.0
PrIor cetiegetclas                     -       12.0      12.0      29.7     247.3     172.6      75.5     201.9      277.4     58.5     104.3      162.8    160.3      461.5     624.8       8.9
TOTAL a1TH  1ONTIN2 92NCIES        -     524.5      524.5    229.2   1,748.9  12978.'    351.2  12,71.5   1,722.7    197.9          527.8     721.7    778.3   4.168.7   4.947.0        70.5
:1. Ca.octor                                -       25.8      25.8        -       60.2      60.1                                                                     -      85.9       85.9       1.2
hrtfllo    oetlegencles                -        1.8       2.8         -       4.2       4.2                                                                     -       6.0        6.0       0.1
P lIe coatIngee-les                    -        0.7       0.7         -       4.1       4.2                                                                     -       4.8        4.8       0.1
TOTAL alTH COdNTINGENCIES         -       28.0      28.3        -       68.4      68.4                                                                     -      96.7       96.7       1.4
ClaIl and  Wfc -ekIcal Horis
B-aa-all. 'taile  Sarkalop
elIl                                   -       17.2      17.2      46.0      40.2      86.1                                                                  46.0       57.3     103.3        1.5
fech--Ical                             -       11.8      11.8      18.6      47.2      65.8                                                                  18.6       59.0      77.6        1.1
Braaueollla Traleltg Ceeter
Ciell                                  -        6.9       6.9      14.6      28.9      33.5                                                                  14.6       25.8      40.4       0.6
tanubllltatloc of -ossaka & Duesse
-      42.4       42.4     83.8      88.2      171.9     10.3      180.9      21.2                                    94.1     141.4     275.5        3.4
ie-r dees 6 gaIes on Seegha
Ololl                                  -          -         -      22.7      48.7      61.4      12.5      76.8       49.0     22.6      36.8       49.4     37.8      122.3     160.1       2.3
TCTAL CIVIL ANf iOCHANICAL               -       78.3      78.3    175.7      247.0     418.7      22.8      47.7       70.5     12.6      36.8       49.4    212.1      405.8     616.9       8.8
P,ysloal otlegatcles                   -       20.8      10.8      24.8      72.5      57.3       3.4       7.1       10.5      2.9        5.5       7.4     70.1       55.9     96.0         1.2
Price coatlegeecle4                    -        2.2       2.2      23.0      21.6      44.9       6.0       8.4       14.4      6.0      10.4       16.4     75.7       42.6      77.9       1.1
TOTAL  llTH CONTINGENCIES           -       91.3      91.3    223.8      297.1     520.9      32.2      63.2      95.4      20.5      52.7       73.2    276.5     504.3      780.8      11.1
Consultants 1ATC1
SLr-. of fleet  -onstr-otIe              -          -         -      8.5       70.7      79.2       4.9      11.8       16.7      4.9      11.8       16.7     18.3       94.3     112.6       1.6
Heoenr dn & groeI study.
and superv. of constructIon-                                -      12.3      47.2      59.5       2.4       5.9        8.3      2.4       5.9        8.2     17.1       59.0      76.1       1.1
Cnt. on-oleg rech. traleleg             2.4      23.6      26.0       2.4      23.6       26.0      2.4      23.6       26.0      2.6       23.5      26.1      9.8       94.2     104.1        1.5
A,,. & org. structure A
operations analysis                   4.4      29.8      24.2      11.0      49.5      60.5       6.5      29.7       36.2                                   21.9       99.0     120.9       1.7
FTnatolal/tarll7s studes               0.0       27.7      21.3      15.9      76.5      92.4       2.4      11.9       14.3                                   21.9      106.1     128.0        2.8
TCTAL CONSULTANTS (ATCI               10.4       61.1      71.5      50.1     267.5     317.6      18.6      82.9      102.5      9.9      42.2       51.1     89.0      452.7     541.7       7.7
PrIce contloge-clas                  0.3       l14        1.7       5.7      20.8      26.5       4.6      13.9       18.5      4.3      11.2       15.5     14.9       47.3      62.2       0.9
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES       10.7       62.5      73.2     55.8      288.3     344.1      23.2      96.8    120.0       14.2      52.4       66.6    103.9     500.0      607.9       6.6
V  Tctie1cel AssIstance (Glo -erntl
ecb.esst. to MlnIstry of Transport   3.7       16.6       20.3     15.9       75.5      91.4     26.8      258.S     185.1                                    46.4     250.4     296.8        4.2
Tech, es-t. tn Oc8                     _            -         -       9.4      75.2       94.5     14.4     112.4      126.8                                   23.8 1    17.5      211.3       0.0
TOTAL TECCHNICAL ASSISTANCE (Gert.)    3.7       16.6      20.3      25.3     150.6      175.9     42.2     270.7      322.9                                   70.2      437.9     508.1       7.2
PrIce coatIngenol- s                 0I.        0.4       0.5       4.2      16.2      20.3      12.5      51.2       63.7                                   16.7       67.8      84.5        1.2
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES         3.8       17.0      20.8     29.4      166.8     196.2      53.7     322.9     075.6                                    86.9     505.7      592.6       9.4
G7 50C TOnOL DISSLRSEMENTS             14.5     725.6     738.2    578.2   2,560.5   7.107.7    460.5  12 83.4   2 313.7    272.6         628.9      861.5  1 245.6   5,775.4   7.021.0       100.0
St.t:  torcannagas ear act add op eeofry due to roundIeg.
i Ti ls Includes necbanloal ac-cs for the Oerasl Ihle TraInIng Center ad retabIlltatloe of It     ...aa aed Ouas-o.



Table 4.3
- 51 -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Schematic Implementation Schedule for Project Items
1981                    1982                    1983                    1984
1. Civil/Mechanical Works             .                     -_
Brazzaville
Ouesso                                              _ -
Mossaka
11. New River Fleet
Timber Barges, Control Launch,
Motor Boats                                                            M
Mixed Barges                                        _        .            _                                     .
Pushers                                           I             i               -_
Passenger Push Boat                                             -  I                  i
Ill. Additional River Fleet                           7       
Timber Barges and Spare Motors                            ,                                       iiin        .mi_
Pusher                       *                      _                       _                     a        _
IV. Computer
V. Consultants
a. Supervision of con-
struction of fleet    .                               -     - _       ,
b. Beaver da ms and                                   _          _        _     __       _        I                 i      _
c. Training of mechanics             |                    -     -     -   iii i
d. Study of administra-
tion ano organization
e. Study of operations                                                    I                                         i
and tariffs                                               i   E   |
f. Technical assistance to
Ministry of Transport                  7|               -                                                 | m      E
h. Technical assistance to
OCB                                                       I    m      |           I -    m    |                          -
11                                                                      I     Ba k - 22173
Vvorld Bank k-22173



CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
River Fleet Investment Plan, 1982-1984
(CFAF million)
Unit Prices ,                    Number of Units Procured
Items                                      Local-/  Fore igr-t  Total      1982    1983    1984          Total
300T timber barge                           14.6       69.6      84.2         4       5        5           14
250T fuel/timber barge                      22.4      107.8    130.2          2                             2
Self-propelled pontoon with ramp            25.1       97.5    122.6          1                             1
Control launch                               2.4       69.9      72.3         2                             2
400 H.P. line pusher                        46.8      327.0    373.8                  1        1            2
400 H.P. port pusher                        35.9      285.8    321.7          1                             1
New Engines
140 H.P. Beadoin motor                       1.9        9.2      11.1                 5                     5
200 H.P. Poyaud motor                        2.0       14.4      16.4         1       1                     2
300 H.P. Poyaud motor                        2.0       17.6      19.6         1                             1
10% spare parts                              1.6        9.1      10.7                                      n.a.
Passenger Fleet
Self-propelled passenger/pusher
180 seats                                132.5      817.2    949.7                  1                     1
Tools                                       16.8      151.0    167.8          1                             1
Outboard boats and motors                     -         9.5       9.5         3                             3
/1 Includes cost of transport Pointe Noire-Brazzaville and assembly costs.
/2 Includes cost of transport to Pointe Noire.
Note:  Figures are in 1981 prices.                                                                                     X
August 1981                                                                                                             -
4s
4:-



- 53 -
Table 6.1
CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURNS
Economic Rate of Return
------SENSITIVIT A  ----
10% Lower
Base                Benefits
Passenger pushboat                        22                     19
Equipment for transport of
timber                                  12                     10
Rehabilitation Ouesso workshop            14                     10
River training works                      64                     58
Whole project                             17                     15
/1 No sensitivity is done on costs as they are based on bids
which will remain valid until after submission of the
project to the Board.
Source: World Bank Group estimates
August 1981



- 54 -                          Table 6.2
CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
PASSENGER PUSHBOAT
Costs and Benefits
(CFAF million)
Cl       C2        C3        C4        Bl       B2        B3 -_
1981              92        49
1982             274       146
1983             549       291       75.6     26.9      29.41/2  115.8/2  106.5/2
1984                                 75.6     26.9      58.9    128.7    223.0
1985                                 75.6     26.9      58.9    128.7    234.0
1986                                 75.6     26.9      58.9    128.7    246.0
1987                                 75.6     26.9      58.9    128.7    246.0
1988                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1989                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1990                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1991                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1992             122/3               86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1993                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1994                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1995                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1996                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1997                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
1998                                 86.9      29.6     58.9    128.7    246.0
1999                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
2000                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
2001                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
2002                                 86.9     29.6      58.9    128.7    246.0
Cl = investment costs passenger pushboat
C2 = investment cost barges
C3 = operating costs (excluding depreciation) passenger pushboat
C4 = operating costs barges (excluding depreciation)
B1 = passenger revenues
B2 = timber revenues
B3 = value added benefits
/1 Value added benefits in 1983 comprise CFAF 213 million in fish and
CFAF 6 million in wildlife products. The fish benefits stem from 307
tons of fish with a value added component of CFAF 675/kg.  The differ-
ence with the wholesale price at Brazzaville of CFAF 900/kg is due to
allowance for the cost of transport, smoking and other inputs. Fish
benefits assumed to grow at 5%/year until 1986 and remain constant thereafter.
/2 As delivery of passenger pushboat is expected end-June 1983, passenger bene-
fits and value added benefits are taken as 50%. Timber benefits are taken
as 90%,as only asmall fraction of trafficis carried between January andJune.
/3 Replacement of ship's engine lasting 10 years.
Source: ATC and World Bank Group estimates
August 1981



- 55-
Table 6.3
CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
EQUIPMENT FOR TRANSPORT O' TIMBER
Costs and Benefits!Li
(CFAF millions, 1980 prices)
Cl                 Bl                      B2
Investment       Net revenues to         Net revenues to
cost        ATC-River Transport       rest of ATC
1981                        105
1982                        773
1983                        176                109.4                   39.4
1984                                           109.4                   39.4
1985                                           109.4                   39.4
1986                                           109.4                   39.4
1987                                           109.4                   39.4
1988                                           100.3                   39.4
1989                                           100.3                   39.4
1990                                           100.3                   39.4
1991                                           100.3                   39.4
1992                         83/2              100.3                   39.4
1993                                           100.3                   39.4
1994                                           100.3                   39.4
1995                                           100.3                   39.4
1996                                           100.3                   39.4
1997                                           100.3                   39.4
1998                                           100.3                   39.4
1999                                           100.3                   39.4
2000                                           100.3                   39.4
2001                                           100.3                   39.4
2002                                           100.3                   39.4
/1  For one convoy composed of one pusher, seven timber barges, one
mixed barge fuel/timber.  The project includes two convoys.
/2  Replacement of pusher engines lasting 10 years.
/3  Investment costs include 7% physical contingencies which are
unlikely to be incurred.
August 1981



- 56 -                               Table 6.4
CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
REHABILITATION OF OUESSO WORKSHOPS
Costs and Benefits
(CFAF millions, 1980 prices)
C1           C l             C3/              Bill             B2
Workshop   Micra-pusher  M.p. incremen-  M.p. invest-  M.p. incremental
invest-    investment   tal operating    ment without   operating cost
ment      with project   costwith proj.       project      without project
1981       22
1982      194
1983                                                     120               8.4
1984                                                      -                8.4
1985                    120             8.4              180              21.0
1986                     90            14.7               90              27.3
1987                                   14.7                               27.3
1988                                   14.7                               27.3
1989                                   14.7                               27.3
1990                                   14.7                               27.3
1991                                   14.7                               27.3
1992                                   14.7                               27.3
1993                                   14.7                               27.3
1994                                   14.7                               27.3
1995                                   14.7                               27.3
1996                                   14.7                               27.3
1997                                   14.7                               27.3
/1 Additional micropusher (m.p.) needs estimated as follows:
With Project (bv year)           Without Prolect (by year)
80  81  82  83  84  85  86       80  81  82  83  84  85  86
ATC raft demand
('000 tons)        108 113 126 160 174 205 221    108 113 126 160 174 205 221
M.p. unit capacity
(600 tons/year)      4 4.5   5 5.5   6   6   6         4   4 4.2 4.7 5.2 5.2 5.2
Capacity 30 m.p.     120 135 150 165 180 180 180    120 120 126 141 156 156 156
Balance              *12 +22 +24  +5  t6 -25 -41       +12  +7   0 -19 -19 -49 -66
M.p. purchases needed,
long haul                                  4   3                    4  -    6   3
Total additional m.p.
in fleet                                   4   7                    4  -   10  13
/2 Unit cost CFAF 30 million/micropusher.
Source: ATC and Bank Group estimates.
August 1981



57
Table 6.5
CONGO RIVER TRANSPORT
TRAINING WORKS LOWER SANGHA RIVER
Cost and Benefits
(CFAF millions, 1980 prices)
C_                           BI
1982                          64
1983                          51
1984                          51
1985                                                       360
1986                                                       1-36
1987                                                        64
1988                                                       120
1989                                                        40
1990                                                        24
1991                                                        1.6
Cl = investment costs.
B1 = benefits from avoided barge purchased to serve N'Goko River.
Total ATC river transport demand in barges from th.is area
and avoided barge purchases estimated at:
Year                          1985    86      87      88      89     90      91
000' tons                     38.0   53.2   59.7   72.7   76.5   79.4   81.3
Avoided barge purchases        4.5    1.7    0.8    1.5    0.5    0.3    0.2
Savings in barge purchase estimates assuming barge productivity for N'Goko
area at 2,350 tons/year without proposed investment, and 3,240 tons/year
with training works due to increase in navigation season and barge loading
in Lomes-Sangha Rivers.
Source: NEDECO consultants and World Bank Group estimates September 1980.
August 1981



- 58 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
River Transport Routes, Infrastructure, Equipment
River routes
1.        Navigable rivers in the Congo-Oubangui basin are approximately
5,000 km long. The main river transport routes are Brazzaville-Bangui (CAR)
1,210 km and Brazzaville-Nola (CAR) 1,250 km. Of the secondary navigable
rivers N-Goko in southeast Cameroon and Lobay in southwest CAR are 180 km and
90 km long respectively. The remaining river grid of minor importance is in
the Cuvette Region of Congo (see Map 15275).
2.        The beaconage, buoyage and dredging on the Sangha and Oubangui
rivers down to their confluence with Congo are done fairly well by Voies
Navigables (SCEVN), while on the Congo river they are done rather poorly by
Zaire.
River ports
Brazzaville
3.        The port of Brazzaville has four main areas:  (1) downstream,
(2) upstream, (3) Chacona and (4) the log port. In the downstream port
is ATCGs marine workshop where the fleet is maintained and repaired. In the
upstream port are: (a) a quay for passengers commuting between Congo and
Zaire, owned and operated by Zaire, (b) quay and repair shops for Voies
Navigables, (c) quay for passengers travelling on the rivers, (d) fuel load-
ing quay, owned and operated by Hydro Congo, and (e) general cargo quay for
import and export of general cargo, logs and sawn timber transported on
barges. Chacona marine works is where passenger ships and passenger/cargo
barges are built for the Cuvette region, and at the log port, logs floated
in rafts are lifted out of the water and stored on land.
4.        ATC-s marine workshop has two slipways to handle river vessels
of up to 50 m long and 350 tons in weight. These slipways, under FAC
financing, have recently been extended to 37.50 m to function at low water.
Under the project it will be necessary to modify one of the slipways by
building transversal rails to provide sufficient capacity for assembling of
the new fleet to be procured.
5.        The Voies Navigables base has a 55 m long quay and space pro-
vided along 160 m of the river bank for tying up its fleet. The base is
also equipped with a slipway and workshops for maintenance of small river
craft.



- 59 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
6.        The quay of the upstream port for general cargo, sawn timber
and logs is 770 m long. The port is equipped with five transit sheds of
14,000 m2, open storage of 24,500 m2, 13 portal cranes ranging in. capacity
from 3T to 30T, and mobile equipment. Access to the aprons and sheds is
provided through railway spurs and a paved road. ATC is planning; shortly to
replace four of the old portal cranes of 3T capacity, and reconstruct the
old section of the quay known as Wellman, approximately 70 m long.
7.        Parking for the river fleet is provided either along 300 m of the
river bank downstream of the general cargo quay or at the island M'Bamou
across the port channel.
8.        The Chacona marine workshop has one shed and one slipway which
can handle river vessels of up to 34 m long and 150 tons in weight. This
workshop, under Congo/China cooperation, served first for construction of
wooden passenger ships and is now used for construction of metal river craft
for the Cuvette region.
9.        The log port, located upstream of Point Lopez, is shellered from
river currents. It has a 245 m long quay equipped with four portal cranes of
20T capacity, and four hectares of storage area served by three railway spurs
parallel to the quay wall at 60 m, 100 m and 140 m from it. Log rafts are
moved to this port from Maluku which is at the entrance to the St:anley Pool,
45 km upstream from Brazzaville. In Maluku along the 8.5 km of tlhe river bank
equipped with 60 bollards, the log rafts are tied up. About 120,000 m3 of
logs may be kept in transit at this location.
Ouesso
10.       Ouesso, located downstream of the confluence of the N'Goko and
Upper Sangha rivers, is a small river port which has a 60 m long quay with
two fixed cranes, two sheds, a small open stacking area and a marine repair
workshop with a slipway. Under the project this secondary port, which has
played a minor role until now, will be renovated and upgraded to improve the
river transport and servicing of the fleet.
Mossaka
11.       Mossaka, an island port at the confluence of the Sangha and Congo
rivers, is small and consists of a 50 m long quay equipped with a crane of 2T
capacity, a shed and a 50 ton capacity slipway; it mainly acts as a transit
point for barge convoys, log rafts and passenger ships on the Oubangui, Sangha
and Cuvette rivers. Under the project this port will remain of secondary
importance; minor rehabilitation and upgrading works under the project will
improve the service rendered to the fleet in transit.



- 60 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
The fleet
12.       The ATC river transport fleet consists of 45 micro-pushers 1/,
18 line pushers, 3 port pushers, 17 timber barges, 4 general cargo barges,
23 mixed timber, general cargo and passenger barges, 4 fuel barges and
6 passenger barges. In 1978 10 barges of various types broke loose from
their moorings in Brazzaville and drifted down across the falls. This
reduced the river transport capacity of ATC substantially. The fleet
does not have sufficient capacity in the transport of sawn timber, fuel
and passengers which will be made up under the project.
13.       All of the ATC fleet is maintained at the marine workshop in
Brazzaville which results in underutilization of some of the fleet. To
overcome this problem a second marine workshop will be revitalized and
upgraded at Ouesso to maintain the fleet of micro-pushers and minor repairs
to other river craft.
14.       Brazzaville's marine workshop maintains some river craft that has
come to the end of its life. This expensive maintenance is carried out
because of the nonavailability of new craft, a situation which should be
rectified under the project. The marine workshop in Brazzaville after
rehabilitation will have sufficient capacity for assembling the new fleet
as well as maintaining the existing fleet during the period 1982-1984.
1/   Micro-pushers are used mainly in guiding rafts on the downstream trip.
Secondary uses of micro-pushers consist of pushing barges in the
Cuvette region and positioning of barges being loaded by primitive
fixed leg derricks.



ANNEX I
- 61 -                           Table 1
Page 1
CONGO
ATC River Fleet by Line and Commodity
(in good operating condition with life
expectancy beyond 1985 except as noted)
Number
UPPER SANGHA & N'GOKO INCLUDING OUESSO
Logs                  - Micro-opushers                       8
14  h.p.8
General Cargo, logs and Sawn Timber (on barges
- Line pushers
240 h.p. 1/                       3
- Barges
125T                              5
15OT                              5
280T                             17
Fuel
- Line pushers
same as above
- Barges
60 m3                             1
100 m3                             1
160 m3                             1
190 m3                             1
LOWER SANGHA
Logs
- Micro-pushers                       25
90 h.p.
120 h.p.
143 h.p.
General Cargo, Logs, Sawn Timber and passengers
(on barges)
- Barges
same as above plus passenger
barge, 134 seats



ANNEX I
Table 1
Page 2
Number
- Line pushers
200 h.p. 2/                        1
260 h.p. 3/2
400 h.p.                           2
600 h.p. 4!                        1
QflBANGI (Bangui-Brazzaville run)
Logs
- Micro-pushers
no specific h.p.                   5
General cargo, logs, sawn timber and passengers
(on barges)
- Barges
600T                               2
450T                               1
280T 5/                            1
200T 6/                            5
passenger barge, 134 seats         1
- Line pushers
200 h.p.                           1
240 h.p.                           2
320 h.p.                           1
600 h.p.                           1
CUVETTE
General cargo and passengers
- Micro-pushers
90 h.p.                            2
- Barges
70T                                4
lOOT                               4
passenger barge, 36 seats          4
- Pushers
85 h.p.                            4



- 63 -
ANNEX I
Table 1
Page 3
Number
CONGO (Maluku-Brazzaville)
Log
- Micro-pushers
120 h.p.                          3
BRAZZAVILLE-KINSHASA
Passenger traffic
fleet owned and operated
by Zaire
General cargo
depending on the demand, fleet
may be transferred from other lines
BRAZZAVILLE PORT
Operations
- Micro-pushers
90 h.p.                           2
- Port pushers
160 h.p.  7/                      1
280 h.p.                          1
320 h.p.                          1
1/ While being maintained, these pushers may be temporarily
replaced by 200 h.p. or 260 h.p. pushers from other lines.
2/ Depending on the demand, the pusher may be transferred from
the Sangha to Oubangui river.
3/ One of the pushers is old and should be replaced by a new
one under the projet.
4/ Depending on the demand, may be transferred from Sangha to
Oubangui river.
5/ Depending on the demand, one of the barges may be used to transport
cemend from Kinshasa to Brazzaville.
6/ Depending on the demand two of the barges may be used to transport
cement from Kinshasa to Brazzaville.
7/ This pusher is old and should be replaced by a new one under the
project.



-64 -                                  ANNEX I
Table 2
Page 1
CONGO
ATC Ports and River Transport Equipment
(in good operating condition with life
expectancy beyond 1985 except as noted)
Number
Mobile Handling Equipment
- Fork lift trucks -4 to 5T          10
- Cranes on tires - 1.5 to 20T       12
- Cranes on rails - 3 to 30T         10
Fixed Equipment
- Fixed leg derrick - 25T             1
Tugs
- Micro-pushers
90 H.P.                           7
120 H.P.                          10     4
143 H.P. 1/                       28>
- Line Pushers
85 H.P. 2/                        4
200 H.P.                           2
240.H.P.                           5
260 H.P. 3/                        2      18
320 H.P.                           1
400 H.P.                           2
600 H.P.                           2
- Port Pushers
160 H.P. 4/                        1
280 H.P.                           1     3
320 H.P.                           1 >
1/ H.P. of these units will be reduced to 131 to improve maintenance.
2/ Serves only Cuvette rivers, accommodates 20 passengers; two more under
construction scheduled to be completed in 1980.
3/ One of the pushers to be replaced by a new 400 H.P. pusher under the
project.
4/ This is an old pusher to be replaced by a new 400 H.P. pusher under
the project.



- 65                               ANNEX I
Table 2
Page 2
Number
Barges
- Timber
280T                              17
- Timber, General Cargo/Passen,ger
125T                               5
150T                               5
200T                               5
70T                               4
lOOT                               4           54
- General Cargo
280T                               1
450T                               1
600T                               2
- Passengerl!
passenger barges, 36 seats         4
passenger barges, 134 seats        2
- Fuel
60 m3                               1
10  m3                              1
160 m3                               1
190 m3                               1
Note:  In 1978 inBrazzaville the following 10 barges that broke loose from
moorings were lost over the falls, which caused a serious
deficiency in the capacity of the ATC fleet.
125T general cargo                                    3
300T cargo/passenger (37 seats)                       1
280T timber                                           1
280T general cargo                                    3
150T general cargo                                    1
32 seat passenger barge                               1
1/ Serves only Cuvette rivers; two more under construction6



-66 -                                 ANNEX I
Table 3
CONGO
Voies Navigables Fleet
Number
Pushers               - 100 H.P.                             1
- 170 H.P.                            1
- 200 H.P.                            1
- 300 H.P.                            3
- 400 H.P.                            1
Suction Dredgers      - 300 m3/hr. solids                    2
- 250 m3/hr. solids                   1
Buoy Tenders          - Equipped with 15T hydraulic winch 2
- Small emergency buoy tender         1
Maintenance Workshop
Barges                                                     4
Clean-up Barges       - 250T                                 8
Rock Removal
Pontoons            - Equipped with cranes and
compressor                        6
Hydrographic Launches                                        4
Personnel Accommodation
Barges                                                     9
Fuel Barges
50 m3                                                      4
200 m3                                                     2
280 m3                                                     1



- 67 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
ATC Investment Plan 1980-86
1.        In March 1980, ATC drew up a medium-term investment program for
the period 1980-84, consisting of new investments and renewals needed in
addition to the realignment. In July, in response to a Government request
to prepare a plan to coincide with the next national plan for 1982-86, ATC
made some minor revisions and added some indicative figures for 1985-86.
The plan is summarized in the attached table. The following remarks are in
order:
a.   River Transport:  The proposed investment program consists mainly
of renewals--tugs, barges, pushers--to maintain essential services and carry
the present traffic volume, plus phased new investments in fleet: capacity
geared to expected growth in timber traffic resulting from new concessions.
The proposed project takes a time slice of these investments, shown in the
years 1982-86. The equipment needs for 1982-84 are shown in Table 4.4. The
level of renewals is in line with annual depreciation provisions and is
needed to maintain efficient operation. The investment program includes
passenger fleet purchases to serve the Cuvette region, financing for which
would be provided by Government as either capital grants or long term
concessional loans.
b.   River Ports:  The main investments conisist of ongoing improvement
of secondary river ports as part of the Government-s strategy of- regional
development of the north Congo. Minor investments and renewals of port
equipment at Brazzaville are also foreseen in 1982-84.
c.   CFCO:  The investment program consists of three main subgroups:
Infrastructure and Track: The major investment in track consists of the
rehabilitation of the Mont Belo-Brazzaville section. Ongoing renewals take up
the remainder of the program.
Motive Power: The major element in this group of investment is the part
renewal/part new investment in 17 light locomotives capable of p,erforming a
variety of tasks and expected to replace the large 2,400 CC locomotives which
are rapidly becoming obsolete.  In addition, investments in rebuilding a stock
of major sub-assemblies, rehabilitation of 12 locomotives, (10 in 1980, 2 in
1981), and other routine annual renewals are proposed.
Rolling Stock: In addition to an ongoing program of passenger coaches
financed by the CCCE, the program envisages minimum annual renewals and
investment in seven service coaches.



- 68 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
Miscellaneous: The remainder of the program consists of (i) miscel-
laneous annual renewals of fixed installations and other equipment, (ii)
possible signalling and telecommunications installations on the Mont Belo-
Brazzaville section to be carried out in 1984 and beyond, and (iii) additional
passenger coaches. The latter have been accorded the lowest priority in the
program and may only be undertaken if ATCGs financial situation justifies it
in 1984 and beyond.
d.   Port of Pointe Noire:  The investment program of the Port of
Pointe Noire consists primarily of replacing a tug boat that sank in 1979,
deferred maintenance of the dredged channel, renewal of the water supply
system, an extension of the log terminal area and other warehousing faci-
lities. Besides these investments and renewals needed to maintain essential
activities and keep pace with the modest traffic growth, other investments to
improve efficiency and capture demand for new services are also proposed.
These include another pilot boat, warehouse extensions, rehabilitation of
workshops and the eventual rehabilitation of the dredger. Finally, the port
has as a low priority item, the acquisition of another tug boat in 1984/85 to
be purchased only after appropriate study of the need for such a craft. The
total investment plan amounts to CFAF 4.1 billion of which 85% consists of
investments essential to traffic maintenance and/or improvement of operating
efficiency, the remainder being lower priority items which may be only under-
taken if warranted by ATC's financial situation.
e.   Other Section:  The other investments shown in the plan consist
of ongoing and proposed technical assistance programs, renewal of other
facilities and investments/renewals in office equipment, training equipment
and the like.



PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
T A B L E 1
1981-1986 INVESTMENT PLAN
(EXCLUDING CFCO REALIGNMENT)
IN C F A F MILLION
1981        1982        1983         1984        1985         1986       TOTAL
BUDG        BUDG        FCST         FCST        PREL         PREL      1982-86
INVESTMENTS BY SECTION
______________________
RIVER TRANSFORT
INVESTMENTS                                     1214.       2966.         889.       1601.        1230.       7900.
RENEWALS                             570.       2385.         589.        739.        455.         530.       4698.
TOTAL RIVER TRANSPORT                  570.       3599,        3555.       1628.       2056.        1760.      12598.
RIVER PORTS
INVESTMENTS                          175.        330.         220.        242.        300.         560,       1652.
RENEWALS                             276.         65_         180.        201.         140.        100.        686,
TOTAL RIVER PORTS                      451.        395.         400.        443.         440.        660.       2338.
C F C O
INVESTMENTS                         103,9.      1277.       2033.        1536.       1600.        1700.       8146.
RENEWALS                            1696.       2430.       3024.        1374.       1800.        1900.      10528.
TOTAL CFCO                            2735.       3707.        5057.       2910.        3400.       3600.      18674,
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE
INVESTMENTS                          330.        517.         310.        450.        500.         550.       2327.
RENEWALS                             761.        383.         588.        220.        250.         280.       1721.
TOTAL F'ORT OF POINTE NOIRE           1091.        900.         898.        670.         750.        830.       4048',
DG ATC/IFVNPTF
INVESTMENTS                          188.        122.          50.         50.         50.          50.        322.
RENEWALS                              68.        100.         112.        115.        120.         i3O.        577.
TOTAL EIG ATC/DVNPTF                   256.        222.         162.        165.         170.        180.         899.
TOTAL A T C
INVESTMENTS                         1732.       3460.       5579.        3167.       4051.        4090.      20347.
RENEWALS                            3371.       5363.       4493.        2649.       2765.        2940.      18210.
GRAND TOTAL                           5103.       8823.       10072.       5816.        6816.       7030.      38557.



- 70 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
CONGO
RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
ATC Financial Position and Prospects
A.  General
1.        The attached Tables 1-12 trace ATC-s recent financial performance,
its financial position each year since 1974, and its projected financial
performance and position through 1986. Each of the tables and the underlying
assumptions are discussed below.
B.   Table 1 - Audited Working Capital Position 1974-1980
2.        As may be seen from the table, ATC's working capital improved
marginally from 1974-1976, but deteriorated rapidly during 1977 and 1978.
Short-term debt to suppliers and trade creditors nearly doubled between
end-1976 and end-1978; it increased by a further 15% during 1979. Overdue
maturities of long-term debt also doubled during the above period, as ATC-s
insufficient cash generation combined with an increasing debt burden made it
extremely difficult for ATC to keep abreast of its debt maturities, let alone
pay arrears. Commercial bank overdrafts increased equally dramatically and
were at their limit of CFAF 1.8-2.0 billion during 1978 and well into 1979.
ATC-s receivables also increased rapidly; the closure of the potash mine at
Makola in 1976 forced ATC to transfer a large amount (nearly CFAF 660 million)
of accounts receivable into long-term assets, and ATC finally agreed to a
takeover of the potash company-s (CPC) office buildings and residences in
Pointe Noire and is now charging a depreciation amount representing the
commercial value of the long-term lease of the office and residential accom-
modations. ATC was also forced to transfer some CFAF 350 million in receiv-
ables representing its cash support for SCEVN, the river navigation services
jointly operated with the ACCF in the CAR, as the latter-s poor financial
condition resulted in non-payment of amounts due to SCEVN. No arrangements
have yet been made for recovery of these amounts. ATC, under the advice of
the auditors, had made provision for about CFAF 200 million in its 1978
balance sheet and had charged an appropriate amount to its revenue account.
C.   Table 2 - Audited Fixed Asset Account 1974-1980
3.        ATC revalued its fixed assets in 1974.  A revaluation reserve of
CFAF 11,922 million was incorporated into the 1974 audited balance sheet,
and subsequently integrated into the capital account in 1977, after auditing
corrections in 1975 and 1976. The next revaluation of ATC fixed assets was
carried out in 1978 conforming to the 1228-COB loan covenants (Section
5.04(c)). A new revaluation reserve of CFAF 11,228 million was constituted
in 1978. During 1979 and 1980, ATC increased its depreciation provisions to
conform to the revalued fixed asset base. An additional revaluation reserve
of CFAF 7,939 million was constituted in 1980.



- 71 -
A4NNEX III
Page 2
D.   Table 3 - Audited Income Statements 1974-1980
4.        ATC's income account for the period 1974-80 shows large swings in
net operating revenue, due both to the fluctuation of traffic performance and
irregular tariff increases.  Tariff increases during the six-year period were
as follows:
1974.  Two decrees in January-February and October increased tariffs
by an average of 20% on the CFCO and port of Pointe Noire, 9% on river ports
and 17% on river transport operations.
1976.  Effective March 15, an average 15% tariff increase was
implemented.
1977.  Effective February 15, an average 20-40% increase in river
transport tariffs and 30% in tariffs on petroleum products carried on the
CFCO.
1978. An average 10-25% increase on all traffic except timber and
10-15% on passenger traffic was implemented as of March 1. In December,
tariffs were increased by 10-20% on timber from the Congo. The increase on
transit traffic was effective February 1, 1979.
1979. Tariffs were increased, effective January 1 on national
traffic and April 1 on transit traffic by an average of 14%.
5.        Despite these tariff increases, ATC's tariff structure was not
in balance with costs; tariffs on timber transport covered only about 80-90%
of full costs. Some of the imbalance has been redressed with the selective
tariff increase effective January 1, 1980. Passenger tariffs on the CFCO
and the River Transport cover on the average between 50-70% of full costs.
Tariff increases, in general, kept pace with inflation; so ATC-s working
ratio fluctuated between 84% and 74%, improving to 70% in 1978 and 1979.
6.        ATC-s return on average net fixed assets in use Eluctuated between
3-5%' during the period 1974-80. These figures are below the covenanted
targets, but relatively good in view of lower-than-forecast traffic.
E.   Table 4 - Historic Statement of Source and Application of Funds 1974-1980
7.        The erosion of ATC-s working capital can be seen from this table.
Cash generation was low compared to the major cash demands for debt service
which increased from CFAF 1,613 million in 1974 to CFAF 4,583 million in
1981. Except for interest financed under 1228-COB, ATC had to attempt to
cover its increasing debt service burden out of internal cash generation. At
the same time the demands of renewals and investments, minimal though they
were in comparison to the annual depreciation provisions, made it: impossible
for ATC to prevent an erosion of its working capital. This manifested itself
through an increase in short-term liabilities (payments to suppliers) that
grew increasingly difficult to cover out of cash generation. With some



- 72 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
exceptions, notably the CFCO realignment, ATC completed the bulk of its
1974-78 investment program amounting to CFAF 21 billion (initially estimated
at CFAF 19.0 billion).
F.   Table 5 - Audited Balance Sheet 1974-1980
8.        Despite the eroding working capital, and fluctuating operating
revenues, ATC's overall capitalization remained prudent, with long-term
debt representing 59% of total equity (37:63 debt-equity ratio).  In 1976
Government agreed to permit ATC to retain value added taxes collected on
national traffic. This compensation act is reflected in the 1975 and 1976
balance sheets as an extraordinary item, and was integrated into retained
earnings in 1977. Since 1977, the ATC has collected the value added taxes
(amounting to 18% on passenger traffic and 7% on freight traffic on CFCO
and River Transport) and incorporated them directly into the revenue account.
G.   Table 6 - Forecast Fixed Asset Account 1981-1986
9.        This table derives from the investment plan (Annex II) and the
expected rate of execution. In the projections, new investments are incor-
porated into the fixed asset accounts at 50% in the year in which they are
made, and 50% in the following year. Renewals are incorporated into the
account in the same year. The realignment costs are incorporated into the
fixed asset account in mid-1983, the expected completion date of the project.
Depreciation on gross fixed assets averages 3% a year. The realignment
project is assumed to be depreciated over 40 years (2.5% a year). In view of
the high value of immovable assets, the depreciation rates are appropriate.
The proposed annual revaluations of assets are not shown.
H.   Table 7 - Estimated and Forecast Working Expenses 1981-1986
10.       In order to forecast working expenses a detailed step-by-step method
was used. First, the expected traffic growth was determined by section. On
the basis of past results, the ratio of marginal/total costs was determined
for each major expenditure category for each section. These determined the
annual increase in expense categories directly attributable to traffic growth.
To these were added the expected inflation rates, to arrive at a combined
annual increase for each expenditure category for each section. The assump-
tions are summarized in the table below:
Traffic Growth (%/year)
River Transport         11.6
River Ports             10.2
CFCO                     5.4
Port of Pointe Noire    6.0
However, in view of the initial slow build-up of timber traffic on the CFCO
and in River Transport, growth rates were calculated for each project year
separately rather than using the average rate for the six year projections.
This also permitted subsequent sensitivity testing of changes in traffic



- 73 -
ANNEX III
Page 4
growth by major categories--timber from North Congo, timber from CAR, Cameroon
and Gabon, upstream traffic, downstream traffic, rafted timber, barged timber,
etc. Thus, overall an average of 13% a year in growth of working expenses has
been assumed. This represents about 3% a year in real terms and 'LO% a year
adjustment for inflation.
Marginally        Average annual       Assumed
Expenditure             with respect to       increase due       inflattion    Total
category                 traffic growth    to traffic (%)        rate (%)       %
Staff
River Transport               20%               2.32               8.0       10.32
River Ports                    -                1.00               8.0        9.00
CFCO                          50%              2.72                8.0       10.72
Port of Pointe Noire           -               1.00                8.0        9.00
Total ATC                           (weighted average)                    10.53
Fuel and Lubricants
River Transport               75%              8.70               15.0       23.70
River Ports                   10%              1.02               15.0       15.02
CFCO                         100%              5.43               15.0       21.43
Port of Pointe Noire          40%              2.12               15.0       18.12
Total ATC                           (weighted average)                    18.33
Other Materials
River Transport               62%              7.19               10.7       17.89
River Ports                   65%              6.03               10.7       17.33
CFCO                          75%              4.07               10.7       14.77
Port of Pointe Noire          50%              2.65               10.7       13.35
Total ATC                           (weighted average, 1982-84)           14.35
Charges
River Transport               65%              7.19               10.0       17.19
River Ports                   65%              6.63               10.0       16.63
CFCO                          75%              4.07               10.0       14.07
Port of Pointe Noire          50%              2.65               10.0       12.65
Total ATC                           (weighted average, 1982-84)           14.05
Overhead
Staff                                          1.00                8.0        9.00
Materials and charges                          3.00               10.0       13.00
Staff, materials and
charges weighted average                                                  9.44
TOTAL ATC
River Transport                                                              16.57
River Ports                                                                  14.41
CFCO                                                                         13.41
Port of Pointe Noire                                                          8.55
Weighted Average for All ATC                                              13.04



- 74 -
ANNEX III
Page 5
I.   Table 8 - Estimated and Forecast Income Account 1981-1986
11.                 The 1981 figures for revenues are derived from ATC's
budget with minor adjustments. On the basis of its 1980 performance
which exceeded the budget by about 7% on the average, ATC proposed and
obtained Government approval for a tariff increase for 1981, which would
average 12.3% for the year, appropriately weighting the effect of a three
months statutory delay in applying the new tariffs on transit traffic. The
increases range from 15% on sawn timber and petroleum products, to 12.5%
on logs, 10.5% on passenger traffic, cement and basic necessities (grain
and foodstuffs) and 20% on all other traffic categories. Although ATC-s
traffic assumptions are in general reasdnable, some adjustments in certain
traffic categories (notably cement and petroleum products on the CFCO),
have been made in the projections. Forecast operating revenues for 1982 and
beyond are calculated in current terms on the basis of the minimum tariff
increases needed to achieve (a) the covenanted target working ratio of 68%
in 1982 and 65% in 1983 and thereafter, and (b) the covenanted target rate
of return on fixed assets of 5%. The details of the traffic projections
for the CFCO and river transport is shown as Table 8-A for the
base hypothesis.
12.        ATC effected a tariff increase of 9.5% in 1982, and will need
tariff increases of 12% in 1983, and under 10% per year thereafter.
The rate of return covenant is met in each year.
J.   Table 9 - Debt Servicing Requirements 1981-2001
13.       The main assumptions of this projection of ATC-s debt service are
as follows:
Total external financing for the realignment and other investments/
renewals is presumed to consist of 75% loans and credits and 25% grants
including Government contribution and grants from the FED regional program and
FAC, CIDA bilateral programs. The terms of new loans and credits are assumed
as follows:
(i)  Realignment   IDA:  60% capital grant from Government to ATC, 40% on
terms of 8.5%, over 25 years including six years grace.
During the grace period, ATC would only pay interest on IDA
terms on the total credit
FED:  60% capital grant, 40% loan, 1% interest over 40
years including 10 years  grace
FAC:  100% capital grant
CCCE: loan at 6% interest, 15 years repayment including
five years grace



- 75 -
ANNEX III
Page 6
CCCE, second window: loan at 12% interest, 10 years
repayment including three years' grace
ADB: loan at 8.5% interest, 20 years repaymenlt including 4
years' interest
KED (Kuwait Fund): loan at 4% interest, 20 year repayment
including 5 years' grace
SFD (Saudi Fund): loan at 2.5 % interest, 20 year repayment
including 5 years' grace
Iraq Fund: loan at 4% interest, 20 years repayment
including 5 years' grace
CIDA: credit at 0% interest, 50 years repayment, including
10 years' grace
OPEC Funds: credit at 0% interest, 20 years repayment
including 5 years' grace
(ii) Other new debt:
Proposed Project IDA: retrocession to ATC at 10% interest,
20 years repavment including 5 years' grace
Other bilateral loans (CCCE): loan at 6% interest, 20
years replacement including 4 years' grace
Other MFI loans (ADB, BADEA, etc.): loan at 8.5% interest,
17 years repayment including 5 years' grace
Supplier credits: loan at 12% interest, sevetn years
repayment including two years' grace
KfW (River Transport): loan at 2.5% interest:, 30 years
repayment including 10 years' grace
K.   Table 10 - Estimated and Forecast Statement of Source and Application
of Funds 1981-1986
14.       This table derives from the earlier assumption on operating revenues
and working expenses, debt service and investment needs. The following
comments are appropriate:



- 76 -
ANNEX III
Page 7
(1) Working Capital Support. This represents aid provided by
CCCE/FAC for the rehabilitation of 10 locomotives and purchase of rails
in 1980, by the IDA/EEC Special Action Credit for spare parts, and the
Government working capital support loan of CFAF 4 billion that is being
rendered effective now. Only that portion of the CCCE and IDA/EEC credits
representing expenses that are being charged to current operations is included
under this subheading. The remainder represents investments (including
technical assistance) financed out of the same credits, and is shown under
existing commitments in the following lines.
(2) External Financing. The existing commitments include the
commitments recently obtained (but not formalized) from the CCCE, FAC and
KfW for various investments in CFCO and River Transport.
(3) Other Sources. In 1981 and 1982, it is assumed that Govern-
ment may provide cash advances to ATC to cover peak cash requirements in
those years. To this end, part or all of interest accruing to the realignment
project in 1981 and through end-1982, is assumed to be made as a Treasury
advance, to be reimbursed by ATC as soon as the cash situation permits it.
(4) Variation in Working Capital. The annual working capital
variations are translated into variations in each of the working capital
items as follows:
(i) Receivables: Assumed to reach the target of two months' gross
income during 1981. By end 1981, it is expected that a compen-
sation plan for cleaning up outstanding public sector receivables
will be worked out with Government and that from 1981 onward
ATC will be able to limit receivables to the target;
(ii) Inventories: A gradual improvement of inventory management
is assumed to reduce average inventory from nine months of
consumption in 1980 to 7.5 months by 1984. This is reasonable
and takes into account both improvements in ordering and
payment procedures (through monthly payments of CFAF 60 million
amount for spare parts purchases into a specially designated
account in order to reduce and eventually eliminate payment
delays) and through better management. Fuel inventory is
expected to be maintained at 0.5 months' consumption, which is
also reasonable;
(iii) Accounts payable: The objective is to limit the accounts
payable to a maximum of 90 days - representing the normally
available credit terms from suppliers. To achieve this will
require a compensation plan with Government to cancel part
of the accounts payable against payments due ATC from the
public sector. The remaining debit balance represents overdue
payments to the Social Security and Pension Funds and will
be paid by ATC as part of its working capital improvement



- 77 -
ANTEX III
Page 8
arising from the Government loan of CFAF 4 billion. All
overdue payments to foreign and domestic suppliers have
been cleared using the proceeds of the working capital loan;
(iv)  Bank overdraft:  It is assumed that ATC will reduce its over-
draft by at least about CFAF 200 million a year to reach CFAF
1.0 billion by 1984. However, if cash balances are in excess
of minimum cash needs (equivalent to one month wages bill),
they are used by the projection model to reduce overdrafts.
(v)  Overdue maturities:  Paid up in 1980 using the proceeds of
the working capital loan. No further arrears are assumed to
be created; and
(vi)  Cash:  A minimum requirement of one months- salaries is
proposed. The difference represents the cash build-up
arising from the impact of regular tariff increases.
Any cash excess is used to reduce any outstanding overdrafts
and/or Treasury advances.
(2) Working Ratio, Debt Service Coverage and Tariff Increases. Under
the Credit 1047-COB covenants, ATC must achieve a target working ratio of 68%
in 1981 and 65% each year thereafter. In addition, the debt senrice coverage
ratio should reach 1.25 in each year if ATC is to effect the proposed addi-
tional borrowings, ATC must maintain a positive working capital, and achieve a
5.0% rate of return on average net fixed assets in use. The asset base VMs
revalued in 1978 for all sections except the Port of Pointe Noire, where it
was achieved in 1980.
15.       The projections indicate that ATC would marginally meel: all the
above targets, in 1981 (Table 12-A). The debt service coverage would be only
1.02 in 1981 and would reach the agreed target of 1.25 only in 1983. However,
as the Government has agreed to provide cash cover for any projected cash
shortfalls in 1981 and 1982, this appears to be an accepted risk. The
tables also show the changes in the working ratio and debt service coverage
if no further tariff increases were made in each succeeding year.
16.       Several sensitivity tests have been carried out.  The iollowing
assumptions were tested, and the needed tariff increase calculated. The base
hypothesis and alternatives tested were:
(1) Base Hypothesis: Traffic achieved as forecast, working expense
increases as forecast, all covenanted target ratios to be achieved
except in 1982 where a cash injection of CFAF 2618 Mi:Llion has
been agreed.d



- 78 -
ANNEX III
Page 9
(2)  Variation No. lI  Decreased rate of growth of timber traffic from
North Congo and stagnation of timber traffic from CAR and Cameroon,
and increased inflation rate for diesel fuel (21% annual price
increases instead of 15.)
(3)  Variation No.2 :  This test checks the effects of no tariff
increase in any year on the base traffic and cost hypotheses.
The results of the sensitivity tests are summarized below:



- 79 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1D
1982       1983        1984        1985       1986
A. Average Tariff Increase (%)
Base Hypothesis                       9.5         12          9           7           8
Variation No. 1                       9.5         16         11          10          11
Variation No. 2                       0            0          0           0           0
B. Working Ratio Achieved
Base Hypothesis                       68          65         64          65         65
Variation No. 1                       68          65         64          65         65
Variation No. 2                       74         80          86          92         99
C. Debt Service Coverage Ratio _/
Maximum Debt Service (CFAF mn)    7,800         8,192      8,705       8,788       9,055
Base Hypothesis                      1.48        1.42       1.56        1.71        1.89
Variation No. 1                      1.48       1.42        1.56        1.74        1.96
Variation No. 2                      1.48       3.67        1.47        0.27       '0.20
D.  Rate of Return on Revalued Net Fixed Assets in Use (%)
Average Net Fixed Assets in Use
(CFAF million)              65,960    107,547    147,444    147,800    147,925
Base Hypothesis                      7.7        6.1         5.0         5.8         7.0
Variation No. 1                      7.7        6.1         5.0         6.0         7.5
Variation No. 2                      4.2        0.5        -1.4        -7.8       -4.4
_/ Of maximum debt service arising from additional borrowings in each year.
The above results point to the fragility of ATC's financial position which is highly
sensitive to traffic tariffs and almost as sensitive to increases in working expenses.



- 80 -
ANNEX III
Page 11
M.   Table 11 - Forecast Balance Sheet 1981-1986
17.       The forecast balance sheet derives from all of the above tables.
ATC's debt/equity ratio peaks in 1982 under the impact of the peak debt
burden in that year. This is still prudent capitalization and no corrective
steps are needed.
L.   Table 12, A through C- Summary Forecast Statement of Source and
Application of Funds 1981-1986
18.       These three tables recap the main elements of ATC financial projec-
tions and show the results of the various sensitivity tests.



PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT F'ROJECT
T A B L E  i
AUDITED WORKING CAFITAL POSITION 1974-1980
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978         1979        1980
CURRENT ASSETS
1.   CASH I BANKS                                  174.         400.        481.         535.        625.        1040.       1396.
2.   RECEIVABLES                                  3962.        2945.       3386.        4106.       4332.        6612.       9198.
3.   STOCKS                                       1439.        1720.       2252.        2536.       2787.        2560.       2678.
4. TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                           5575.        5065.       6119.        7177.       7744.       10212.      13272.
CURRENT LIABILITIES
5.   ACCTS. PAYABLE                               4875.        2473.       2386.        4205.       4119.        6250.       5973.
6.   BANK OVERDRAFTS                               492.        1241.       1335.        1870.       2002.        1557.       1602.
7.   OVERDiUE MATURITIES                            25.        1040.       1110.        1485.       2175.        1962.        691.
8.   CURRENT MATURITIES                           1375.        1211.       1765.        2012.       2171.        2029.       2794.
9. TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                      6767.        5965.       6596.        9572.      10467.      11798.       11060.
10. NET WORKING CAFITAL                          -1192.        -900.       -477.      -2395.       -2723.      -1586.        2212.
11. VARIATION +(-) IN WORKING CAPITAL             -353.         292.        423.      -1918.        -328.        1137.       3798.
12. +(-) VAR. CURRENT MATURITIES                   416.        -164.        554.         247.        159.       -142.         765.
13. NET INC(DEC) WORKING CAFITAL                    63.         128.        977.      -i67i.        -169.         995.       4563.
(NOT INCL. VAR. CURRENr MATURITIES)



ELP tS hSI. l.IC 01  IHL LUION(
A T C IIRST FIE.R TiANN  OR f F ROJrC T
I a A    L E  2
AUDITED FIXED ASSET ACCOUNT 1974-19R3
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMInER 3t
1974         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         19B0
GROSS FIXED ASSETS
RIVER TRANSFORT                            4171,        4467.        4473.        6011.        8222.        B242.        9517.
RIVER FORTS                                3350.        363Y.        3226.        4604.        4855.        4878.        4959.
C F C 0                                   35217.       37162.       39523.       44064.       57022.       59559.       61797.
FORT OF FOINTE NOIRE                      18222.       19111.       20620.       21383.       21441.       21441.       35323.
OTHER(DG ATC/DVNPTF                          IB7.        805.         830.          996.       1090.        1115.        1268.
TOTAL GROSS FIXED ASSETS                   61147.       65184.       68672.       77058.       92630.       95235.    112864.
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
RIVER TRANSFORT                            2215.        2472.        2652.        2771.        4528.        4847.        5193.
RIVER PORTS                                 l(s5.       1211.        1295.        1380.        1518.        1655.        1792.
C F C 0                                   16410.       17434.       18433.       20319.       23180.       26898.       28627.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                       6505.        6879.        7036.        7702.        8146.        8586.       14824.
OTHER(DG ATC/DVNPTF)                          58.          89.         122.         164.         214.         250.         294.
TOTAL ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION             26373.       28085.       29538.       32336.       37586.       42236.       50730.
NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE                                                                                                                                                  C)
RIVER TRANSPORT                            1956.         1995.        1821.       3240.        3694.        3395.        4324.
RIVER PORTS                                2165.        2428.        1931.        3224.        3337.        3223.        3167.
C     F C 0                               18807.       19728.       21090.       23745.       33842.       32661.       33170.
fORT OF POINTE NOIRE                      11717.       12232.       13584.       13681.       13295.       12855.       20499.
OTHER(DG ATC/DVNPTF)                         129.         716.         708.        832.          876.        865.          Y74.
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE              34774.       37099.       39134.       44722.       55044.       52999.       62134.
WORK IN PROGRESS
RFALIGNMENT-CFCO                                                     7503.       10568.       25733.       32987.       43716.
RIVER TRANSFORT                              235.        679.          683.         225.         677.        1020.           3.
RIVER PORTS                                 919.         742.         1258.         200.          25.          10,          23.
C F C 0                                    2644.        3467.        3635.        2237.        3458.        2316.          888.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                       1414.        1551.          235.          32.           4.         202.         154.
OTHER(DG ATC/DVNPTF)                        600.            7.          42.           8.           1.          26.
TOTAL WORK IN PROGRESS                      5812.        6446.       13356.       13270.       29898.       36561.       44784.
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                         40586.       43545.       52490.       57992.       84942.       89560,      106910.
AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE                                                                                                                                                H
RIVER TRANSPORT                             1708.       2044.        2020.        2648.        3612.        3695.         4007.
RIVER FORTS                                 1572.       2307.        2197.        2594.        3299.        3300.        3215.
C F C 0                                   16317.       19564.       20905.       22962.       29400.       33864.       33563.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                      10128,       12023.       12996.       13725.       13574.       13164.       16782.
TOTAL A T C                                30024.       35938.       38118.       41929.       49885.       54023.       57567.



PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSFORT PROJECT
T A B L E 3
AUDITED INCOME STATEMENTS 1974-1980
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1974        1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980
OPERATING REVENUES
__________________
RIVER TRANSFORT                            1182.       1211.        1667.       1824.       2118.        1932.       2392.
RIVER FORTS                                 301.        235.         344.        348.        405.         438.        53;.
C F C 0                                    6644.       7386.        9491.       9604.      10536.      12349.       15564.
F'ORT OF POINTE NOIRE                      1404.       1613.        2095.       2323.       2181.        2689.       3478.
TOTAL OFERATING REVENUES                    9531.      10445.       13597.      14099.      15240.       17408.      21973.
WORKING EXFENSES                                                                                                                      x
RIVER TRANSFORT                            1171.       1399.        1543.       1693.       2002.        1939.       2504.
RIVER PORTS                                 162.        217.         233.        229.        238.         280.        312.
C F C 0                                    4972.       6142.        6947.       8066.       7522.        8551.      10930.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                        711.       1015.        1314.       1229.        977.        1356.       1812.
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                      7016.       8773.       10037.      11217.      10739.       12126.      15558.
DEPRECIATION
____________
RIVER TRANSF'ORT                            154.        186.         192c        170.        270.         327.        353.
RIVER PORTS                                 105.          92.         92.         91.        139.         138.        139.
C F C 0                                    1106.       1070.        1084.       1234.       1415.       2072.        2063.
PORT OF FOINTE NOIRE                        336.        381.         391.        442.        462.         451.        692.           c  
(D    b-
TOTAL DEF'RECIATION                         1701.       1729.        1759.       1937.       2286.        2988.       3247.
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES
________________________



RIVER TRANSPORT                           1325.       1585.       1735.       1863.       2272.       2266.       2857.
RIVER PORTS                                267.        309.        325.        320.        377.        418.        451.
C F C O                                   6078.       7212.       8031.       9300.       8937.      10623.      12993.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                      1047.       1396.       1705.       1671.       1439.       1807.       2504.
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                   8717.      10502.      11796.      13154.      13025.      15114.      18805.
NET OPERATING REVENUE
RIVER TRANSFORT                           -143.       -374,        -68.        -39.       -154.       -334.       -465.
RIVER PORTS                                 34.        -74.         19.         28.         28.         20,         88.
C F C 0                                    566.        174.       1460.        304.       1599.       1726.       2571.
FORT OF FOINTE NOIRE                       357.        217.        390.        652.        742.        882.        974.
TOTAL NET OFERATING REVENUE                 814.        -57.       1801.        945.       2215.       2294.       3168.
INTEREST CHARGES ON LT S MT DEBT            631,        705.        870.       1308.       1748.       2429.       2551.
NET OPERATING SURPLUS(DEFICIT)              183.       -762.        931.       -363.        467.       -135.        617.
EXCEFTIONAL REVENUES(LOSSES)               -133.        -54.        -96.        -85.       -551.       -357.       -364.
NET ACCOUNTING SURPLUS(DEFICIT)              50.       -816.        835.       -448.        -84.       -492.        253.
AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE
_______________________________
RIVER TRANSPORT                           1708.       2044,       2020.       2648.       3612.       3695.       4007.
RIVER PORTS                               1872.       2307.       2197.       2594.       3299.       3300.       321',.
C F C 0                                  16317.      19564.      20905.      22962.      29400.      33864.      33563.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                     10128.      12023.      12996.      13725.      13574.      13164.      16782.
TOTAL A T C                               30024.      35938.      38118.      41929.      49885.      54023.      57567.
RATE OF RETURN ON AVG. NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE(% X 10)
-_ --_ --_ --_____-__--__-__-__-__-__-__--__-__-__-__-_ --  --_-_-__- _-- -- -- -- --                                            (D rc >
H
RIVER TRANSFORT                            -84.       -183.        -34.        -15.        -43.        -90.       -116.
RIVER PORTS                                 18.        -32.          9.         11.          8.          6.         27.
C F C 0                                     35.          9.         70.         13.         54.         51.         77.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                        35,         18,         30.         48.         55.         67.         58.
TOTAL A T C                                 27.         -2.         47.         23.         44.         42.         55.



ANNEX III
Table 4
- 85 -
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
T A B L E 4
HIST. SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT
1974-1960    IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978        1979         1980
SOURCE
A. CASH GENERATION FROM OPERATIONS
1. OPERATING REVENUES                              9531.      10445.      13S97.       14099,      15240.      17408.      21973.
2. LESS-WORKING EXPENSES                           7016.       8773.      10037.       11217.      10739.      12126.       1555a.
3. CASH GENERATION FROM OPERATIONS                 2515.       1672.       3560.        2882.       4501.       5282.        6415.
4. +(-) EXCEPTIONAL REV.(LOSS)                     -133.        -54.         -96.        -85.       -551.       -357.        -364.
5. +(-) INC(DEC) DEFERRED CHARGES                    339.        100.        -110.       -385.                     800.       -800.
5. TOTAL CASH GENERATION                           2721.       1718.       3354.        2412.       3950.       5725.        5251.
8. LONG TERM BORROWINGS(DRAWDOWNS)
-FOR WORKING CAPITAL
7. BILATERAL AID FOR SPARE PTS I RAILS              291.        149.        800.         476.        380.        132.        1666.
8. GOVT. WKG. CAP. SUPPORT                                                                                                   4000.
-FOR INVESTMENTS
9.   REALIGNMENT                                                           4798.        2069.      1C941,       7870.        6168.
10.   OTHER INVESTMENTS                            2726.       2426.       2907.        3201.       1422.        342.         524.
-OTHER
11. CAPITALISED INTEREST 1228-COB                                                        195.        340.         176.
12. TOTAL DRAWDOWNS OF L T BORROWINGS              3017.       2575.       8505.        5931.      11083.       8520.       12358.
D. SUBSIDIES FOR INVESTMENTS
13.   REALIGNMENT                                                          2705.         996.       4224.                    4444.
14.   OTHER INVESTMENTS                            1196.       1529.         414.        318.        285.        625.         158.
15. TOTAL SUBSIDIES                                1196.       1529.       3119.        1314.       4509.        625.        4602.
D. 16. OTHER SOURCES                                            1532.         123.
17. TOTAL SOURCES                                  6934.       7354.      15101.        9657.      21542.      14870.       22211.
APPLICATION
A. INVESTMENTS(INCREASE IN GROSS FIXED ASSETS)
-EXTERNALLY FINANCED
18.      REALIGNMENT                                                       7503.        3065.      15165.       7244.       10729.
19.      OTHER INVESTMENTS                         3922.       3956.       3220.        3519.       :787.        967.         611.
20.  TOTAL EXTERNALLY FINANCED                     3922.       3956.      10723.        6584.      16952.       8211.       11340.
21. FINANCED FROM A T C INTERNAL
CASH GENERATION                             829,        916.        1246.       1626.       :887.        1695.       1532.
22. TOTAL INVESTMENTS                              4751.       4872.      11969.        8210.     1L3839.       9906.       12872.
B. 23. INC(DEC) IN OTHER ASSETS                      153.        281.         109.        612.       -152           56.        398.
C. 24. OTHER ADJUSTMENTS 4(-) IN                     354.        122.        -377.       -770.        -832.       -525.       -205.
FIXED ASSET/CAPITAL ACCOUNTS
D. DEBT SERVICE
25. INTEREST-REALIGNMENT                                                      18.        274.        750.        1021.       1409.
26,          -OTHER                                 631.        705.         852.       1034.        998.        1408,       1142.
27. TOTAL INTEREST                                  631.        705.         870.       1308.       1748.        2429.       2S51.
2B. TOTAL PRINCIPAL                                 982.       1247.        1452.       1968.       2108.        2009.       2032.
29. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                             1613.       1952.       2322.        3276.       3856.        4438.       4583.
(INCL. OVERDUE MATURITIES)
30. NET INC(DEC) IN WORKING CAPITAL                  63.        128.         977.      -1671.       -169.         995.       4563.
32. TOTAL APPLICATIONS                             6934.       7354.       15101.       9657.      21542.       14870.      22211.



ANNEX III
Table 5
- 86 -
FEOF'LES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT FROJECT
T A BL E  5
AUDITED BALANCE SHEET 1974-1980
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DIECEMBER 31
1974        1975         1976        1977         1978        1979         1980
ASSETS
I. CURRENT ASSETS
CASH S BANKS                                  174.         400.         481.        535.         625.       1040.        1396.
RECEIVABLES                                  3962.        2945.       3386.        4106.        4332.       6612.       9198.
STORES                                       1439.        1720.       2252.        2536.        2787.       2560.       2678.
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                              5575.        5065.       6119.        7177.       7744.       10212.      13272.
II. FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                          61147.       65184.      68672.       77058.      92630.       95235.     112864.
LESS- ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION                   26373.      28085.       29538.       32336.      37586.       42236.      50730.
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE                34774.       37099.      39134.       44722.       55044.      52999.      62134.
WORK IN PROGRESS                             5812.        6446.      13356.       13270.      29898.       36561.      44784.
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                               40586.      43545.       52490.       57992.      84942.      89560.    106918.
III. OTHER ASSETS                                  173.         454.        563.        1175.       1023.        1079.       1477.
TOTAL ASSETS                                     46334.      49064.       59172.      66344.       93709.     100851.      121667.
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
I. CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCTS PAYABLE                                4875.        2473.        2386.       4205.        4119.       6250.        5973.
BANK OVERDRAFT                                 492.       1241.        1335.       1870.        2002.       1557.        1602.
OVERDiUE MATURITIES                             25.       1040.       1110.        1485.        2175.       1962.         691.
CURRENT MATURITIES                           1375.        1211.       1765.        2012.        2171.       2029.       2794.
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                         6767.        5965.       6596.        9572.      10467.       11798.      11060.
II. LONG TERM DEBT
GROSS LONG TERM DEBT(BEG. OF YR)             7717.        9752.      11080.       18133.      22096.       33071.      39582.
LESS-  REPAYMENTS                             982.        1247.        1452.       1968.        2108.       2009.        2032.
ADD- DRAWDOWNS                               3017.        2575.       8505.        5931.      13083.        8520.      12358.
GROSS LONG TERM DEBT(END OF YR)              9752.       11080.      18133.       22096.      33071.       39582.      49908.
LESS CURRENT MATURITIES                          1375.       1211.        1765.        2012.       2171.        2029.       2794.
TOTAL NET LONG TERM DEBT                          8377.       9869.       16368.      20084.       30900.      37553.       47114.
III. OTHER LONG TERM LIABILITIES                   495.         595.        485.         100.        100.         900.        100.
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                15639.      16429.       23449.       29756.      41467.       50251.      58274.
IV. EQUITY
CAPITAL                                     13260.       13260.       13260.      13260.       23888.      23888.      23888.
REVALUATION RESERVE                         11922.       11616.      10628.       10628.       11228.      10078.       18017.
RETAINED EARNINGS                            1821.        1005.        1840.       3047.        2963.       2471.        2724.
LOI 8/76 COMPENSATION                                     1533.        1655.
TOTAL CAPITAL I RESERVES                         27003.      27414.       27383.       26935.      38079.       36437.      44629.
SUBSIDIES FOR INVESTMENTS                   3692.        5221.       8340.        9654.      14163.       14162.      18764.
TOTAL EQUITY                                     30695.      32635.       35723.       36589.      52242.       50599.      63393.
TOTAL LIABILITIES  EQUITY                       46334.       49064.      59172.       66345.      93709.      100850.     121667.
RATIOS
i. LONG TERM DEBT/EQUITY- X                         27.          30.         46.          55.          S9.         74.          74.



-IEEL LXS kLi UL IC U  I IL CUNOO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSFORT FROJECT
T A D L E  6
FORECAST FIXED ASSET ACCOUNT 1981-1986
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1981        1982         1983        1984         1985        1986
GROSS FIXED ASSETS
F'IVER TRANSFORT                         10090,       13082.      15761.       18427.      20127.       22073.
RIVER FORTS                               5145.        5663.       6118.        6S50.       6961.        7491.
C F C 0                                  64900.      68488.      148167.     151326.      154694.      158244.
FORT OF FOINTE NOIRE                     36403.      37209.       38211.      38811.       39536.       40341.
OTHER(DG ATC/DVUPTF                       1430.        1685.       1883.        2048.       2218.        2398.
TOTAL GROSS FIXED ASSETS                 118168.     126127.      210140.     217162.      223536.      230547.
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
RIVER TRANSPORT                           5574.        6024.       6584.        7248.       7997.        8817.
RIVER FORTS                               1937.        2091.       2256.        2434.       2624.        2827.
C F C 0                                  30745.      32975.       36281.       40655.      45139.       4973R.
FORT OF FOINTE NOIRE                     15691.       16581.      17492.       18423.      19370.       20335.
OTHER(DG ATC/DVNPTF)                       348.         411.        483.         562.        648.         741.
TOTAL ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION            54295.      58082.       63096.       69322.      75778.       82458.
NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE
RIYER TRANSPORT                           4516.        7058.       9177.       11179.      12130.       1325e.
RIVER FORTS                               3408.        3572.       3862.        4116.       4337.        4664.
C F C 0                                  34155.      35S13.      111886.      110671.     109555.      108S06.
PORT OF FOINTE NOIRE                     20712.       20628.      20719.       20388.      20166.       20006.
OTHER(DG ATC/DVNFTFI                      1082.        1274.       1400.        1486.       1570.        1657.
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE             63873.       68045.     147044.      147840.    147758.       148089.
WORK IN FROGRESS
REALIGNMENT-CFCO                         56950.       69244.
RIVER TRANSFORT                                         607.       1483.         445.         801.        61.
RIVER FORTS                                 88.         165.         110.        121.         150.        280.
C F C 0                                    520.         639.       1017.         768.         800.        Ono.
FORT OF FOINTE NOIRE                       165.         259.         155.        225.         250.        2/j.
nTHER(IrpI  ATC/DVNPTF)                     94,          61.          25.         25.          25.         25.
TOTAL WORK IN fROGRESS                    57817.       70975.       2790.        1584.       2026.        2045.
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                       121690.      139020.     149834.      149424.     149784.      150134.                                                   F 
AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE
RIVER TRANSFORT                           4585.        5977.       8341.       10427.      11924.       12984.
RIVER FORTS                               3310.        3517.       3748.        4022.       4261.        4537.
C F C 0                                  34391.       35687.      74675.      112326.     111219.      110194.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                     20719.       20779.      20783.       20669.      20396.       20210.
TOTAL A T C                               63005.       65960.     107547.      147444.     147800.      147925.



F EOFTLLSR Ft IFL IC UF I IL LUNGU
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSFORT PROJECT
T A B L E  7
BUDGET/ FORECAST WORKING EXPENSES(t981-1906)
IN C F A F NILLIi'N
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEM?ER 31
1981        1982         1983         1984         1985         1986
BUDO        BUDO         FCST         FCST         FCST         FCST
STAFF
RIVER TRANSPORT                    946.       1028.        1154.        1273.        1410.        1552.
RIVER PORTS                        143.        155.         169.         184.         201.         712.
C F C 0                          4787.        5551.        6123.        6780.        7476.        8262.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE               717.        673.         735.         803.         876.         95/.
TOTAL STAFF                        6593.       7407.        8181.        9039.        9963.       10990.
FUEL
RIVER TRANSPORT                    520.        625.         819.        1011.        1270.        1557.
RIVER PORTS                          6.           7.           8.           9.         11.          13.
C F C 0                          2233.        2278.        2725.        3282.        3923,        4709.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                39.          62.         73.          85.         100.        I1.
TOTAL FUEL                         2798.       2972.        3625.        4388.        5304.        6397.
MATERIALS
RIVER TRANSPORT                    585.        683.         847.         996.        1190.        139:.                                                               of
RIVER PORTS                         69.          81.         95.         112.         131.         154.                                                               
C F C 0                           1929.       2658.        3034.        3483.        3974.        4550.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE               358.        345.         392.         446.         507.         577.
TOTAL MATERIALS                    2941.       3767.        4369.        5037.        5802.        6672.
OTHER CHARGES
RIVER TRANSPORT                    263.        287.         356.         417.         497.         580.
RIVER PORTS                         84.         102.        119.         139.         162.         189.
C F C 0                          2130.        2186.        2480.        2829.        3209.        3651.
FORT OF POINTE NOIRE               528.        330.         373.         421.         476.         538.
TOTAL OTHER CHARGES                3005.       2905.        3328.        3807.        4344.        495/,
OVERHEAD DG/ATC DVNPTF
RIVER TRANSPORT                    374.         441.        500.         556.         621.         690.
RIVER FORTS                         76.          87.         97.         107.         119.         132.                                                                 H
C F C 0                            900.       1154.        1269.        1396.        1535.        1688.                                                                 tH
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE               113.         146.        161.         177.         195.         215.
TOTAL OVERHEAD                     1463.        1828.       2026.        2237.        2471.        2724.
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES
RIVER TRANSPORT                   2688.       3064.        3676.        4253.        4989.        5771.
RIVER FORTS                        378.         432.        488.         551.         624.         706.
C F C 0                         11979.       13827.       15631.       17770.       20117.       22861.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE              1755.       1556.        1734.        1933.        2155.        2405.
TOTAL WOPTING EYPENSES            16800.      18879.       21528.       2A507,       278R4.       3174Z.



PEOFLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
T A B L E 8
BUDGET/ FORECAST INCOME ACCOUNT 1981-1986
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1981       1982        1983       1984        1985        1986
BUDG       BUDG        FCST       FCST        FCST        FCST
OPERATING REVENUES(AT PROPOSED NEW TARIFFS)
TARIFF INCREASE ASSUMPTION - ZX10                        95.       119.         87.         66.        77.
RIVER TRANSPORT                           2550.       2873.      3878.       4653,       5507.      6509.
RIVER PORTS                                647.        729.       897.       1072.       1257,      1488.
C F C 0                                  17396.      19717.     22987.      26206.     29161.      32877.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                      3985.       4517.      5356.       6171.       6971.      7955.
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                  24581.      27837,     33120.      38105.      42898.     48833.
WORKING EXPENSES
RIVER TRANSPORT                           2688.       3064.      3676.       4253,       4989.      5771.
RIVER PORfTS                               378,        432.       488.        551.        624.       706.
C F C 0                                  11979.      13827.     15631.      17770.      20117.     22861.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                      1755.       1556.      1734.       1933.       2155.      2405.
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                    16800,      18879.     21528.      24507.     27884.      31742.
DEF'RECIATION
RIVER TRANSPORT                            390.        460.       572.        678.        764.       837.                a c
RIVER PORTS                                146.        155.       167.        180.        192.       205.         
C F C 0                                   2157.       2276.      3358.       443i.       4546.      4666.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                       873.        895.       917.        937.        954.       972.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-I-
TOTAL DEPRECIATION                         3566,       3786.      5014.       6226.      6456.       6680.



TOTAL OFERAIING EXPENSES
RIVER TRANSPORT                             3078.       3524.       4248.       4931.       5753.        6608.
RIVER PORTS                                  524,        587.        655.        731.         816*        911,
C F C O                                    14136.      16103.      18989.      22201.      24663.      27527.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                        2628,       2451.       2651,       2870,       3109.        3377.
TOTAL OF'ERATING EXPENSES                   20366.      22665.      26542.      30733.      34340*       38422.
NET OPERATING REVENUE
RIVER TRANSFORT                             -528.       -651.       -370,       -277.       -246.         -98.
RIVER PORTS                                  123,        142.        242.        341.         441.        577.
C F C O                                     3260.       3614.       3998.       4005,        4498.       5351.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                        1357.       2066.       2705.       3302,       3862.        4579.
TOTAL NET OPERATING REVENUE                  4215.       5172.       6578.       7372,        8558.      10411.
INTEREST CHARGES ON LT I MT DEBT             2911.       3140.       3399,       3544.       3574.        341r:,*
NET OPERATING SURPLUS(DEFICIT)               1304.       2032.       3179.       3828.        4984.       6963.
EXCEPTIONAL REVENUES(LOSSES)                 -108,       2560,       -108.       -108,        -108.       -108I
NET ACCOUNTING SURPLUS(DEFICIT)              1197,       4592.       3071.       3720.        4877.       6855.                       
AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE
_______________________________
RIVER TRANSPORT                             4585,       5977.       8341.      10427*       11924.      12984.
RIVER PORTS                                 3310.       3517.       3748.       4022*        4261.       4537,
C F C O                                    34391.      35687,      74675.    112326.    111219.    110194,
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                       20719.      20779.      20783,      20669.      20396.       20210.
TOTAL A T C                                 63005,      65960,     107547,     147444.     1478004    147925.
RATE OF RETURN ON AVG. NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE(% X 10)
------------------------------------------------------
RIVER TRANSPORT                             -115.       -109.        -44.        -274         -21.         -8.                       m -t|
RIVER PORTS                                   37.         40.         65.          85.        104.        127.
C F C O                                       95.        101,         54.          36,         40.         49.                          XH
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                          65.         99.        1304         160.        189.        227.
TOTAL A T C                                   67,         78      '   61,          50.         58.         7U.



PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
T A B L E 8 A
FORECAST TRAFFIC -RIVER TRANSPORT & C F C 0 1980-1986
1980       1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
BUDG       BUDG        FCST        FCST        FCST        FCST        FCST
TRAFFIC BY MAJOR CATEGORIES
_______________ _ ____ ____
1. RIVER TRANSPORT
UPSTREAM
PETROLEUM IN BULK                      4.9        4.0         4.4         4.8         5.3         5.8         6.3
GENERAL CARGO                         26.0       30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0
TOTAL UPSTREAM                      30.9        34.0        34.4        34.8        35.3        35.8        36.3
DOWNSTREAM
TIMBER IN BARGES                    36.0        36.0        37.3        46.5        61.2        69.7        86.4
GENERAL CARGO                         8.4        14.0       14.0        14.0        14.0        14.0        14.0
TOTAL ON BARGES                     44.4        50.0        51.3        60.5        75.2        83.7       100.4                      1
RAFTED LOGS                         108.0      132.0       146.9       187.2       203.6       239.1       258.2                      @
____ - --    -- - -- -   --- -- --   --------_ _ _ _   _   _ _   _ __--- ----------  ---------- -- - -- -
TOTAL DOWNSTREAM                   152.4      182.0       198.2       247.7       278.9       322.7       358.6
TOTAL FREIGHT TRAFFIC                       183.3       216.0       232.6       282.5       314.1      358.5       394.9
PASSENGER TRAFFIC(OOO)                       35.0        39.0       .50.2        52.4        54.6       56.9        59.1
2. C F C 0
(TRAFFIC IN 000 PK OR OOOTK)
PASSENGERS                                286.0       320.0       336.3      352.8       370.1       388.2       407.2
FREIGHT-TRANSIT
LOGS FROM CAR/CAMEROUN                   118.5       134.0       134.0       131.1      131.1       131.1       131.1
SAWN TIMBER CAR/CAMEROUN                13.9        12.9        16.6       20.5        24.4        28.1        32.3
TIMBER FROM GABON                       11.3        12.6        14.4       14.4        14.4        14.4        14.4
OTHER MERCHANDISE                      70.2       72.2        73.9        77.3        80.8        84.4        88.2
TOTAL TRANSIT(EXCEPT MANGANESE           213.9       231.7      238.8       243.2       250.7       258.0       266.0
FREIGHT-INTERNAL
InGS FROM S. CONGO                       62.0        79.4       80.2        80.7        81.4        82.1        82.9
SAWN TIMBER FROM S. CONGO                 3.2         4.0         4.1        4.4         4.4         4.4
LOGS FROM N. CONGO                       28.3        36.0       46.1        57.1        73.1        82.6        96.7
SAWN TIMBER FROM N. CONGO                 6.7         7.7        9.0         10.9       12.'5       14.4        16.5                     X X
OTHER MISC. TIMBER                       1.2         1.2         1.2         1.3        1.3         1.4         1.5
OTHER MERCHANDISE                       177.8       189.0       196.6      204.4       212.6       221.1       229.9
TOTAL INTERNAL FREIGHT                      279.2       317.3       337.2       358.7       385.3      406.0       431.8                     OOH
TOTAL FREIGHT TRAFFIC                        493.1       549.0       576.0       601.9       636.0      664.0       697.8



PEOFLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONDO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
T A B L E 9
DEBT SERVICING REQUIREMENTS 1981-2001
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1981        1982         1983         1984        1985         1986         1987        1988
A. EXISTING LOANS
I. INTEREST
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                 1839.        1769.        1681.       1586.        1486.        1385.        1273.       1160.
CFCO-OlHER                                        639.         540.         461.        396.         338.         279.         224,        183.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                               22.          21.          15.          10.          8.           7.           5.           4.
RIVER PORTS                                         18.         16.          15.          14.         13.          12.          10.           8.
RIVER TRANSPORT                                    47.          40.          34.          30.         26.          22.          18.          14.
TOTAL INTEREST                                     2565.        2386.        2206.        2036.       1871.        1705.        1530.       1367'
II. PRINCIPAL
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                  594.         811.         877.        913.         930.        1025.        1235.       1356.
CFCO-OTHER                                       1593.        1265.        1111.        876.         908.         834.         696.        623.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                               90.          96.          86.          73.         73.          67.          67.         68.
RIVER PORTS                                         43.         43.          36.          44.         53.          43.          43.          43.
RIVER TRANSPORT                                   132.         132.          92.          92.         92.          92.          57.         57. _
TOTAL PRINCIPAL                                    2452.        2347.        2202.        1998.       20S6.        2061.        2098.       2147.  \D
TOTAL EXISTING DEBT SERV REQUIREMENTS              5017.        4733.        4408.        4034.       3927.        3766.        3628.       3516.
B. NEW LOANS
I. INTEREST
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                   67.         280.         515.        586.         581.         565.         76B.        714.
OTHER LOANS-1980                                  232.         287.         268.        244.         290.         253.         222.         194.
-1981                                  46.          93.         93.          93.          93.         88.          79.          70.
-1982                                              95.         195.         192.         174.        152.         422.         372.
-1983                                                          123.         246.        229.         194.         160.         122.
-1984                                                                       148.         296.        275.         234.         193.
-1985                                                                                     41.         83.          83.          83.
-1986                                                                                                134.         267.         267.
TOTAL INTEREST                                       346.        754.        1193.        1508.       1703.        1744.        2235.        2014.
II. PRINCIPAL
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                                                                     138.         587.        1425.       1425.
OTHER LOANS-1980                                  163.         163.         304.         304.        795.         630.         630.        572.
-1981                                                                                                154.         154.         154. t H >
-1982                                                                       143.         143.        364.         472.         471.    X
-1983                                                                                    232.        232.         232.         357. m a
-1984                                                                                                279.         279.         279.    D C X
-1985                                                                                                                                  %  -
-1986
TOTAL PRINCIPAL                                      163.        163.         304.         447.       1308.        2246.        3192.        3261.
TOTAL NEW DEBT SERVICING REQUIREMENTS                509.        917.        1497.        1955.       3011.        3990.        5427.        5275.
TOTAL DEBT SERVICING REQUIREMENTS                   5526.       5650.        5905.        5989.       6938.        7756.        9055.        8791.



1999        1990        1991         1992        1993         1994        1995         1996
A. EXISTING LOANS
__________________
I. INTEREST
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                1065.         971.        871.        772.         678.        576.         491.        400.
CFCO-OTHER                                       146.         125.         96.         91.          76.         63.          55.          49.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                               3.           2.          1.           1.          1.           1.          1.
RIVER PORTS                                        7.           6.          4.           3.          2.
RIVER TRANSPORT                                   10.           6.          1.
TOTAL INTEREST                                    1231.        1110.        973.         867.        757.         640.        547.         449.
lI. PRINCIPAL
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                1265.       1235.        1356.       1455.        1486.       1346.        1367.       1250.
CFCO-OTHER                                       322.         273.        178.        238.        18.         110.          87.          93.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE                              43.          14.         14.          14.         14.          14.         14.
RIVER PORTS                                       35.          18.         17.          17.         17.           9.                                 I
RIVER TRANSPORT                                   57.          57.         56.
TOTAL PRINCIPAL                                   1722.        1597.       1621.        1724.       1705.       1479.        1469.        1343.
==s= -====  s-se=t== we ..=g= .= ==    s==   ===         ==:  ss=====  =:=3==== e
TOTAL EXISTING DEBT SERV REQUIREMENTS             2953.       2707.        2594.       2591.        2462.       2119.        2015.        1792.
B. NEW LOANS
I. INTEREST
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                 659.        605.         550.        495.         440.        393.         357.        322.
OTHER LOANS-1980                                 169.         143.        117.         92.          66.          40.         19.           4.
-1981                                 60.         51.          42.         33.          23.         14.           5.
-1982                                333.        304.         275.        247.        218.         189.         160.        131.
-1983                                 91.         56.          49.         41.          34.         26.          19.         11.
-1984                                148.         97.          68.         59.          50.         41.          32.         23.
-1985                                 83.         79.          73.         66.          60.         53.          46.         39.
-1986                                267.        267.        256.         234.        212.         189,         167.        145.
TOTAL INTEREST                                    1798.       1602.        1429.       1266.        1102.        945.         802.        674.
II. PRINCIPAL
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                 1425.        1477.       1477.        1477.       1477.         1097.       10 07.        1007.  
OTHER  LOANS-1980                                    572.          572.          572.         572.          57 2.          576.         485.      X  
125.                                                                                                                                              O
-1981                                154.        154.         154.        154.         154.        154.         158.                   bmx
-1982                                329.        329.         329.        346.         346.        346.        346,         341.  
-1983                                355.        125.         125.        125-         125.        125.         125.        125.
-1984                                429.        431.         150.        150.         150.        150.         150.        150.          '
-1985                                            101.         101.        101.         101.        101.         131.        131.
-1986                                                         245.        245.         245.        245.         245.        2-Y,.
TOTAL PRINCIPAL                                   3264.       3189.        3153.       3170.        3170.       2794.        2647.       2154.
==e===  ===========   ==========   =====  ===========
TOTAL NEW DEBT SERVICING REQUIREMENTS             5062.       4791.        4582.       4436.        4272.       3739.        3449.       2828.
TOTAL DEBT SERVICING REQUIREMENTS                 8015.       7498.        7176.       7027.        6734.       5858.        5464.       46''.



1997        1998        1999         2000        2001
A. EXISTING LOANS
I. INTEREST
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                 323.        247.         166.         81.          11.
CFCO-OTHER                                        42.         35.          28.         19.          11.
PORT OF POINTE NOIRE
RIVER FORTS
RIVER TRANSFORT
TOTAL INTEREST                                     365.        282.         194.        100.          22.
II. FRINCIFAL
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                1046.       1117.        1157.       1202.        130.
CFCO-OTHER                                       100.        107.         115.        123.        131.
PORT OF FOINTE NOIRE
RIVER FORTS                                                                                                                                    -
RIVER rRANSPORT
TOTAL FRINCIPAL                                   1146.       1224.        1272.       1325.         261.
TOTAL EXISTING DEBT SERV REQUIREMENTS             1511.       1506.        1466.       1425.         283.
B.  NEW LOANS
I. INTEREST
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                 288.        254.         220.        176.        131.
OTHER LOANS-1980
-1981
-1982                                105.         83.         60.          38.         15,
-1983                                  4.
-1984                                 14.          5.
-1985                                 32.         24.         17.          13.         11.
-1986                                122.         99.         76.          53.         33.
TOTAL INTEREST                                     564.        464.         373.        279.         191.
II. PRINCIPAL
CFCO-REALIGNMENT                                1007.       1007.        1007.       1245.        730.
OTHER LOANS-1980                                           
-1981
-1982                               238.         238.        238.         238.        233.
-1983                                125 .
-1984                                150.        150.
-1985                                131.        131.        128.          38.         42,
-1986                               275.         275.        275.         275.        1 r s
TOTAL PRINCIPAL                                   1926.       1801.        1648.       1796.       1160.
TOTAL NEW DEBT SERVICING REQUIREMENTS             2490.       2265.        2021.       2075.       1351.
TOTAL DEBT SERVICING REQUIREMENTS                 4001.       3771.        3487.       3500.        1634.



PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
T A B L E 10
ESTIMATED I FORECAST STATEMENT OF
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS 1981-1996
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1981       1992        1983        1984        1985        1986       TOTAL
BUDG       BUDO        FCST        FCST        FCST        FCST      1982-86
SOURCE
A. CASH GENERATION FROM OPERATIONS
1. OPERATING REVENUE(1981 TARIFFS)           24581.      25422.      27034.      28611.      30222.      31953.    143243.
2. ADD PROFOSED TARIFF INCREASES                          2415.       6086.       9494.      12676.      16880.      47551.
3. TOTAL OFERATING REVENUE                   24581.      27837.      33120.      38105.      42898.      48833.    190794.
4. LESS- WORKING EXPENSES                    16800.      18879.      21528.      24507.      27884.      31742.    124540.
5. +(-) DEFERRED CREDITS(CHARGES)
6. +(-) PREPAID CREDITS(CHARGES)
7. TOTAL CASH GENERATION                      7781.       8958.      11592.      13598.      15014.      17091.      66254.
D. WORKING CAPITAL SUPPORT
8.  AID FOR SPARE PARTS g RAILS                 150.
9. EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT                   345.
10. GOVERNMENT WKG CAP SUPPORT
11, TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL SUPPORT              495,
C. EXTERNAL FINANCING(LOANS-GRANTS) FOR INVESTMENTS
I. DRAWDOWNS OF EXISTING COMMITMENTS
12. REALIGNMENT FROJECT                       1520.         25.                                                         25.
13, OTHER INVESTMENTS I RENEWALS              1482.
14. TOTAL EXISTING COMMITMENTS                3002.         25.                                                         25.
II. DRAWDOWNS OF PROPOSED NEW FINANCING
15. REALIGNMENT                              11714.      12269.       5756.                                          18025.
16. OTHER                                       62.       4676.       5540.       2703.       3588.       3530.      20037.
1 TT NWINN17    16945,----  11296.----   2703------  3___88____  3530______  38062_____
17. TOTAL NEW  FINANCING                     11776.      16945.      11296.       2703.       3588.       3530.      38062.
18; TOTAL EXTERNAL FINANCING                 14778.      16970.      11296.       2703.       3588.       3530,      38087.
D. OTHER SOURCES
19. GOVT. SUPPORT REAL. DEBT. SERV.                       2668.                                                       2668,
20"  T0T7L SOURCES                           23054.      28596.      22888.      16301.      18602.      20621.    107009.
APPLICATION
ma M
A, INVESTMENTS                                                                                                                                          ( XH
FINANCED FROM EXTERNAL SOURCES                                                                                                                        F'
21. REALIGNMENT                              13234.      12294.       5756.                                          18050.
22. OTHER                                     1544.       4676.       5540.       2703.       3588.       3530.      20037.                           H
23. FINANCED FROM ATC INTERNAL
CASH GENERATION                            3559.       4147.       4532.       3113.       3228.       3500.      18520,
24, TOTAL INVESTMENTS                        18337.      21117,      15828.       5816.       6816.       7030.      56607.



B. DEBT SERVICE
A. EXISTING LOANS I COMMITMENTS
25.    REALIGNMENT                             2433.       2580.       2558.       2499.       2416.        2410.      12463.
26.    OTHER                                   2584.       2153.       1850       1535.        1511.       1356.       8405.
27.   TOTAL EXISTING COMMITMENTS               5017.       4733.       4408.       4034.        3927.       3766.      20868.
B. NEW LOANS
28.     REALIGNMENT                              67.        280.        515.         586.        719.       1152.       3252.
29.     OTHER                                   441.        637.        982-        1369.       2292.       2837.       8117.
30.    TOTAL NEW LOANS                          509.        917,       1497.       1955.        3011.       3990.      11369.
31. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                         5526.       5650.       5905.       5989.        6938.       7756.      32237.
32. INC.(DEC.) IN WORKING CAPITAL              -809.       1829.       1155.       4496.        4848.       5836.      18164.
(NOT INCL. CURRENT MATURITIES OF LT DEBT)
33. TOTAL APPLICATIONS                        23054.      28596.      22888.      16301.       18602.      20621.     107009.
VARIATION IN WORKING CAPITAL
INC(DEC) IN WORKING CAPITAL                         -809.        1829.       1155       4496.       4848.       5836.      18164.
(NOT INCL. VAR. CURRENT MATURITIES)
LESS--VARIATION +(-) CURRENT MATURITIES              -284.         -4.        -61.        919.        943.        983.        2780.
NET VARIATION +(-) WORKING CAPITAL                   -525.       1833.       1216.       3577.       3905.       4853.       15384,
I. INC(DEC) CURRENT ASSETS
CASH X BANKS                                        -798.        657.        400.       3838.       4102.       4917.      13914.
RECEIVABLES                                       -5101.         543.        800.        831.        799.        989.       4042.
STORES                                             -421.         491.        316.        328.        529.        602,       22661
,                               __________   ________-_--_-___----__- ----------   ----------   ----------   ---------- ------
TOTAL INC(DEC) CURRENT ASSETS                      -6320.        1691.       1596.       4997.       5430.       6508.      20222.                      a'
II. INC(DEC) CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCTS PAYABLE                                     -3622.         266.        441.        501.        582.        672.       2462.
EAttK OVERDRAFT                                   -1198.        -404.                                                       -404.
TREASURY ADVANCES
OVERDUE  MATURITIES                                 -691.
CURRENT MATURITIES                                 -284.          -4.        -61.        919.        943.        983.       2780.
TOTAL INC(DEC) CURRENT LIABILITIES                 -5795.        -142.        380.       1420.       1525.       1655.
NET VARIATION WKG CAPITAL                            -525.       1833.       1216.       3577.       3905.       4853.      15384.
WORKING CAPITAL POSITION AT DEC 31
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH I BANKS                                         598.       1255.       1655.       5493.       9595.      14512.                              X 
RECEIVABLES                                         4097.       4640,       5520.       6351.       7150.       8139.                             OQ cr
STORES                                             2257.        2748.       3064.       3392.       3921.       4523.                              D F 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                 6952.       8643.      10239.      15236.      20666.      27174.                                 O- 
CURRENT LIABILITIES



A,CClS PAYABLE                                      2351.       2617.        3058,       3559.       4141.        4813.
BANK OVERDRAFT                                       404.
TREASURY ADiVANCES
OVERDUE MATURITIES
CURRENT MATURITIES                                  2510.        2506.       2445.       3364.       4307.        5290.
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                            5265.        5123.       5503.       6923.        8448.      10103.
NET WORKING CAPITAL                                  1687.        3520.       4736.       8313.       12218.      17071.
DEFINITION MINIMUM WORKING CAPITAL
I. MINIMUM CURRENT ASSETS
LIQUID ASSETS=l MONTHS SALARIES                      598.         678,        749.        828.         913.       1007.
RECEIVABLES=2 MONTHS GROSS INCOME                   4097,        4640.       5520.       6351,        7150.       8139.
INVENTORY=0.5 MONTHS FUEL ANti 9 MONTHS
TO 7.5 MONTHS OTHER MATERIALS                       2257.        2748,       3064,       3392.       3921.        4523.
TOTAL MINIMUM CURRENT ASSETS                         6952.        8066.       9334.      10571.       11983.      13669.
II, MAXIMUM CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCTS PAYABLE=
3 MONTHS EXPENSES FUEL,MATERIALS
ANDE OPERATING COSTS                                2351.        2617.       3058.       3559.        4141.       4813.
BANK OVERLDRAFT=REDUCED TO
CFAF 1000 MILLION IN 1984                           1451.        1300.       1149.       1000,        1000.       1000.
TREASURY ADVANCES=O IN 1984                                       2668.       1334.
OVERDUE MATURITIES=O
CURRENT MATURITIES                                  2510.        2506.       2445.       3364,       4307,        5290,
TOTAL MAXIMUM CURRENT LIABILITIES                    6312.        9091.       7986,       7923.        9448.      11103.
MINIMUM WORKING CAFITAL                               641.       -1025.       1348.       2648.        2535.       2566.
CASH EXCESS(SHORTFALL)                               1046.        4545.       3388.       5665.        9683.      14505.
FINANCIAL TARGETS
TARIFF INCREASE NEEDED TO ACHIEVE                                   95.        119.         87.          66.         77.
FINANCIAL TARGETS IN EACH YEAR
I. WORhING RATIO-%
WITHOUT  TARIFF INCREASES                               68.         74,         73.         70,          69.         70.
WITH  TARIFF INCREASES                                  68,         68,         65,          64.         65.         65.
II, DEBT SERYICE COVERAGE RATIO-X
MAXIMUM DEBT SERVICE ARISING FROM NEW
BORROWINGS DURING YR IN QUESTION                     6906.        7800.       8192.       8705,        8788,       9055,
RATIO WITHOUT  TARIFF INCR.                           120.         118,         99.        121.         141.        150.
WITH  TARIFF INCR.                             120.        149.        142.         156.        171.        1R9.
Id 1
ma 2
X H-m
cH HH



-98-                                         ANNEX  III
Table 11
PEOPLES REFUBLIC OF IHE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT PROJECT
T A B L E 11
BUDGET/ FORECAST BALANCE SHEET 1981-1986
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1981        1982        1983         1984        1985        1986
BUDG        BUDG        FCST        FCST         FCST        FCST
ASSETS
1. CURRENT ASSETS
CASH S BANKS                                 598.       1255.       1655.        5493.       9595.      14512.
RECEIVABLES                                 4097.       4640.       5520.        6351.       7150.       8139.
STORES                                      2257.       2748.       3064.        3392.       3921.   - 4523.
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                            6952.       8643.       10239.      15236.      20666.      27174.
II. FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXEID ASSETS                       118168.    126127.    210140.    217162.    223536.    230547.
LESS- ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION                 54295.      59082.       63096.      69322.      75778.       82458.
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE               63873.      68045.    147044.    147840.    147758.    148089.
WORK IN FROGRESS                           57817.      70975.       2790.        1584.       2026.       2045.
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                            121690.    139020.    149834.    149424.    149784.    150134.
III. OTHER ASSETS                               1369.       1261.        1153.       1045.        938.         830.
TOTAL ASSETS                                  130011.    148924.    161226.    165705.    171388.    178138.
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
I. CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCTS PAYABLE                               2351.       2617.       3058.        3559.       4141.       4813.
BANK OVERDRAFT                               404.
TREASURY ADVANCES
OVERDUE MATURITIES
CURRENT MATURITIES                          2510.       2506.       2445.        3364.       4307.       5290.
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                       5265.       5123.        5503.       6923.       8448.       10103.
II. LONG TERM DEBT
GROSS LONG TERM DEBT(BEG. OF YR)           49908.      55083.      67958.       75811.      77392.      75655.
LESS-  REPAYMENTS                              2615.       2510.        2506.       2445.       3364.        4307.
ADD- DRAWDOWNS                                 7790.      15385.       10359.       4026.       1627.        3300.
SUB-TOTAL                                  55083.      67958.      75811.       77392.      75655.      74648.
LESS CURRENT MATURITIES                        2510.       2506.        2445.       3364.       4307.        5290.
TOTAL NET LONG TERM DEBT                       52573.      65452.       73366.      74028.      71348.       69358.
III. OTHER LONG TERM LIABILITIES                 100.        100.         100.        100.        100.         100.
TOTAL LIABILITIES                              57938.      70675.       78969.      81051.      79896.       79561.
IV. EQUITY
CAPITAL                                    23888.      23888.    .23888.        23888.      23888.      23898.
REVALUATION RESERVE                        18017.      18017.      18017.       18017.      18017.      18017.
RETAINED EARNINGS                           3921.       8513.      11584.       15304.      20180.      27035.
TOTAL CAPITAL S RESERVES                       45826.      50418.       53489.      57209.      62085.       68940.
SUBSIDIES FOR INVESTMENTS                26247.       27847.      28769.      27446.       29407.      29637.
TOTAL EQUITY                                   72073.      78265.       82258.      84655.      91493.       98578.
TOTAL LIABILITIES I EQUITY                    130011.    148940.    161227.    165706.    171388.    178138.
RATIOS
1. LONG TERM DEBT/EOUITY- %                       73.          84.         89.         87.          78.         70.



FPEOFLES REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIYER TRANSFPORT P'ROJECT
T A B L E 12 - A
SUMMARY FORECAST STATEMENT OF'
SOURCE ANDI AFPPLICATION OF FUNDS 1981-1986
IN C F A) F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DIECEMBER 31
1981         1982          1983          1984          1985         19B6
SOURCE
1. NET CASH GENERATION(1981 TARIFFS)                      7721.         6543.         5506.        4104.         2338,          211.
2. LONG TERM BORROWINGS-WORKING CAPITAL                     495,
3. LONG TERM FINANCING-INVESTMENTS
(LOANS/CREDITS/GRANTS) .14778.                                    16970.       11296.         2703.         3588.         3530.
TOTAL SOURCES                                            23054.        23513.        16802.        6807.         5926.         3741.
A F'PLI CATIO0N
1. INYESTMENTS(INCL. REALIGNMENT)                        1833 7.       21 1 17,      15828 .       58 16 .       6 8 16        7030,.
2. DEEBT SERVICE  (EXISTING DIEBT)                        5017.         4733.         4408,         4034.        392-7.        3766.
3. DEBDT SERVICE  (NEW BORROWINGS)                         509,          917.         1497.         1955,        3011.         3990.
4. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                     552 6         5650 .        5905,.        5989.        6938 .        7756 .
5. MIN. INCREASE IN WORKING CAFPITAL                       357.        -1670.         2312.,        2219.          831.        1013.
TOTAL APPFLICATIONS                                      24219.        2509 7.       2 4 045.     1 4 02 4.     1 4 5865.     15799,
6. NET CASH/WORKING CAPITAL NEEDiS                         1165.        1584.         7243.         7217,        8658.        12057,
7. IMPACT OF PROPOSEt' TARIFF INCREASES                                 2415.         6086.         9494.       12676.        16880.
8. NET ADDITIONAL   NEEDIS                                 1165.                      1157,
FINANCIAL TARGETS
TARIFF' INCREASE NEEDED TO ACHIEVE                                         95.         1 19.          87.           66.           77 .
V- 1ANC~IRL TARGETS IN EACH YEARI
WORKING RA110O--%
1. WITHOUT   TARIFF INCR.                                    68.          7 4.          73.           7 0.          69 .          70 .
2. WITH   TARIFF INCR.                                       68 .          6 8.         65 .          6 4.          65 .          6 5.         ~ 
DEPT SERVICE COVERAGE RAT IO-%
MAXIMUM DEBT SERVICE ARISING FROM
EXISTING DELBT AND PROFPOSED NEW
ADDITIONAL DEBDT INCURREDi IN EACH YEAR                  6906.         7800.         8192.        8705.         8788.         9 055 .
1. RATIO WIIHOUT  TARIFF INCR.                              120.         118.           99.          121.          141.          150.                 2H-
2. RATIO WITH   TARIFF INCR.                                120.          149 .        1 42,.        156 .         171 .         189 .>
RATE OP RETURN (% X 10) ON
REVALUED AVG. NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE                        67.           78.           61.          50.           58.           70.
LONG TERM DEBT/EQUITY RATIO(%)                               73.           84.          89.           87.           78.           70.



PEOPLES PEPUBlIC OF lHE CONGO
A r C FIRST RIVER TRANSPORT FROJECT
T A B L E 12 - B
SUMMARY FORECAST STATEMENT OF
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS 1981-1986
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENIIING DECEMBER 31
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
SOURCE
1. NET CASH GENERATION(1981 TARIFFS)               7781,       6543.       5506.       4104.       2338.         211.
2. LONG TERM BORROWINGS-WORKING CAPITAL             495.
3. LONG TERM FINANCING-INVESTMENTS
(LOANS/CREDITS/GRANTS)                       14778.       16970.      11296.       2703.       3588.       3530.
TOTAL SOURCES                                     23054.      23513.      16802.       6807.       5926.        3741.
APPLICATION
1. INVESTMENTS(INCL. REALIGNMENT)                 18337.      21117.      15828.       5816.       6816.       7030.
2. DEBT SERVICE (EXISTING DEBT)                    5017.       4733.       4408.       4034.       3927,        3766,
3. DEBT SERVICE (NEW BORROWINGS)                    509.        917.       1497.       1955.       3011.        3990.
4. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                              5526.       5650.       5905.       5989.       6938.        7756.    H
5. MIN. INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL                 357.      -2072.       1700.       1651.         300.        313.    
TOTAL AFPFLICATIONS                               24219.      24694.      23433.      13456,      14054.       15098.
6. NET CASH/WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS                  1165.       1181,       6631.       6649.       8128.      11357.
7. IMPACT OF PROPOSED TARIFF INCREASES
8. NET ADDITIONAL  NEEDS                           1165.       1181.       6631.       6649.       8128.      11357.
FINANCIAL TARGETS
TARIFF INCREASE NEEDED TO ACHIEVE
FINANCIAL TARGETS IN EACH YEAR
WORKING RATIO--%X
1. WITHOUT  TARIFF INCR.                             68.         74.         80.         86,          92.         99.    C  3
2. WITH  TARIFF INCR.                                68.         74.         80.          86.         92.         99.            z
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RAT1O-%                                                                                             -
MAXIMUM IIEBT SERVICE ARISING FROM
EXISTING DEBT ANDt PROPOSED NEW                                                                                           H-'
ADDITIONAL DEBT INCURRED IN EACH YEAR             6906.       7800.       8192.       8705.       8788.        9055.     0 4
1. RATIO WITHOUT  TARIFF INCR.                      120.        118.         67.         47.          27,          2.
2. RATIO WITH  TARIFF INCR.                         120.        l18.         67,          47.         27.          2.    0
RATE OF RETURN (% X 10) ON
REVALUED AVG. NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE                67.          42.          5.       -14.         -28.        -44.
LONG TERM DEBT/EOUITY RATIO(%)                       73.         86.         99.         11l.        117,        136.



FEOFLES REFUBULIC OF THE CONGO
A T C FIRST RIVER TRANSFORT FROJECT
T A B L E 12 - C
SUMMARY FORECAST STATEMENT OF
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS 1981-1986
IN C F A F MILLION
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
1981         1982         1983         1984         1985         1986
SOURCE
1. NET CASH GENERATION(1981 TARIFFS)                    7781.        6543.        4726,        2646.            7.       -3349.
2. LONG TERM BORROWINGS--WORKING CAPITAL                 495.
3. LONG TERM FINANCING-INVESTMENTS
(LOANS/CREDITS/GRANTS)                            14778.       16970,       11296.         2703.        3588.        3530.
TOTAL SOURCES                                          23054.       23513,       16022.        5349.         3594.         181.
APPLICArION
1. INVESTMENTS(INCL. REALIGNMENT)                      18337.       21117.       15828.        5816.         6816.        7030.
2. DEBT SERVICE  (EXISTING DIEBT)                       5017.        4733,        4408.         4034.        3927.        3766.
3. DEBT SERVICE (NEW BORROWINGS)                         509,         917.        1497.         1955.        3011.        3990.
4. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                   5526.        5650.        5905.        5989,         6938.        7756.
5. MIN, INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL                      357.       -1682,        2224.        2113.          751,         914.
TOTAL APFLICATIONS                                     24219,       25085,       23957.       13918.        14505.       15700.
6. NET CASH/WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS                       1165.        1572.        7936.        8569.        10911,       15519.
7. IMPACT OF FROFOSED TARIFF INCREASES                               2341.        6869.       10952,       15321.        21133.
8, NET ADDITIONAL  NEEDS                                1165.                     1067.
FINANCIAL TARGETS
TARIFF INCREASE NEEDEtD TO ACHIEVE                                     92.          1S5.         110.          98.         113,
FINANCIAL TARGETS IN EACri YEAR
WORKING RATIO-- %
1. WITHOUT  TARIFF INCR,                                  68.          74,           75.          72.          71.          72.
2. WITH  TARIFF INCR.                                     68.           68,          65.          64,          65.          65.
IIEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO-%
MAXIMUM  LiEE1  SERVICE ARISING FROM
EXISTINt; DFBT AND PROPOSED NEW                                                                                                        H'
AIDIIIIONAL DEBT INCURRED IN EACH YEAR                 6906.        7800,        8192.        8705.         8788.        9055.
1, RATIO WITHOUT  TARIFF INCR.                           120.         118.           87.         113.         130.         139,        9' 1
2. RATIO WITH   TARIFF INCR.                             120.         148,          142.         156.         174.         lY6h.
RATE OF RETURN  (Z X 10) ON
REVALUED AVG. NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE                     67.           77,          61.          50.          60.          75.        o
LONG TERM DEBT/EDUITY RATIO(Z)                            73.          84.           89.          88.          78.          70.






I B R D 15099R
_                             14          ' '  '<               ' b;               .  "'  '  "'~~~~~~~~~~~R  " RUBIC'S-E''t
/          Fis tt,ab,bf,s,                       \    n C~~~~~~~~E1N  AL AFRICAN P              U,i 
t~~~~~M mpe to vnct aibt rs t(f.rhw                                                                  >tJtSf'        a
rnF Rv I                     rb esoirM  Wd eittf ad ff..,                          X>             
. sboto,r,bl shw w fh& V-a lj  _af
<                          C~~~AM4EROrONf                                   '4    
w  '   V  '      i    wX bs,          m%           t.   ZAIR
LU~if  /\/\1/
r' - P- ) gq X r x, -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ON D                              A    CU       TEj 
G t--t O N < x+t t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                )
\ X   1  - i  w 5                / \          ~~~~~~~~~ lp  b/j /-                       EPLE'S REPUBLK OF CONGO
iXe5>~~t  gPY5~^~ -  2 X \5 / 4t                      n   }  i                TRANSPG5RT NETWORK
Xk / 5t Bsilitwatt3< S / * DJA~~~~MBALA , g
ao~~~~~~,               Z ga                             EM5erl-   Ei3              Priswy   re5, to b.   ~ftctOd JFED
j \ >)t ' t \ ,, / X;.ht VC,) ~~~p   0   0   L                       (                 Novigalte river
PO5NTE5   5jiNt~~t5s     vvla=dlINoQt                                                        twnae .f 1
4    'R                                                                                                     IC     isf      200 o   Q   s  1
C c Q e Q  < _/>t  t-t        ~~~~Z Ai   S                                                          MILES






IBRD 15275
160                                8 l                  Fort Sibut    20/                               22 SEPTEMBER 1980
,  !ombari
B8ouEr NC E\TR AL                                        A F R I C A N                          R E P.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ye                                                               t a       Ouan
_Buo                     Bossemb                                                 >t                                  amosoO,5
. Berber0ti                                                                              Kouor go
4                \>           \                   \0
V , S       \                   \      Loko Safo    ing
\8Nola                         rM->ongoumba
\    j        ,         ~~~~~Moumpoutou
8   Bayan59a                   h eouC                                       N    G   O
C A MER O O N                           'X                          Enyei le t
CAMEROONI KOUA A  yRIVER TRANSPORT
*-a //g'g Moloundou                     Bon ataga                                                 NETWORK
2    NGabola                Kk a                                Dongo2
t     .                  ~~~~~~~C at d 'Epn'na
4>c  )   |Impfondo                        1      Civil Works under the Project
Ouesso  \-   s          Ep&OO0'                                             -         || Navigable Rivers
5 ~ S A N G /H A     >                  T       /|          X                          ~~     Other Rivers
Regional Boundaries
Mobenz6I60                                               International  Boundaries
-0      \-              -  bA                                  o,
of-  Elomb i#, G,./" o                                     'SO^&
ol                  Makoua                (                  ro o4/!    //Lumumbashi                                                                         -
_.    REGION  DE ZA  CUIVIETFJ                   .        ; 
z                 PEOPLE'S  Lo onga                                          <
0   25   Boundlpa   -</r
0              <    \ Mossako      LoukosIeIo
co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
V JC      REPOF THE 7ud
2    RfG/ON  D2SPA;         X
\            ~~~~CONGOC1                                                                                                               2,2
=  ==  N                                  >            )                     <NIGERI
I CENTRAL AFRICAN  REP.
a                                                                                  , P   O   O   i   A g  t C A M E R O O N
CGFINEA4-J     :--
-4J    MRAZZAVI                                      0             100             200             300      4PEOPLE'S
u 1.51cnol  L         I              ~      ~      ~~I                                REP/
KILOMETERS                                    GABON  f OF  *'  ZA  I RBEO
Thin map has been prepared by the World Bank's staff exolusively for the con-enrance  .J\.-./CoNGO
of the readers of the report to which a is attached The denominations used and the  -|
boundaries shown on thio map do not imply, on the part of the World Bank and its  .BrozznviIle
affil,ats, any judgment on the legal status of any territory or any endorsement or        Mop Area
aptac of such bound daren.s                                      .t t
16-              18,                               ~~~~~20     Qc1         QAGOL2                          -






IBRD 15276
SEPTEMBER 1980
Grumes      Pointe Lopez
t             zz<41411  i}                                       ///              /    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Chontier naval
..  .  ..|1  ..-...d   X    CHACONA
\                                 \ <> g    :t                              ~~~~~~~C  N G O
PORT OF
BRAZZAVILLE
:  \D t--     iGENERAL PLAN
\  iPY   ,:   2 l # g    Z   *  Civil Works Under the Project
\E-|la    Port Limits
POTO  - POTO                                                                                                        --Railways
),-- g-  Rivers
Buiit-up  Areas
0      200      400      600       800     1000
METERS
/  X  t        /              /       XJ?oste ~~~~~~~~~petroihex
RJ  /                        >           >    s Fluv~~~~~~~~~icles ATC        e
, -    /   f                     <,  Vore~~~~~~~~~s Novigobles.4
\ / : <~~~~~~~~~~~re Fluviale Zaire  
Quai de reparatIons 6 flot
/   /\;ChOn tier rnovfol ATC                        0                            [<@NIGERIA                                1 CA -   SUDAN
z
/ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ y                                                                       I< g  AFRICAN REP.Q
PORT PUBLIC AVAL                                    O                                            EQ GUINEACA       Ot    .'
C                                  S~~~~~~~~~_,ADo ZE<(
PRINCIPE                 ER   RAIAND4/1
/   .NRAZZAVILLEBURUND
ThIS -sp Wss bo spwrrd by IOh Worif8snk's VW# -AOSIvOIy  the soveniae                                          -10                  AN               j
of hSo SIrsS  of th-o rapoS to oh&h,tis r tISte Th de-omirafi doud  the                      I                                          ANGOLA
b-OOSdIfier -ooon oa thir mar dr -ot oopfy. o th. osoto th. World dnk                                                                         e it,  Ooe" 
affir:r o/Me anyVfgnsOa for g ris ri soto oaY 540ai1oY or Smy 0ndr,rmOtor                                                                      ZAMBIA
sceptneof eolt bsussdaiaodt   
_   _  _._         _  _  _     _  _  _  _     _  _  _  _    _  _  _     _  _  _  _     _  _f__           _  _  _t                          






IBRD 15277
~~~ |   '       \                   T~~~~~~~ ~~~~o Co,ro  16'                          \To ClrnOt                                                                TOr D8osmTee  o Dmor  SEPTEMBER 1980
\E    X                  (  V A   9 ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I\ R I                                                                       TS
0 XIm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bdoum    
X  4Ngoto               w/gmegN4wyvQ ~~~~~~ ~~E  P U++      B>+   L I+   C
-30   A\                                    +++titt+   ilF.tt+tNft           r                         iGFEENi Forestry Concessionsondo  Oeoion                            (
C   A    M    0t    R    O/   O   N   \tS1>  +  T  ++++ ++t 9 Nevl Concessions Avoiloble~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
doum sa} .                                                                                                                                                          N
\~~~~~~~~~CA|/,              >vOhrRvr
\3 \  /           X s +AX 1,,, ,ONG                                           -CEN,,L AFICAN                 EGIO
g                                             1 ++t-1++       ttQ*Moi      
-3- ~   ~      ~     \                                            5       t++       ;                              -*    ForeternotioncessioundorinOeraio
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e Cocsin Available++  1F  + 
C   A        M                           0       N.Nav'igal  Rier
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te  Rivers
-2-  {r5Ue P 9<1 Creou;. C | 2 / 5 CENTRAL bFR~~MICN Rood
1,5t 1,6 0& . ... - 1 17 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNTRLAL AFIA    E.



