OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMBEV. 1179 COB
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(River Transport Project)
between
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated          ou OCAA-            , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1179 COB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    k    A             , 1982, between THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and Agence Transcongolaise des
Communications (hereinafter called ATC) have requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as here-
inafter provided;
(B) Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by
ATC with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will make available to ATC part of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
ATC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Coriditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of *the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Associatioa, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ATC of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿-2-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ATC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Financing Agreement;
(c) "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Bor-
rower;
(d) "Sections" means ATC's operating sections set forth in
Article 3 of the Borrower's Decree No. 70/38 dated February 11,
1970, as such Decree may be amended from time to time regulating
ATC;
(e) "CFCO Railway" means ATC's Section Chemin de Fer
Congo-Ocean;
(f) "Port and River Transport Assets" means all present
and future property and assets (including any rights, powers,
privileges and franchises) of ATC required for the efficient
management and operation of the Ports of Pointe Noire and Brazza-
ville and secondary river ports and for its river transport
operations;
(g) "Railway Assets" means all present and future property
and assets (including any rights, powers, privileges and fran-
chises) of ATC required for the efficient management and operation
of the CFCO Railway;
(h) "VNPTF" means ATC's Section Voies Navigables, Ports et
Transports Fluviaux; and
(i) "0CB" means Office Congolais du Bois an agency estab-
lished by the Borrower's Decree No. 75/191 dated April 18, 1975,
as such Decree may be amended from time to time and in charge of
the marketing of the Borrower's forestry resources.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-3-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to fourteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1991, and ending
May 15, 2031. each installment to and including the installment
payable on May 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 2.09. ATC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project and the Ministere


﻿-4-
des Eaux et Forets is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for Part E of the Project, for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts D and E
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and planning practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause ATC to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement and the Financing Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth or referred to, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate, to enable ATC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall enter into a Financing Agreement with
ATC, acceptable to the Association, providing, inter alia, for an
undertaking by the Borrower: (i) to relend to ATC the proceeds
of the Credit allocated to Parts A, B and C of the Project at an
interest rate of not less than ten per cent (10%) per annum,
repayable in twenty (20) years, including a five-year grace
period; (ii) to make available as a grant to ATC from its own
resources an amount of not less than six million eight hundred
fifty thousand US dollars ($6,850,000) equivalent; and (iii) to
pay to ATC subsidies for specific traffic categories, where full
cost recovery by ATC is not deemed desirable;
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower specifically undertakes:
(a) until December 31, 1982 or such other date as the
Borrower and the Association may agree, whenever there is reason-
able cause to believe that the funds available to ATC will be
inadequate to meet ATC's debt service requirements as defined
under Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement, to make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association promptly to provide ATC or cause
ATC to be provided with such funds as are needed to service such
debt; and
(b) to take all measures as shall be required to ensure
that adequate funds are available to ATC to maintain a positive
working capital as required under Section 4.39 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause ATC to maintain
in position at all times a general manager assisted by a technical
general manager, and a manager assisted by a technical manager for
each of ATC's three operating Sections, all qualified and experi-
enced.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1982, in consultation with the Association establish and there-
after maintain, within its Ministry of Transport and Aviation, a
unit responsible for planning, coordinating and monitoring all
activities in the transport sector.
Section 4.04. Promptly upon receipt of ATC's proposals on
tariff increases referred to in Section 4.06 of the Project
Agreement, the Borrower shall review said proposals, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon, and thereafter shall
take all necessary measures to effect a tariff increase, deemed
satisfactory by the Association, on ATC's domestic and inter-
national transit traffic, as of January of each year.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) ATC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of ATC under the Project Agreement or the Financing
Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ATC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the Financing Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ATC or for the suspension of its operations;
(d) the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 21/69 dated October 22,
1969 establishing ATC, the Borrower's Decree No. 70/38 dated
February 11, 1970 regulating ATC or any other legislation or
regulation of the Borrower governing the establishment, organiza-
tion and powers of ATC shall, without the prior approval of the
Association, have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived; and
(e) ATC shall have been divested of any of the Railway
Assets or Port and River Transport Assets or the operation or
management thereof.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and ATC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions namely that the Financing Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and ATC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by ATC, and is legally binding upon ATC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Financing Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and ATC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ATC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date' --               is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fourteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Minist&re des Finances de la R4publique
Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
B.P. 1183
R6publique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        PRESICONGO
Brazzaville                         52 10 KG
R6publique Populaire du Congo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment for Part           7,150,000         53%
A (1) of the Project
(2) Equipment for Part             270,000         100% of foreign
A (2) of the Project                          expenditures
(3) Civil works for Part         1,380,000         67%
B of the Project
(4) Consultants' Services        1,550,000         100% of foreign
for Part C of the                             expenditures
Project
(5) Consultants' Services          860,000         100% of foreign
for Part D of the                             expenditures
Project
(6) Consultants' Services          650,000         100% of foreign
for Part E of the                             expenditures
Project
(7) Unallocated                  2,740,000
TOTAL            14,600,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the


﻿- 10 -
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals sha   be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to     b( -   I qg.
5.   Disbursements for the civil works under Parts B (3) and B (4)
of the Project shall be made on the basis of certificates of
expenditure signed by the Director of VNPTF.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement perceitages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,


﻿- 11 -
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or - remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (i) to ensure that ATC will
be able to meet present and future transport demands, with special
emphasis on the needs of forestry development, and (ii) to streng-
then the Ministry of Transport and Aviation's capability to plan,
coordinate and monitor all activities in the transport sector.
The project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(1) (i) Expansion and modernization of ATC's fleet through
the acquisition of the floating equipment listed in
the Annex to this Schedule.
(ii) Acquisition and installation of equipment and tools
for the ports of Brazzaville, Mossaka and Ouesso
and for the VNPTF training center.
(2) Strengthening of ATC's data processing capability
through acquisition and installation of computer equip-
ment.
Part B:
(1) Rehabilitation and upgrading of the port facilities in
Brazzaville, Mossaka and Quesso.
(2) Expansion of the training center of VNPTF.
(3) Construction of dams and groins on the Lower Sangha
river to extend the navigational season.
(4) Improvement of the access to the Brazzaville log
port.
Part C:
(1) Supervision of the construction and assembly of the new
floating equipment included in Part A.1 hereof.


﻿- 13 -
(2) Studies for and supervision of the construction of dams
and groins on the Lower Sangha river and the improvement
of the access to the Brazzaville log port.
(3) Training of workshop personnel.
(4) Studies of VNPTF's organization, administration and
technical procedures.
(5) Studies for the formulation of a tariff policy for
ATC and establishment of accounting and management
information systems.
Part D:  Establishment within the Ministry of Transport and
Aviation of a unit responsible for planning, coordi-
nating and monitoring of all activities in the transport
sector.
Part E:  Preparation of a study and the implementation of an
action plan to strengthen OCB's organization, operations
and procedures.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
ANNEX
RIVER FLEET EQUIPMENT
Estimated Number
Items                                            to be purchased
Barges:
300 T timber barge                                     14*
250 T fuel/timber barge                                 2
Self-propelled pontoon with ramp                        1
Control launch                                          2
400 hp line pusher                                      2*
400 hp port pusher                                      1
Self-propelled passenger/pusher 180 seats               1
Outboard motor barges                                   2
Engines:
140 hp motor                                            5
200 hp motor                                            2
300 hp motor                                            1
Miscellaneous equipment and spare parts:               n.a.
*    At the dte of this Agreement only four timber barges and one
400 hp line pusher are required under Part A (1) of the
Project but these numbers may be increased up to 14 and 2,
respectively, subject to prior reviews referred to in
paragraph A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of uA       ,
198F                           C
FOR SECRETARY


