6Z/:
Report No. 921-BR
Northeast Brazil
Rio Grande Do Norte                                                     FOPY
Rural Development Project   FILE
November 11, 1975
Rural Development Division
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  -    Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1           =    Cr$7.2 (December 1974)*
1 Cr$          =    US$0.1316
Cr$1 million   =    US$131,579
Weights and Measures
m    =    meter (1 m = 3.28 feet)
km   =    kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
ha   =    hectare (1 ha = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres)
km2  =    square kilometer (1 km2 = 247.1 acres = 100 ha - 0.386 square miles)
m3   =    cubic meter (1 m3 = 1.31 cubic yards - 264.2 US gallons)
m3/s =    cubic meter per second (1 m3/s = 35.3 cubic feet per second)
kg   =    kilogram (1 kg = 2.2 lb)
ton  =    1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
kw   -    kilowatt = 1,000 watts
Abbreviations
ANCAR          =    Associacao Nordestina de Credito e Assistencia Rural
(Northeast Agricultural Extension and Credit Agency
Associated with National Extension Agency)
CEPA/RN        =    Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola/Rio Gr4nde
do Norte (State-Level Agricultural Planning Agency)
CIDA           =    Companhia Integrado do Desenvolvimento Agricola (State-
Owned Input Supply and Development Company)
COFAN          =    Companhia de Fomento Agricola Norte-Rio-Grandense (Rio
Grande do Norte Agricultural Development Corporation)
EMBRAPA        =    Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (Brazilian
Agricultural Research Corporation)
INCRA          =    Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(Land Reform Agency)
INFAOL         =    Instituto Nordestino para o Fomento de Algadao e
Oleaginosas (Northeast Institute for the Development
of Cotton and Oilseeds)
POLONORDESTE         (Special Development Fund for the Northeast)
PROTERRA       =    Programa de Redistribuicao de Terras e de Estimulo a
Agro-Industria de Norte e do Nordeste (Program for the
Redistribution of Land and Stimulation of Agro-Business
in the North and Northeast)
SUDENE         =    Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (Superin-
tendency for Development of the Northeast)
*    Average Exchange Rates (Selling):
1973          1974           May 1975
1 US$  =       6.126          6.794           7.975



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY          ..........................               i  - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...       ..................................
II.   THE NORTHEAST         ....................................   2
General .........      ...............................     2
Government Policy ..............................           2
Land Tenure and Reform .........................           3
The State of Rio Grande do Norte (RN) ..........           3
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ..................................          3
Services in the Project Area ...........                   5
Extension Service .....................      .           5
Credit .....................                             5
Technical Development  .....................-            6
Health ..............    7
Marketing, Infrastructure, Communications ....           8
IV.   THE PROJECT ...........................                      9
A.   Objectives and General Approach ....     .........      9
B.   Brief Description ............. .. ............        10
C.   Detailed Features ...........................          11
Extension ..        ...............................  11
Credit         ...................................  12
Technical Proposals and Farm Trials   .......       13
Health .      ...................................    14
Training     .................. ................     14
Project Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation, Technical Assistance, Project
Special Fund and Preparation of Further
Rural Development Projects .15
This report is based on preparation work of the State Agricultural Planning
Commission of Rio Grande do Norte (CEPA-RN), and the findings of two Bank
missions: appraisal, November/December 1974, by D. Martinusen, A. Mercer,
0. Lafourcade, C. Koch-Weser, J. Simmons, and J. Kassum (Bank), F. Falloux
and A. Turrent (Consultants); and follow-up appraisal, April 1975 by
D. Martinusen, 0. Lafourcade, J. de Regt (Bank) and F. Falloux.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
D.   Cost Estimates ..............................               15
E.   Financing ..................................                17
F.   Procurement .................................               17
G.   Disbursements ...............................               18
H.   Accounts and Audit ..........................               18
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................                18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FARMERS' BENEFITS ... .....               20
Production ...................................             20
Marketing and Prices ........................              21
Producer Income and Benefits ....         ............     22
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................................                22
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................                24
List of Annexes
Annex
1.   Project Area
2.   Extension
3.   Credit
4.   Agricultural Production, Technical Aspects and Experimentation
5.   Health
6.   Marketing, Infrastructure, Communications
7.   Training
8.   Monitoring and Evaluation
9.   Project Preparation
10.  Project Cost Estimates
11.  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
12.  Organization and Management
13.  Economic Analysis
MAP
Infrastructure, Project Area and Rainfall - IBRD 11684



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
(i)       Among the 30 million people in the Northeast of Brazil some 60%
live in mainly semi-arid areas of generally poor soils and subject to
periodic devastating droughts with accompanying high risks to farmers.
Land ownership is highly concentrated and many of the rural poor are
landless, often working in some form of sharecropping. The rural per
capita income in 1974 was less than US$225 as compared with a national
average per capita income of US$815. Government's earlier attempt to
improve incomes in the Northeast was largely through industrialization
(supported by fiscal and monetary incentives) and various social programs.
However, programs supporting small-scale agriculture have not been devel-
oped, but Government's focus is now shifting towards improving rural pro-
ductivity and incomes through a new program, POLONORDESTE, involving fed-
eral funding of US$700 million over the period 1975-79. The project would
be the first developed under the POLONORDESTE program.
(ii)      The project was prepared by technicians employed by the State of
Rio Grande do Norte (RN) with assistance from the Federal Government, the
Regional Development Agency (SUDENE) and the Bank. The five-year project,
located in an area of unreliable and marginal rainfall, seeks to improve the
agricultural production of some 15,000 smallholder famiilies. Existing insti-
tutional arrangements make it difficult for these farmers to obtain access
to credit, farming inputs and agricultural advice. The project would also
expand an existing community health program.  As the technical packages and
input delivery systems for improved agricultural production require further
refinement before being universally adopted, the project would be implemented
in two phases. The first phase, over about a three-year period, would largely
be devoted to experimentation and would involve only 20% of the project area.
The second phase, over about a two-year period, would be subject to satisfac-
tory progress in the first phase.
(iii)     The project would consist of:
(a) Extension service improvement, mainly by the addition of
agricultural advisers especially trained to focus on small
farmers' problems and the provision of logistic support;
and through increased numbers of social extension workers;
(b) Credit to small farmers for seasonal production purposes
and for on-farm investments and area expansion; alternative
delivery systems would be tested, and simplified credit proce-
dures developed to improve small farm families' access to
credit; credit insurance would be made available to small
farmers to decrease borrowers' risks;



- ii -
(c) Experimentation and farm trials to improve technical
packages for cotton and other crops focusing on the
practical needs of small farmers;
(d) Health program expansion and strengthening of supervision
and referral systems;
(e) Training of project staff and development of training
materials for farmers;
(f) Organizational support for project administration,
monitoring and evaluation, and a project special
fund; and
(g) Preparation of future rural development projects in
other areas of the State.
(iv)      The project would be implemented by existing State-level agencies
under annual plans approved by the Bank. A Project Unit located within the
State-level agricultural planning commission (CEPA/RN) would plan and coor-
dinate work of the participating agencies and control project finances. It
would have a small staff and would report periodically through a State agri-
cultural policy coordinating body to the Special Coordinating Group of POLO-
NORDESTE. A separate Monitoring Group would monitor and evaluate the proj-
ect.
(v)       A Bank loan of US$12 million would cover the foreign exchange compo-
nent of the project (US$3.8 million) and 31% of local costs, over a 5-year
disbursement period. This would represent 40% of total project cost of
US$30.0 million. Much of the project would involve staff costs and train-
ing, research and technical assistance, and only relatively small amounts
would be for construction or purchase of goods. Local health structures
(totalling about US$0.6 million) would be small, of varied design and
geographically dispersed, and would be constructed by a combination of
self-help, force account and local bidding. Purchases of equipment,
including small vehicles which are produced locally and readily avail-
able, would be bulked where practicable and would be made under local
competitive bidding procedures. Funds for agricultural credit would be
made available by Government to participating banks under agreements satis-
factory to the Bank and would be on-lent to farmers for seasonal production
up to a maximum of US$1,250 equivalent per farmer and for on-farm investment
up to a-maximum total indebtedness of US$2,500 per farmer. Government has
established interest rates to farmers of 7% for medium and long term credit,
and 13% for seasonal credit, excluding certain inputs (mainly pesticides)
which are made available interest free. These rates are negative in real
terms; however, most of the beneficiaries would be from the lowest income
groups and the strengthened extension service would help guard against mis-
use of funds.



- iii -
(vi)      As a result of the project, production of food crops and cotton
would be increased. Production of perennial cotton is expected to increase
by some 16,000 tons of seedcotton and would be marketed through existing
channels. Yields of food crops (maize, beans and sorghum) would be in-
creased through wider use of improved varieties and cultivation practices.
Net family income from cotton (representing at least 70% of total family
income) of farms under 50 ha would be expected to increase from US$210
before development to US$430 at full development (year 6); family net
income from cotton of farms from 50 ha to 200 ha would increase from
US$590 to US$1,200. The project would provide, through crop intensifi-
cation, improved employment opportunities which would amount to some 2,200
man-years annually.
(vii)     The estimated rate of return to the economy from the directly
quantifiable aspects of the project would be 15%. The project is sensitive
to yield changes, a 10% drop in yield reducing the rate of return by 6 per-
centage points. Additional to the quantifiable benefits from increased crop
production are those associated with improved health and other social serv-
ices and community and self-help project activities.
(viii)    The difficult physical environment of the project area and the
interrelated and not fully refined nature of actions under the project,
together with difficulties in estimating farmer response, give the project
a greater than usual degree of risk. Steps have been taken to reduce some
of the risks of low farmer response by improving credit delivery systems
and assuring that the PROAGRO voluntary credit insurance program is avail-
able to borrowers under the project. Progress regarding on-lending to
small farmers will be evaluated annually and additional measures intro-
duced if necessary. The project has the potential to reach some 75,000
people with its directly productive components and 220,000 with improved
health facilities. More importantly, it would provide a replicable approach
to small-farmer problems in other parts of the Northeast.
(ix)      The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$12 million
equivalent with a term of 25 years including 5 years' grace.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil is concerned about improving the incomes
and welfare of its poorest people, many of whom are concentrated in the rural
areas of the Northeast. The improvement is being sought through expanding
past programs and through launching new programs in the economic and social
fields, such as the recently-launched POLONORDESTE program, a special devel-
opment fund for the Northeast.
1.02      POLONORDESTE was created on October 30, 1974 as an effort to reduce
rural income disparities between the Northeast and the rest of Brazil, with
funds equivalent to over US$700 million for 1975-79. Government identified
28 sub-regions covering large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE
would focus initially. Consultants have been appointed to prepare projects
for some of these while others will be prepared by the states. The Government
intends to present some of these to the Bank and the Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank for possible financing. Projects will likely be implemented
by existing agencies coordinated by local (usually state-level) agencies
reporting to a regional POLONORDESTE coordinating group within the Federal
Development Agency for the Northeast (SUDENE) and to an interministerial
coordinating group at the Federal level.
1.03      The Government has requested IBRD assistance for a rural development
project in the State of Rio Grande do Norte (RN), the first of the projects
to be implemented under POLONORDESTE. A number of visits of Bank staff and
consultants assisted the formulation and preparation of this project. The
project was prepared by technicians at the State level and provides one way
for mobilizing State, Regional and Federal resources to prepare rural develop-
ment projects in a context where the traditional tendency had been for a high
degree of centralization at the Federal level. Other state-level teams are
now preparing rural development projects in other Northeast states and the
Bank is maintaining a close contact with these efforts. Appraisal was in
November/December 1974, with a follow-up mission in April 1975. A separate
rural education project in the state is now being prepared through studies
financed under the Bank's Second Education Loan (1067-BR).
1.04      The project is probably more risky than many rural development
projects. It must be viewed in the context of the difficult ecological,
institutional and social situation of the Northeast, as detailed in "Rural
Development Issues and Options in Northeast Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR
dated June 23, 1975), and as a first slice of what could become a larger
effort at dealing with rural poverty in the Northeast.
1.05      Six IBRD loans totalling US$180 million have been previously
approved for agriculture and rural development in Brazil. Two loans (the
US$6.7 million Alto Turi settlement project and the US$23 million Lower
Sao Francisco Project) were in the Northeast. The start of execution of
the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project was delayed due to administrative
difficulties. Settlement, however, has begun and progress is now satis-
factory. The Lower Sao Francisco Project is not yet effective.



- 2 -
II.  THE NORTHEAST -/
General
2.01      The nine-state Northeast of Brazil, with a population of some 30
million is one of the principal poverty areas of South America. Some 60%
of the population lives in rural areas mainly engaged in low-productivity
agriculture. Apart from a relatively narrow humid coastal strip in which
sugarcane is the principal crop, much of the Northeast has a semi-arid
climate, with periodic devastating droughts (and resulting high risks to
farmers) and poor soils. Land ownership is highly skewed with a relatively
small number of large estates owning a large portion of total land (less
than 1% of establishments own 40% of the area). While varying considerably
within the region, in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force owns no
land at all. Many of the landless work under some form of often tenuous
sharecropping arrangement. Despite many Government programs, the rural
per capita income of the Northeast, at less than US$225 in 1974, is still
less than one-third of national per capita income of US$815.
Government Policy
2.02      Government has long been concerned with the slow economic develop-
ment of the Northeast. Both the Federal development agency for the North-
east (SUDENE) and Bank of the Northeast (BNB) were created to stimulate
Northeast development. In recent years, there have also been substantial
fiscal and monetary incentives (the latter through subsidized credit under
PROTERRA, a federal program) for both industry and agriculture. Neverthe-
less, per capita incomes for the region as a whole remain at half the national
average.
2.03      Government's past policies to solve the poverty problems of the
rural Northeast were mainly oriented to (a) job-creation by the industrial
sector and establishment of agro-industries and (b) providing social serv-
ices. Also, efforts were made in some drought-prone areas to develop small
dams and ponds. Despite the region's plentiful labor and apparent limited
economies of scale in agriculture, programs supporting labor-intensive small-
scale agriculture have not so far been developed. A "big-farm mentality" has
tended to permeate the extension service, credit agencies and research endeav-
ors.
2.04      Government is now moving toward supporting smallholder agriculture,
supported by evidence that small-holders, if properly serviced, can be more
productive than large farmers. This new approach involves the need to re-
orient the thinking and focus of existing institutions. The permanent capac-
ity to create well-conceived credit and extension programs and technical pack-
ages for small producers in particular circumstances must be developed.
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in North-
east Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR dated June 23, 1975).



-3-
Land Tenure and Reform
2.05      Attempts have been made to change the region's highly uneven
structure of land ownership but little progress has been achieved. The
Government's land redistribution program financed under PROTERRA has had
minimal overall impact due to administrative shortcomings and inadequate
support from INCRA, the land reform agency. Actual cases of land reform
have generally been limited to highly specific areas (e.g., irrigation
development areas) of fairly limited overall size. A land purchase credit
program under PROTERRA and administered by Banco do Brasil has had some
success but the credit terms (requiring a 20% down payment and 12-year re-
payment) have limited its impact and access of existing landless such as
sharecroppers. The Government is now undertaking an intensive review of
its land reform policy and programs.
The State of Rio Grande do Norte (RN)
2.06      Rio Grande do Norte (RN) with a population of about 1.6 million
and an area of 51,000 km2 is one of the smallest of the Northeast states but
is nevertheless representative of much of the Northeast. Natal (population
350,000), capital and principal city, is in the densely-populated narrow
coastal belt. Moving west from Natal (map) both the annual rainfall and
population density decline quickly in passing through a transition Agreste
aone into the semi-arid Sertao. Both the Agreste and Sertao are vulnerable
to periodic drought. A variety of Federal and State programs have fostered
the establishment of new industries, mainly around Natal, but these have not
provided sufficient employment to absorb the increase of the State's labor
force.. There has been a gradual emigration from rural areas to the cities
of the Northeast and to the more industrialized Center-South. To help solve
its health problems, the State initiated with relevant Federal agencies a
pioneer program of low-cost village-level health "miniposts". It has also
been the only state in Brazil to officially support a family planning pro-
gram.
III. THE PROJECT AREA (Annex 1)
3.01      The project area of 21,000 km  corresponds approximately to the
State's perennial cotton-growing area (map) and about 40% of the total area
of the State. The area is generally semi-arid (average rainfall varying
from 400 mm to 700 mm) with erratic and unpredictable rainfall. The his-
tory of fieriodic drought has influenced greatly farmers' willingness to
Innovate and invest. Apart from valley bottoms, soils are generally poor.
The area is divided into 4 sub-areas and 53 municipios (similar to coun-
ties) and encompasses significant variatioi in climate, geology, crops,
infrastructure and farm size.  Population is 4159000 (1970 census) of
e^hich roughly 270,000 are rural. During the decade of the 60's the
urban population annual growth rate (2.6%) was twice that of the rural;
there has also been considerable emigration from the area. Only about



-4-
18% of the area is under crops, with the balance either natural (bush)
pasture or unusable. Cash income is mainly derived from high-quality
(but low-yielding) long staple cotton from perennial plants having a
five-year cycle and considerable drought resistance, supplemented by
cattle; maize and beans are the princ!pal foodcrops, g-nerally grown in
association with first-year cotton.
3.02      Rainfall records since 1930 indicate that whereas there are signi-
ficant risks of critical drought which reduce yields or in severe cases destroy
crops, adequate to good conditions for perenn4al cotton occurred in about 65%
of recorded years (Annex 1, para 3). Monthly rainfall in the project area
must exceed 100 mm in both March and April and 40 mm in May to ensure satis-
factory establishment of newly planted cotton and good yields of the mature
crop.
3.03      There are between 20,000 and 25,000 farms in the project area
(Annex 1). Of these, roughly three-quarters are less than 50 ha; however,
the remaining one-quarter of over 50 ha accounts for three-quarters of the
cultivated land. Because of the generally low percentage of area under cul-
tivation (due to exceptionally poor soils in the project area) and resulting
low value of output per ha, farms of less than 200 ha provide incomes below
one-third of the national average; about 90% of the farm families with fewer
than 200 ha fall within the target groups (Annex 1). Smaller farms cultivate
a higher percentage of their area than large farms do; farms of less than
10 ha cultivate 40 to 45% of their area while those over 500 ha cultivate
only 10-15% (which can only partly be attributed to the quality of the
land). The project area's rural population of some 52,000 families can be
subdivided into: temporary workers (35%); sharecroppers (20%); small owner-
operators (generally less than 200 ha) (35%); and larger owner-operators (10%).
The larger farmers generally operate using sharecoppers while smaller farmers;
particularly those owning farms of less than 10 ha, sometimes work for part
of the year outside their own farms. All but the largest landowners are
relatively poor by Brazilian standards.
3.04      A wide range of sharecropping systems exist on larger farms.  One
system is for the cash crop (cotton) to be split 50:50 between owner and
sharecropper, with the owner providing the original planting and sometimes
pesticides and the right to the sharecropper to plant subsistence crops in
certain areas. The sharing of the crop impedes investment; neither owner
nor sharecropper wishes to invest much where the other party takes one-half
of the incremental benefits. On-farm storage losses of subsistence crops
are high. The owner often also extends credit to the sharecropper and sells
him foodcrops during the off-season; the crop is almost always marketed
jointly. The implicit interest rates in these joint transactions are often
very high, to the sharecropper's disadvantage. Laws exist to protect share-
croppers' rights of tenancy but, given the large numbers involved and the
all-encompassing relationship between sharecropper and owner (involving pro-
duction, credit, food crops and social matters) protection is extremely dif-
ficult to ensure through legislation.



-5-
3.05      Most farmers sell their cotton to various private gins, either
directly or through a variety of buyer/transporters who sometimes also advance
money or buy a crop "on the bush" prior to harvest. Four cooperatives are
active in cotton marketing but only one is strong and together they account
for no more than 18% of crop sales.
Services in the Project Area
Extension Service (Annex 2)
3.06      ANCAR/RN 1/, part of Brazil's nationwide extension service network,
provides extension in the project area. The (Federal) Ministry of Agricul-
ture and SUDENE provide the bulk of the funding for ANCAR/RN; the (State)
Secretariat of Agriculture, Bank of Brazil and local authorities also con-
tribute.  ANCAR/RN serves 41 municipios in the project area through 22 field
offices staffed mainly by intermediate level (non-university graduate) agri-
cultural advisers; 12 municipios are not covered by ANCAR/RN. The intensity
of coverage varies greatly among sub-areas and, overall, funding has been
erratic.
3.07      A major part of ANCAR/RN's role is to provide technical support
to the agricultural lending activities of banks. The typical agricultural
adviser spends most of his time on administrative matters, mainly credit,
leaving little time for actual extension, Existing extensionists work
mainly with the (generally large) farmers who actually borrow from banks
and in aggregate the extension service probably reaches fewer than 10% of
the total number of farms. There has been little liaison with any activity
(e.g., research) devising technical packages financially attractive to farm-
ers.
Credit (Annex 3)
3.08      Bank of Brazil (BB) provides about 80% of the institutional credit
for seasonal production and investment purposes for agriculture in the proj-
ect area and Bank of the Northeast (BNB) most of the remainder. Institu-
tional credit is overwhelmingly for seasonal production purposes. Most of
the credit goes to larger farmers; nevertheless, the average loan (about
US$700 in 1973) is small. Over 80% of farms in the project area do not
borrow from institutional sources; some of these borrow from informal
sources, tying the borrower to a particular channel of crop sale at a
disadvantageous price to the borrower with resulting high implicit rates
of interest. In rare instances sharecroppers borrow directly from banks
but generally on the co-signature of the landowner.
1/   The Rio Grande do Norte section of the Northeast Association of Credit
and Rural Technical Assistance.



-6-
3.09      BB and BNB are both large, multi-purpose financial institutions
that have been used as credit channels in previous Bank loans. BB operates
four branches in the project area while BNB operates three; however, some
farmers travel up to 100 km to borrow from a bank branch. BNB, headquartered
in Fortaleza, is an official development institution oriented exclusively to
the Northeast. BB, Brazil's largest commercial bank, has experience with simpli-
fied lending procedures to individual farmers for small agricultural loans
of less than 50 times the reference value (i.e., a total of CR$ 18,800 or
US$2,500). 1/ BNB channels its small agricultural loans only through exist-
ing cooperatives. Existing lending procedures for both institutions are
cumbersome and the local staff, who generally perceive their career pros-
pects to be determined by loss experience, make lending decisions mainly
on borrowers' security coverage, even where greater discretionary power
is permitted under official procedures. Individual loan applications
require a major involvement by the local extensionist and occupy most
of his time.
Technical Development (Annex 4)
3010      EMBRAPA, 2/ a recently-created federal agency, is responsible for
Brazilian agricultural research and operates one minor research station for
cotton in RN at Cruzeta, in the project area. EMBRAPA is the successor of
earlier research arrangements. It is currently undergoing major reorganiza-
tion to meet its overall aim of making its work more relevant to farmers.
It has formulated a new research program for Northeast Brazil for which it
is requesting Bank financing. The Cruzeta station, founded in the 1930's,
has developed new strains with improved ginning characteristics. However,
in general, its work has not been well-integrated with farmers' economic
needs; e.g., there has been no work on food crops, of particular importance
to small farmers.
3.11      INFAOL 3/, a semi-public body located in the Northeast, has devel-
oped considerable experience in on-farm trials work in connection with seed
production for cotton and other crops. The Federal University of CEARA (UFC)
is carrying out agronomic and related economic analysis on perennial cotton
farms in both Rio Grande do Norte and the neighboring state of Ceara. The
agricultural economics department of UFC is doing some analysis of the econo-
mic impact on farmers of possible technical innovations.
1/   "Reference value"-is the monetary correction factor recently established
by the government replacing but roughly equivalent to the previous
monetary correction factor based on the minimum monthly wage.
2/   Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria.
3/   Instituto Nordestino Para 0 Fomento de Algodao e Oleaginosas (North-
east Institute for the Development of Cotton and Oilseeds).



-7-
3.12      A variety of innovations which are in varying degrees of readiness
and of potential benefit to farmers have been identified. However, to date
nobody has coordinated the various research results and technical opportuni-
ties in putting them into financially attractive technical packages based on
farm budgets. Research on chemical fertilizer use has been incomplete and
inconclusive. Little work has been done on crops grown in association, of
importance in the project area. Great variation in yields exist among farm-
ers, better farmers employing cultural practices such as plant protection, and
animal traction for rapid weeding (the low value of output per ha generally
makes tractors unattractive). Almost no technical development work has been
done on improved use of animal traction, alternative foodcrops (sorghum is
probably more suitable to the area than maize), organic fertilizer, use of
herbicides and other practices, some of which can be generally recommended
to farmers immediately or with little additional work and time.
Health (Annex 5)
3.13      A variety of communicable, water-borne or nutrition deficiency
related diseases are prevalent in the project area, reflected in higher
infant mortality and general incidence of sickness and lower life expec-
tancy than for Brazil as a whole. Most of the diseases are amenable to
simple, low-cost actions in preventive medicine and sanitation.
3.14      A number of State and Federal institutions are active in preven-
tive and curative health services in the project area, including the State
Department for Public Health (Health Department), Foundation for Public
Health Services (Foundation SESP), ANCAR/RN, and the Rural University
Center for Training and Community Development (CRUTAC). The Fund for
Assistance of Rural Workers (FUNRURAL) finances mainly curative services
through agreements with various treatment centers.
3015      ANCAR/RN, working closely with Foundation SESP, in 1968 started
a rural community health program centered around community-supported health
'miniposts". This program has proved highly successful in community accept-
ance and support and cost-effectiveness; it has also been taken up by other
states. The formation of a community health society which selects the mini-
post worker (for further training) and provides partial continuing finance
is a precondition for each minipost. Miniposts are small, located in simple
or renovated buildings with simple equipment. Principal emphasis is on
preventive maternal-child health (MCH), immunizations, nutrition, education,
training, health education and environmental sanitation. Referral is sup-
posed to be to larger health centers but these do not exist in sufficient
number or form to provide adequate referral at present. The recurrent cost
of medicines, vaccines and supplies is provided by the Federal and State
governments; personnel costs by a combination of State, local and community
sources. The salaries of minipost workers are sometimes delayed and local
officials are trying to develop a new formula to combine local government
(minicipio) financial support and prompt salary payment.  ANCAR/RN super-
vises the non-medical aspects of minipost operations through its social



A 8 _
extensionists located in the project area, who also promote nutrition-edu-
cation and other community activities. Under separate, State-related pro-
grams, many of the minipost workers have received training in family plan-
ning.
3.16      Despite their great success to date, the ex.1sting 28 miniposts in
the project area probably reach fewer than 10% of rural households, and they
are poorly served by supervision, backup and referral services; nevertheless,
the concept holds great promise for improving, at relatively low cost, the
health status and, hence, the potential productivity of the population in
the project area.
Marketing, Infrastructure, Communications (Annex 6)
3.17      The road network in the project area is generally not a bottleneck
especially in that major movements of harvested crops and inputs are generally
during the dry season. Private trucking at competitive rates is widely avail-
able. Cotton gins are mainly privately-owned and in aggregate have consider-
able excess capacity. The gins buy on a delivered to gin basis at posted
prices or from intermediaries who buy from farmers (and often extend credit),
often in advance of harvest, and transport to the gins. Also, Banco do Brazil
administers a minimum price system linked to its production loans, though the
system is virtually inoperative because the minimum price has been set in the
past at a very low level (60%) and only the poorest quality cotton benefits
from it. The State Secretariat of Agriculture provides Government grading
services at gins but this is not well supervised and the grading performance
varies considerably among gins. Improved seeds are distributed by a few pri-
vate gins and by CIDA, a State-owned input-supply and development company.
CIDA is a new agency that is currently reorganizing its activities to improve
the often inadequate performance of its predecessor agencies. CIDA and a var-'
iety of private agencies distribute pesticides and simple tools.
3.18      Radio Rural, a semi-private body transmitting from three sites
in RN, provides farm and rural news to the large number of radio receivers
in the project area. The Brazilian Space Agency (INPE) provides under
"Project SACI" a variety of television services to 2,000 television sets
that it has supDlied and maintains (very effectively) in schools and other
community centers through RN. These provide various educational programs but
so far little progress has been made in developing programs relevant to the
project area or to link the viewing to particular projects or community
programs.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and General Approach
4.01      A Bank mission to the Northeast in 1972 identified RN as a state
having the commitment and ability to prepare and implement rural development
projects. The State then hired consultants who prepared a project (mainly
settlement) which in late 1973 was reviewed by Bank staff and found exces-
sively costly per beneficiary. The State therefore undertook to prepare an
alternative project intended to improve the incomes of large numbers of people
at relatively low cost. The State-level agricultural planning agency, CEPA/
RN, 1/ was made responsible for preparing the project. Other State and Fed-
eral agencies seconded staff to CEPA/RN and in total over 20 State-level tech-
nicians participated in the preparation, several of whom would be heavily in-
volved in implementation (para 5.02). Several Bank missions have visited the
State for discussions during preparation. The local team, mindful of the
structural and technical problems involved, recognized that the first proj-
ect could not tackle all of the problems at once. Thus, in this project the
largest group of beneficiaries would be expected to be the large number of
poor farm families owning and operating small farms in the project area, as
the group of rural poor most able to respond to project actions. Sharecrop-
pers and other landless would participate only marginally in the credit com-
ponent but would participate to a greater degree through the extension com-
ponent and fully through the health component. Also some may purchase land
through a parallel program of easier credit for land-purchase (para 4.13).
Subsequent rural development projects in RN or neighboring states hopefully
would find ways to expand project coverage to other groups of beneficiaries,
but may also require more direct land reform components. A major focus on
this project would be on identifying suitable technical packages and devel-
oping the delivery mechanisms (involving considerable institutional reori-
entation) to reach small farmers, gaining their participation and demon-
strating that small farmers can be productive.
4.02      The project's principal objective would be to develop the insti-
tutional capability and focus to conceive, plan and implement in a coor-
dinated manner actions to increase the incomes and welfare of the target
group of farm families, at cost levels that would permit their replicabil-
ity. During the disbursement period (covering phases I and II) the project
would aim to reach some 15,000 farm families by its directly productive com-
ponents, generating a marketable surplus of food crops and roughly doubling
cotton production of participants. This would enable an increase in incomes
of fully-participating farm families of same 50% within 5 years of their par-
ticipation. The project would also aim to provide complete community health
coverage, including a system of referral, to about 80% of the project area's
total rural population.
1/   ComissaoEstadual de Planejamento Agricola, formed as a convenio between
the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, SUDENE and the State Government.



- 10 -
4.03      The physical environment of the project area (Annex 1) is difficult
and the project's actions are not fully proven. To reduce the risks, the
project would be phased. Phase I would focus on 11 representative munici-
pios covering about 20% of the cultivated land in the project area. In
addition to its productive impact, it would refine and disseminate tech-
nical packages financially attractive to small farmers and methods of deliv-
ering extension end credit and health services to the target group. It would
also aim to strengthen existing institutions involved in rural development in
the project area. Phase II, expected to begin in year 3, would expand the
actions developed and tested during Phase I to part or all of the project
area only if the Bank is satisfied with progress under Phase I. The deci-
sion to proceed with Phase II would be subject to a comprehensive review of
Phase I by the Government, in consultation with Bank staff. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained to this effect.
B. Brief Description
4.04      The project would consist of:
(a)  Extension service improvement, mainly by the addition of
agricultural advisers especially trained to focus on small
farmers' problpms and the provision of logistical support;
and through increased numbers of social extension workers;
(b)  Credit to small farmers for seasonal production purposes and
for on-farm investments and area expansion; alternative deliv-
ery systems would be tested and simplified, and credit proce-
dures developed to improve small farmers' access to credit;
credit insurance would be made available to small farmers to
decrease borrowers' risks;
(c)  Experimentation and farm trials focusing on the practical
needs of small farmers, to improve technical packages for
cotton and other crops;
(d)  Health program expansion and strengthening of supervision
and referral systems;
(e)  Training of project staff and development of training
materials for farmers;
(f)  Organizational support for project administration,
monitoring and evaluation, and a project special
fund; and
(g)  Preparation of future rural development projects in
other areas of the State.



- 11 -
4.05      During Phase I, the various methods and delivery systems of the
project would be monitored and modified as necessary prior to Phase II.
Throughout the project, flexibility to change the project's actions accord-
ing to actual project needs and results would be important.
4.06      The responsibility for administering the project would be placed
in a Project Unit located in CEPA/RN (para 5.01), The Project Unit would
conceive and stimulate actions under the project, coordinate the works of
the various participating agencies, and control project finances. The
Project Unit has been established. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from Government that it would adequately support CEPA/RN during
the disbursement period to permit it to effectively house the Project
Unit.
C. Detailed Features
Extension (Annex 2)
4.07      The extension service (ANCAR/RN) would be expanded to provide a
more intensive coverage of small farmers. This intensified effort would be
expanded in the second phase to cover the total project area. Staff would
be recruited and trained to deal with small farm systems and problems (Annex 7).
The work of agricultural advisers would be rationalized and their involvement
in preparing loan applications restricted to technical recommendations. (These
recommendations and the participating banks' subsequent evaluation of the pro-
posals would be based on matrices of the likely viability of the technical
packages in different farm sizes and subregions). The coverage of agricul-
tural advisers would gradually be built up to a ratio of one agricultural
adviser per 120 farm families. The project would finance the incremental
costs of increased extension service including, mainly, vehicles, equipment
and incremental salaries during the five-year project period (Annex 2, para
32). Specific attempts would be made (closely with the credit component--
paras 4.09 thru 4.14) to permit the agricultural adviser to work through
small groups of farmers, using different types of local extension inter-
mediaries, thereby increasing his reach and reducing the extension cost
per farmer.
4.08      New agricultural advisers hired would largely be intermediate level
rather than university graduate extensionists. They would be supervised by
regional coordinators (about 1 for each 17 agricultural advisers) and given
periodic training to link the agricultural adviser's work with the technical
recommendations developed under the practical experimentation and field test
component (paras 4.15 and 4.16). The nuwber of social extensionists of ANCAIR/
RN would also be increased (by about 16 extensionists during Phase I) to work
with the minipost health program (para 40X7) and work with expanded community
and development programs (e.g. nutrition, household gardens). This would in-
clude a small pilot credit (in kind) component to familiarize households with
the production of small animals.



12 -
Credit (Annex 3)
4.09      The project would include incremental credit to farmers for sea-
sonal (crop production) and investment purDoses, simplified lending proce-
dures and innovative delivery  vystems.  Seasonal crop rroduction loans would
cover normal crop production c0stS included in the techniques recommended
under the project (e.g. use of pesticides) and costs of hired labor for
picking, weeding, etc.  Sub-,Yoans for investmeent purposes wsould mainly be
for draft animals, fencing, equipment and smajJ-scale storage facilitieso
Bank of the Northeast (B*BS) would expand ito lszzding to farmers in the
project area mainly through cooperatives by establfVshing simplified proce-
dures for lending to coopactives, asslating the cooperat±ves to form branches
(Ventrepostos"),  and expanding its accounting and manageria]. assis'tance to cc-
operatives. Bank of Baall (BB) would eswpand l-t$ small agr:icultural moans by
a variety of actions :Lcl.uding simplified le.di-ng procedures, mobile banking
and lending to small grougo-ps.  M     iLe aTiculturaL Z    service zmuld cooperate
in te promotion of cTedit to  mcnL famai.  Tahe Wational Cooperative Bank
(BNCC) would review cooperative invaetment needs;  the Government w¢ould provide
B3CC with funds t6 finance coSpernt iv     f   mtruc2 ri ('eed s  parallel to
project investmc2>].
4 M X     Prcjeac  =redit znd          spa cis^ p:7co cs9 er;r  ':-'old be limited tO
sao alzwse prodUoticlans2n9   of  oso .kO   225 Ataef :    'il3 :afeene  vslue
(about Cr$ 9,400 o' US$ p250) and up to 1 txotal inLeL:eess aer farme
of 50C tAsma thc rv&iereuee (;a¢bout US$2,500)o Dsta:zild on-eLnding
proceduzes under PLOLORDESTE heve aot yetf been finseizea; howevez, itS ts
understood that interest to the farmer wuld be at the nom-nsiL rate of 7%
for invest.iento.  Loans for seasonal production purposes !could have an
interest rate of 13% except for a zelatively small amount of credit to
finance purchases of some modern inputs, for which the interest rate u-jould
be 0%. Loans for investment purposes would typically be for 5 years for
"semi-fixed" investment (e.g., work animals) and 12 years for "fixed"
(e.g., small buildings, fences). The unindexed credit, with low nominal
rates of interest, results in negative real interest rates to the farmer.
However, the beneficiaries are from the lowest income groups, (to be en-
forced through the above-mentioned size limits on credits) and the consid-
erable strengthening of extension would help guard against misuse of the
funds.
4.11      Simplified lending procedures would include lending predetermined
amounts per hectare on an unsecured (signature only) basis for seasonal loans
and, for investment loans, employing simplified procedures focusing on an
applicant's projected debt service capacity based on average yields obtained
and area cultivated. The extension worker's role in this would be limited
to technical matters. Under mobile banking, BB would bring its activities
closer to farmers by providing to municipios not currently covered by bank
branches, a banking outlet (in rented quarters or mobile unit) to be open,
say, one day each two weeks, year-round; this appears to be financially
feasible for the participating bank (Annex 3). Lending to small groups
of farmers (say 5 to 12) for seasonal production loans and in certain
cases for investment purposes could reduce the administrative costs of



-13 -
providing loans to large numbers of small farmers. The farmer groups could
also perform other useful roles, e.g., spreading extension more economically.
As a condition of effectiveness, Government and the Project Unit would enter
into formal agreements with BNB and BB to ensure application of the above-
described actions and policies.
4.12      The Government would review annually the progress made in expand-
ing banks' lending to small farmers, including the effectiveness of existing
terms, conditions and promotional efforts in removing potential biases of
participating banks' staff against making small agricultural loans. The
Government has agreed to submit to the Bank a report of the annual progress
and to introduce additional measures when the Government and the Bank agree
they would be necessary.
4.13      In support of project objectives, Government would revise through
POLONORDESTE the terms for credit for individuals to purchase small parcels
of land and become owner-operator farmers. Such a revision in terms for
land purchase credit, which is already available under the PROTERRA program,
could become a significant means for rural landless to acquire land. Credit
terms would be 7% interest rate; a 20 year maturity including 5 years of grace
and loan amounts would cover up to 100% of the purchase price of land. These
terms are more favorable than the existing land purchase program under PROTERRA
(see para 2.06). During negotiations an assurance was obtained from Govern-
ment that these terms for land purchase credits under POLONORDESTE would apply
to the project area.
4.14      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would
promote the use of PROAGRO (a voluntary crop-credit insurance scheme newly
initiated by the Government) for subloans under the project to the maximum
possible extent. Sub-borrowers who use PROAGRO would pay a standard annual
1% on average loan balances to cover their loan repayment obligations for
specific risks (e.g. drought). The need for compulsory credit insurance
would be analyzed as part of the annual review of progress in lending to
small farmers.
Technical Proposals and Farm Trials (Annex 4)
4.15      The initial technical recommendations would include animal traction
(for rapid weeding and expanding cultivated area), improved plant protection
(e.g., use of pesticides), improved seeds, and on-farm storage of food crops,
for the target group of small farmers. These techniques are currently used
by better farmers to good effect but are not universally used because of
limited access to credit and extension. These techniques would be further
refined during years 1 and 2 (improved selection and use of pesticides; use
of animal-drawn equipment, permitting wfider use but requiring testing in
local conditions), for rapid transmittal to farmers. The technical recom-
mendations would be in conjunction with modified credit procedures, the pro-
motion of credit insurance and more effective extension; the combination of
all of these can be considered to be the technical package.



- 14 -
4.16      A number of other improved techniques have been identified (e.g.,
use of herbicides, organic and inorganic fertilizers, new varieties of food
crops, soil conservation, early planting) which are in varying degrees of
readiness for diffusion to farmers, ranging from immediate readiness for
broad diffusion to farmers, through a necessity for refinement by on-farm
trials, to additional work at the research station. The project would
finance on-farm trials to refine these techniques to permit rapid general
diffusion to farmers.  Initial emphasis would be on new implements to im-
prove effectiveness of animal traction and on improved plant protection
through pesticide selection and application. The project would also work
closely bi_-h ::elated wzrk at the research station level.  Working through
the technicEl committae (para 5.02) the project would focus the trials and
research work towaryo developing technical packages financially attractive
to small farmers. The techlnical activities would liaise closely with the
extension component in order ts prnvids a rapid diffusion of results.
Health (Annex 5)
2obIL7    ,Ize lhsa             unuld heve. a potential productive impact
ZhrTcu.gh gduced ties lost e.Qa 1to oic=eso, and would improve welfare for
lzi.gaS nvm!,@ec o:' rursl! pao:- (i vy £ whom may be difficult to reach directly
2ectzn t:ew .e  :9.ro Ct.>y Ur-,   cponcaats). oIt would also involve the
P--o jct directly fn t  aEn   ity z:ItCh xell-accepted communtty participation,
n  MporrtZant ingre  ent wCr u&..ar proj:ct ccmpon,ents  especially extension.
Une.sz Phn, I, thn Ip rojec- -T_OA nair to provide a complete minipost coverage
to the 'u PlAsee I  runicipio$s 'Ifavoljng improvement of 8 existing miniposts
anCi developin.g about 45 now smmao ) and develop a complete referral and support
syoteE.  Ssven lhealtL centers (four existing; three new) would be strengthened
or developed as referral points for miniposts (one health center for each six
to nine miniposts). For purposes of cost-effectiveness, buildings where possi-
ble would be renovated rather than built new and some community volunteer labor
w^ould be mobilized. The project would provide training for the locally-
recruited minipost workers and health center auxilliary nurses. The health
centers would take over more of the supervision of miniposts, freeing the
ANCAR/RN social extensionists to do more community health and nutrition
work, Under Phase II, based on the evaluation of Phase I, and employing
lessons learned, actions under Phase I would be extended to cover about
80% of the project area's population. The project would finance the full
five-year costs (including salaries) of the (largely developmental) activ-
ities in the Phase I municipios but only the training, construction and
equipment costs of the Phase II municipios.
Training (Annex 7)
4.18      Training would be provided for extension personnel, community
health workers, field trials technicians, bank staff, community workers
and project unit and monitoring group personnel. Training would be both
formal and informal and would be within and among different agencies
working on the same component. Training would be executed by the par-
ticipating agencies assisted by the Project Unit and consultants (para
4.20).



- 15 -
4.19      The project would attempt, in close liaison with the extension
component, to reach farmers through media and printed materials. The proj-
ect would support the production of television films on project-related
subjects (e.g., animal traction, credit procedures) especially for the
project area in support of Project SACI (para 3.18).
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation, Technical Assistance,
Project Special Fund and Preparation of Further Rural Development Projects
4.20      The project would be implemented by existing institutions (Annex
12). A Project Unit would be set up (para 5.01) within CEPA/RN to be mainly
responsible for coordinating the planning, implementation and control of the
finances under the project; a separate unit would monitor and evaluate the
project (Annex 8). Technical assistance (including some 12 man-years of
consulting services) would be provided in planning and implementing: spec-
ific training programs (para 4.18), the planning, analysis and interpreta-
tion of actions to refine improved agricultural techniques and delivery
systems (para 4.15 and 4.16) and the monitoring and evaluation of the var-
ious project components. The project would finance a project special fund
for use on the authorization of the coordinator of the Project Unit mainly
for special technical assistance and training. The project would also
finance the project preparation of another rural development project in
RN, probably in the Agreste_area between the project area and the coast
(Annex 9). During negotiations assurances were obtained that prior Bank
approval would be secured for the project preparation work program and
consultants' selection and terms of reference.
D. Cost Estimates
4.21      The project comprises a time-slice in a program of actions includ-
ing agricultural credit, expansion of agricultural extension services, on-
farm trials and other items for which the calculation of physical contin-
gencies would not be appropriate. Price contingencies used (1975, 11%;
1976, 9%; 1977, 8%; 1978, 8%; 1979, 8%; 1980, 7%) reflect Bank guidelines.
Cost estimates are detailed in Annex 10 and summarized as follows:



- 16 -
Foreign
% Base-     Exchange
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Line Costs    Cost
----CR$ million --- -----US$ Mi1l.ion---
Credit
Development
Credit                     49.2  10.0    59.2   6.8   1.4       8.2      39         17
Production
Credit                     15.2   1.7    16.9   2.2    .2        2.4     11         10
Sub-Total                64.4  11.7    76.1   9.0   1.6    10.6        50         15
Productive Support
Agricultural
Extension                  21,1   2.8    23.9   2.9    .4        3.3     15         12
Experimentation and
Farm Trials                17.3   2.4    19.7   2.4    .3        2.7     13         12
Farmers' Training -
Communications              1.4    .4      1.8    .2    -         .2      1         20
Sub-Total               39.8   5.6    45.4   5.5    .7        6.2      29         12
Social Infrastructure
Health                      11.4   1.5    12.9   1.6    .2        1.8      8         12
Social Extension - Self-
Help Demonstration          .7    -        .7    .1    -         .1      -          0
Sub-Total               12.1   1.5    13.6   1.7    .2        1.9       8         11
Organizational Support
Project Adminstration        9.2    .5      9.7   1.3    .1       1.4      6          5
Monitoring - Evaluation    4.9    .8        5.7    .7    .1        .8      4         14
Project Special Fund         2.5    -       2.5    .3    -         .3      2          0
Sub-Total               16.6   1.3    17.9   2.3    .2        2.5      12          8
Project Preparation          1.6    .4      2.0    .2    .1        .3      1         20
Base Line Costs        134.5  20.5   155.0  18.7   2.8    21.5    100             13
Contingencies            54.4   7.4    61.8   7.5   1.0       8.5      40         13
Total Project Costs   188.9  27.9   216.8  26.8   3.8    30.0    140              13



- 17 -
E. Financing
4.22      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
Government         Bank          Total
Amount   %     Amount   %         Amount
---(US$ million)-------------
Credit
Development Credit             4.9    60      3.3    40           8.2
Production Credit              1.5    60        .9   40           2.4
Productive Support               3.7    60       2.5    40          6.2
Social Infrastructure            1.1    60        .8    40          1.9
Administration - Evaluation
- Studies                      1.7    60      1.1    40           2.8
Contingencies                    5.1    60      3.4    40           8.5
Share in Total Project
Costs                       18.0    60     12.0    40          30.0
The proposed Bank loan of US$12.0 million would be to the Federative Republic
of Brazil and would be for 25 years including 5 years grace. It would finance
the relatively small foreign exchange costs (US$3.8 million) plus 31% of local
costs (totalling US$8.2 million equivalent) or 40% of total costs. The financ-
ing of part of the local cost component would be warranted given the size of
Brazil's total external capital needs greatly exceeding its need for imported
capital goods and by the highly desirable project focus on small farmers.  Funds
for agricultural credit would be made available by Government to the partici-
pating banks (para 4.11).  The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1981.
An estimated schedule of Bank disbursements is attached as Annex 11.  During
negotiations an assurance was obtained from Government that sufficient local
funds would be provided promptly as needed to implement the project.
F. Procurement
4.23      Much of the project would finance training, build-up of staffs,
research and technical assistance, activities involving only minor con-
struction or purchase of equipment. Mini-health posts and health centers
(totalling about US$0.6 million) would be small, of varied design and geo-
graphically dispersed and would be constructed by a combination of self-
help, force account and local bidding. Purchased farm inputs would be



- 18 
procured by farmers in small amounts through local trade channels. Purchases
of equipment, including small vehicles which are produced and readily avail-
able locally would be under local bidding procedures which are satisfactory.
G. Disbursements
4.24      Disbursements for extension would be at 31% of total expenditures
resulting in the Bank financing an equivalent of about 40% of incremental
expenditures; all other components and disbursements would be at the rate
of 40% of total expenditures or sub-loans. Disbursements would be against
statements of expenditures initiated by the various implementing agencies
under the project and certified by the Project Unit within CEPA/RN, under
annual plans approved by the Bank (para 5.04).  The documentation in sup-
port of expenditures under the Project would not be submitted for review
but retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by the Bank
during the course of project supervision missions.  Undisbursed funds remain-
ing after project completion could, with Bank approval, be used for other
rural development activity in RN.
H. Accounts and Audit
4.25      Each of the participating agencies would maintain accounts of ex-
penditures under the project which would be audited annually by Government
auditors according to standard practice. The Project Unit would maintain
accounts of its expenditures under the project together with statements of
project expenditures by participating agencies. Copies of the audited
accounts of project expenditures of the various agencies would be forwarded
to the Bank within four months of the end of each fiscal year; the Project
Unit would supply the necessary coordination to effect this. Both Banco
do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste are audited by satisfactory independent
auditors. Both would provide within four months of the end of their fiscal
years audited statements of their lending under the project. During nego-
tiations assurances were obtained that these procedures would be followed.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The project's detailed actions would be implemented by existing
agencies (e.g., ANCAR/RN, the participating banks, INFAOL, Secretariat of
Health). A Project Unit to be concerned solely with the project, would
be established within CEPA/RN to stimulate and conceive actions under the
project, coordinate work of the various participating agencies and control
project finances. The Project Unit would report periodically through a
State-level agricultural policy coordinating body (Conselho Diretor) to



- 19 -
the Special Coordinating and Monitoring Group of POLONORDESTE. The overall
approach is consistent with Brazil's "convenio system" whereby a number of
agencies work together jointly under a written agreement or "convenio" to
carry out a particular program.
5.02      The Project Unit would be expected to have a small staff (about
seven professionals). In view of the complexity of the Project Unit's
task, the staff would need to be experienced and imaginative. Fortunately,
a number of persons who would probably be assigned to the Project Unit in-
cluding the team leader and a number from the participating agencies have
worked in preparing the project. The organization of the Project Unit
staff would need to be flexible, to respond to the results encountered by
initial project actions. Suggested terms of reference for the Project Unit
are in Annex 12, para 21-27. The precise roles of each would need to be
interpreted flexibly, depending on the evolving project task and particular
experiences of people recruited. In addition to a Project Leader/Coordi-
nator, the Project Unit staff would consist of advisers for technical activ-
ities, extension, credit, human resources and cooperatives and marketing.
Each would work closely with the relevant participating agencies and with
the other members of the Project Unit in conceiving, stimulating, planning
and implementing actions under the project. Each would chair a committee
of representatives of the relevant participating agencies to meet at least
quarterly to coordinate work on the particular component. A financial con-
troller would coordinate the project financial plans of participating agen-
cies and review and approve disbursement requests of participating agencies.
5.03      A separate monitoring group, staffed by at least two full-time
professionals experienced in research in social or economic fields, would
be established within the Project Unit. The monitoring group would work
closely with the project unit but would not have specific implementing
responsibility. It would be assisted by consultants in work design,
data-processing, analysis and interpretation.
5.04      Each participating agency would prepare jointly with the Project
Unit an annual plan covering actions under the project for the year. The
annual plans would be reviewed by the Conselho Diretor and the Special
Group of POLONORDESTE and would be subject to Bank approval. An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that these procedures would be followed.
5.05      The state Government of RN and its various agencies are active in
various fields of importance to the project, in particular input supply and
cotton grading (para 3.17). During negotiations an assurance was obtained
from the State Government that it would generally support the project by,
in particular, taking all steps necessary to support the maintenance of
the Project Unit within CEPA/RN, adequately enforcing its cotton grading
regulations within the project area and supporting CIDA in its efforts to
ensure adequate supplies of improved seeds and other inputs in the project
area.



- 20 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
Production
6.01      Major producer benefits are expected to arise from:  (a) increased
cotton production through increased yields and an expansion of cultivated
area; and (b) increases in production of subsistence crops (corn, beans,
sorghum) through improved varieties and cultivation practices to be further
tested and refined during the first years of implementation. Cotton yield
increases from existing low levels would be facilitated by improved farmer
training, and technical assistance from an expanded extension service net-
work; intensive trials and demonstration on farmers plots; and improved
credit and input delivery systems. Projected yield improvements would be
an increase from a five-year cycle annual average of 175 kg/ha at present
to an average of 300 kg/ha by the sixth year. After nine years substantial
results from research and experimentation could be expected to increase this
average to a minimum of 350 kg/ha (Annex 4).
6.02      Under these assumptions, at full development, total area of partici-
pating farmers under cotton cultivation would increase from 88,000 ha to about
100,000 ha and annual production would more than double. Total area under
food crops is estimated to increase from about 18,000 ha to 20,000 ha. Of
the expected cotton production increase, 25% would be attributed to increase
area and 75% to increased yields. For the aggregate of small farms of 0 to
50 ha and medium of 50 to 200 ha, 1/ the results would be as follows:
1/   Because of the exceptionally poor soils, farms in the project area
of less than 200 ha generally produce per capita incomes below one-
third of the national average (para 3.03).



- 21 -
Before       Full       Year of Full
Development Development Development Increment
Cotton Area (ha)
Small farms (0-50 ha)         46,200        53,900           6         7,700
Medium farms (50-200 ha)      42,000        46,000           6         4,000
Total                      88,200        99,900           6        11,700
Cotton Production (in tons of seedcotton)
Small farms (0-50 ha)          7,300        16,400           9         9,100
Medium farms (50-200 ha)       6,800        14,500           9         7,700
Total                      14,100        30,900           9        16,800
6.03      Further benefits from increased cotton production of larger farms
(more than 200 ha), would also be expected from the results of research and
improvements in extension. Benefits from increased production of food crops,
although expected to be large, are not readily quantifiable, as they are
dependent on results of further research and experimentation (Annex 4).
Marketing and Prices
6.04      The overall increase in cotton production under the project, amount-
ing to approximately 18% of current long-staple perennial cotton production
of the State or less than 3% of the Northeast, would have no impact on over-,
all price relationships. All of the increase would be absorbed by the local
ginning industry which currently experiences more than 40% unused capacity.
The marketing and transportation of the incremental production would be done
according to the traditional systems of: (a) collection by the gins; (b)
intermediaries; and (c) cooperatives. Improvements in the delivery systems
and the pricing mechanisms would be expected from: (a) the anticipated ex-
pansion of cooperative coverage; (b) the strengthened bargaining power of
farmers having access to institutional credit and less dependence on money
lenders; and (c) possible formation of farmer marketing groups.
6.05      The price of long-staple cotton, benefiting from a premium over
regular cotton, would nevertheless be subject to the same price fluctuations,
mainly related to international cotton price movements. Long-run projections
by the Bank's Commodities Division indicate that the price would remain about
constant in real terms through the project development period.
6.06      The expected marketable surplus of corn and beans would not basic-
ally modify the existing price structure of these crops. However, improved
on-farm conservation, especially for beans, would allow farmers to delay
their sales to take advantage of more favorable seasonal price circum-
stances.



- 22 -
Producer Income and Benefits
6.07      The general average cash income from cotton operations would be
expected to have doubled by year 12. Net cash income per family from in-
creased cotton production would be as follows: 1/
Before           At Full
Development       Development       Increase
---                 us-------------US$-
Small farms                   210                 430            220
Medium farms                  590               1,200            610
6.08      Large variations could be expected among the various groups of each
farm class, depending upon the availability of credit, location in the proj-
ect area and other factors (e.g. tenure arrangements). In addition, substan-
tial increases in producers' incomes through increased on-farm consumption
and some marketable surpluses can be expected from increases in the produc-
tion of subsistence crops. Other important but non-quantifiable benefits
could be expected from improved health and other social services and com-
munity and self-help project activities (para 4.17).
6.09      The project would provide a modest increase in employment in the
project area and would reduce underemployment. On the smaller farms much of
the increased labor requirement for project development is met largely from
family labor rather than hired labor. Nevertheless, at full development, the
incremental man-power requirements would be approximately 2,200 man-years per
year, equivalent to about 4% of the agricultural labor force of the project
area. This amount, while important, would not be expected to significantly
affect the existing labor supply and wages.
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      The project's combination of institutional reform, social compo-
nents and overall developmental nature in a difficult and varied project
area, make the estimation of economic costs and benefits particularly dif-
ficult. The economic analysis is in Annex 13.
7.02      The 15,000 farmers projected to benefit directly from the project
(para. 6.07) have been subdivided according to farm size, previous use of
1/   Output from crops (mainly cotton) represents from 75 to 85% of total
value of output before development (Annex 13). Net cash income from
non-cotton output at full development would not be expected to exceed
30%.



- 23 -
formal credit and extension and level of expected participation in these
services under the project. Data for the numbers and classification of farmers
have been drawn heavily from the preliminary results from SUDENE/IBRD/DRC sur-
vey. 1/ About 9% of small farms and 17% of medium sized farms currently re-
ceive credit. Production credit under the project would be expected to reach
50% of those not currently receiving credit, half of which would also borrow
to increase cultivated area.   All of the farms would be reached, in varying
degrees, by expanded agricultural extension technical advice. While foodcrop
development would be important under the project the economic analysis focuses
on perennial cotton, the principal cash crop.
7.03      Because of wide differences among farms the analysis covers groups
of farms on an aggregate basis. For farmers participating fully under the
project average yields for the five-year plant cycle 2/ would be expected to
increase over about 9 years from existing extremely low levels of 150 kg to
200 kg of seedcotton per ha to 350 kg per ha.
7.04      The baseline situation involves little or no use of animal traction,
rudimentary manual weeding, traditional seeds and little or no use of in-
secticides. A 300 kg/ha average yield would involve full use of existing
technology including animal traction, frequent weeding, proper spraying,
improved seeds and corresponds to yields of existing better farmers; the
350 kg/ha yield allows for some results from the trials and research pro-
gram (e.g., improved tools for animal traction). The various groups of
target farmers are at different baseline stages and would advance at dif-
ferent rates under the project.
7.05      Cash costs have been valued at prevailing market rates.  Family
labor has been valued at the minimum wage which reflects the market rate
on a year-round average basis. No shadow rate for foreign exchange was
used. The price projected for perennial cotton is according to Bank
projections for international cotton, adjusted to the project area for
grade and location.
7.06      Benefits for part of project investment would extend beyond the
project area. Accordingly, 70% of research and experimentation and 40% of
project administration, monitoring and evaluation were not charged to the
benefit cost stream. The overall economic rate of return for the directly
productive parts of the project is 15% without taking account of benefits
from increased production of foodcrops.
1/   A farge survey of farms in the Northeast was carried out in 1973
jointly by SUDENE and the Bank's Development Research Center.
2/   The average baseline yield of seedcotton of 150 kg would be an
average of: 1 year - 50 kg, year 2 - 225 kg, year 3 - 225 kg,
year 4 - 150 kg, and year 5 - 100 kg; these yields also are aver-
ages of good and bad rainfall years, and represent expected values
including the drought probability coefficient.



- 24 -
7.07      The sensitivity of several of the major project risks was tested.
One major risk is that yield increases would not materialize as projected.
A 10% shortfall in projected yields would result in a 9% rate of return and
a 10% greater yield than projected would result in a 20% rate of return.
In the event of lower than projected yields, financial rates of return to
farmers would be reduced and fewer farms would participate. This would be
discerned by the project Monitoring Group (para 5.03) so that some reduction
in investment (e.g., through adjusting the rate of increase in the extension
component) could be effected. Another risk is that farmer participation in
the project would develop more slowly than projected. Lagging the projected
farmer participation (and hence the benefit stream) by two years reduces the
rate of return to 9%. Increasing total project costs in real terms by 10%
results in a 9% rate of return, increasing farm costs in real terms by 10%
gives a 12% rate of return.
7.08      The project would involve an investment cost per benefiting family
of US$867 for the directly-productive components and US$38 for the social
components. It would give rise to additional annual recurrent costs to
Government following the disbursement period of some US$2.3 million, partially
offset by additional tax revenues of US$0.7 million from the ICM (value added)
tax on incremental cotton production. The agricultural extension service
would constitute some two-thirds of the extra recurrent costs. The per family
costs are hi-gh, mainly due to the experimental nature of the project.  One
objective of the project would be to identify, test and spread more cost effec-
tive delivery systems for technical assistance and credit, to increase coverage
and decrease costs per participating family, thereby increasing the potential
for replicability throughout large parts of the Northeast.
7.09      The project has greater than usual risks stemming from the diffi-
cult physical environment of the project area and the interrelated and not
fully refined actions under the project, requiring procedural changes and
considerable coordination for their success. Success also depends on
responses of farmers and communities that involve subjective matters such
as attitudes to risk that are difficult to predict in advance. A major
drought during the project's first two or three years could get the
project off to a bad start. On the other hand, a number of the State-
level technicians who prepared the project would be heavily involved in
implementation, greatly improving the chances of proper coordination and
overall effectiveness. Also, steps have been taken to reduce the risks
of low farmer response by encouraging participation in the PROAGRO program
of crop-credit insurance and special monitoring of the credit supply. More-
over, the project has the potential of reaching some 75,000 people with its
directly productive component and 220,000 with its health component. Poten-
tially more important, it would provide experience with institutional ap-
proaches to small farmer problems that may be replicated elsewhere in the
Northeast.



- 25 -
VIII. RECOMIENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) It would proceed with Phase II only after a complete
review of Phase I, with progress satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.03);
(b)  It would adequately support CEPA/RN to allow it to
effectively house the Project Unit (para 4.06);
(c) It would make annual reviews of the progress made in
expanding lending to small farmers in the project
area, present the report on such reviews and recom-
mendations for further action to the Bank, and carry
out the actions that may be agreed;
(d) PROAGRO voluntary crop-credit insurance would be
promoted for sub-loans under the project (para 4.14);
*e) The terms for the land purchase credits under POLONORDESTE
would apply to the project area (para 4.13);
(f) Bank approval would be secured for the project prepara-
tion work program and consultants' selection and terms
of reference (para 4.20);
(g) Sufficient local funds would be provided promptly as
needed to implement the project (para 4.22);
(h) Appropriate audit procedures would be followed by the
Project Unit and participating agencies (para 4.25); and
(i) The annual project work plan would be subject to the Bank
approval (para 5.04).
8.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
of RN that it would support the project as outlined in para 5.05.
8.03      A condition of effectiveness would be that the Government and the
Project Unit had entered into formal agreements satisfactory to the Bank with
the participating banks (para 4.11).
8.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$12.0 million equivalent with a term of 25 years
including a 5-year grace period.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area
General
1.        The project area covers 53 municipios, grouped in 4 disparate
sub-areas, representing a total area of about 2.1 million ha with a total
population of 415,000 (1970 Census). Most of the soils found in the area
are of Pre-cambrian origin and are usually poor. Other soil types can be
found on a small scale (especially the Jandaira limestone and Acu sandstone).
The relief of the area is variable with peneplains limited by high elevations.
In general the relief is characterized by flat or round-shaped hills with
short slopes having an average declivity between 3 and 10%. Altitudes range
from 50 to 300 meters. The project area is heterogeneous from several view-
points, as further explained below.
Climate
2.        Because of the Atlantic Equatorial air masses, the area has semi-
arid ,characteristics. Temperatures are high with an annual average around
27.4'C (maximum average about 36°C in December; minimum average about 24°C
in July). Average annual rainfall varies from 400 mm in the central part
to 700 mm in the western part of the project area. Annual rainfall is
extremely irregular, as evidenced by the value of the variation coefficient
(standard deviation t mean) which consistently exceeds .50 in the central
part of the area (between .40 and .50 in the western part). 1/ Rainfall is
often deficient for several months, causing severe droughts which may
persist over several crop seasons. The potential evapotranspiration,
calculated by Turc's formula, is rather uniform throughout the area, at about
1,500 mm per year.
3.        Analyzing the risk of drought is critical since insufficient rain-
fall results in reduced plant populations and yields for cotton and food
crops. Annual rainfall data are available for years since 1930 from ex-
perimerital stations in Cruzeta and Sao Miguel, located within the perennial
cotton region of the project area. With the assistance of INFAOL, this
information has been interpreted to show how annual variation in rainfall
affects the production of cotton. In the project area, rainfall must
exceed 100 mm in both March and April and 40 mm in May to ensure good yields
of mature cotton and permit good establishment of the newly planted crop.
As indicated below, risks of severe or critical drought are significant,
creating continual uncertainty regarding cotton production. However,
1/   Results of rainfall recording in several state stations for 35 to 55
years.



IANNEX 1
Page 2
judging from conditions since 1930, adequate to good years for perennial
cotton have about a 65% probability of occurrence.
Relative
Condition    Description             FreMuncy            1m1act
Critical     annual rainfall is        0.20       new fields - medium to high
drought      less than 250 mm                     population loss, especially
at bottont lands
fields 2-5 years old - smaller
population loss
severe losses occur
Severe       annual rainfall            0.08      yields are seriously affected
drought      exceeds 250 mm;
however, in 2 of the
3 critical months
rainfall is less than
lower limit
Moderate     monthly rainfall is:       0.38      adequate to good
drought          100 mm in 2 months               conditions for cotton
150 mm in remaining              production
Light or no  within or above            0.28      good conditions for
drought      upper rainfall limits                cotton production
for 3 critical months
Excess       Total rainfall in March  0.06        drastically reduces the
rainfall     April and May is more                production of cotton
than 550 mm.
Land Use
4.        Total cropland area is small (about 370,000 ha), less than 18% of
total land area (Table 1). Land for temporary crops (mainly ainual crops in
pure stand) averages only 3.7% of the total project area. Almost half of
the area is under natural pasture; the proportion of improved pasture is
negligible (less than 5,000 ha). Total fallow land is not precisely known,
but would not be more than 10% of the project area (210,000 ha) which would
be equivalent to almost 60% of crop land and more than 70% of land under
permanent crops. This fallow land would also probably represent an absolute
maximum of land which could be brought to cultivation. Considering the



ANNEX 1
Page 3
necessity of keeping a substantial amount of cultivable land for fallow
(between cycles of perennial cotton to avoid soil exhaustion), a maximum
possible increase in perennial cotton area would be in the order of 50,000 to
75,000 ha.  This is further substantiated by the pattern of land use according
to farm size (para 7 and Table 3).
5.        The land use pattern varies considerably between the four sub-areas.
Sub-area 4 (Santa Cruz) shows the largest proportion of cropland to total
land area (32%) while Sub-area 2 (Serido) has the lowest ratio (13%). The
proportion of temporary crops to total cropland area varies from 9% (Sub-area
1, Pedro Avelino) to 33% (Serido). The latter is probably due to a denser
system of food-crop cultivation in the riverbeds and around the numerous small
dams during the rainy season. This would obviously influence the degree of
emphasis on cotton cultivation, according to each farm's economic structure,
especially in small farms where there would be more dependence on subsistence
farming.
Land Distribution
6.        The three sources of data currently available are based on varying
definitions, rendering interpretation difficult. 1/ Table 2 summarizes the
respective farm distribution totals for the whole project area. There are
about 34,000 "establishments" (Census) or 25,000 "holdings" (Cadastral
1/   1970 Census:  defines establishments as units of one or more parcels,
contiguous and under a single administration, where agricultural activities
are carried out. Contiguous parcels under the same administration,
occupied under different legal conditions (owned, rented or squatted on)
are considered as one establishment; i.e., sharecroppers or owner-opera-.
tors on a unit of contiguous parcels are not differentiated. Conversely,
areas under the same administration, but not contiguous, are considered
as distinct establishments; e.g., a sharecropper on a plot not contiguous
to the owner's unit would constitute a separate establishment.
Cadastral Survey (INCRA-IBGE): defines rural holdings as units of one
or more parcels, contiguous, belonging to the same owner, irrespective
of whether or not they are under agricultural use.
SUDENE-IBRD (DRC) Survey: defines farms as a parcel or a collection of
close-lying parcels under the same entrepreneurship.
The census data generally represent a disaggregation of farms or rural
holdings, especially in the small-size category. The number of farms
may differ from the number of holdings due to rental arrangements, or
because the farm is comprised of more than one parcel, or again because
parcels of the same farm are not contiguous.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Survey), or 18,000 "farms" (IBRD-SUDENE Survey). Because the differences in
number of "units" are most acute for the smaller areas, unit totals under
the 50 ha and above category can be expected to be almost the same for each
definition. Thus, there are approximately 6,500 to 7,000 units of more than
50 ha in the project area, or more than 85% of the total area under culti-
vation in the project area. Conversely, there would be about 12,000 "farms",
17,500 "holdings" and 28,000 "establishments" of less than 50 ha. The number
of "establishments" clearly overstates the actual number of units defined as
decision-making centers having direct impact on physical production at the
farm level, because these are actually parcelled units. On the other hand,
the "farm" definition may under-estimate the number of independent decision-
making units (e.g., tenants or sharecroppers). Hence, the number of 50 ha-
units or less intended for direct intervention may fall between 15,000 and
20,000.
7.        Most of the farms of more than 50 ha have at least 10 ha under
cultivation. They account for approximately 75% of the total cultivated
land in the area. A tentative estimate of land use according to farm size
a proportion in the project area indicates higher of land under cultivation
on small farms (reaching 45% in some instances; see Table 3), resulting in
less potential for the expansion of cropland.
8,        There are variations in farm size and proportion of small farms
between the four sub-areas of significance in designing systems of credit
and extension. Sub-areas 4 and 3 (Santa Cruz and Umarizal) have more small
farms and smaller-sized farms than the other sub-areas. Sub-area 1 (Pedro
Avelino) has fewer small farms, and larger-sized farms.
Population
9.        The total population of the project area was 415,000 in the 1970
Census, representing 26% of the State's total population. About 267,000,
equivalent to about 49,500 families and 64% of the total project area, were
defined as rural population. At the average annual growth rate of 1.2%, this
rural population would be about 280,000 for 1974, representing about 52,000
families (Table 4). Some interesting population features of the project area
are: (i) urban growth rate is more than double that of the rural population;
and (ii) there is a wide variation in growth rate among the four sub-areas'
rural populations (Table 4). There are also wide sub-regional differences
in the ratio of rural to total population, as well as in the density of
population per square km.
Agricultural Labor
10.       The main source of information on the project area is the 1973
SUDENE-IBRD (DRC) Survey. The total agricultural labor force of the project
area is estimated at about 115,000 men-equivalent, about 40% of which would
be family workers on owner-operator units (Table 5). A striking feature of
the project area is the large number of sharecroppers and temporary workers.
Under the tentative assumption of 2.2 men-equivalent per family, there would



ANNEX 1
Page 5
be 52,100 rural families in the project area, consistent with the census
data (para 9), and over 20,000 owner-operator families and 10,000 share-
cropper families, and about 19,000 temporary worker families. These figures
should be matched against the respective number of "farms": Census, 34,000;
Cadastral Survey, 25,000; and the SUDENE-IBRD Survey, 18,000.
11.       Large proportional differences exist among the four sub-areas'
worker classes. Whereas Sub-areas 3 and 4 (Umarizal and Santa Cruz) evidence
a large ratio of family workers (43%) to sharecroppers, Sub-area 1 (Pedro
Evelino) has the largest percentage of sharecroppers and temporary workers, and
the least family workers (30%). This again is consistent with the land
distribution pattern described in para 8.
Performance-Income Levels
12.       Based on the SUDENE-IBRD/DRC Survey, gross receipts originate
mainly from crops (from 65 to 80%), the balance originating from livestock.
Variations exist between farm classes, but variations between sub-areas are not
known. Receipts from non-farm operations are almost negligible. Purchased
inputs (not including hired labor) are few and represent from 10 to 30% of
total costs. Performance indices indicate a markedly larger output per ha
on smaller farms, while labor productivity is substantially lower on small
farms than on larger ones. Wide variations in all performance indices appear
to result from (non-) availability of institutional credit. Table 6 gives
a summary of selected performance indices by farm size for 1973.
13.       The target group would correspond to farm  family income levels
below.about US$1,010 in 1973 (and US$1,145 in 1974). 1/ Over 90% of the
potential beneficiaries of the project fall within this group. Per family
incomes of farm families on less than 200 hectares averaged US$515, less
than one-fifth the national average of US$3,060. About 95% families with
0 to 50 hectares fall within the target group, the average family income
of this group being $375. About 70% of the farm families on 50 to 200
hectares have incomes below the poverty line; low incomes on these farms
is caused by the small percentage of cultivated area, drought conditions
and disincentives to invest with existing sharecropping relationships, and
1/   Based on the following calculation; (using the definition of the Bank's
Sector Policy Paper on Rural Development, February 1975).
1973            1974
Average GNP per capita                    US$720          US$815
Household income per capita (85%)         US$612          US$692
"Poor" household income per
capita boundary (1/3)                   US$402            US$229
Family household income boundary
(average family size of 5)            US$1,010          US$1,145



ANNEX 1
Page 6
low level of penetration of institutional credit.  The vast majority of the
landless workers, especially temporeary workers, would also fall within the
target group. 1/
Target Population
14.       Some characteristics of the project area have important implica-
tions in the identification of target groups:
(a) About 35% of the area's rural population are temporary
workers, defined as landless people, probably without
permanent residence. There is little hope at reaching
these people directly through the kind of intervention
envisaged under the project, although some indirect
benefits can be anticipated through increased employment
opportunities (e.g., hired labor for expanded agricul-
tural production), improved land purchase credit terms
and improved health services. Immediate direct action
for this eligible target group would be extremely
difficult in the absence of structural reforms, for which
satisfactory executing capacity does not yet exist.
(b) Sharecroppers, representing almost 20% of the total rural
population, will also be difficult to reach directly
by the project. However, some impact may be envisaged
through selected activities especially extension. The
other main input of the project--the direct delivery of
credit services which acts as a strong incentive for the
adoption of improved technology--would probably be
negligible in view of the existing tenure problems;
(c) Therefore, 55% of the "eligible" target population is
likely to be only partially or indirectly affected by
project intervention; and
(d) Of the 45% remaining, the large proportion of larger
farmers, about 5,00U families (10%) of the rural popula-
tion) are considered a secondary target group.
15.       Therefore, the directly "reachable" target population would be about
15,000 families representing less than 30% of the total rural population and
less than 20% of the total project area population. These families would
be mostly small owner-operators. Under the project, it would be unrealistic
to assume a 100% rate of penetration; the project credit cormponent would
probably reach only from 9,000 to 12,000 families.
1/   Several farms below 200 ha will certainly evidence much higher average
income levels. This, however, is consistent with the Bank policy which
acknowledges that Rural Development projects will characteristically
include non-target group farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Implications for Project Implementation Strategy
16.       The preceding observations have some bearing on project implemen-
tation strategies:
(a) The "primary" target population is relatively small compared
to the total project area population;
(b) Little is known about several population groups which
could be eligible for direct intervention, especially
the temporary workers and sharecroppers;
(c) The prospects for an overall expansion of the area under
cultivation for perennial cotton are limited, probably
to a maximum of 75,000 ha, or a 35% increase over the
present level of cultivation. Moreover, labor require-
ments for clearing of these new areas appear to be large,
about 4 million man-days, or 15% of the agricultural
manpower available annually;
(d) Prospects for area expansion for cotton appear to be more
limited among small farmers, due to high proportion of
land already under cultivation. For the small farmer to
expand he would probably have to rent land or use sharecropping;
(e) Finally, and possibly most importantly, there are wide
differences between the 4 sub-areas of the project area
in physical characteristics (size, geology, climate) and
in population characteristics, land distribution, land
use and cropping intensity. This is further compounded
by infrastructural differences, and large variations in
the nature, intensity and quality of the delivery systems
available to farmers in these sub-areas (extension coverage,
bank and credit coverage and marketing facilities; see
Annex 6). This suggests the need for adapting project
interventions to the specific conditions of each sub-area.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area - Land Use
Total            C r o p  1 a n d                 Pasture      Other
Area        Permanent   Temporarr   Total
-   -    --------in thousand ha -               -------------------
Sub-area     1 - Pedro Avelino 560           81            8          89           270          201
2 - Serido         790         68           34          102          475          213
3 - Umarizal      460          66           25           91          196          173
4 - Santa Cruz    280          77           1 1          88           64          128
Project Area                   2,090         292          78          370         1,005          715
-    e    eeee    ~~~~- -~~-Percent   ------------- ---       ----------
Sub-area     1                  100.0        1h.5          1.5        16.0          4803         35.7
2                  100.0        8.6          he3         12.9         59.8         27c3
3                  100l0       14.3          5.4         19.7         h2.6         37.7
4                 100.0        27.6          3e9         31.5         23e0         h5.5
Project Area                     100.0        1h.0         3.7         17.7          48.0         3h.3
Project Area as % of State Total 4O           63           25          48            54           22
Source: Agricultural Census (1970)



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Project Area  Distribution of Farms
Sub-area 1    Sub-area 2    Sub-area 3    Sub-area 4         Total
1970 Censu
Less than 50 ha               3,100          10,700          6,800          7,000         27,600
More than 50 ha.              11400           2,8            1,600            900          6,700
Total              4,500           13,500          8,400         7,900          34,300
Cadastral Surveg
Less than 50 ha.              1,600           8,600          4,300          3,000         17,500
More than 50 ha.              1,400   -           2000       1,700         1,100           7,200
Total              3,000           11,600          6,000        41,100          24,700
SUDENE-IBRD Survey
Less than 50 ha.              1,100           5,100          3,100         2,500          22,800
More than 50 ha.              1,300           2,700          1,200            900          6,100
Total              2,400            7,800          4,300         3,40(          17^900
1 See definitions in text.                                                                                 (D t



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area - Land Use by Farm Size
0-10~ ha ~      Q 19-0-100            100-200      200-5h00a +  Pro4ect Area
------------- -  -            Percent of Total Farm Land ---
Crop land                      40-45        25-30        20-30          15           15         10-1,          1&
Pasture land                    25          35-40        35-45          50           50                        48
Other                          30-35        29-35        25-35          35           35         3 -50          34
Farm land                       100          100          100          100          100          1oc          100
Source: Adapted from the Agricultural Census (1970) and the SUDENE-IBRD/DRC Survey (1973)
XHL



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area - Population Data
RuraNoo
as %No. of
Total     Rural     of        Rural     Rural Pop.  Rural       Rural      Population Growth Rates
Pop.      Pop.      ProJect  Total      Density      Families  Pop.          (Annual, 1950-1970)
(1970)    (1970)    Aea                 (per sq.km)  (1970)    (1970)   Total   Urban      Rural
Sub-area  1    70,000    46,800    17.5       67          8.4        8,600    47,800   1.09      2.48      0.54
2  174,200    96,100    35.9        55         12.1       17,800    99,300   1.59      2.75      0.84
3    95,200    69,600    26.0       73         15.1       12,900    74,700   1.99      2.52      1.80
4    75,600    54,900    20.6       73         19.7       10,200    58,700   1.82      2.08      1.72
Proiect
Area          415,000   267,400   100.0       64         12.8        49,500   280,500   1.63     2.57      1.20
Source:  1970 Census



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area - Agricultural Labor Situation
Total         Family         Permanent         Temporary
Workers        Workers          Workers          Workers          Sharecroppers
Sub-area 1 - Pedro Avelino    19,000          5,700            1,300            7,500              4,500
2 - Serido           509400         19,700            3,000           18,200              9,500
3 - Umarizal         25,100         10,500            1,400             8,700             4,500
4 - Santa Cruz       20,200          8,600            1,200             6,900             3,500
Project Area                 114,700         414,500           6,900           41,300             22,000
Number of Families&.          52,100         20,200            3,200            18,800            10,000
1/  Workers are expressed in man-equivalent
2/  Assunptian of 2.2 man-equivalent per family, for all classes of workers.
SOURCE: SUDENE-IBRD Survey (1973)



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Levels - Selected Performance Indices by Farm Size (1973)
Farm Size kianges (ha)                  0-9.9      10-49.9       50-99.9       100-200
Percent of total receipts
Crops                                   79         65            75            66
Livestock                               19         34            24            34
Others                                   2          1             1             _
Percent output from crops                  83         65            81            70
Percent output from livestock              17         35            19            30
Percent output marketed                    43         47            54            58
Purchased inputs (% total costs)           30         16            16            12
Output/man (US$)                          376        589           850         1,224
Output/hectare (US$)                       65         41            29            19
Net income (US$)                          149        612         1,229         1,459
Source:  SUDENE-IBRD/DRC Survey (1973).  Information refers to zone C of the Survey, the Semi-Aridd
Sertao, representative of the project area.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE do NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Agricultural Extension
I. Existing Situation
Background: Agricultural Extension in the Northeast
1.        The situation of agricultural extension in the State and the
project area reflects the general situation of extension services in the
Northeast. 1/ A relatively large number of separate institutions are involved
in technical assistance to agriculture: universities, agricultural research
centers, state secretariats of agriculture and private institutions such as
cooperatives and large agro-industries. The largest input of technical assist-
ance, however, has come from the Brazilian system of rural extension, composed
of a central federal institution, ABCAR (Brazilian Association of Credit and
Rural Assistance), and 23 non-profit, technically and administratively autono-
mous entities in the various states, known as the ANCARes in the states of
the Northeast (ANCAR/RN for Rio Grande do Norte). The effectiveness of the
extension system has been limited by lack of coordination of its work with
other extension activities, lack of long-term objectives and planning, and
financial instability of the executing agencies at the State level.
2.        The instability and short term nature of their sources of financing
has been a major obstacle to the formulation and implementation of long-term
work programs objectives and by the ANCARes of the Northeast.  The ANCARes
obtain their financing mainly trom-the Federal Government, supplemented by
service contracts with local institutions, banks, states and municipalities.
The Federal Government has contributed 50% to 60% of the financing of tech-
nical assistance in the past, channelled through the Ministry of Agriculture
and various other Federal institutions, such as ABCAR, INCRA, SUDENE, Banco
do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste. State and Municipal governments establish
contracts directly with the ANCARes and contribute to their support according
to their financial strength. (For ANCAR/RN, the State government provides approx
approximately 20% of financing, while municipal contribution is about 10%)
In addition, the ANCARes obtain resources from the banking system through
their assistance in programs of supervised agricultural credit; (2% of the
outstanding interest is set aside for this purpose).
3.        The extension agencies in the Northeast, as in the rest of Brazil,
were originally conceived as services oriented to small and medium-sized
farmers, providing technical assistance and supervised rural credit. Farmers
1/   See "Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast Brazil," IBRD
Report No. 665a-BR, June 23, 1975.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
were assisted individually and, due to the large number of small farmers and
the size of their holdings, the number reached and the impact on production
was negligible. As a result, the extension service gradually shifted into
providing technical assistance to larger producers and ceased to give credit
directly, supporting instead the credit programs administered by the banking
system. At present, the bulk of technical assistance for agricultural pro-
duction is being directed to larger farmers. In addition, to the extent that
the effectiveness of agricultural extension depends fundamentally on the
availability of technological packages appropriate to the specific conditions
of various types of farmers, the virtual non-existence of a research effort
directed at small farmers' problems contributes to a further neglect of small
farmers. Besides an indisputable need for additional staff, the training of
existing staff has lacked the content and breadth to effectively disseminate
agricultural technology. Major deficiencies have been insufficient knowledge
of recent technological innovations and lack of knowledge of practical aspects
of application of technology, (such as farm budgeting and assessment of profit-
ability of technological recommendations under local input/output price rela-
tionships.
Recent Developments
4.        The Government has already taken steps to strengthen the extension
services, through the creation of EMBRATER (Brazilian Enterprise for Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension) in June 1974, thereby complementing its
efforts on the research side with the creation of EMBRAPA (Brazilian Agri-
cultural Research Enterprise) in 1973. EMBRATER is an autonomous entity of
the Ministry of Agriculture, whose main purpose is to formulate, stimulate
and coordinate programs for technical assistance, in close harmony with
the research activities of EMBRAPA, to achieve the Government's production
objectives in the agricultural sector. 1/ EMBRATER will exercise its control-
ling and coordinating power over the extension services operating in the
various states by centralizing all Federal budgetary allocations for technical
assistance.
5.        Simultaneously, the Government has created a National Commission
for Agricultural Research and Technical Assistance (COMPATER) with the role
of reviewing and coordinating the programs of both EMBRAPA and EMBRATER.
This reflects the Government's determination to make research and extension
more effective and production-oriented.
6.        At the State level, the new organizational structure will mainly
ensure a more coordinated and regular supply of Federal funding. The State
ANCAR will remain entirely responsible for the execution of the extension
function.
1/   EMBRATER differs from EMBRAPA in that it coordinates and funds, at the
Federal level, but does not execute the extension functions, which remain
the State's responsibility.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
RN Extension Facilities
7.        The State level extension service (ANCAR/RN) operates 52 field units
providing services for a total 100 of the 150 municipios in the State. For
the whole State, there are about 150 extension workers of higher (82) or
intermediate (69) levels. More than 60% of the higher level extensionists
are either in the State office in Natal (36) or in the 4 regional offices (16),
leaving only 30 in the local operating units. Most of the intermediate level
extensionists (64) are located in the operating units (Table 1).
The Project Area
8.        Presently there are 22 operating units (agencies) in the project
area, providing a largely insufficient administrative coverage of the area. 1/
At the field level, there are 12 extensionists of a higher level and 26 inter-
mediate level extensionists. However, 8 of the latter are "social" extensionists
who are mostly involved in administering a community health program. The agri-
cultural extension work force in the project area, therefore, amounts to 30
agricultural advisers.1/ The actual geographical distribution of these
advisers indicates that 29 municipios (of the 41 serviced) actually receive
extension services.
9.        On the basis of the number of farms located in these municipios,
probably no more than 2,500 farms (most of them being farms with more than
50 ha) actually receive assistance. 3/ Hence present coverage and the needs
for the project area can tentatively be summarized as follows:
1/   The 22 operating units are responsible for the 22 municipios where
they are located, and for 19 additional municipios. Ten municipios
have their own agency, without any dependent neighboring municipio,
while the 12 other agencies assist 19 municipios, 4 of which are located
outside of the Project area. Four municipios depend on an ANCAR agency
located outside of the Project area. Twelve municipios are not covered
by the existing extension network.
2/ In this Annex, agricultural extension workers are referred to as
Agricultural Advisers, divided into Agricultural Extensionists (an
adviser of relatively high level, typically an "Engenheiro Agronomo")
and Technical Advisers (or extension worker of an intermediate level,
typically a graduate from a technical agricultural school).
3/ Tables 2 and 3 show the distribution of the actual extension coverage
by sub-area of the project area. In the 29 municipios, (representing
60% of the project area) there are approximately 4,200 farms of more
than 50 ha. The technique most widely diffused by ANCAR/RN, the use
of improved seeds of cotton, was diffused to only 3,100 farmers in the
whole state in 1973.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Number of farms    Number of farms
Number of                of more             of less
Municipios              than 50 ha         than 50 ha
Total                    53                     7,000            15-20,000
Effectively Assisted    29                      2,500            Negl.
Not Assisted             24                     4,500            15-20,000
10.       There are wide differences in the degree of extension coverage in
each sub-area (80% to 50%). However, in the 29 municipios actually covered,
Sub-areas 3 and 4 (Umarizal and Santa Cruz) appear relatively better served,
especially when the number of agricultural advisers is related to the number
of holdings of more than 50 ha.
Present Organization of Extension Work
11.       On average, an agricultural adviser spends 80% of his time on
administrative duties (50% in assisting farmers and banks with loan applica-
tion and administration, 30% in registering data for several institutions).
This leaves him 20% of his time for actual agricultural extension. Because
of the institutional nature of the official extension service (para 3),
extension work is often considered a secondary task and, in fact, the agri-
cultural advisor is free to organize it as he wants, using the teaching
methods, and general (State-level conceived) materials as he sees fit. In
this respect, he gets little assistance from ANCAR/RN. The periodic training
sessions and guidelines are mainly related to administrative duties. Tech-
nical knowledge is very general, is not adapted to the particular farmer's
problems, nor is it upgraded in training.
II. Extension Arrangements under the Project
Introduction: Aproach
12.       In view of the general situation of agricultural extension, a sub-
stantial reorientation of extension activities is required if agricultural
technology is to be delivered effectively to large numbers of small farmers.
Four guiding principles provide the basis for the actions which the project
would propose to undertake with respect to agricultural extension:
a.   Given the complex nature of the area and the target popula-
tion to be reached by the extei.sion service, there does not
exist a unique answer as to the most appropriate functional
system of extension to be used in the project area. Different
kinds of recipient groupings, extensionists' backgrounds,
technical packages, and delivery systems should be tested.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
b.   The extension service should focus more of its efforts
on transmitting available progressive agricultural practices
and input packages to small farmers, moving from the past
nearly complete concentration on credit assistance for
larger farmers. At the outset, attention could center
around specific problems felt by small farmers concerning
economically important crops, focussing upon aspects where
the potential for early, visible results would be greatest;
c.   There should be very close coordination between the
extension service and the other agencies having an
impact on farmers' production because of their responsi-
bility in: (i) development of viable technical packages
(EMBRAPA, INFAOL); (ii) supply of technical inputs at
reasonable costs (CIDA); (iii) provision of agricultural
credit (BB, BNB); and (iv) access to marketing channels
(gins, cooperatives).
-d.   The extension service must attempt to work with groups
rather than with individuals to increase potential coverage,
lower administrative costs per family and encourage group
formation for other activities.
13.       The project includes a first phase extending over three years, which
would be mainly utilized for testing various alternatives of extension delivery
systems in a number of selected municipios of the project area. The testing
of alternative approaches to reach larger number of small farmers through
groups rather than individuals would receive special emphasis. The main ob-
jective of the project would be to re-orient extension services towards the
selected target groups through modifications of the agricultural advisers'
attitude and work routines, complemented by a major effort in training.
14.       The alternatives to be tested would be selected on the basis of the
local circumstances (a) creating a full coverage in places where nothing pre-
sently exists; (b) modifying part or all of what currently exists; or (c) ex-
panding part of the existing network where appropriate.
15.       The target groups which the extension system would be requested
to reach include: (a) large farmers, a part of whom are currently receiving
almost the whole of the existing extension service; (b) small holders, almost
totally ignored under the present extension system; and (c) sharecroppers,
also entirely left out under the present system, except via the larger land-
owners on whose farms they work.
16.       Several types of individuals could be responsible for actually
carrying out the bulk of the extension work, irrespective of their belong-
ing to the formal institutional system: (a) The Agricultural Extensionist



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(a "engenhiero agronomo," with a BSc. from an agricultural college), the
individual currently carrying out most of the task of extension, mainly
directed at large farmers; (b) the Technical Adviser, "tecnico agricola,"
a graduate from an agricultural high school; (c) a Community Development
Officer, who would have responsibilities extending largely beyond pure
extension work, and whose activities would have a welfare impact; (d) a
Village Agricultural Assistant, a locally selected agricultural agent, who
could be a part time agent; and (e) a Farmers' Representative who would serve
as an intermediary between a technical adviser and a group of no more than
12 farmers, with responsibilities in the technical credit and marketing
fields. The bulk of agricultural extension work would be expected to fall
on the Technical Advisers.
Coverage
17.       Since backgrounds of agricultural extensionists and technical advisers
differ, some specialization in their responsibilities to target farm families
would probably be advisable. Various organizational alternatives would be
tested to combine the skills and experiences of different categories of exten-
sionists. Decisions made in various Phase I experimental areas regarding the
organization of extensionists and the definition of their responsibilities
will affect the nature of coverage and the number reached by extension. In
designing each extension unit, decisions would include: (a) whether different
classes of extensionists would be responsible for different geographical areas,
different functions within an extension team, or different farm sizes; (b)
whether formal or informal teams of extensionists would be established with
more experienced, highly skilled agricultural extensionists acting as specialist
resources for two to four technical advisers working in the same subarea;
(c) how the scope of the extensionist's work will be defined, and what will be
the priorities in time allocation among technical assistance for various crops
and activities, group training, credit promotion, data collection, marketing,
administration, and travel time; if the proportion of time to be spent on
technical assistance or group formation is to increase, credit procedures must
be simplified and bank staffs must assume a more active role in loan process-
ing; (d) with how many farmers the extensionist or extension team would work;
to what extent farmers will be grouped for some of the extension sessions and
to what extent farmer leaders and demonstrators will be used to expand the
potential coverage, lower costs per family and increase possibilities for
effective impact of extension efforts; (e) what the pace of introducing tech-
nical changes should be; (f) and whether extensionists would focus on one con-
crete practice geared to the specific needs in the crop cycle or introduce
several complementary suggestions at once.
18.       Because little is known about the potential rate of group formation
among farmers and the prospects for development of "base-line" extension
echelons (Development Officers, Village Assistants and Farmers' Representa-
tives), initial actions of extension service might be directed toward in-
dividual farmers. In these cases, each adviser would be assigned a specific
number of farm families. For instance, agricultural extensionists might be



ANNEX 2
Page 7
expected to assist up to 120 larger farmers, with specifications that 70%
would fall in the 50 to 200 ha range. Technical advisers might be assigned
120 small farmers each. Several alternative combinations of agricultural
advisers working with village assistants, community officers or farmers
representatives would be tested concurrently to determine how overall coverage
by the extension retwork can best be increased. Once organizational alterna-
tives have been selected, extensionists and regional coordinators could de-
velop specific job descriptions for different classes of extensionists de-
scribing the desired qualifications in terms of experience, knowledge and
attitudes. A description of the responsibilities of each extension worker
could indicate: (a) the number of farmers and other extension workers that
the extensionist is to assist; (b) suggested allocation of time between tech-
nical, credit, organizational and administrative functions; (c) number and
purposes of farm visits; (d) overall objectives sought in terms of farm incomes
and production levels; (e) meetings, training sessions and demonstrations to
be organized; (f) liaison and communication functions; .(g) specialist advice
to specific groups. Such description would require frequent updating as ex-
perience is gained.
Implementation and Organization
19.       The project would be implemented in two phases:  (a) Phase I would
concern a limited area (11 municipios) providing the testing grounds for
the alternatives selected, over a period of 3 years; and (b) Phase II would
concern the whole project area and would be initiated after a large scale
evaluation of phase I. ANCAR/RN would be responsible for the extension
functions under the project. ANCAR/RN would create a special unit within
its organization to plan and implement the extension actions to be under-
taken in the project area, in close liaison with the Project Unit Extension
Adviser (Annex 12). Jointly with the Extension Adviser, ANCAR/RN would
define the precise alternatives to be tested, depending upon the specific
circumstances of the selected municipios. 1/
20.       The project would increase the total number of agricultural advisers
to 136 over 5 years in the whole project area, from the present level of 38
(from 12 to 36 agricultural extensionists and from 26 to 100 technical advisers).
Requirements for Phase I
21.       For the 11 selected municipios, the requirements for the first
operational phase would be 7 agricultural extensionists and 26 technical
advisers. The administrative support staff requirement would be 18. Taking
into account the personnel currently employed in the agencies existing in the
11 municipios, the incremental requirements would be: 5 agricultural
extensionists, 22 technical advisers and 13 administrative support staff
1/   Several alternative systems of logistical support for extension workers
would also have to be tested, especially with respect to the use of
vehicles (to be shared with social extensionists).



ANNEX 2
Page 8
(Table 4). The overall number of farms expected to receive extension would
be roughly 3,900 units, 25% of which (about 1,000) would be farms of more than
50 ha. This probably would correspond to a coverage of 70% of all farms
(as defined by the Cadastral Survey). Since the number of small farms to
be reached by technical advisers is considered rather conservative (120 per
T.A.) using the assumption of individual coverage, the actual number of small
farms assisted could be much larger depending upon the degree of success of
group formation.
22.       The relatively small number of additional personnel required suggests
that phasing would be unnecessary and all the agricultural advisers could
start their functions at the same time. Over and above the field staff there
would be the need for at least two Regional Coordinators (one for Serido
and one for Umarizal). The Regional Coordinators would be agricultural
extensionists with considerable experience. Optimum coverage by the field
extensionists would be expected to take place after two. years. During the
first year, this coverage would be about 50%.
Requirements for Phase II
23.       The expansion to the rest of the project area would require an
estimated 6 regional coordinators, 19 agricultural extensionists, 42 tech-
nical advisers, and 47 administrative support staff. New coordinating and
field units would be created to provide for an adequate geographical coverage.
The incremental requirement in units and personnel are estimated as follows:
Present
Situation     Required      Increment
Field Units                            18            27              9
Coordinating Units                      -             2              2
Regional Coordinators                   -             6              6
Agricultural Extensionists             10            29             19
Technical Advisers                     22            74             42
Administrative Personnel               15            62             47
24.       Part of the staff trained under Phase I would transfer to the Phase
II area.  The remaining experienced staff would train new staff within the
Phase I municipios and would continue to participate in refining actions
under the project. Part of the new management style would be an attempt to
have a transfer and promotion policy based on the extent to which extension
field staff actually succeed in improving the livelihood of target farmers.
Performance would not be rated on "thousands of Cruzeiros of credit extended",
nor on mere numbers of farmers contacted, but on the actual content and
effectiveness of a person's work. The human management approach would be
facilitated through constant contact between the regional supervisors and
the field units and by frequent group meetings of extension workers to
evaluate and plan actions.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Work Organization
25.       The work of the agricultural advisor would be scheduled according
to:  (a) the timely transmission of technical informat'.on, which should
precede the farmer's decisions concerning the following crop cycle; (b) the
adequate application of the techniques taught to the farmers, implying
close linkages with the farmer's work.  W4hile the major emphasis would be
expected to be on technical assistance to the farmer, the agricultural advisor
would devote a substantial amount of time to: (i) liaising closely with the
research and experimentation personnel responsible for the elaboration of
technical packages, especially the INFAOL staff responsible for on-farm trials
(Annex 4); (ii) participating in the organization of input delivery and
marketing; (iii) collecting limited relevant information for monitoring
and evaluation purposes; and (iv) his own training (para 27). 1/ The actual
organization of the adviser's workload would be defined by the Regional
Coordinator jointly with the Project Unit Extension Adviser. It would be
reviewed periodically and subject to adjustments. During Phase I, the exten-
sion service would identify successful existing practices and extend these
practical innovations to less progressive farmers. The resulting ad hoc
technical packages would help orient Phase I research efforts and farm trials
to developing detailed technical packages appropriate to specific sub-areas.
Also, farmers would be motivated to participate if extensionists focus their
attention on problems critical to the farmers and if farmers can see some
visible production and income benefits. During Phase I, the extensionists
would build up their coverage gradually. If teams of extensionists were
formed, they might dissiminate one or two key farming practices to participa-
ting farm families throughout a homegeneous sub-region, with extension team
members exchanging experiences. In areas where social cohesion or peer in-
fluence is strong, extensionists might try to get small or medium scale farm
families to participate as local demonstrators of the benefits of credit and
improved technical practices, influencing neighboring farmers to adopt the
new methods (e.g. plant dates, input utilization, intensity of planting,
weeding). During Phase II, the orientation and extension process would be
enriched using technical, didactic and organizational findings attained during
Phase I. Technical packages would have been refined for different areas and
adapted to individual and group communication methods. The scope of exten-
sionists work may be expanded to increase emphasis on diversified rural econ-
omic activities, marketing and farm budget assistance; however, ANCAR and the
Project Unit may decide that it remains more critical that agricultural ex-
tensionists concentrate on seeing that new techniques are used correctly.
1/   The agricultural adUiser's work should be largely based on direct con-
tact with farmers through field visits. Permanent recording of farmer's
performance and progress should be made through the establishment of in-
dividual files. The training of farmers should include field demonstra-
tion sessions. Audio-visual aids for the training of groups should be
used (Annex 7).



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Recruitment of Agricultural Advisors
26.       Agricultural extensionists generally would be graduates from four-
year agricultural colleges such as Mossoro (RN), Areia (Paraiba) or Ceara.
Current salary levels of ANCAR/RN appear sufficiently attractive that the incre-
mental requirements for agricultural extensionists under the project could be
met with graduates from these colleges. The technical advisers would typically
be graduates from the agriculturai highschools of the state. In 1973, 220
students graduated from these schools and 500 graduates are predicted for
1980. Additional staff requirements under the project, both for agricultural
extension (ANCAR-RN) and farm-trials (INFAOL, see Annex 4) could therefore,
be satisfied. Recruitment of Community Development Officers and Village
Agricultural Assistants should be the subject of investigations by the Project
Unit Extension Coordinator and Human Resources Coordinator (Annex 12). Pre-
ference would be given to technical advisers and agricultural extensionists
having field experience with local crops and conditions, specifically in tech-
nical assistance to small or medium scale farmers. Also, recruitment should
seek extensionists motivated to work with small farmers, try new approaches
and use good judgement and vision.
Training
27.       In view of the projects' objective to re-orient existing extension
services towards greater coverage of small farmers combined with the need for
considerable additional staff, the project would place heavy emphasis on the
training of extension personnel. Training would be subject to various experi-
ments especially during Phase I of the project. Training would be: (a)
established on a permanent basis; (b) performed from each echelon down; and
(c) subject to continuous evaluation. Training would consist of an initial
phase (pre-service) in which the agricultural advisor would become familiar-
ized with the project and his new operating environment, and a regular phase
(in-service) in which the advisor is upgraded on a permanent basis. An annual
training program, subject to periodical review, would be established jointly
by the Project Unit Extension Adviser, the Human Resources Adviser, and Senior
staff of ANCAR/RN.
28.       At the beginning of the project, ANCAR/RN would schedule a two month
training period for the extensionists, beginning with one month of formal
training during which the new objectives and operational approaches of the
agricultural extension effort within the project would be emphasized. Training
would focus on the needs of small and medium scale farmers, the attitude
changes among extensionists and innovative, result-oriented approaches to
reach small-scale farmers. At this time, extensionists or extension groups
receive the list of farm families whom they would assist. The next three
weeks could be spent in contacting the farmers, explaining the general objec-
tives of the program, getting a sense of their needs and conditions, deriving
a set of existing, improved practices (e.g. animal traction, spacing, sales)
and impediments to adoption of those practices; extensionists could also



ANNEX 2
Page 11
attempt to assess the influence patterns among farmers to analyze possibili-
ties for organizing groups and involving progressive farmers in field trials
and demonstrators. At the end of the month of field contacts, extensionists
could receive one more week of training. During the wrap-up sessions, ANCAR/RN
could suggest guidelines for the extensionists' programs and allocation of
their time among technical, credit, administrative, coordinating and informa-
tion - gathering functions. Extensionists would be encouraged to develop
alternative schemes for fulfilling these responsibilities, testing farmers'
responses to different suggestions and paces of introducing change. At the
wrap-up session and in subsequent bi-weekly or monthly meetings, extensionists
could discuss progress and present specific action plans. Training would
emphasize specific technical practices, group organization, and use of appro-
priate communication tools (e.g. extension aids, use of demonstrations, spe-
cific technical packages, use of media, small group and individual farmer
training); and discussion of attitudes and delivery systems effective in
reaching and motivating the target population.
Monitoring and Evaluation
29.       The overall impact of the agricultural extension service should
be measured in terms of the ultimate project objectives, i.e., increased
production and increased income for farmers. Monthly meetings and reports
would yield sensitive measurements of the impact at the field level. Farmers'
reactions and solutions to problems encountered would give valuable clues as to
the necessary adjustments to the project actions. The build-up of a team
spirit between the extension network and the Monitoring Group would be essential
for the Monitoring Group to have access to, and to discuss data and problems
with, the extension staff at all levels without being seen as a controlling body.
Self evaluation and adjustment would be built into the system through a series
of regular meetings, performance reviews action plans and progress reports
combined with encouragement of local initiative to make changes as needed.
30.       The various extension methods would be observed and analyzed by
Regional Coordinators, the Project Unit Extension Adviser, the Human Resources
Adviser, and Senior ANICAR/RN staff. Changes and adjustments would be sug-
gested when appropriate.
31.       Sources for Community Development Officers, Village Assistants and/or
Farmer's Representatives, as well as eventual remuneration levels, supervision
systems; community reactions and the possible costs and benefits would be re-
fined during Phase I. The Monitoring Group would follow the progress of these
actions and recommend whether and precisely how to proceed with Phase II.
CU sts
32.       Total costs of agricultural extension over the five year develop-
rent period are estimated at Cr$30.8 million (US$4.3 million). Salaries
(including fringe benefits and social charges) would represent more than



ANNEX 2
Page 12
60% of total costs (Cr$18.9 million). Equipment (including 150 vehicles)
would amount to Cr$10.2 million, and the remaining Cr$1.7 million (US$238,000)
would be for training.
33.       Project costs for the extension component are estimated at Cr$23.9
million (US$3.3 million) of which close to 60% (Cr$14.0 million) would
correspond to the Phase I area (Annex 10, Table 2). Because the Phase I
area (11 municipios) would provide the testing and training grounds for
project actions during the whole project, with a corresponding human invest-
ment which would not otherwise take place and with a large modification in
the quality of the (small) staff currently located in the Phase I area, all
costs for this area are included as project costs. For the Phase II area,
however, only incremental costs (including salaries) are included in total
project costs.
34.       The annual recurrent costs at the end of the five-year development
period would amount to approximately Cr$10.8 million (US$1.5 million) about
Cr$8.0 million over the estimated current level of annual expenditure for the
project area.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Table 1.
NOrTHEAST B&dZIL
RIO CI?ANDE DO -NORltrE HUPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANCAiR
Distribution of Personnel
1973
Oper.                Regional            State              Total
Units                Offices             Off-ce
-igher level             26                   13                   25                64
ntermediate              65                    -                    3                68
Atlministrative          47                    8                 -49                104
Total              13Jr                  21                   77                m
197 
Ligher level             30                   16                   36                82
natermediate             64                    -                    5                69
½nministrative           46                    6                   61               113
Total             165-                  2-                  1U-               26i
Project Area 197)4
Eigher                   12                   7                     -                19
ntermediate             26                              -                           26
lmflistrati'3           20                   2                                      22
Total              39                   9;7
J  Currais Novas is the only regional office located in the project area (4 Agents)
2 agents from Mossoro (of a total of 4) and 1 from Pan dos Ferros (alone) are added.



Table 2
NORThEAST BI?AZIL
RIO GOAiDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Network and Coverage
ANCAR Administrative                                 Project Area    Assisted Municipios
Network              Administrative Coverage       Holdings          Holdings
Total Number  Operating Dependent    Number       Municipios Munc.not          More than          More than
of Municipios  Units    Municipios Extensionists  Assisted Assisted  Total   50 ha.    Total        50 ha
Sub-area 1      8           5          3            5           5          3      3,000    1,400     2,1400    1,100
2'    20           8          9'          11           10        10     11,600    3,000      5,700    1,600
3      14          6          5            9           10         4      6,ooo    1,600      4,0200     900
.  1t    4  31     3          2            54                     7      4,100    1,100      2,400      600
Project Area   53          22         19           30          29         24     24,700. 7,100    14J,700    4,200



Table 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area
Present Extension Coverage
Number of          Number of                 Number of      Holdings
Municipios  High   Extensionists     T       Holdings        of more
Covered     Level  Intermed.Level   Total   (INCRA)         than 50 ha.   (5)/(4)      (6)/(4)
(1)       (2)        (3)           (4)       (5)            (6)          (7)          (8)
Sub-area  1      5         4           1                   2,400           1s100          480         220
Sub-area  2     10         5           6           11      5s7O0           1s600          520         145
Sub-area  3     10         2           7            9      4,200             900          470         100
Sub-area  4      4         1           4            5       2,400            600          480         120
Project Area      29        12          18           30      24,700          4,200         490 '        140
e~ I
PJ z



id- UJe 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Requirements for Phase I
Staff Requirements
-----Necessary -----------   -----------Incremental -        --
Number of   70% of      Regicnal    Agric.    Tech.              Reg.   Agric.   Tech.
Municipios              farms       farmers  Coordinators  Ext.A.E.  Adv.T.A. Admin.  Coord. ExtA.E. Adv.T.A.  Admin.
Sub-area II
Caico                                               1                             2       1                            2
Florania                701           491           -          1        3         2       _         1        2         1
Pare3has                809           566                               4 1  4    2       -         -        3         1
Jardim de Pilanhas      679           475           -          1         3        2       _         1        3         2
Serra Negra de Norte    417           292           -          1         2        1       _         1        2         1
Sub-area III
U:iarizal               322           225           1          1         1        5                 -        - 
Antonio Martins         596           417           _          1         2        1       _         1        2         1
Alexandria               8 819        573                                4 1  4   2        -        -        4         1
Almino Alfonso          360           252           _          _         2        1        -        -        1         -
OIho d'Agua dos Borges  431           302           _          _        2         _       _         _        2
Lucrecia                 92            64           -          -        1         _       _         _        1
Rafael Godeiro          347           243           -          _         2        _       _         _        2
Total           5573          3900          2           7       26        18       2         5       22       13



ANNEX 2
Page 17
B. Community Action - Social and Welfare Assistance
Background
35.       The agricultural extension actions under the project recognize that
assistance to farmers' groups would be more cost-effective than individual
coverage and would reach a larger number of small farmers. This assumes
that some degree of productively-oriented farmers' organization can be achieved.
36.       However, small farmer organizations, in the Northeast in general,
and in the project area, are either weak or non-existent. There is a tradi-
tion of farmer individualism and limited community development, and organiza-
tion of farmers is complicated by the diversity of land tenure arrangements.
In addition, small farmers in the project area are numerous and geographically
dispersed.
37. To date, the only attempts towards some form of rural organization
have been directed at the development of community actions for social and
welfare purposes. The successes in social mobilization have been due largely
to the quality of the staff involved, in spite of their limited number and
resources. A body of highly motivated and dedicated women (ANCAR-RN, FSESP
and others) has been responsible for promoting the development of health so-
cieties (miniposts) and other social services (Annex 5).
38.       A prerequisite for the establishment of farmers' organizations rele-
vant to farmers in the technical and possibly credit fields, is the promotion
and development of community involvement for productive purposes. While
agricultural advisers would undertake to promote the formation of farmers
groups, attempts would be made to develop and strengthen community involve-
ment and social mobilization for educational and productive purposes. To
that effect, the existing structures of the social welfare institutions would
be largely used, and the existing high quality personnel would provide the
necessary initial impetus. Close working relationships between agricultural
and social extension personnel of ANCAR/RN would be expected to develop at
the field unit level.
Present Situation
39.       As one of the major institutions involved in social welfare,
through its social extension unit, the extension service (ANCAR/RN) largely
develops and operates the health minipost network.  Social extension workers
(30 in the state, 8 in the project area) are active at the minipost level,
but also at the primary school level (state and municipal). Programs and
activities of ANCAR/RN social extension unit are thus mainly concentrated
on nutrition, health and education.



ANNEX 2
Page 18
40.       Activities at the minipost level include non-medical operational
support and supervision of community health workers (Annex 5). At the
school level, social extension workers assist in health education to
teachers, parents and students: water purification, water supply, vac-
cination, nutrition, etc. Participation in nutrition-oriented activities
include improvement of school lunches, establishment of kitchen gardens
and orchards, training of parents and children in vegetable/fruit growing,
etc. Education related activities include participation in school con-
struction and repairs, assistance to PTA's, 4H clubs and health clubs,
short training in handicrafts, etc.
41.       Most of these activities are carried out within the context of
"Projeto Integrado de Educacao para Saude" (Integrated Health Education
Project), a community education program created in 1973 by the State Secretariat
of Education and administered by ANCAR/RN through contract. The main objectives
of this program are: (a) integration of the school in the community; (b) devel-
opment of educational programs in health and nutrition; (c) increased partici-
pation of local leadership, groups and existing services; and (d) provision of
training in agricultural and health activities to older school children (14
years and older).
42.       Under this program, rural school teachers are trained to carry
out the health and nutrition education component together with social
extension workers and community health workers. In addition, training
includes courses and demonstration in vegetable production and small animal
raising.
43.       In 1974, the overall program involved 250 schools in the State
(with an estimated 18,000 children). Approximately 1,300 families started
a small kitchen garden (800 families were estimated to have increased
their consumption of vegetables) and 150 persons had been trained in
vegetable production.
The Project
44.       The project would intensify the community education and participation
efforts in the project area through increased involvement of social extension
workers and school teachers. Reduced medical supervision of community health
workers (which would increasingly be the responsibility of auxiliary nurses,
Annex 5) would permit greater participation of social extension workers
in community development activities. 1/ The integrated community education
project would be supported and expanded during Phase I of the Project, by
the addition of 5 social extension workers and the training of 100 school
teachers in nutrition and health education, and community action.
1/   In the social extension worker's schedule, health related activities
would not be necessarily separated from school/community development
related actions. Therefore, no division of tasks would be necessary
within ANCAR/RN.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
Demonstration Units
45. To translate concretely the education efforts undertaken at the
community level, demonstration units for vegetable/fruit growing and
raising of small animals would be established. Such units would be placed
at a central point in the community, preferably close to the school or
the minipost. One caretaker per unit would be trained during a week (costs
are Cr$ 750/caretaker) and training would be held in the agricultural
schools or at already established units. All social extension workers
would also receive training in working with the demonstration units for
3 days (Cost:  Cr$ 900/participant for 16 extensionists).
46.       A total of 50 demonstration units would be established in the
11 Phase I municipios. Phasing would take place as follows:
Number of Demonstration Units in Phase I Municipios
Year            1         2          3         Total
Goat units                3          4          3          10
Rabbit units              4          6         5           15
Sheep units               3          4         3           10
Vegetable plots           5          5         5           15
47.       The establishment cost per unit would be expected to vary from
Cr$ 500 (vegetable garden) to Cr$ 1,500 (goats, sheep), as detailed in Table 1.
48.       Credit Fund.  A rotating credit fund (Cr$ 550,000) would be established,
to provide credit in kind (e.g. seeds or young animals) to families interested
in complementing their own home production. Repayments would also be made
in kind. This system is currently operating very satisfactorily in some
communities for cattle and bean seeds under youth clubs programs.
49.       After a demonstration unit has been established in a community,
an estimated 15 families would be expected to participate during the first
year and ask for credit. In subsequent years this amount could rise to 20,
then 30 families. At the end of the first phase about 1,880 families could
have participated in the program.
50.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Monitoring Group would follow the
response of participants to this type of program. Major items of enquiry
would be: (a) the effects of the program on the family in terms of income,
labor, debt repayment, and nutrition; (b) the organization of the program
(extension worker, teacher, community health worker, CDO, teleclub) and
its efficiency.



ANNEX 2
Page 20
51.       Once the experiment has been developed into a replicable model,
this program could be extended to other areas.
52.       Costs.  The project would cover the costs over 3 years, estimated
at Cr$ 757,000 (US$105,000), covering the training of social extension
workers, school teachers and caretakers, the construction of the demon-
stration units and the rotating credit fund.
53.       Training of the staff required would be phased as follows:
Staff to be trained during Phase I
Year            1         2          3         Total
Social Extensionists /1  8           8         -            16
School teachers /2       30         40        30          100
Caretakers /3            18        22         20           60
/1   All would receive training, as there is no division of tasks.
/2   Two teachers per unit.
/3   Allowing for 20% dropout.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
The role of the technical adviser with respect to credit
1.        One of the objectives of the proposed modifications to the existing
credit delivery system is to simplify procedures. Under the new procedures,
the technical advisor would still be a key element in the system, but the
time required of him would be reduced. His primary resronsibility with
respect to credit would be to: (a) provide investment advice; (b) promote
credit use; (c) help farmers prepare their applications; (d) provide
technical advice to the banks.                                      i
2.        In practical terms, the technical adviser's involvement would be
as follows:
(a) Keep a file on each individual farm under his assistance.
Each file would have a reference number which would be
used also for the loan applications. (A photograph may be
included);
(b) Provide the participating bank with the identification
check necessary for the loan application, including
name, location and reference number of the farmers;
(c) Provide the bank with the farm classification criteria
including: farm area (broken down by use including
distribution and ages of cotton trees), average yields
obtained and farming techniques used;
(d) When and if warranted, make negative technical recommendations;
(e) Keep a record of borrowers (notified by the participating
Bank after credit has been extended);
(f) Provide technical supervision to farmers having received
credit.
All files would be organized along the same system to ensure continuity and
standardization of information.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Credit
Present Coverage
1.        Current coverage of the institutional (commercial banking) credit
system of farms, producing perennial cotton, is relatively low. Based on
the results of the SUDENE/IBRD/DRC sample survey taken in 1973, about 13%
or 2,300 of the estimated 18,000 (Annex 1) owner-operated farms in the
project area received credit directly from institutional sources. This
estimate is probably reasonable; the 4 Banco do Brasil (BB) branches 1/
most active in the project area registered about 2,700 "custeio" contracts in
1973 for all crops. The SUDENE/IBRD/DRC survey also indicates that those
individual farmers who borrow from banks, either for custeio (seasonal
credit) or investimento (medium and long-term credit) purposes do not do
so every year. Roughly 30% of respondents in the project area who borrowed
from institutional sources during 1971-73 did not actually borrow in 1973;
the 13% credit coverage figure for 1973 therefore understates somewhat the
number of farmers who may previously have had access to institutional credit.
2.        In 1973 institutional lending for perennial cotton operations was
overwhelmingly for seasonal crop production (seasonal labor and cash inputs);
according to BB data 86% of the number of contracts and 71% of the volume
of agricultural lending in RN was for custeio credit. Many custeio credits
were small, averaging Cr $ 4425 (about US$700) per contract in 1973 terms.
Investimento credits finance "semi fixo" items such as acquisition of work
animals and small equipment (with life times generally less than five years)
and "fixo" items such as perennial cotton first year establishment (largely
labor intensive), fences, etc.
3.        Banco do Brasil (BB) has about 80% of the institutional credit
market. Apart from direct lending by banks and lending through coopera-
tives, important suppliers of custeio credit to individual farmers are
marketing/financial intermediaries. While little data exists to indicate
the scale of such activities these intermediaries typically charge higher
annual interest rates (at 30-40%) than the banks (0-18%) and also generally
lend only on the condition that the crop is sold to them (sometimes at less
than market prices). The 1970 Census results suggest that informal lending is
predominantly for custeio purposes and is more significant for owner operators
with less than 100 ha.
1/   Caico, Currais Novos, Santa Cruz and Acu.



ANNW     3
Yage 2
4.        Despite the small average size of institutional credits most cur-
rent institutional rural credit is to larger farmers; the SUDENE/IBRD/DRC
survey indicates that almost 80% of the volume of credits (and 40% of the
number of borrowers) corresponds to farm sizes greater than 100 ha, while
slightly more than 20% (and 60% of the number of'borrowers) corresponds
to farm sizes less than 100 ha. This bias is compounded by the activities
of the rural credit and extension service, ANCAR, which is compensated for
its credit processing and administration activities, on the basis of 2% of
the total debt outstanding under the terms of its convenio with BB (Annex 2).
The low coverage of extension agents results at least partly from their
spending at least 50% of their time on credit processing, mostly for
larger loans with correspondingly higher fees, and the fact that the
extension services have not had the benefit of assured funding from other
sources.
Obstacles to Expanding Credit Coverage
5.        The vast majority of direct rural credit operations by banks are
to landowners.  Sharecroppers must obtain a "carta d'anuencia" and usually
the co-signature of their landlord as well in order to receive credit
directly from banks. Farmers owning both their crops and land can borrow
using their land and/or crops as security. As outlined below, expanding
credit coverage to landowners presents significant difficulties; accordingly,
increasing lending to landless farmers would not be an initial project
objective.
6.        Rural credit operations by banks in the project area are charac-
terized by risk-averse lending practices and lengthy credit procedures.
Lending practices are primarily determined by centrally established credit
norms which limit credit amounts relative to the value of crop or fixed asset
security and to the debt servicing capacity of- the potential borrower. 1/
In an environment where drought risks are substantial and bank managersT per-
formances are judged by their (high) profit performance and (low) level
of defaults branch managers understandably practice conservative lending
practices. Thus, even in lending operations below 50 times the highest
reference value (approximately US$2,600 in 1974), where the lending need
not be formally secured and simplified procedures give managers considerable
credit discretion, managers typically lend only to those who can already
show impressive security and good crop yields. Branch managers sometimes
also withhold disbursements of seasonal credits until the likely rainfall
can be more reliably estimated, thus limiting early plantings which have
potentially better yields. In brief, the minimum risk lending practices
1/   A maximum of 60% of the crop valued at the minimum price for custejo
credits, and a limit of 70% of net cash flow - with crop revenues
valued at the minimum price -- available for term debt service.
Crops are generally valued at the minimum price which can be as
much as 40% below the prevailing market price.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
tends to favor larger and/or better-off farmers. 1/ To expand credit
coverage, particularly to smaller farmers, changes in minimum risk lending
practices and norms are required. Bringing credit outlets closer to farmers
(farmers currently travel up to 100 km to the nearest bank branch) is also
necessary.
Credit Actions under Project
7.        The basic goal of the project credit component would be to expand
rapidly the number of farmers borrowing for productive purposes from insti-
tutional sources for seasonal, fixed investment and land purchase credits.
New credit delivery systems to achieve this goal especially for small
credits would be developed and tested by the project to meet the key cri-
teria of credit expansion, overall cost effectiveness, close physical
accessibility to farmers and ease of replicability elsewhere.
8.        To promote the development of such systems new mechanisms may be
needed to encourage participating banks to increase lending to small farmers.
A guarantee fund was considered as means of diminishing possible biases and
fears by banks in expanding lending to small farmers, by allowing participa-
ting banks to write off a percentage of possible bad debts against the fund.
However, the Government felt that the creation of such a fund would demand
extensive changes in the legal framework, affecting the entire credit system;
the Government also felt that the problem with small farmer credit may have
been due more to the failure of small farmers to request loans than to
bankers' reluctance to lend. Another possible mechanism to motivate
lending to small farmers considered was the use of a differential interest
spread for loans under the project, to compensate for possible increased
administrative costs in making many small loans. It was decided that progress
in lending should be reviewed in one year to assess more thoroughly the need
for such additional incentives.
1/   According to the SUDENE IBRD/DRC survey some of the differences
between farms receiving and not receiving institutional credit in
1973 in the 10-49.9 ha stratum (for example were as follows:
Receiving     Not Receiving       Difference    (R-NR) (
R
Farm Size          29 ha            27 ha              2 ha        7
Land in
crops            11 ha             6                 5 ha       54
Total
Capital     38,200 crs.       25,300 crs.       12,900 crs.    34
Net
Income       6,700 crs.        3,500 crs.        3,200 crs.    48



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        Demand for credit by small farmers would be increased by improving
promotional efforts and by decreasing risks to farmers. The promotional
role will be shared by bank agents and extensionists. Use of PROAGRO crop
credit insurance would be encouraged to reduce borrowers' risks associated
with crop failure or droughts. While the basic definidion of the PROAGRO
scheme is voluntary, the Government has given assurances that it would use
its best efforts to cause PROAGRO to be applied to all subloans. The
effectiveness of the voluntary crop credit insurance scheme will be reviewed
annually by the Government and the Bank.
10.       The effectiveness of improvements in credit promotion, processing,
and delivery systems in reaching large numbers of small farmers would also be
reviewed annually. The Government has agreed to report findings of this
progress review to the Bank, discuss possible additional mechanisms for
motivating lenders and borrowers (e.g. differential interest rates, guarantee
fund, compulsory crop credit insurance), and to carry out actions to improve
small farm credit effectiveness, as agreed by the Government and the Bank.
11.       Land purchase credits apart, custeio credit extended would be
limited to 25 times the (highest) minimum monthly salary in the country
(totalling about US$1,250) per season per individual borrower while the
sum of total outstanding seasonal and investment credits would be limited
to 50 times the reference value (totalling about US$2,500). All lending
undertaken would be unsecured, on personal signatures ("aval") only.
12.       Custeio credit (including both purchased inputs and labor) would
be extended on a fixed amount per hectare cultivated (excluding first-year
cotton), to be determined on a sub-area wide basis. This would not be less
(in constant terms) than the value of the present standard for second year
cotton.
13.       To simplify credit analysis, investment credit conditions would
be standardized for all borrowers on the basis of even streams of repay-
ments and fixed repayment and grace periods. Individual credit limits
for fixed and semi-fixed investments would then be established on the
basis of average yields obtained and cotton area cultivated, as deter-
mined by the local extensionist. These limits would be prepared in the
form of a matrix or table which would be simple to use by low level field
personnel.
14.       Wlile it is anticipated that borrowers under the project would
be largely cotton farm owner-operators with holdings of less than 200 ha,
owner operators of all size farms would be able to borrow under the terms
of the project. Sharecroppers having their landlords' approval or able to
purchase farming land would also be able to borrow under the project. In
all cases a condition for credit would be specific prior-registration of
the farner with the local extensionist. This specific condition for all



ANNEX 3
Page 5
borrowers would only be relaxed in the case of group (collective) borrow-
ing in which case group registration would be necessary.
15.       Initial credit actions would be tested to determine viable credit
delivery mechanisms meetiig project objectives. Therefore, in Phase I the
project would implement t1ree alternatives in pilot municipios. These
delivery actions (or sets cf credit procedures) would then be developed
under the guidance of the C02 dit Committee (Annex 12) utilizing the results
of close monitoring and evalLation of credit impact.
16.       Two initial credit actions under the project are described below.
For each action the following 8 iv'y steps in the credit delivery process
are identified to provide a uniform framework for analysis both of starting
procedures and possible subsequent modifications:
(a) Positive Identification;
(b) Character Reference;
(c)  Farm Classification;
(d) Credit Request (Proposta);
(e) Credit Decision;
(f) Signing (of Nota de Credito Rural) and Credit Disbursement;
(g) Supervision;
(h) Collection.
Procedures under the two actions differ for certain steps. Each action
represents a different trade-off among credit expansion, cost effective-
ness, physical accessibility to farmers and ease of replicability. Each
also represents a different level of lending risk. Table 1 attached
shows the 8 steps in the credit delivery process together with brief
descriptions of each step under the two actions.
Action 1: Direct Lending to Individuals
17.       Action 1 would include direct lending to individuals, a mobile
banking service for perhaps one day every two weeks to selected municipios,
and the availability of cash credit within two weeks of a bank's receiving
a credit proposal. Screening of credit applicants would be minimized. As
a result, the default rate may be higher than with traditional approaches.
This would be closely monitored and, if warranted, alternative mechanisms
would be recommended to reduce lending risks. The government PROAGRO
voluntary credit insurance scheme would be expected to reduce risks related
to drought and crop failures.



ANNEX 3
Page   6
18.       Previous or new borrowers of formal credit would be treated uni-
formly for credit delivery purposes, but for administrative simplicity bor-
rowing through the mobile unit would preclude borrowing from other formal
sources. The maximum for borrowing through the mobile unit would be 25
times the reference value for custeio and 50 times for total borrowing
(investimento and custeio combined).
19.       Step 1, Positive Identification, would aim towards the minimum
information required to identify the applicant as a potential borrower
under the new procedures. Many small farmers are currently deterred from
applying for formal credit by their unfamiliarity with the complex pro-
cedures involved. In order to avoid the simplified procedures under the
project being perceived as special "government" money with resulting high
defaults, the credit must be fully identified with the participating banks,
in whose names advertising and promotional schemes should be undertaken.
20.       Step 2, the Character Reference, is important because if sought,
implicitly or explicitly, it can be a major procedural factor, or lever,
in mitigating against the risk of high defaults. In this action no
character reference as such is sought.
21.       Step 3, Farm Classification, serves as a reference basis for the
credit proposal ("Proposta"), Step 4.  Throughout the steps the incremental
burden on the extensionist of credit activities as opposed to agricultural
advisory activities would be minimized. In the farm classification step,
the extensionist would not be required to value the farmer's assets in order
to arrive at a net worth assessment. The lending criteria emphasis would
be on' the farmer's productivity and cash generation capacity rather than
on collateral. This means that average yields obtained by the farmer would
have to be estimated by the extensionist and in doing so he would also be
making an implicit credit decision in terms of the investment credit limits
applicable to that particular farmer. Extensionists are already currently
expected to make such yield estimations. 1/ Although he could not do so on
character grounds, the extensionist would be expected to indicate a negative
recommendation on the proposta on technical grounds alone, if appropriate.
22.       Steps 5 and 6 would be performed largely by the mobile banking
unit. The essence of this operation would be speed and simplicity: a
commitment to deliver cash within two weeks of a bona fide proposta.
Blanket convenios either do or would exist with local land registry
authorities and other formal credit channels for exchange of the neces-
sary lists of borrowers (and defaulters). Each mobile unit would have to
comprise at least one relatively senior bank staff member (e.g., an assis-
tant manager), a cashier, a guard/driver and a van together with some small
portable office equipment (cash boxes, etc.). On the basis of one visit
1/   Information gathering on farms under his supervision would be conducted
on a permanent basis by the extensionist (see Annex 2).



ANNEX 3
Page 7
per municipio of one day every two weeks, each mobile unit could probably
service four municipios according to a weekly schedule of two days at
the municipios, two days at the bank branch and one day travelling time
with alternate pairs of municipios each week. Most of the credit demand
can be expected to be for custeio credit in the early months of the
season. However, the mobile unit should be open year-round, especially
near harvest when some non-borrowers run out of cash and are vulnerable to
"informal" credit or disadvantageous crop advances. The operating costs
of the mobile unit can therefore be regarded as largely fixed in nature
and would probably be not more than about (1974) CR$ 150,000 per annum. 1/
23.       Despite the simplified credit processing implied by steps 5 and 6,
the branch manager's formal authorization for credit disbursement must be
obtained (most probably on a weekly "block" basis) by the assistant man-
ager in charge of the mobile unit. Table 1 suggests that at least part of
custeio credit disbursement be made by voucher (or local purchase order) to
encourage acquisition of insecticides at local suppliers. Although this
represents a small proportion of the total credit, it would reinforce the
activities of the extensionist in associating the custeio credit with
productivity gains. While a phased disbursement procedure for custeio
credit is not necessarily anticipated, a modified system - which does not
depend on the specific approval of the extensionist - could be arranged,
such as three equal disbursements over the cultivation season.
24.       Assuming that collection costs and defaults and arrears are fully
recovered either through renegotiation, foreclosure, or the guarantee fund,
preliminary calculations indicate that a single mobile unit would have to
capture more than 20% of the credit "market" in a four municipio market to
break-even on the basis of the existing 5% lending spread. This level of
lending should be achievable within two years of a unit's start of operations.
25.       The actual break-even situation will vary considerably from
municipio to municipio, and if custeio borrowers do not borrow each year,
in spite of the availability of credit insurance, the overall penetration
rates would have to be correspondingly higher. However, other business
such as land purchase credits and other banking business (including
deposits) would probably be generated which would further improve the
viability of the mobile banking units.
Action 2: Credit Lending to Groups
26.       Under action 2 the banking procedures would be sinilar to action 1,
but credit would be extended to groups of between 5 and 12 farmers. These
1/   Assistant Manager (55,000) + Cashier (35,000) + Guard/Driver (25,000)
+ van (15,000) + supplies (5,000) + overhead (15,000) = 150,000
(1974 cars).



ANNEX 3
Page 8
farmers would have collective responsibility for their custeio debt and
would jointly sign a single proposta. Disbursements would be either to
group representatives or to group members individually (but simultaneously)
at the option of the group. Given the local presence of the mobile banking
unit, which would be largely responsible for cash management of credit,
this system would eventually lead to lower administrative credit delivery
costs, depending on the utilization of the capacity of the mobile unit (whose
costs are largely fixed relative to time spent in each municipio).
27.       One major advantage of this lending system would be the probable
reduction in the level of delinquencies due to peer pressure on group members
to repay on time. Another advantage would be the formation of groups which
could be used for other purposes, e.g., extension, input supply, transport,
etc. The availability of formal credit may be a more effective incentive
for group formation than such other purposes, especially in the early proj-
ect stages.
28.       One way of helping to develop the social and economic strength
of groups might be to stipulate a low minimum size group at the start of
the project, but then to raise gradually this minimum. For example, a
minimum size of three could be established for the first year of the
group's life, expanding to four in the second year and five in the third
year. Presumably group founding members would scrutinize additional
members closely. Also the initial low minimum group size could help
to maximize initial credit penetration by limiting starting group cash
management responsibilities and thus also limiting the social management
implications of the group's formation. At the same time a 12-member upper
group limit could allow both the formation of larger groups and mergers
between groups. In the special case of group member replacement (from
one year to the next) the escalating group size condition could be relaxed.
29.       As indicated in Table 1 the extensionist could take advantage
of formed groups through sampling procedures within groups for credit (and
extension) activities. Thus at the time of group "registration" and farm
classification (steps 1 and 3) he need not be familiar with each individual
group member's farm situation - but should be so with say, at least one up
to group sizes of 4, 2 for group sizes between 5 and 8, and 3 for group
sizes between 9 and 12. The same sampling ratios could be used for the
proposta step in order to speed credit delivery. This does not however
relieve the extensionist from doing an effective extension job which
includes reaching all target farmers in his area, whether on a person
to person, person to "credit" groups or person to ad hoc groups (e.g.,
media forums) basis. Coordination between credit and extension would be
critical to project success but the involvement of the extensionist in
credit processing paper work would be minimized.
30.       While group borrowing for custeio credit would be relatively
straight forward, group borrowing for investment credit would in many
cases be complicated by varying individual farmer investment needs. In
this case it would be useful to extend credit for investment purposes on
an individual basis. However, this raises a series of possible problems



ANNEX 3
Page 9
in the event of either group and/or individual credit defaults. Recog-
nizing the need for simplicity, a possible initial set of guidelines
would be the following:
(a) Individual farmers would have to be members of groups
for custeio purposes -- but need not be members of
groups for investment purposes;
(b)  A group member desiring investment credit would have
to obtain the pricr consent of other members of the
group although he alone would be solely responsible
for his investment debt on a separate personal signature;
(c) Group penalties would continue to apply for group custeio
default; and
(d) In the event of individual investment default, action
could be taken against him without compromising the
creditworthiness of the group. This set of guidelines
would place considerable reliance on the overall effec-
tiveness of farmers groups for credit purposes, the basic
hypothesis under action 2.
31.       Actions 1 and 2 should probably be initially introduced separately
in different municipios in order to learn more about their respective impacts.
Action 3: Revised Funding Through Cooperatives
32.       At least two steps could be taken:  (a) attempts to streamline
participating bank/cooperative procedures to reduce the time required for
an individual cooperative member to actually receive cash; and (b) intro-
duction by cooperatives of branch offices or "entrepostos". The entreposto
would be a combination of credit office, input supply and crop buying point.
On credit matters the entreposto would act as a channel; actual lending
decisions would remain centralized at the cooperative's headquarters. The
feasibility of entrepostos requires further analysis prior to testing on a
limited scale.
33.       The National Cooperative Bank, BNCC, presently lends only for
cooperative infrastructure, an activity not covered by the project; also,
BNCC does not yet operate in the project area. However, the Government hopes
to strengthen BNCC, expand its operations and widen its scope. The Govern-
ment plans to direct BNCC to review cooperative investment requirements in
the project area and would provide BNCC with the funds to finance these
investments as a complements to the project.



NORb;dUS BRAZIL
RIO UROM 110 ONR   RN  r             T PpOoJT
Oredit L.I L      ocst
STEP                                              STEP DESCRIPTION                                                           SCENARIO  1                                                SCEdARIO  2
DIRECT LENDINO  TO  NDIVIDmUALS                             DIRECT LENDING TO GROtPS
l.    POSITIVE I.D.                             Identification of applicant as cotton owner                        Provided entire3Y by low level emtensiooist                     Provided mostly on the assurance of the group.
operator farmer:                                                   who, as a result of his initial survey and                      In this case the group file is maintained by the
- anae                                                        continuing activities, maintains e technical                    extensioniat but he may not necesaarily be
- location                                                    file an all target farners (not -aceeding i5o)                  familior with each individual faner.
- ANCAR reference number                                      in his assigned area.
2.     CHABACTER REFERENCE                      Objective recommendation as to reliability,                        Essentially None: technical recommendation                      Provided implicitly and =mtually by fanr
diligence and creditworthiness of farner.                          by ectensionist at step 4.                                      group members.
3.    FAWM CLASSIFICATION                     - yarm ares broken down by s. including                              Carried out bY low level eotinsionist as part                   Again, carried out largely on a groop basis
distribution and ages of cotton trees                              of his aesbnsion activities - on an individual                  by  xtensioniat who altogethr  eli    ore on
- Aerage yields obtained.                                            farm basis.                                                     groop Infrmation supplied and less on fan
- Farming techniques used.                                                                                                           visits to each individual farm.
I.    PROPOSTA                                - For coeIo: cotta8 cultivation area by                              Prepared by faner and low level extesiLonist in                 Prepared by group with assistance of extensionist -
yeaia 1 and 2 -5                                                   the fielA, if convenient, and does not need tc be               but Just as siaple as for scenario  1  - same sign
- For investimento: fan classification                               typed.  Farmer must sign and extensionist mast                 offs required.  However, for inveatibmento regular
including cotton areas and average yields                          certify stowledge of farmer, registration number                extensionist would have to be consulted and also
- For both, declaration of outstanding indebtedness                  end clsasification of fars.  Technical negative                sign of f.  For custeio extenaionic t need not have
recomendabion only aleowt&hr extensisniat.                     checked each individual farmer, need do this only a
sample af group basis.
5.    CREDIT DECISION                         - nade according to custeio norm for area and credit                 Banker receives proposts, checks arithmetic and                 Same relatively mechanical procedure as in S  I
limits for fa= classificationa.                                    credit limits signa approval, obtains manager's
- includes a bank check with local cartoric and                      authorization to ccit, gets NCR typed op.
montbly exchange lists to enforce individual credit
6.     ROTA DE CREDITO RURAL                  - signing,notarisation by cartorio and cash                          Ranker ensures enough cash on hand to meet                     All farmer grcup members most sign NCR. Simultsnecus
disbursement, all at the sane time                                 disbursements not later than ,  weeka after proposta           individual disbursements if migrant banker.  Group
- pesticides included under custeio would be disbursed               (i.e. at met trip'. Farmer must be present for                 disbursement (one nember mtkiog trip tc bhnk) - at
by voucher to local suppliers.                                     signing, notarisation by cartorio and disbursement.            option of group.
7.    SUPERVISION                             - Bank notifies ectensionist of thoae to whom ct dit                 No interim reports to bank on an individual faner               Same as 5  1 but on grcup basis.
cetended                                                           basin but extena.onist is held responsible (by the
- technical supervision by emtesoonlst in the course of              project unit) for technical uoervisin of fCrnes
his normal duties                                                  in his area.
- no special paperwork by e-tena;ionist.
S.    CO1LECTION                              - Caner repay. debt within otondard period of harveat
- otherwise  -llctic n orocedures instituted bv participat ig        In the event of delinquency 'Reglr' procedores followed    Same as S  1 but if group - no a whole defaults even
banks.                                                             by banks with their -w  staff.  Entensioists' opinion          in part sll menbers of group ore occluded from fonal
bht not actile participation cna h ouge -ht.                   credit for the indefinite future.
If farmer doss nat event-Ily repsy--under agreed entended
tens--he is eacilded fram further credit for the indefinite
foture (i.e., his nredit rating co-llpses).



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production; Technical Aspects and Experimentation
I. Existing Situation
Project Area
1.        As described in Annex 1, the project area corresponds roughly to
the area of perennial cotton, covering about 40% of the State. The climate
is semi-arid with annual average rainfall varying from 400 to 700 mm, and
an unusually large variation coefficient (more than .50); the monthly dis-
tribution of rainfall is also unpredictable. Rainfall variability brings
about periodic major drought, the possibility of several successive years of
below average rainfall, and occasional years of excessive rainfall, all
causing damage to cotton plants and crops. Soils are generally poor. The
project area is made up of several micro-regions differentiated according to
rainfall, soils, size of holdings, and infrastructure. Cropping patterns,
form of tenancy, and number of cattle also vary greatly among farms through-
out the project area.
Farmihg Systems
2.        Only 18% of the project area is under permanent or temporary crops
(higher percentage on small farms than on large) with much of the balance
under bush used for cattle grazing. There are wide variations between farms,
but cattle sales on average account for 20 to 30% of farm cash revenues.
Cattle graze on the leaves of perennial cotton "trees" following harvest.
This provides much of the cattle's nutrition between harvest (August -
October) and the next rainy season (January - March). Perennial cotton
is the principal cash crop. Cotton quality is high (long-staple; mainly
3b-38 mm), but yields are low (annual average over the 5-year life of the
cotton tree is about 150 kg of seed cotton per ha). Cash outlays per ha for
production are low and mainly for labor; cash inputs are few and consist
mainly of pesticides (for the 50% of farms that use it at all). Recommended
cultivation practices are not widely used (para 12). Low yields, coupled
with the pervasive risk of devastating drought make farming in the project
area a low input/low output activity accompanied by marked risk-aversion
(para 7). Statistics on area under cotton are somewhat contradictory, but
suggest that there has been a gradual inc7ease in the area under cotton
(perhaps by 40%) over the last 25 years. Yields declined somewhat over the
same period. Food crops, especially corn and beans, are an essential part
of the farming system. Generally interplanted with first year cotton, these
crops largely contribute to the subsistence of farm families. Yields are
very low (200 to 400 kg per ha for both crops) and poor on-farm storage
systems further reduce total supply of food crops.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Research and Technical Assistance
3.        There has to date been an almost total absence of relevant agricul-
tural research and trials yielding results which could be transferred to
small scale producers. Most crop research has been conducted without concur-
rent economic analysis. As a result, economically sound, well defined tech-
nological packages, combining traditional and non-traditional practices
adapted to specific micro-climates, are generally not available. Although
interplanting of corn, beans, and.cotton is a basic characteristic of small
scale tarming in the project area and the Northeast, there is a particular
lack of data and technical recommendations pertinent to crops cultivated in
association. Furthermore, agricultural research has generally ignored the
influence of risk and uncertainty in the adoption of new technology, a key
factor in Northeast agriculture (para 8).
4.        Another obstacle to generating and delivering profitable techno-
logical packages is that the technical assistance agencies are not accus-
tomed to making their recommendations on the basis of farm budgets. Their
work programs are crop oriented, primarily in terms of technical factors.
Strictly technical recommendations are necessary but do not show the profit-
ability of the recommended practices nor their effect on new farm income from
all operations. Due to the current nature of the training of extension workers
(Annex 7) and institutional problems, most existing technical recommendations
are formulated for the large scale farming conditions.
5.        In the project area, research on perennial cotton is mainly the
responsibility of: (a) the EMBRAPA research station at Cruzeta (with limited
impact); (b) the privately owned Fazenda San Miguel; and (c) a semi-public
concern, INFAOL (connected to private industry). Most of the traditional
research has been geared to improving varieties for better fiber quality. 1/
Research on food crops, especially as a component of a typical farming system,
is virtually non-existent in the State.
6.        In recent months, however, a growing awareness of the specific
problems of small farmers has taken place in the Northeast. Although
embryonic in their practical implications, some results have been made
available. INFAOL, the University of Ceara, the IPA of Pernambuco and
others have demonstrated in several instances that research and demonstra-
tion efforts could lead to substantial benefits to small farmers. INFAOL
has been instrumental especially in the larger diffusion of improved cotton
seeds from its several trial and demonstration plots scattered in the Northeast.
Also, in collaboration with relevant state agencies, EMBRAPA is redefining
its program at Cruzeta to complement new rural development efforts.
1/   To date, perennial cotton evidences a markedly negative correlation
between-yields and fiber quality. For obvious reasons, the industry
has been more inclined to promote quality related research. Neverthe-
less, on-going research is now very much productivity minded.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Farmers' Response
7.        Agriculture in the drought-prone project area involves a consider-
able degree of uncertainty. This uncertainty leads farmers, particularly
small ones, to prefer production strategies which minimize the risks from
poor weather, rejecting other combinations of techniques and crops which
would yield greater benefits in the short run, albeit with greater risk
of loss from drought. This is further compounded by the problem of tenancy
whereby sharecropping arrangements generally act as a disincentive with
respect to technological change insofar as technological progress would
imply higher cash outlays under an uncertain weather and land use situation,
in which the other party would often reap 50% of any incremental benefits
without necessarily having contributed 50% of the incremental cost. Obstacles
to the adoption of change on a wider scale also include a general lack of
information, especially among small scale farmers, not so much about the
existence of the technology, but rather on its applicability in a specific
context. This is explained by the lack of emphasis which technical assistance
agencies place on small farmers' problems, further complicated by the farmers'
lack of confidence in the technical adviser.
Uncertainty, Productivity and Adoption of Technology
8.        Cotton is by far the most important cash crop of the project area.
The current technical knowledge concerning perennial cotton is probably
more empirical than a result of comprehensive, systematic research. The
available evidence from several empirical studies and limited research data
indicates that technical improvements, in the current state of the art, are
more likely to result from a combination of several improved techniques
at various stages of the cotton cultivation cycle, rather than from an as
yet undeveloped technical breakthrough for one particular aspect of cotton
production. Although unsatisfactory, an advantage of this situation is that
the cost of technical improvement is spread over several techniques, each
contributing to the general productivity increase. In the adverse climatic
context of the Northeast, this is probably more acceptable than a high-cost,
high-risk single technique which, in the case of crop failure, may prove
disastrous to farmers (this appears to be the case with chemical fertilizers,
see para 31). In essence, therefore, improvements based on labor intensive
techniques should be favored over those which are capital intensive or
increase cash operating costs.
9.        The importance of food crops in the risk-uncertainty problem
should be emphasized.  The security of farmers to be able to provide
for their families' basic subsistence needs probably receives higher
priority than cash receipts from cotton sales. When these needs are ful-
filled, farmers are willing to make more risky decisions concerning cash
crops involving the adoption of new technology. Conversely, any new
technology geared exclusively at cash crops production could have detri-
mental effects if it were introduced at the expense of food crops produc-
tion. This problem is unfortunately not well documented. In essence, it



ANNEX 4
Page 4
is the complex issue of what farming systems are best adapted to specific
conditions of the area.
10.       From the preceding, it is clear that interventions directed at
improving productivity and total production of small scale farmers should
explicitly take into account the following:
(a) The main emphasis should be placed on farming systems
rather than on one specific activity. In the project
area, farming systems necessarily evolve around the
cotton-cattle-food crops combination;
(b) The risk factor should be duly accounted for both in
the estimates of expected returns and in the expected
farmers response to technological change; and
(c) Small scale farmers experience with specific problems
must be recognized by the agricultural research and
technical assistance agencies. In particular, the
credibility of these agencies vis-a-vis small farmers
should be clearly established.
Perennial Cotton Production
11.       Current technical recommendations concerning the cultivation of
perennial cotton by small scale farmers include the following: 1/
Clearing and soil preparation - Recommended operations include:
land clearing, burning, stump removal, clearing and soil preparation. Animal
traction is recommended especially for stump removal and soil preparation.
Under specific circumstances, contour lining is essential, to be done with
animal traction. The use of a reversible plow is recommended.
Planting - The generally recommended practice is to plant
immediately following the first rain (between January and March). In
specific cases where the probability coefficient of rainfall is accu-
rately known, early planting may be recommended (para 26).
Spacing and Density - Recommended spacing norms are:  2.U(m X u.5Um,
or 3.00m X 0.50m depending on soil type, with 5 to 6 seeds per hole for manual
planting; and 2.00m X 1.OOm for planting done with an animal-drawn seed drill.
Sowing should be made at a depth of about 5 cm.
1/   These recommendations generally represent the latest set of technical
recommendations prepared at the request of EMBRAPA for the specific
context of Rio Grande do Norte, by a team of experts and farmers from
Northeast Brazil and RN in particular, in November 1974.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Organic fertilization - When and if available, corral manure
should be used (at least 10 tons per ha, para 32).
Crop association - Corn and/or beans or both can be inter-
planted with first year cotton, between the cotton rows (para 33).
Cultivation practices:
(a) Thinning should be done manually, 20 to 30 days after
plant emergence, leaving 2 to 3 plants per hole;
(b) Weeding should be performed with an animal-drawn
cultivator at least three times during the first
year.  Hoe finishing should complement this, as
required.  Herbicides may be warranted in specific
cases (para 28);
(c)  Plant protection, pest control, should be performed
with insecticide, with doses of 1 to 2 litres per
ha according to the year of the cotton cycle (para 27);
(d) Trimming of cotton trees should be done after harvest,
starting the second year.
Harvestin& - This operation should be started when the capsules
are open and in the absence of humidity. Storage should be in a dry area.
12.       Although not necessarily representing the result of systematic
research, these recommended practices are sound and have been empirically
proved acceptable in several parts of the project area. Nevertheless,
several of them, if not all, require further investigation at the experi-
mentation station and/or at the farm level in real-life farming conditions.
These recommendations are already partially or totally followed by the
more progressive farmers of the area. The main reasons for non-acceptance
by other farmers have been presented in para 7. Failure to use recommended
practices occurs especially in soil preparation, use of improved seeds and
cultivation practices, particularly plant protection (weeding and pest
control), together with non-use of animal traction.
II.  Technical Actions under the Project
General
13.       The project would recommend that an initial technical package of
improved plant protection practices, improved seeds and animal traction be
disseminated immediately to farmers. These improved practices would be made
available in close association with intensified extension and modified credit



ANNEX 4
Page 6
procedures and related policies. These are practices currently employed by
better farmers in the project area. Simultaneously, the project would under-
take a program of mainly on-farm trials to improve the initial recommendations
and to refine other highly promising practices to the stage where they can be
extended to farmers on a broad scale.
A.   Initial Technical Recommendations
14.       The initial technically related interventions would constitute
a "package" consisting of:
(a) wider dissemination of existing practices (animal traction
and improved plant protection and seeds);
(b) increased area under cotton cultivation;
(c) simplified credit procedures;
(d) modified credit delivery mechanisms;
(e) voluntary crop credit insurance; and
(f) expanded and reoriented extension coverage.
This annex concerns only the technical aspects (extension is discussed in
Annex 2 and credit in Annex 3); however, credit and extension actions are
integral parts of the project's "technical package".
1.   Animal Traction
15.       The project would recommend animal traction to the roughly 50%
of farmers not currently using it. The SUDENE-IBRD/DRC Survey and other
studies 1/ show that farmers using animal traction have significantly
higher incomes than those without animal traction. (In 1973/74 farms using
animal traction had 12 ha under cultivation and gross revenues of Cr $ 7,100);
those without cultivated 5.4 ha and had gross revenues of Cr $ 2,400).
Animal traction has a positive effect on yields (better plant protection
from fast weeding) and on labor productivity (tentative results indicate
a doubling of labor productivity with animal traction, for normal years).
The initial approaches of the project would aim to increase incomes by
raising yields with more rapid weeding and by gradually increasing a farm-
1/   Especially "Selecting and Evaluating New Techniques for Small Farmers
in the Central Sertao of Ceara" by John Sanders and D.M. de Albuquerque
Lima, 1974.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
family's area under cultivation. Animal traction, by reducing labor require-
ments at peak periods, would enable the farm family to handle a larger area
under cotton, thus raising its income.
16.       The increase in the use of animal traction would be largely
independent of tenure arrangements. Initial investment costs are limited
and there is ample evidence that, on the average, most farms already have
work animals, although often unused for animal traction. The cost esti-
mates and credit projections were built up on the following estimates of
farmer acceptance of animal traction and increased area during the proj-
ect:
Animal Traction        New Area under Cotton
(No. of Animals)               (Ha)
Years 1-3                 1,100                      3,800
Years 4 and 5             1,650                      6,300
Total                   2,750                     10,100-
/1   Some 1,600 ha additional would be placed under cultivation
in year 6 of the project, raising the total incremental
area to 11,700 ha.
These are small increases relative to the existing approximately 50,000 work
animals and 220,000 (to 250,000) ha under perennial cotton in the project
area and should not create major supply problems. Animal traction is
presently used essentially for weeding and this would continue to be the
main focus of'the initial intervention under the project. However, the
trials program would seek to develop ways of extending, within three years,
the uses and impact of animal traction (soil preparation, plowing, spraying,
sowing, transport, etc.). Special attention would be given to the problem
of animal-drawn equipment adapted to the characteristics of the project
area (para 25).
2.   Improved Plant Protection
17.       The project would recommend the use of pesticides to control the
buildup of damaging insects. This is particularly important in perennial
cotton where a disease not treated in one year can affect the yield of
subsequent years in the same cycle. As with animal traction, the SUDENE/
IBRD/DRC survey and other studies indicate that farmers using pesticides
achieve 40% to 70% higher yields than those not doing so. The trials program
(para 27) would attempt to further refine this recommended practice by exam-
ining types of pesticl-e and frequency, manner and amount of application.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
18.       Specific attempts would also be made under the project to develop
an insect information and early warning system (para 27).
3.   Improved Seed
19.       Two varieties of improved seeds (SL9193 from Cruzeta, MF-3 or
MF-4 from Sao Miguel) have been developed and are generally, but by no
means universally, used. The improved seeds provide greater farm income
largely through their improved cotton quality (for which gins pay a better
price), although some yield improvement of the improved varieties is also
possible. The project would recommend use of these seeds and would work
with relevant supply agencies to improve availability of these seeds
(Annex 6). INFAOL would be largely called upon to intensify its program
of seed multiplication and diffusion through contracting with individual
farmers.
B.   Trials and Research
20.       The project area (Annex 1) is heterogeneous and its differences
must be taken into account in developing recommendations to farmers; no
single uniform "technical package" is possible. The project is mainly
directed to a target group of small farmers, initially to those owning
some land. Technical recommendations must be oriented to improving the
target group's total welfare covering a variety of crops and activities,
not simply cotton, the main cash crop in the area. Because they have
been largely neglected in the past, food crops should receive relatively
high emphasis.
21.       A number (over 20) of techniques exist which are actually or poten-
tially useful to the target group and which are in varying degrees of readi-
ness for widespread diffusion to farmers. These have been examined in relation
to farmers' reactions (where the idea has already been accessible to farmers),
the cash exposure involved and the labor required. The various techniques
have then been divided into categories according to their readiness for dis-
tribution to farmers:
(a) Requiring further work at experimental station level:
in this class, the techniques are not sufficiently
defined and the expected gain to the farmer, although
potentially attractive, is not yet sufficiently tested
to decrease the risk to the farmer.
(b) Requiring further work at the farm level: here, the
techniques are practically ready for diffusion but
further insights are needed into the discrepancy between
experimental results and farm field results, together
with economic aspects of the proposed technique. This



ANNEX 4
Page 9
level presupposes a very simple model of experimentation
with adequate security and perhaps a substantial incen-
tive (e.g., guaranteed return) for the farmers who agree
to carry out the experiments.
(c) Limited diffusion. In this class, the techniques are
essentially ready but require testing on a limited
number of farms within specific micro-climatic condi-
tions for their last refinement prior to general diffu-
sion within that particular area. Simultaneously the
materials required for general diffusion (e.g.,
demonstration, teaching aids, media, etc.) would be
prepared.
(d) General diffusion. At this point, the techniques are
recommended by extensionists to all farmers or to a
specific target group in a particular micro-region.
22.       The focus of the trials and research program would be-on those
techniques that would be seen by farmers as concretely improving their incomes
and welfare and that can quickly be brought to the stage where they can be
generally diffused to farmers. The methods would involve close coordination
between the trials and extension actions under the project and coordination
with similar activities underway on similar crops and conditions elsewhere
in the Northeast. Results of the trials activity would be reviewed at least
annually to see that the trials still focus on techniques that can be developed
quickly for profitable use by farmers, especially small ones. The extension
component would work closely with the trials component to provide a rapid
two-way flow of information.
23.       The following items to be examined by the technical investiga-
tions component are discussed in rough order of likely speed of reaching
the level of general diffusion. Each is followed by a letter(s) in paren-
thesis denoting the level or levels at which further investigations should
be initiated: research station (a), on-farm trials (b) and limited diffu-
sion (c). The items are not exhaustive; other items would be expected to
be added during the project. Also, the levels of investigation are not
exclusive. For example, new equipment could be tested simultaneously at
both the research station (a) and farm (b) levels. Some items (e.g.,
effect of types of tillage) could only be evaluated with considerable
confidence after many years of testing, to allow for the wide range in
year-to-year rainfall. Other items (e.g., different types of animal-
drawn equipment) could be evaluated with considerable confidence within
a single season. Still others could be evaluated after several years'
testing, simulating the full cycle from statistical data.
24.       On-Farm Storage of Food Crops (c).  On-farm storage losses of
maize and beans are reported high in the project area. The technical
aspects of low-c -t methods of protection (e.g., FAO method of beans



ANNEX 4
Page 10
conservation) are well-known. The methods must be tried on farms to
evaluate their attractiveness to users and to develop methods of diffusion.
25.       Companion Equipment for Animal Traction (b, c).  The project
would import a small number of simple animal-drawn tools as prototypes for
local testing. Tools would include those for soil preparation, sowing,
retaining furrows, clearing stumps during land-clearing, on-farm transport
and spraying with an animal-drawn sprayer. For example, simple equipment
to move the relatively large amounts of water used in crop spraying would be
farm-tested. Testing would include use of the principal animals (oxen,
donkeys, horses) singly and in teams.
26.       Early Planting (c).  An existing study (very limited, based on one
year only) indicates a marked yield increase in first-year cotton resulting
from planting in early February rather than mid-March. Early planting is
greatly facilitated by use of an animal-drawn sowing machine permitting a
farmer to plant 4 ha in the 2 days following a rain (20 mm or more), compared
to 0.5 ha if done manually (following which he must wait for the next rain).
Finalizing the early planting recommendation could be greatly facilitated by
rainfall probability studies based on the 50-60 year rainfall records from
a dense network of stations. Within several years this practice could
probably be widely recommended.
27.       Plant Protection (b).  The project would carry out farm trials
to develop recommendations on type, quantity and frequency of application
of pesticides. Timeliness of pesticide application is important in con-
trolling insect parasites. Consequently, as a parallel activity the
project would support actions to carry out a simple insect parasite
early-warning system. Two man-months of the funds provided for con-
sultants would be expected to be used to study the practical steps that
could be taken within existing institutions operating in the State to
provide a simple early warning system for the major insect parasites.
28.       Improved Weeding.  Presence of weeds markedly affects yields.
However, weeding from the second year of cotton onwards is very time-
consuming because the cotton "trees" have grown to the stage where use
of animal-drawn cultivator becomes difficult. Two promising improvements
should be worked on:
-    Use of Herbicides (b).  Initial studies by the Federal
University of Ceara indicate favorable results from
using herbicides. However, further farm-level studies
are needed to determine economic dosage and spraying
method.
-    Cotton Trimming (a, b).  This involves trimming the
second-year cotton plants to enable the animal-drawn
cultivator to operate between the rows. The yield
effects and labor requirements need to be studied further.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
29.       Traditional Food Crops (a, b, c).  Low yields of corn and beans
(200 to 400 kg per ha), the most widespread food crops of the project area,
are mainly due to: (a) low grade varieties; (b) rainfall variability; and
(c) poo! soils. In addition, being generally interplanted with first year
cotton, food crops density per ha is necessarily limited. Largely ignored
by research and experimentation, especially in their role in association with
cotton, these crops should be the subject of intensive research efforts as
the potential for improvement appears large. New varieties more adapted to
the area should be tested. For instance, the Pitiuaba beans variety, with
a cycle of 70 days, would show a yield of 10% to 40% higher than local
varieties (experiments conducted in Ceara). For beans, the main problem
seems to be the treatment against parasite attack at the blooming period
and at the conservation stage (para 24). In other selected areas, cassava
may have a relatively large importance.
30.       Alternate Food Crops (a, b, c).  Sorghum is more drought-resistant
than maize and probably more suitable for the project area. Preliminary
trials indicate a much higher yield from a sorghum/beans combination than
from maize/beans. An important problem is the central role of maize in
the traditional diet of the area. However, consumption by animals usually
exceeds that of the typical family so that an initial 50% of the foodcrop
area for sorghum for animal feed could be contemplated. Sorghum could
probably be recommended for general diffusion within one or two seasons.
In the meantime further farm trials to pinpoint the yield differences
between sorghum and maize in different years and to test farmers' reactions
should be conducted. Trials should also be conducted on different sorghum
varieties and cultivation practices. A sorghum "technical package" might
include soil preparation with animal traction, use of manure, early sowing
and weeding with animal traction.
31.       Fertilization (a, b).  Most of the soils devoted to cotton and
foodcrops are poor. Limited testing of inorganic and organic fertilizers
indicate profitable possibilities from small dosages in specific circum-
stances in "normal" years. The use of chemical fertilizers will depend on
the climate and soils of a specific micro-region, together with farmers'
willingness to risk the loss of investment in fertilizers in a drought year.
The agricultural college at Mossoro, near the project area, is equipped to
analyze soil samples. Fertilizer trials have been carried out at the Cruzeta
research station and for two years by INFAOL (a semi-public Northeast trials
and seed-producing body) on selected farms producing seed under contract.
Preliminary results indicate that a light dressing (13-17-20) which minimizes
investment in fertilizer may be attractive in normal years. However, the
results are highly sensitive to changes in the cotton/fertilizer price
relatives. These tests need to be continued, to give a picture of results
in a variety of years, and modified according to soils of a particular micro-
region. Within several seasons, some limited diffusion (stage c) should be
attempted to test farmrrs' attitude to investing in chemical fertilizer
under the (then) protection of the PROAGRO crop insurance being introduced
parallel to the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
32.       Organic fertilization (b, c) also shows promising preliminary
results. From a technical point of view the use of organic fertilizer can
be immediately recommended for the project area. However, additional re-
finements are necessary to develop the best way to prepare the manure so
as to maximize its nutrient value and to estimate the cost and refine the
methods of transporting it (e.g., animal-drawn cart).
33.       Crop rotations and association merit further work at the research
station level. Several associations of crops with cotton should be tested,
e.g., fodder crops, groundnuts, beans, sorghum and corn. Emphasis should
be given to the study of crop associations including legumes for the supply
of nitrogen.
34.       Crop production on receding shorelines.  Part of the area, par-
ticularly the southern "Serido", contains several thousand small dams that
are used for animals and "subsiding" crops (subsistence crops, including
a wider range, e.g., bananas than under dryland conditions) along the
receding water's edge as the water level drops during the dry period or
during drought. No previous work has been carried out on devising better
practices (varieties, fertilizer, sequence, etc.) for these activities.
The project would support farm-level trials on these activities.
35.       Annual Cotton.  Where technically feasible (in the wetter part
of the project area, generally around Umarizal and Santa Cruz)o annual
cotton provides much higher yields than perennial (by two to three times
in a normal year). Farmers' incomes are higher than with perennial cotton
in that the greater quantity of cotton more than compensates for the lower
quality and price of annual cotton. For much of the project area the
rainfall conditions clearly favor perennial cotton. However, based on
rainfall averages and probabilities, both perennial and annual cotton
could be recommended for certain micro-regions. For annual cotton, addi-
tional farm trials are necessary for improved seeds and for early sowing
and other practices. Great care must be taken to avoid genetic crossing
of the two seeds (which would be detrimental to both) and at least 200 m
must be maintained between fields of the two.
C.   Organization - Project Implementation
36.       The complexity and urgency of the problems surrounding the tech-
nical aspects and related proposed interventions under the project require
an elaborate and comprehensive organizational arrangement which would
ensure: (a) promptness in the design and implementation of an experiment-
ation program; (b) timely transmission of results to farmers in practical
terms; (c) flexibility for speedy and continuous refinement of technologies
and dissemination methods.
Organization (Annex 12)
37.       The overall responsibility for the technical package generation
and diffusion program would be placed in a Technical Committee to be created



ANNEX 4
Page 13
to coordinate planning, implementation and review of activities and to
develop technical recommendations under the project. This Committee would
make recommendations to the Project Unit through its chairman, the Technical
Adviser of the Project Unit. Besides the Adviser, the Committee would be
made up of various experts on Northeast Brazil, including representatives of
EMBRAPA, the extension service (ANCAR-RN), INFAOL, the Federal University of
Ceara, the IPA 1/ of Pernambuco, Banco do Brazil and Banco do Nordeste.
Besides its role in coordination of project-related research and experimenta-
tion activities, the Committee would be expected to provide imaginative
leadership in the field. As a larger forum for permanent communication
between all parties involved, the Committee would also be expected to ensure
consistency of the program with other research programs in the State and
Northeast Brazil.
38.       The initial program implementation would pivot around five insti-
tutional bodies with well-defined responsibilities:
(a)  The Project Unit, through its Technical Adviser besides its
leading role within the Technical Committee, would be
responsible for: (a) coordinating the detailed planning
of research activities, the monitoring and control of
expenditures; (b) the exploitation of results provided
by the project Monitoring Group; (c) the modification and
elaboration of the technical packages according to research
results and farmer's reaction; (d) the coordination between
research activities (package generation) and the extension
service (diffusion); and (d) participation in the training
of extensionists.
(b) INFAOL would be responsible for the implementation of the
trials program at the farm level (para 43).
(c) The University of Ceara, through its Department of Agri-
cultural Economics, would be employed as a consultant to
provide: (a) the conceptualization of the actual imple-
mentation of the program, including the methodology to
be used for sample design, statistical review and analysis;
(b) participation in the training of INFAOL personnel; (c)
consulting expertise during implementation in the field;
and (d) first analysis of results.
(d) The Project Monitoring and Evaluation Group would further
analyze results transmitted by the University of Ceara
and translate them into recommendations to the Project
Unit for speody corrective actions.
1/   Instituto de Pesquisa Agropecuaria.



ANNEX 4
Page 14
(e) The Extension Service (ANCAR-RN) would be responsible
for the general diffusion of the techniques which are
deemed ready for generalized use by farmers in the
project area.
39.       The above institutional arrangements would be expected to be
followed throughout the project but would be reviewed annually (Annex 12)
during the annual plan and subject to change as necessary.
Nature of Research and Analysis
40.       The main emphasis under the project would be placed on experi-
mentation at the farm level. Two types of investigation would be under-
taken:
(a) Analysis of plots: the objective would be to determine
the physical impact of selected improved techniques and/or
technical packages. Although mainly technical (i.e.,
effect of techniques on yields), this analysis should
also provide for essential economic and financial informa-
tion (cost-benefit) on each selected technique. The
methodology used should be simple (e.g., variance anal-
ysis, regression, factorial analysis). Registering docu-
ments and simple computerized programs for analysis should
be elaborated by the University of Ceara (the former for
use by INFAOL) along with the statistical tools to be
used. 1/
(b) Analysis of farms and farm systems; the objective would
be to analyze the economic impact of improved technolo-
gies and selected socio-economic variables (e.g., agricul-
tural credit, land tenure) on farmers' income. Besides
simple analytical tools, more sophisticated methods
(linear programming) could also be utilized. 1/ Overall,
the emphasis would be on simplicity and speed of results
rather than absolute accuracy, so that practical results
can be made available as soon as possible.
41.       These farm-level analyses should in due time be complemented by
a socio-economic analysis of various significant variables related to farmer
organizations such as small farmers groups or cooperatives, their relationships
with local administration, etc. This activity may in part be dissociated
from the farm level investigation and attached to the monitoring and eval-
uation unit effort.
1/   Appendix A of this Annex provides for a tentative identification of
selected variables which could be included in this analysis.



ANNEX 4
Page 15
Research at the Experimentation Station Level
42.       Several of the techniques which appear to have a promising poten-
tial require further testing and experimentation at the experimentation
station level. EMBRAPA would be directly responsible for carrying out the
basic and/or applied research required, establishing its program at Cruzeta
in accordance with the overall program established by the Technical Committee
and the detailed planning from the Project Unit. Because of its current
status of reorganization at the Federal level, EMBRAPA would not be expected
to fully contribute its share of the research effort until several months
after the project initiation date. However, it could be expected that the
Cruzeta station facilities would be rapidly put into use for the project
benefit as part of EMBRAPA's Northeast program, for which the Government
has also requested Bank financing. In addition, close relationships would
be expected between EMBRAPA and INFAOL, the former providing the latter
with consultant specialists when and if necessary.
Farm Trials and Experimentation
43.       The research program at the farm level would be centered on a
large number of experimentation sites located throughout the project area.
Because of the nature of the research (para 40), plots of different sizes
(for the testing of selected techniques) as well as whole farms (for the
analysis of farming systems) would be required. The project would thus
cover about 400 sites distributed in the project area, with gradual
phasing over the five-year disbursement period:
 ----------Year----------- -
1      2      3      4      5         Total
Number of Sites      40     80      80    100    100         400
The exact distribution among sub-areas and between plots and whole farms
would be established by the Project Unit, the University of Ceara and
INFAOL, following criteria of statistical representation. 1/ Besides
the experimentation activities, all sites would be used for the collec-
tion of generally relevant data (rainfall, temperature, etc.) and as sites
for meetings of extensionists and farmer groups.
44.       INFAOL would be responsible for carrying out the bulk of the
trials conducted on each site. INFAOL, a semi-public institution located
in the Northeast, has developed considerable experience in on-farm trials
1/   For purposes ot cost calculation, each site was assumed to be about
3 ha.  Var--tions from this average can be expected for project implemen-
tation.



ANNEX 4
Page 16
work in connection with seed production for cotton and in demonstration
plots of modern technology use. Besides this experience with the North-
east Brazil agricultural environment, INFAOL benefits from its experience
in dealing with small farmers and evidences the flexibility necessary to
adjust to the expected changing needs in the research program. Furthermore,
it displays a sufficient technical and financial absorptive capacity to
undertake a large scale experimentation effort over and above its present
activities.
45.       The actual implementation would be done by INFAOL through con-
tracts with individual farmers. Under the terms of the contracts, the farmer
would essentially provide for his own labor under supervision from INFAOL
technicians. All other inputs would be provided by INFAOL, together with the
necessary investment requirements in equipment, animals or other items (e.g.,
fencing). The farmer would keep all the returns from the sales of output
produced under the particular trial. In addition, he would be ensured a
minimum guaranteed return (in case of failure of the trial) equivalent to the
returns he would have obtained on the same area without the trial. Further
details of contract arrangements should be prepared by the Technical Committee.
46.       Total manpower requirements from INFAOL after five years would
be: 1 general coordinator, 4 regional coordinators, 8 research specialists
and 20 field technicians (Annex 10, Table 3a). One man-year of consulting
service (at least initially from the University of Ceara) per year over
five years would be added to provide assistance in the program elaboration,
analysis of results and field implementation (para 38). The total cost of
the program would be approximately Cr$ 19.7 million (US$2.7 million) over
5 years. Project costs would cover salaries and training of the additional
manpower required, equipment (especially vehicles), on-farm investments
and operating costs (including labor).
Special Cases: Small Equipment - Small Dams
47.       The testing of equipment for animal traction can be separated in
two parts: (a) the estimation of the effect of cultivation practices with
various kinds of small equipment on crop yields (this can be part of the
testing at the farm level); (b) the testing of equipment per se (handiness,
necessary adaptation, adjusting, time studies, etc.) which can be performed
in any field (Ministry of Agriculture farms, INFAOL traditional fields).
Testing should be made on several types of equipment imported from Southern
Brazil and/or other countries with similar natural conditions as RN, e.g.,
European countries (Italy, Spain), African countries (Algeria, Senegal)
or others. Depending upon the first results of testing, the local opportu-
nities for manufacturing adapted sets of equipment may be investigated.
48.       Small dams are very important in the farming system (para 34) in
terms of production and security, especially during drought years. Besides
experimentation on selected crops on receding shorelines, small dams could



ANNEX 4
Page 17
be the subject of a sample survey designed to evaluate and analyze their
general technical and economic impact on: (a) ecological conditions, (b)
cattle production; (c) cultivated area around the reservoir (subsiding
and/or irrigated); and (d) area under irrigation below the catchment. In
addition, the selection of a few (two or three) dams could be useful to
test and analyze possible improvements in water usage, including water
consumption (human and animal), irrigation by small pumps and fish breeding.
49.       The eventual programs referring to these two special cases would
be defined and elaborated by the Project Unit Technical Adviser for approval
by the Technical Committee for implementation by subsequently selected agencies
(consultants, DNOCS, etc.).
Tentative First-Year Program
50.       The first year program should be conceived as a phase of elabora-
tion and consolidation. It should especially focus on:
(a) Finalizing the institutional and organizational arrange-
ments, through the establishment of "convenios" among
the different parties involved e.g. Project Unit,
INFAOL, University of Ceara, ANCAR/RN.  Considerable
progress has already been achieved in this direction;
(b) Building the capabilities for implementation and
analysis through recruitment and training of per-
sonnel, establishment of the field organization
network, identification of the variables to be
tested, and preparation of recording documents;
(c) Establishing the exact methodologies to be used,
especially for farm sample selection and analysis
of results; 1/ and
(d) Initiating implementation in selected areas, with
the selection of sites (farms and plots), establish-
ment of contracts with farmers, elaboration of the
farmer's work plan, supply of necessary inputs,
supervision of work and data collection.
51.    . The timing of this program should take into account the cycle of
cotton and food crops (both rainfed and on receding shorelines). The first
set of results relating to yields would be available in July (beans),
September (corn and sorghum), October - November (cotton), and January -
February (crops on receding shorelines). The work program for each crop
1/   An inventory  E existing research data should be conducted in the early
stages of this preparation.



ANNEX 4
Page 18
should be established accordingly. In addition, several of the variables
tested are highly dependent on the rainfall pattern during the test period.
The identification of variables should therefore clearly separate variables
according to their sensitivity to rainfall probability. Finally, a full
investigation and data collection refers to variables ahich can be analyzed
independently of the crop cycle and the rainfall pattern (equipment, socio-
logical studies, etc.) and should be dealt with accordingly. Appendix 2
provides for a tentative time schedule of the various activities to be under-
taken in year 1 of the program.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPME14T PROJECT
Tentative Selection of Variables
Plot  Level                                                        Farm Level - 
Research Itetr              Example of Test                        Characteristics          Research Variables
i;r7 ^.ctivities   Perennial Cotton by year      1st. yr.cotton
Crop associationi
3 crops traditional         cotton + corn + beans                 Land  total. area       Tenure arrangemfents
3 crops newr                cotton + sorghum + beans                    cultivated area  Land utilization
2 crops                     cotton + beans                                                 Crop distribit-ion
Crops on receding shoreline  beans, sweet potatoes
Sorghum                                                             Labor  family labor    Management
Annual cotton                                                               hired labor      Labor productivi Lty
Varlables         Rain data
Soils                         valley bottom, high land
Sewing                        planting time, replanting
Seeds                         density
variety, chemical treatment
Fertilization                 organic, chemical                     Capital  equipment      Physical inp-uLs
Practices          Clearing                      with or without stump removal                   cattle         Storage
Soil preparation              retaining furrows, contour                      work animals
lining                                Economic variables      Costs
Weeding                       date, number, quality                           prices         Receipts
(manual, mechanical)                           co3ts          FaRm Income
Spraying                      time, nunmber                                                  Non-Farm Income
Animal Traction               soil preparation, sowing,                                      AgrNcFltural credit
weeding, transport
These lists are by no means exhaustive.  They represent a first attempt which should be elaborated in
detail by the Project Unit, INFAOL and the University of Ceara.



NORThAST &AZIL
RIO GRAIE DO N2M   WIAEL PEBY3JP)IKT PROZCT
Tentative Time Socedule for First rear Progrqmi
Cotton Cycle                                                           4.p.rd.                            iare t   *    Peeraton
Rainfed Food Crops Cycle                                                     rt
Food Crops on Receding Shorelines                                                                   Pl ...,      - z  -  ±f b4 - _ 
J   J   A   S   U   N   D   J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S   0   N   D   J   F   M
PROJECT UNIT
Preparation Work
Convenio UFC
Convenio INFAOL                                    -
Analysis of results
New Extension Program
New Investigation Program                                                                                       _-
UNIVERSITY OF CEARA
Inventorv of Research
Methodology
INFAOL Staff Training                                     a-.
Consulting Time                                                     ,Jto 
Computerization                                                                                                  - - -_-
Analysis of Results                                                                                        -
INFAOL
Recruitment and Training
Field Organization Set-up
Farm Sample Selection - Contracts                             -
Farm Supplies
Implementation                                                      *_ __ _ __                 _ __ _
Sending of Data
CD
TECHNICAL COMMITTEE                                                                                                                                              q
Preparation Meeting                              C-                                                                                                   8 C_
Conclusion Meeting                                                                                            --



I'NKEX 5
.'aye 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health
A. Introduction
1.        The health component of rural development projects not only contri-
butes directly to social welfare as the final aim of development, but is also
highly complementary to the directly productive investments. Better health
will increase labor availability and productivity, improve learning ability
and avoid treatment costs. Moreover, basic health services and environmental
sanitation are rated highly by rural communities and participation fostered
through community involvement in the construction and operation of such facil-
ities may be the first step in the acceptance of directly productive components
of the rural development package.
2.        However, the indirectly productive impact of health services and
environmental sanitation is difficult to measure. This adds to the importance
of making sure that health components of rural development projects are cost-
effective and potentially replicable over broader areas. This in turn implies
emphasis on low-cost, environmental and preventive services at the community
level, assuring wide coverage of the rural population and relying heavily on
personnel who live and work in the community.
3.        This Annex deals with, (a) health status and disease pattern in the
project area, (b) the organization and resources of the rural health sector
in Rio Grande do Norte, (c) effectiveness and limitations of the rural health
care system in the project area and the major issues for rural health policy,
(d) the proposed expansion and improvement of the rural health delivery system
in a selected sub-area of the project, and (e) the potential second phase ex-
pansion to the balance of the project area.
B. Health Status
(a) Basic Demographic Indicators
4.        Compared to Brazilian national averages, the Northeast of Brazil
has a much lower per capita income and reports markedly lower health status
indicators: life expectancy at birth is about 49 years (versus 61 for all
of Brazil), infant mortality 137 per 1,000 live births (versus 75) and the
crude death rate of 18 (versus 10). The 1960-70 crude birth rate of at
least 44 per 1,000 was considerably higher than the Brazilian average of
38.3.



AKNEX 5
Page 2
5.        In Rio Grande do Norte (RP), the 1960-70 population growth rate was
almost 3.0% per year, with urban and rural populations expanding at 5.3% and
1.2%, respectively. Available data for Natal indicate an infant mortality
rate of 161 per 1,000 live births in 1968-73, with rural rates estimated to
be even higher. 1/
(b) Disease Pattern
6.        Communicable diseases remain the principal health problem in the
rural Northeast, particularly among children under five years of age. Although
data are of only limited reliability because of under-reporting, primarily in
rural areas, and mis-reporting due to confounding underlying and associated
causes, they convey a picture of leading causes of mortality and morbidity.
Enteritis and other diarrheal diseases, influenza and pneumonia are the most
prevalent diseases for all age groups. 2/ Tuberculosis, measles, hepatitis,
whooping cough, diphtheria, Chagas Disease, and meningitis are still major
illnesses. 3/ Schistosomiasis is prevalent in the humid coastal belt of RNT.
7.        Malnutrition is a major underlying or associated cause of mortality
in children under five years of age. 4/ For example, an investigation of the
nutritional status of children in rural RN (Varzea) revealed that in 1973
41% of children of ages 0-5 suffered from nutritional deficiency of Grade I
(according to the Gomez scale), and 16% and 6% of Grades II and III, re-
spectively. 5/ Protein malnutrition and vitamin A deficiency were the most
prevalent.
8.        Most of the diseases in rural RN are amenable to simple, low-cost
interventions in the fields of preventive medicine and environmental sanita-
tion (paras. 28 ff.).
1/   Foundation SESP data for the mid-sixties indicate an infant mortality
rate of 224 for Natal and 409 for the interior of RN. However, these
figures probably reflect some under-reporting of births, primarily in
rural areas, i.e., parents register a child's birth only concomitantly
with its death.
2/   According to a 1969 PAHO investigation in Recife, diarrheal diseases
accounted for 31.2% of deaths in the 0-5 age bracket, measles for 16.1%
and pneumonia for 10.6%.
3/   According to reported cases of communicable diseases of both State
Secretariat of Health and Foundation SESP, measles shows highest inci-
dence, followed by tuberculosis, infectious hepatitis, whooping cough
and diphtheria.
4/   According to PAHO, nutritional deficiency was an underlying or associated
cause in 46.2% of deaths in the 0-5 age bracket in Recife in 1969.
5/   In the Gomez scale, Grade I corresponds to least severe malnutrition,
Grade II to more serious and Grade III to most serious malnutrition.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
C. Organization and Resources of the Rural Health Sector
9.        The effectiveness of RN's rural health delivery system, including
both medical services and environmental sanitation, is seriously affected by
duplication and inefficiency of the organizational set-up as well as by
limited availability and misallocation of financial, physical and human re-
sources. The following examines organization and resources of the rural
health sector.
(a) Institutional Framework
10.       The health sector in Brazil is characterized by a large number of
private organizations and of government and semi-autonomous entities at
federal, state and municipal levels, which in some cases even address the
same target groups, operate in the same areas and perform the same functions.
Their uncoordinated, parallel activities result in duplication of efforts, in-
effective operations and waste of resources. Basic needs of the rural popula-
tion remain unattended. The recent upgrading of the social insurance system
with the creation of a Ministry for Social Security is not expected to signi-
ficantly improve health sector administration. 1/
11.       The main public agencies involved in both development and operation
of health services in rural RN are the State Department for Public Health
(Health Department) 2/, the Foundation for Public Health Services (Foundation
SESP), 3/ the Extension Service (ANCAR/RN), and the Rural University Center for
Training and Community Development (CRUTAC). 4/ The Fund for Assistance of
Rural Workers (FUNRURAL) 5/ finances and provides health services to the rural
population through agreements and contracts with other government agencies and
the private sector. Foreign donor agencies, mainly CARITAS and UNICEF, provide
material and financial assistance. Under a 1973 agreement with the State Gov-
ernment, the private Brazilian Society for Family Welfare (BEMIFAMI) 6/ is devel-
oping a state-wide family planning program.
12.       The Health Department is responsible for planning, coordinating and
executing health programs at the state level. With the assistance of SUDENE,
planning capacity has been improved by the establishment of Planning Unit
(ASPLAN) 7/ and the division of the State into six Health Regions 8/ in order
to decentralize and increase effectiveness of health services administration.
Regions include between 16 and 35 municipios and will be centered around a
regional hospital.
1/   The Ministry of Health is primarily responsible for health sector policy
formulation and coordination, development and control of norms and stand-
ards, and special programs. The Ministry of Education is responsible for
health sector research.
2/   Secretaria i.stadual de Saude Publica, or SESP.
_/   Fundacao S- vicos de Saude Publica, or F.SESP.
4/   Centro Rural Universitario de Treinamento e Acao Comunitaria.
5/   Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural.
6/   Sociedade Civil de Bem-Estar Familiar no Brasil.
7/   Assesoria de Planejamento/Secretaria de Saude.
8/   Regioes de Saude.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Chart 1: Regions for Health Services Administration in RNl
,~~ _         __                                                                                         ___
E "ODOROANDE no MoRrtE
MICRO -_-  gCoIt _     -
I   -'IoI'                                                                                                                               I '
I s  t.~1~ s, S 1 -                    *Z~    1            '                    1'''''                                             - '
f I J - ' %-t- - 1 f g_ 0 rr' 1                                                     _   s          '.
7                         <~~~
l          *5^           --- ' - ' r t. - y  - ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 'l.'%,'I ----; - .s  - S                      
'I0
I *-RSt-.ui4l*Rafl.S  wo. _  _   ,            I                         &
* .1.750 Sc £S.I              iis oe--~ -oe   ,_      k ,     
.   .t*S&5000 ; ... ...n. ..;... 
X0 *SlsTtt *OtI*US                            '                                                     S..sJ  
l -- ---'  !                                      0   ...  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Chart 1 gives the Health Regions by municipios and relates them to the Project
area, which falls into several such regions. Health Region 3, however, coin-
cides with the Serido sub-area of the Project.
13.       Foundation SESP is a semi-autonomous federal agency which comes under
the Ministry of Health. Its objectives are to provide health care and environ-
mental sanitation in remote and in new areas of the country (e.g., along the
Transamazon Highway), to train technical and auxiliary health personnel and
to conduct related research and surveys. Despite recent heavy involvement in
the Amazon, the bulk of activities are being developed in the Northeast.
Since its establishment in 1942, 1/ Foundation SESP has won the reputation
of being an efficiently managed agency with successful, comprehensive programs,
including curative and preventive primary care as well as environmental
sanitation. Its status as a Foundation by-and- Large prevents political staff
appointments and ensures continuity of leadership. On the other hand, the
structure of its organization is very centralized with little flexibility
at state and field levels. In RN, Foundation SESP is represented by a Regional
Office in Natal, which supervises and coordinates a network of health
centers, a training center for auxiliary personnel, sanitation programs, and
joint (disease-specific) programs with the State government.
14.       The organizational structure of ANCAR/RN - as one of the main
agencies involved in the Rural Development Project - is described elsewhere.
Through its social extension unit, ANCAR/RN develops and operates a health
minipost network in close collaboration with Foundation SESP and with some
coordination with the Health Department.
15.       Established in 1966, CRUTAC is an "interiorization" program of the
Federal University of RN, providing graduate students with compulsory training
and practical experience in the rural environment, and providing communities
of three selected regions, comprising between 8 and 11 municipios each, with
services in the fields of education, health services, environmental sanitation,
home economics, legal counseling, administration and community development.
The program is being directed by a Central Office at the University in Natal
and Regional Offices with participation of local representatives. In health,
there are regional hospitals and community health posts, with emphasis on
outreach, preventive services and collaboration with the Health Department
and FUNRURAL. Five municipios of the Santa Cruz Region are within the Project
area.
16.       FUNRURAL is a semi-:-utonomous entity which comes under the recently
created Ministry for Social Security and Assistance. 2/ Having undergone sev-
eral changes since being established in 1963, it now extends the provision of
1/   Based on an agreement betweer Lne Brazilian and the U.S. Government
which envisaged the delivery of curative and preventive (anti-malaria)
health services for the workers employed in the strategic rubber pro-
duction in the Amazon.
2/   Ministerio de Previdencia e Assistencia Social, or MPAS.



ANNEX 5
both pension benefits and health services to rural workers and smallholders.
The target group does not contribute to the financing of the program. Funds
are being collected through a 2% sales tax on agricultural products and a
2. 4% payroll tax for all--primarily urban--corporate employees.  In RN,
FUNRURAL has a Regional Office in Natal and 15 local o'fices of which the ones
in Santa Cruz, Currais Novos, Jardim do Serido, Caico and Pau de Ferros cover
the Project area. There are about 40,000 beneficiaries among the rural popu-
lation. In health, FUNRURAL finances and provides mainly curative services
through agreements with public and private hospitals and ambulatory care
centers.
(b) Health Expenditures of Public Sector
17.       As in other Latin American countries, health sector expenditures
show a marked imbalance between the relatively large amounts spent by the
Social Security system on medical care for the insured segments of the urban
population and the resources available for general health services for the
urban and rural poor. According to available data for 1971, national health
expenditure of the public sector was about US$10.50 per capita, of which the
Federal Government spent 12% 1/, state governments (primarily Sao Paulo and
Guanabara) 27%, municipios 5% and Social Security 54%.
18.       Data on rural health expenditures in RN are of only limited avail-
ability and reliability. The Health Department had total 1974 revenues 2/ of
US$3.45 million or about US$2.20 per capita. Most of these resources are being
spent in the major urban centers, primarily Natal. In 1974, FUNRURAL spent
about US$1 million on health services for the families of its 40,000 rural
beneficiaries, which is about US$4 per beneficiary family member of US$1.30
per capita of total rural population. Foundation SESP expenditures on sanita-
tion and health care are estimated to be approximately US$900 thousand of .
which more than 50% are being spent on urban population in the interior of RN.
19.       Municipios in RN, finally, spent between 2.1% and 28.8% of 1973
revenues on health care, with poorer municipalities allocating a much higher
proportion of resources to health than relatively richer ones (e.g., in
Jucurutu, 28.8%, compared to Natal, 2.2% and Caico 6.5%). In per capita
terms, health care expenditures of municipios range from US$0.15 to US$2,
with rural per capita expenditure estimated to be much lower. Considering
all different sources, it is estimated that total health expenditures of
the public sector in rural areas of RN are roughly US$2 per capita. Ex-
cluding FUNRURAL beneficiaries, this average is much lower.
1/   But the Ministry of Health spent only 5.3% of total public health
expenditures.
2/   Including Federal Ministry of Health transfers and Social Security
contracts.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(c) Health Facilities and Water Supply Systems
20.       Table 1 gives the distribution of hospital beds, health centers and
posts, small community health posts and water supply systems by administrative
health regions (see Chart 1).  With the exception of Region VI (Pau dos Ferros,
Umarizal), it shows a strong positive correlation between proportion of rural
population and population per hospital bed. There is a relatively large supply
of hospital beds. 1/ However, health centers and posts provide services to be-
tween 10,000 and more than 70,000 people; community health posts, designed to
serve about 1,000 persons, are virtually lacking in most rural areas. Con-
sidering the fact that the averages for Regions I (Natal) and II (Mossoro)
are distorted by the inclusion of major urban centers, the rural population
of Region III (Serido), which corresponds to Project sub-area II, seems to
have the best supply of health facilities. However, this does not necessarily
imply superior quality of services or even better health status.
21.       Nearly 75% of hospitals but only 52% of bed capacity belong to the
private sector. In the public sector, health facilities are operated by
federal, state and municipal agencies. Foundation SESP has ten health
centers in the interior, of which the ones in Angicos, Santa Cruz, Currais
Novos and Serra Negra do Norte fall into the Project area. ANCAR/RN operates
52 health miniposts. Of these 28 are in the Project area. The university
program CRUTAC maintains 3 regional hospitals and about 30 simple satellite
outposts. The Santa Cruz hospital is in the Project area. FUNRURAL has
contracts with 70 hospitals and 15 outpatient facilities, buying services
for its beneficiaries.
22.       In Table 1, the water supply systems with house connections are
all urban and include only 16% of municipios. Only Natal has a sewerage'
system. The other municipios usually have tubewells for their urban popula-
tion. But there is virtual lack of safe rural water supply and households
have to rely on treating their drinking water. As shown, prevalence of water-
borne diseases is high.
(d) Health Manpower
23.       In 1971, Brazilian averages were 1 physician per 1,330 population,
1 nurse per 11,100, and 1 auxiliary per 1,040. While the population/manpower
ratios for state capitals were estimated to be 530 for physicians, 3,450 for
nurses and 540 for auxiliaries, the corresponding ratios for the interior
(including urban areas) were 2,270 people per physician, 33,330 per nurse
and 1,390 per auxiliary. However, these figures still mask considerable
differences between urban and rural areas of the Brazilian interior.
24.       In primerily rural areas of RN, the population/physician ratio is
estimated to be abcat 16,700, compared to 710 in Natal. Table 2 gives the dis-
tribution of health personnel, employed by the Health Department, between the
1/   However, most hospitals are of very poor standards.



Table 1: Distribution of Health Facilities and Water
Supply Systems by RN Health Regions,  7T3/774
Rural
Population      Percentage
Administrative           Percentage   Population per Hospital Bed   Population             per Rural       Population
Health                   Rural                                         per Health          Health          with Water
Region                   Population      Maternity  Other  Total       Center & Post       Minipost        supply @
I                           38.2          1,580        370    300         18,360             28,055          28.2
II                          42.3          2,065        870    610         73,945             18,765          19.9
lII                         55.7          1,135      2,835    810         10,125              9,110          13.5
IV                          72.2          3,815      3,755  1,890         10,645             23,055           1.4
V                           58.4          1,785      2,135    975          19,650            11,475           5.6
VI                          71.6          1,595      1,985    885         11,455             23,240           3.9
State                       51.6          1,730        735    515         15,255             17,735          15.9
@ House connections, 1974.
Source: ASPLAN/Secretaria de Saude
t12



ANNEX 5
Page 9
capital and the interior of the state. Accounting for less than 20% of popula-
tion, Natal has between 57% and 100% of the Health Department's personnel in
the various categories.
Table 2: Regional Distribution of Health Department Manpower, 1974
Natal     Interior
__%---
(Population)                                                   (17)         (83)
Physicians                                                      58           42
Dentists                                                        77           23
Nurses                                                          90           10
Nutritionists                                                  100           -
Auxiliary Nurses                                               100           -
Sa"itary Inspectors                                            100           -
Auxiliary Sanitarians                                          100           -
General Auxiliaries                                             88           12
General Services and Administrative Personnel                   89           11
Source:   Secretaria de Saude.
25.       In contrast, Foundation SESP pays attractive salaries for interior-
based personnel and its ten health centers are well staffed with physicians,
nurses and auxiliaries. ANCAR/RN has 52 community health workers staffing
miniposts. CRUTAC has a small permanent staff at regional hospitals and works
primarily through its students doing ruraL service. Since mid-1973, BEMFAM
has trained more than 500 volunteers as educators and distributors for its
family planning program, of which 45% were teachers, 17% nurses and community
health workers, 8% midwives and 30% other community leaders.
D. Rural Health Delivery in the Project Area
26.       Despite innovative approaches at the grass roots level, availability,
accessibility and quality of basic health services in the Project area are
still very poor. The major causes are:
(a) The virtual lack of minimum standard water supply and sewage
disposal facilities;
(b) The very limited coverage by the lowest tier of the rural
health system, i.e., the community health posts with emphasis
on outreach preventive services, including promotion of envi-
ronmental sanitaticn atd Improved nutrition;



MNNEX 5
Page 10
(c) The lack of integration of the community health level with
higher tiers of the system; and
(d) The ineffective operation of the higher levels of health care
in primarily rural areas, i.e., health centers a-c1 small hospitals.
27.       In the following, emphasis is placed on the analysis of services
provided to small rural communities, i.e., ANCAR/RN's health minipost approach,
rather than on the assessment of health care in the urban seats of project area
municipalities. However, health centers located in urban areas are analyzed
as referral, supervision and manpower training points for the community-based
health system.
(a) Basic Health Services at the Community Level
28.       Based on its experience in working with rural populations in the
fields of agricultural and social extension, ANCAR/RN in 1968 started a rural
community health program in close collaboration with Foundation SESP. The pro-
gram aimed at (i) achieving active community involvement in health promotion,
(ii) providing low-cost services with emphasis on prevention, (iii) increasing
coverage of rural population through community-based health miniposts and out-
reach services, (iv) training persons from and selected by the local community
as health workers, and (v) providing back-up support through health centers,
operated by Foundation SESP and the Department of Health.
29.       This innovative approach proved to be highly successful in terms of
social acceptability, motivation of health workers and apparently also cost-
effectiveness. It has meanwhile been adopted by ANCAR agencies in other
Northeastern states and has recently drawn the attention of the Federal gov-
ernment, which shows increasing commitment to rural health policy. However,
while Foundation SESP has been able to contribute considerable expertise on
the predominantly medical issues (e.g., the activity-mix of health workers),
lack of experience and difficulties in financing, operating, managing and
integrating the system still pose serious constraints on program effective-
ness.
30.       Chart 2 gives the location of the 28 existing ANCAR/RN health mini-
posts and of their supporting Department of Health and Foundation SESP health
centers.
(i) Community Participation
31.       The establishment of a health minipost requires (i) a small rural
agglomeration which serves as a center for a rural community, (ii) the per-
ceived and expressed need of the population for community-based, simple health
care, (iii) an accessible health center, and (iv) the collaboration of the
local municipio administration (Prefeitura). Usually the social extensionists



Chart 2:    Location of ANCAR/RN Health Miniposts and of Department of
Health and Foundation SESP Health Centers Serving Project Area
- ' '  Lt6t"D          . G E                       |       O N O                  b                   t8E - t Et'EN A
*   ., afl,v  tt
-4 .c,.ag.'6a                                     -         -   -  /  -1----    -  A-   -    j             -DE.E.
,.   c0^04  .   .   /   ,       '  \X                         f              !__14' _,
He-al i:h Miniposts                                                      
&  He;;lth Ceniters, F. SESP   ,        t- -&                                               E.STAU'$ PO
;  WA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
R Ha4i|th Centers , Health DtEpt.                                             RIC)]H5'    G 'RAN DE  DO( NORrri E
8                          ,IVISaO INICIPAL
9 -        '-j~~                      &MICRO-REGOES 1Q,IoGtNEAS
-~~~ ;                              %        - 9--;> '--           '



ANNEX 5
Page 12
of ANCAR/RN start and stimulate the process, selecting communities, promoting
community awareness of health needs and assisting in the formation of a
Health Society. 1/
32.       Central points of such rural communities are (i) minor settlements
of smallholders, sharecroppers and laborers on former or actual, larger 2/ or
smaller 3/ farms, usually providing a marketplace, school and church; (ii) small
villages which in some cases are sub-districts of larger municipios, or (iii)
seats of small municipios. Category I communities typically comprise some 80
to 150 families within a radius of a few kilometers. Among the community
health schemes visited, examples are Povoado Cruz (Mfunicipio Currais Novos)
and Juazeiro (Parelhas) with about 500 and 640 people, respectively. In
contrast, examples for Category III are the small municipios around Umarizal:
Lucrecia with some 900 urban and 2,400 rural population, Vicosa with 390 urban
and 580 rural people, Riacho da Cruz with 970 and 1,500 and, finally, Olho
d'Agua dos Borges with some 900 urban and 2,800 rural population.
33.       Relative to other countries, the social acceptability of the
community health approach appears to pose no serious problems. After support
of local opinion-leaders in this field (mainly traditional midwives and
primary school teachers but also larger farmers, heads of municipalities and
physicians) is ensured, objectives, activities and requirements are discussed
with the community. Experience to date suggests that the need for MCH,
immunizations nutrition education and supervision of environmental sanitation
as well as the advantages of the community approach are being easily perceived
by the target group. In most cases, the majority of the population living in
the immediate vicinity of the post (village) join the Health Society immediately.
Membership of the scattered segments of the community, living in a distance of
more than about 1-1.5 kilometers, varies widely but is usually low. Notwith-
standing, they seek and receive the services offered.
34.       Among the Umarizal health societies (see para 31), for example,
Lucrecia had a membership of 80 families, Vicosa 56 "urban" and only 8 "rural"
families, Riacho da Cruz 46 and Olho d'Agua dos Borges a high membership of
nearly 450. In a sample of 18 health societies, the average number of members
was 124 families, ranging from 40 to 450.
35.       All Health Societies function as pre-paid cooperatives.  The majority
are also registered, non-profit corporations, with by-laws regulating activ-
ities. The four-member management 4/ is elected annually and is usually com-
posed of teachers, heads of municipalities and influential farmers. Monthly
membership contributions vary between societies, and in 1974 ranged from Cr $1
1/   Sociedade de Saude.
2/   Fazendas.
3/   Sitios.
4/   President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer.



ANNEX 5
Page 13
to 2 (US cents 15-30). Members select a person from the community to be trained
as a local, minipost-based health worker. Meetings are held monthly and are
also attended by non-members as discussions include non-health conmmunity pro-
blems. In some cases, activities include fund-raising festivities and the
Societies resemble more general, community development foci.
(ii) The Health Minipost
36.       In most cases, the health minipost is located in one or two annex
rooms to schools, churches, storage buildings or homes. Frequently simple
mud buildings are renovated and adapted by the community at very low cost.
The size of such miniposts varies from about 20m2 to 50m2. They are owned
or rented by the Health Society. In some cases, municipalities pay for the
construction of larger, brick-built posts, comprising 3-4 rooms. In the
case of renovating existing structures, ANCAR/RN estimated the 1974 average
unit cost to be about Cr$1,370 (US$190).
37.       The minipost has only the modest elementary equipment, i.e., simple
furniture, syringes, tweezers, containers and materials for routine treatments.
The 1974 cost of equipment was about Cr$2,230 (US$310). Most of the equipment
of the existing miniposts was donated by UNICEF (para 11). Despite primitive
surroundings and conditions, the buildings and the equipment of all ten health
miniposts visited were well maintained and clean.
(iii) The Community Health Worker
38.       The Community Health Worker 1/ is required to (i) have completed a
primary education and be 18 to 35 years old; (ii) be elected by the members
of the Health Society; (iii) be trained for three months by Foundation SESP;
and (iv) be paid by the municipio administration. With the exception of a
few recent cases, all health workers are females. Most are selected at the
age of 17 to 20.
39.       Selection.  According to interviews with about 30 health workers--
10 selected from 1968-1973 and 20 in 1974--virtually all come from families
of smallholders, tenants or landless laborers. Despite very low pay, the job
appears to confer considerable status and to receive high preference among
village youth. Many health workers planning to become primary teachers or
nurses attend evening secondary school. Usually one to four candidates are
nominated for election. Participation in elections seems to be high.
40.    . Training.  Community health workers are trained in providing primary
and secondary care, curative and preventive services for three months in groups
of about 20 at the comprehensive and integrated care center (Unidade Mista) of
Foundation SESP in Acu (Central RN), which has 24 beds 2/ and 4 physicians.
Every year, they attend 15-day refresher courses at health centers of
1/   Orientador(a) de Saude.
2/   Of the 24 beds, 8 are maternity, 12 pediatrics and 4 general.



ANNEX 5
Page 14
Foundation SESP or the Department of Health in their region and once a month,
they gather at their supporting health center and receive instructions. Com-
pared to the initial training, however, refresher and in-service training
courses seem to be poorly structured and held rather irregularly.
41.       The three-month training is divided into didactic and clinical
classes. Foundation SESP developed the curriculum and a well-structured
200-paged textbook with simple but precise language. Didactic classes deal
with:
(a) Terminology and concepts.of epidemiology (7 pages);
(b) Communicable diseases, the major 21 grouped by modes of
transmission: infectious agent, reservoir, source of in-
fection, mode of transmission, incubation period, period
of communicability, symptoms and diagnosis, resistance and
susceptibility, occurrence and mortality rate, methods of
control by prevention and by control of patient and his
immediate environment (40 pages);
(c) Immunization; types and techniques (2 pages);
(d) Nursing techniques and application of pharmaceuticals (16 pages);
(e) Vital signs (6 pages);
(f) Laboratory tests (3 pages);
(g) MCH; including supervision of traditional midwives and home
visits (11 pages);
(h)  Environmental sanitation and personal hygiene, including water
supply and waste disposal (7 pages);
(i) Public health: concepts, activities, manpower and attitudes
(5 pages);
(j) Social psychology (20 pages);
(k) Use of audio-visual materials (7 pages);
(1) Nutrition: concepts, nutrition for infants, under-fives and
during pregnancy; taboos; food preparation (26 pages):
(m)  Use of short scripts for giving health and. nutrition education
classes (20 pages); and
(n) Monthly recocding system (10 pages).



ANTNEX 5
Page 15
42.       Clinical classes give the health workers in-service training in the
different sections of the health center, particularly in MCII, ambulatory care,
laboratory and archives, as well as in outreach services by assisting auxiliary
nurses of the health center in home visiting programs. The--e are weekly tests.
43.       The three month training cost of Cr$2,625 (US$365) per worker (see
para. 79) including transportation and boarding, is covered by the federal
PIPMO 1/ training program, by some municipio administrations and by community
Health Societies, which in 1974 contributed Cr$325 (US$45) per selected health
worker.
44.       Aiming at integration of traditional and official sectors, ANCAR/Rl's
community health approach also includes brief training of traditional sector
midwives for three-six days at health centers of Foundation SESP and SSP. They
then receive back-up support from the community health workers. So far only
a relatively small number of traditional midwives has been trained.
45.       Since both ANCAR/RN and Foundation SESP come under federal ministries,
community health workers do not receive training in family planning. However,
being paid by municipios, they subsequently are asked by heads of municipalities
and the Department of Health to participate in BEMFAM training programs. 2/ A
large number of health workers received BEMFA,M's three days training in Natal.
(iv) Community Health Activities
46.       As indicated by the curriculum, the emphasis of health services pro-
vided at the community level is being placed upon MCH, immunizations, nutri-
tion, health education and environmental sanitation. A Manual of Instructions,
prepared by ANCAR/RN, Foundation SESP and the Health Department, lists specific
activities, which are summarized in Table 3.
47.       In MCH, the formation of "Mothers' Clubs" and the annual "Minipost
Baby Contest" 3/ proved to be effective in promoting community participation.
In what has become a popular program, contests take place at local, municipal,
regional and finally, state levels and the winning infant or child is deter-
mined according to history and criteria of nutrition, immunization, hygiene,
education and behavior. Prizes given by both public and commercial sectors,
are relatively valuable. In MCH and nutrition, miniposts administer the food
supplementation efforts of the Federal Ministry of Health 4/ and CARITAS. Most
health workers give advice on birth control and distribute contraceptive pills,
supplied by BEMFAM, although these services are not contained in the Manual.
1/   Programa Intensivo de Preparacao de Mao-de-Obra, which comes under the
Ministry of Education (MEC).
2/   BEMFAM has a formal agreement only with the state government of RN
(para 11), but there is no federal population policy.
3/   Concurso Bebe Miniposto.
4/   These efforts have not yet become a regular, larger-scale program.



Table 3
NOIHEIEAST BRAZIL
RIO GCMAN  DO NORTE RIURL DNVELOPIUT PNWJGT
Astivttlea of Cceusity Health Worke
PROGMAM                               ACTIVITIES                                     POGRAM                                   ACTIVITIES                                 PROGRAM                                      ACTIVITIES
Prental Care             Registration of pregnant wvomen                        Care of school children           Registration of school children                   Environmental sanitation            Education and motivation of famili  s
Collection and shipment of blood specimen             and adults                         Tetanus and asallpom  van-inationa                                                    to  Onstrtion of privies, Waer treat-
to Health Center for VDRL (syphilis)                                                    Health education clauses and training                                                 ment and garbage disposal
testing                                                                                 supervisors for hygiene in schools                                                     Distribution of iodine fo  Wte  treat-
Syphilis treatment                                                                       Preparation of teachers and school                                                    ment
*Tetanus vaccination                                                                     childreen for tuherculin test and BCG                                                . P...ote techniq.en of lodising, boiling
* Urin olysis                                                                            vaccination, administered by Health                                                   and filtrating mter, and of privy
*Referral of albumin mcsas                                                               Center tea.                                                                            hygiene
Health education in hygiene and breast-                                                 Referral of tuberculosis cases                                                         Environmental sanitation survey
feeding                                                                               . Distribution of medications for and
Recording on F.  SESP form                                                               control of tuberculosis patients
Administration of medication according
to physician's prescriptiota
Referral of dental cases
Firct.aid
Recording on F SESP forme
Orientation and           Registration of midwives                               Nutrition                         Nutrition surveys                                 Date collection and                 Epidemiological turveillac
supervision of            Orientation of midwives, together                                                        Incentives for production and                     reporting                         . Recording of birth,   ases, actvites, etc
traditional mid-          with Health Center personnel                                                             conservation of nutritious foods                                                      Reporting to Health Cetr
wives                     Provision of basic supplies to midwives                                                  Nutrition education of food
Supervision of work of midwives during                                                  preparation
nen-natal home visit                                                                    Organi-stion of school feeding
Tuberculin test, tetanus and smallpom                                                   programs
vancination, and control of health                                                      Distribution of garden seeds
status of midwives
Collaboration with midwives in pre-
natal education
Collaboration with nidwives to identify
and control cases of puerperal fever,
umbilical tetanus nd ophthalmic neonastoum
Report such eases to Health Center
Renording on F. SESP forna
Care of children          Registration                                           Health education                  Collaboration with Health Center                  FaPily planning                     Promotion of birth control
under five                Home visit after birth: hygiene, feeding                                                 in classes for midwives, manage-                  (not listed in                      Education in family planning
Administration of Crede's treatment (to                                                 ment of Health Society, and teachers                 snual)*. Advising on birth control methods
prevent ophthalmie neonstorum                                                           Preparation of audio-visual meterials                                                  Distribution of contraceptive pills
V Eccinatios progran (5 visits) after hO0                                                Distribution of lsaflet.; posters, etc..
days: BCG, DPT, Sabin, snallpor, measles                                                Participation in Health Society
Regular check-ups                                                                       meetings
Referral of cases with counicable                                                       Hom  visits
diseases, acute diarrhea and dehydration
Registration of 2-24 -notha olds for                                                                                                                                                                                               '°
state-wide "Minipost Baby Contest" (par.47)r
Recording on F. SESP form, sT
* Not supported by federal- agencies; not performed
by all counity workers



ANNEX 5
Page 17
48.       Health workers usually attend people at the minipost during the
morning and visit homes in the afternoon. In many cases, however, home
visits seem to be performed on a somewhat irregular basis (see para. 50).
Health workers typically give one health education class per week in schools.
Once a month they visit the health center (para. 61), in order to receive
supplies (vaccines) and instructions, and to buy minor sanitary material.
(v) Coverage and Utilization
49.       Interviews and records indicate that the spatial coverage of com-
munity health schemes varies more between miniposts than according to type
of service provided. This seems to iiiply that both preventive and curative
care are rated highly by the rural people but that there are significant
differences in program effectiveness between communities. In the case of a
typical minipost, practically all patients seem to come from within a radius
of 6-8 km and the vast majority from up to 3-4 km away. On the other hand,
outreach activities of the health worker typically cover a radius of only 1-2
km. The lack of transportation, e.g. a bicycle, was named as the major con-
straint.
50.       In the cases of the miniposts visited, the average utilization
rate was estimated to be more than ten cases per day, excluding outreach
activities. Records of 31 health miniposts for 1973, 1/ however, give an
average of 5.8 visits per day, of which 6% were cases of pregnant women,
23% visits of under five year-olds, and 71% cases of school children and
adults. The average number of outreach activities, including health education
classes and home visits, was only about 3.0 per week (Table 4).
51.       Table 4 presents utilization and outcome figures by different cate-
gories of services delivered for an average minipost, and for miniposts in the
Serido and Umarizal sub-areas (Juazeiro and Lucrecia). Delivery of services
shows the heavy emphasis which is being placed on prevention and considerable
efforts in the fields of health and nutrition education and environmental
sanitation. They also show, however, that performance still needs to be sub-
stantially improved. Low vaccination rates, primarily in the cases of BCG and
measles, are due to the limited supply of vaccines; low laboratory test rates
reflect deficient integration of miniposts with the health center level (para
58).
(vi) Financing of Recurrent Costs
52.       The inadequate financing of the operating costs of community health
posts constitutes one of the major constraints on program effectiveness.
Operating costs are supposed to be paid for by (i) members of the Health Society
through the prepayment scheme; (ii) non-member patients on a fee-for-service
1/   January through November 1973.  Calculations based on six working days
per week.



ANsNEX 5
Page I 8
Table 4: Health Services Delivered By Community Health Workers in 1973
Average for           Juazeiro       Lucrecia
46 Health Miniposts    (Parelhas)    (Lucrecia)
No. of families                              160                 142            132
Prenatal care
Target group                                36                  40             37
Inscriptions                                22                  22             13
VDRL test                                   15                  21             -
Urinalysis                                  35                  75
Specimen shipments and re-
ferrals to Health Center                  23                  64              4
Tetanus vaccination                         19                  10              8
Syphilis treatment                           0.3                -              -
Registration of newborn                     25                  12             33
Care of children under five
Target group'                              154                 150            139
Inscriptions                                57                  11             28
Specimen shipments and re-
ferrals to Health Center                  40                  34              2
BCG vaccination                              3                  -              -
DPT vaccination                             64                  38             35
Smallpox vaccination                        57                  46             47
Sabin vaccination                           52                  28            161
Measles vaccination                          3                    -             -
Care of school children and adults
Target group*                              614                 725            616
Specimen shipments and re-
ferrals to Health Center                   35                   4             -
Tetanus vaccination                        104                  49             31
Smallpox vaccination                       185                 263            191
Curative care: injections                  508                 137            187
Health education
Health education classes                    51                 n.a.           n.a.
Home visits                                111                 168            103
Environmental sanitation
Education on water treatment:
no. of households                         82                  62             40
Privy construction: no. of
households                                 8                  34              2
Garbage disposal: no. of
households                                 9                  47              1
Nutrition
Fruit and vegetable production:
no. of households                         38                  47              3
* Estimations of target groups based on assumed 3 km radius of
spatial coverage.
Source: ANCAR/RN



ANNEX 5
Page 19
basis; (iii) local municipio administration, paying the salary of the com-
munity health worker; and (iv) federal and state governments by providing
supplies, supervision and back-up support.
53.       In 1974, operating cost of the community health program was about
Cr$12,600 (US$1,750) per health minipost or, assuming an average coverage of
about 750 people, US$2.35 per capita. Nearly 80% of cost were for personnel.
ANCAR/RN paid for 57% of operating cost, Foundation SESP for 6.5%, Department
of Health for 13%, the municipios for 10%, the communities for 11% and "others"
for 2.5%. However, these figures are somewhat misleading inasmuch as the
bulk of these costs were incurred for the overall administration and super-
vision of the program at higher levels (e.g., ANCAR/RN's social extensionists)
rather than at the community level. Excluding costs of supervision and back-
up support, health minipost activities are basically being financed by the
community, the municipio and the federal Central Supplier of Medicaments
(CEME). 1/
54.       CEME is a relatively recent addition to national health policy and
comes under the Ministry of Health. It distributes basic drugs free of charge
to rural health centers and posts. In most cases, supplies seemed to be ade-
quate and distribution effective. However, drug prescription rules (para. 65)
prevent health miniposts from keeping a complete, basic drug inventory, unless
they have a visiting physician.
55.       Most municipalities pay extremely low salaries to the community
health workers, ranging in 1974 from Cr$50-160 (US$7-22) a month and in some
cases corresponding to less than 25% of the legal minimum wage. 2/ Payment is
usually delayed by one to three months. In some cases, salaries are not being
paid at all. A large number of health workers depend on their families or the
Health Society for support.
56.       Based on monthly membership quotas ranging from Cr$1 to 2, Health
Societies typically collect between Cr$50 and 220 (US$7.50 to 30) per month.
According to interviews, these funds only cover purchase of basic sanitary
materials and of some drugs. In some cases, income supplements of about
Cr$30 (US$4.20) per month are being paid to health workers.
57.       In virtually all miniposts visited, non-members of the Health Society
received services free. 3/ According to health workers, this led in some cases
to a reduction in membership rates. It seems to be difficult for health
workers to enforce fee-for-service payment by non-members and to prove
1/   Central de Medicamentos.
2/ According to ANCAR/RN, the average 1974 wage of a community health worker
was Cr$80 in the Umarizal sub-area and Cr$100 in the Serido sub-area.
3/   An exception was Juazeiro (Parelhas) where non-members, for example, have
to pay Cr$1.00 for an intravenous injection if administered at the health
post, and Cr$1,50 if administered at home.



ANNEX 5
Page 20
patients' capacity to pay. Primarily the more scattered segments of rural
populations, whose income is less well known, appear to take advantage of
this situation.
(b) The Health Center Level: Supervision and Referral
58.       Probably the most serious obstacle to efficiency and effectiveness
of community-based health services is posed by the virtual lack of medical
supervision by higher tiers of the official health system, i.e., health centers
of Foundation SESP and the Department of Health. Moreover, referral is poorly
organized with people depending largely on self-referral to urban hospitals.
However, non-medical back-up support is provided by ANCAR/RN in the fields of
community development and administration.
(i) Foundation SESP
59.       Although back-up support is poor in both cases, there is still a
substantial difference between quality of services provided to health mini-
posts by the under-staffed and under-financed facilities of the Health Depart-
ment (para 24) and the effectively operated health centers of Foundation SESP
(paras 13 and 25). The latter's four basic health centers 1/ in the Project
area (Chart 2) comprise outpatient and two-three bed inpatient facilities.
The relatively modern brick-building comprises several spacious rooms, which
contain all necessary equipment. The staff usually includes (i) a full-time
physician, (ii) two Auxiliary Nurses for Health Promotion (Visitadoras) 2/
with six months training, (iv) a laboratory auxiliary with seven months
training, and (v) a sanitary auxiliary with about four months training.
Motivation appears to be high.
60.       Activities heavily emphasize preventive, outreach and curative,
outpatient services for predominantly urban population, i.e., on MCH, train-
ing and supervision of midwives, immunizations, environmental sanitation,
health education (through classes in schools and home visits) and screening
of patients. Spatial coverage seems to be about 30 km, with most patients
coming from the urban vicinity. Utilization rates range from 20 to 40 cases
per day. In the case of the health center in Acu--which has large inpatient
and outpatient facilities and serves as training center for the community
health workers (para 40)--coverage is estimated to be 50-100 km and
utilization 50-60 cases per day.
61.       Because of the heavy outpatient caseload, only residual time is
allotted to supervising and supporting rural health miniposts. Visitadoras
are supposed to visit frequently community health workers but on average
visit miniposts only once a month, and then somewhat irregularly (e.g., Acu
and Angicos). In many cases, (e.g., Santa Cruz), monthly visits of community
1/ Unidade Basica de Saude/Unidade Sanitaria.
2/ Visitadora de Saneamento.



ANNEX 5
Page 21
health workers to the urban health center substitute for even these rare visits.
There they discuss their problems, attend refresher courses and receive in-
structions and materials. Experience shows that this results in extremely
poor supervision. Community health workers feel isolated with their problems,
seriously affecting motivation.
62.       In contrast, Foundation SESP's support of supply, training and re-
fresher courses, and referral seems more effective. More importantly, the
basic philosophy of Foundation SESP's health center activities and of
ANCAR/RN's community-based health services is the same, facilitating colla-
boration.
(ii) The Health Department
63.       The Health Department operates 11 health centers 1/ in the project
area (Chart 2), which serve as supervision and referral points for health
mlniposts. Buildings comprise three-five rooms and equipment is poor.
Maintenance standards are low. A physician is usually employed on a part-time
basis. In Parelhas, for example, a physican was contracted for three days
of five hours a week and paid Cr$1,550 (US$215) per month. Other staff
,includes a part-time dentist, and two auxiliary nurses 2/ per month who have
three months training and receive the minimum wage (about US$35). Grossly in-
adequate supplies of drugs, vaccines and sanitary materials were named as
another serious constraint on delivery of services. Administrative workload
appears to be excessive and poorly organized.
64.       In contrast to Foundation SESP, much emphasis is being placed by
Health Department personnel on episodic, curative services rather than on
outreach, preventive activities. These activities are basically confined to
immunization campaigns. However, services include family planning in colla-
boration with BEMFAM. Utilization rates seem to be relatively high. In
Parelhas, there were more than 50 cases per day.
65.       In most instances, support of health miniposts is limited to supply
of available materials and vaccines. In Umarizal, however, the physician
visits miniposts every two weeks for four hours, attending patients directly
rather than only serious cases screened by the health worker; this pattern
seems to be common in the sub-area. In Olho d'Agua do Borges, for example,
two physicians attend about 30 not previously attended patients every Sunday
at the health minipost. The physicians are contracted by the municipio and
paid Cr$800 (US$110) per month. This system reflects the prevailing attitude
among Hlealth Department physicians as opposed to the community health approach.
The physician remains the point of first contact and is reluctant to delegate
1/   Including the state maternity hospital in Umarizal, which is also
supervising health miniposts.
2/   Atendentes.



Page 22
responsibilities.  Obviously, there are serious detrimental effects on com-
munity health activities. People prefer to wait and to be attended by the
physician. 1/ Curative services are rated highly and prevention is neglected.
Community participation in health promotion is lacking.
(iii) ANCAR/RN
66.       The only effective support and supervision is provided by ANCAR/RN's
domestic extension service. Besides its role in selecting communities and
promoting community participation, it coordinates activities of all agencies
involved and supervises day-to-day operations at the community level. Its
support is necessarily non-medical in content. There are eight social ex-
tensionists in the Project area, i.e., in Currais Novos, Parelhas, Caico
(two), Santa Cruz, Santana dos Matos (two) and Umarizal. They all appear
highly motivated, and dedicated to community health work, and collaborate
effectively with the community health workers. Usually they visit health
miniposts once a week. The lack of transportation is the most serious
constraint on their effectiveness. Most depend on their male extensionist
counterparts for a vehicle. However, although learning from experience and
compensating for much of the lack of supervision by the official health
system, they have not gained the medical skills required for adequate
administration of the community-based health system.
D. The Project
67.       As shown by the preceding analysis, ANCAR/RN's community health
post program constitutes an innovative, basically successful approach to
low-cost health services delivery at the grass roots level. However, impact
on health status in the project area is as yet constrained by (a) the limited
number of health miniposts, giving coverage to perhaps some 7% of rural pop-
ulation; 2/ (b) the poor integration with mostly ineffectively operated higher
levels of the official health services, i.e, the lack of supervison and back-
up support; (c) the insufficient financing of operating costs at both mini-
post and health center levels; and (d) the poor logistics of supply.
68.       Most of these are operational, managerial and financial issues rather
than predominantly medical problems. Measures to improve health care delivery
would thus be naturally integrated into overall project implementation. Fol-
lowing the general project approach and considering limited implementing cap-
abilities, a two-phase development of the health component is proposed. Under
1/   According to the community health worker in Olho d'Agua do Borges, almost
all cases seen by the physician could be attended by her. There are
people who retu:-l every Sunday with the same minor illness to see the
doctor.
2/   Rural population in the Project area is calculated to be 280,000 in
1974, and average coverage of the 28 miniposts is estimated to be
about 700 rural people.



ANNEX 5
Page 23
the first Phase, the community health system would be improved and expanded
in selected municipios of the project area, with the objective of testing
interventions and developing criteria for larger-scale implementation. Phase
2 would implement the health component to the balance of the project area.
(a) The First Phase
(i) Selection of Municipios
69.       In selecting municipios in the Serido and Umarizal sub-areas of the
Project area, consideration was given to (a) intrinsic characteristics of the
municipio, such as area, population and land use, and (b) existence or ab-
sence of delivery systems, such as extension service, cotton gins, bank
branches, cooperatives and health miniposts. Three types of municipios were
selected in each sub-area, 1/ of which one already benefits from the existence
of most or all of these variables, and the third represents an "intermediate"
situation. Table 5 characterizes the 11 selected municipios as to their avail-
ability of health services (see also Chart 2). The existence of hospitals in
municipio centers was not taken into account in establishing selection cri-
teria. With their emphasis on curative medicine, they do not provide back-
up support to health miniposts and do not contribute (and may even be detri-
mental) to the community health approach.
1/   In the case of the municipio of Umarizal, four very small,
"satellite" municipios were included as well.



Page 24
Table 5: Population and Present Health Services of First Phase Municipios, 1974
Hospitals
Population  Health   Health /a  General    Maternity
Municipios                 Urban Rural Miniposts Centers- Units Beds  Units Beds
Sub-Area 2: Serido
Parelhas                  7,350  6,900    4         1         -    -      1*    23
Florania                  2,500  8,800    -         1         -    -      1*    16
Serra Negra do Norte      1,500  6,350    -         1         -    -      -      -
Jardim de Piranhas        2,750  6,250    -         -         -    -      -      -
Sub-Area 3: Umarizal
Umarizal (plus            6,700 20,850    4         1          -    -      1*    16
Lucrecia, Almino
Alfonso, Rafael
Godeiro, Olho d'Agua
dos Borges)
Alexandria                4,450 10,000    -         1          -    -      2     53
Antonio Martins           1,650  7,850    -         -          1** 12      -     -
/a   All health centers are operated by State Department of Health, except
for the Foundation SESP Center in Serra Negra.
Q    Private, non-profit hospital.
**   Private, profit hospital.
Source:   ASPLAN/Secretaria de Saude.
70.       The four municipios of the Serido sub-area fall into Administrative
Health Region III and all selected municipios of the Umarizal sub-area into
Region VI (see para 12 and Chart 1). Administrative centers of these Health
Regions are Caico and Pau dos Ferros, respectively.
(ii) Selection of Communities
71.       In determining the location of health miniposts in the selected
municipios, ANCAR/RN's community development approach would be followed and
improved (paras 31-35), making sure that health services are not "imposed"
upon the community by the Project. Because of the limited availability of
data, a survey would probably first have to be conducted, in order to iden-
tify suitable rural agglomerations which serve as centers for rural communi-
ties of some 500 to 2,000 people.  S  ±Lal extensionists would then promote
awareness of health needs and active community involvement, by discussing
health status, available resources, possible interventions, and the community's
role under the reformed system with local people. This would result in the
formation of a Health Society and a request for assistance in setting-up a
community-based health scheme.



ANNEX 5
Page 25
72.       Ideally, a rural "health community" would comprise about 1,000
people or 185 families. 1/ To arrive at this figure, the following average
utilization rates have been considered. 2/  Assuming a well established,
efficient community health system and excluding outreach services, there
would be an average of about two contacts of the adult segments of the
population with the system per year, four contacts per school child per year,
six annual contacts of under five-year olds and, finally, five contacts of
pregnant women per year. Given the age distribution in the rural Northeast, 3/
this implies about 3,400 annual cases per 1,000 population 4/ or (assuming
300 workdays per year ) 11.3 cases per day. 5/ If an average of three patients
are attended per hour at the health post, this caseload would require about
half the workday of a community health worker. The other four hours would
be available for more time-consuming outreach activities, i.e. health and
nutrition education and promotion of environmental sanitation through classes
in schools and home visits. Probably an average of 2 families could be
visited per day or every household in a community of 1,000 once or twice
a year. However, considering the vastly higher outpatient workload during
an initial period, home visits would only be started later.
73.       In the case of effective supervision and support, the utilization
of a health minipost after an initial period could probably be increased to
about 14 daily visits and the coverage of 1,250 people. 6/ It has further
been taken into account that perhaps some 20% of the population reside in
sparsely populated rural areas which cannot be economically be served by a
community health scheme. In some cases, finally, population and community
size distribution patterns would require miniposts to cover less than 1,000
people. Given a rural population of about 67,000 in the selected municipios
(Table 5), it is assumed that about 55 community health schemes would be
improved or developed under the Project, covering an average of 1,000 people
each.
1/   ANCAR/RN uses a minipost coverage of 725 peoplc in the calculations.
2/   These ratios are lareely hased on the experience of ANCAR/RN and of
Dr. Joao ",osco  'olomon, Tro$essor for Th'l.fr Ppmlth at the University
of Brasilia, whto developed and analyzed community health schemes in
Brazil. Interview in Brasilia in November 1974.
3/   Roughly 45% of population under 15 years of age, 16% under five, 4%
infants, and more than 40 births per 1,000 per year.
4/   1,100 cases of adults; 1,160 of age 5-15; 960 of under five; and 200
of pregnant women. This distribution of cases by age groups also cor-
responds roughly to results from 31 minipost for 1973 (para. 50).
5/   This corresponds to the ratio of about 10 cases per 1,000 population
per day (6 workdays), given by Dr. Muniz Rego at the health center in
Umarizal and based on his experience.
6/   Most minipost supervisors considered 200 families or about 1,000 people
to be a maximum (and non-optimal) coverage.



ANNEX 5
Page 26
(iii) Health Facilities
74.       Health Miniposts.  Under Phase 1 of the project, the 8 existing
health miniposts (Table 5) would be improved to cover about 10,000 people 1/
and some 45 new miniposts would be established. Table 6 gives their distri-
tuion and coverage by municipio. 2/
Table 6: Health Facilities for the First Phase Municipios
Municipios                   Health Miniposts               Health Centers
Rural Popula-                 Total Popula-
Renovated New tion Served   Renovated New  tion Served
Sub-Area 2: Serido
Parelhas                  4        2     6,000           1       -      13,350
Florania                  -        7     7,000           1       -       9,500
Serra Negra do Norte      -        5     5,000           1      -        6,500
Jardim de Piranhas        -        5     5,000           -       1       7,750
Sub-Area 3: Umarizal
Umarizal (plus            4       14    18,000           1       1      24,700
Lucrecia, Almino,
Alfonso, Rafael
Godeiro, Olho d'
Agua dos Borges)
Alexandria                -        8     8,000           1       -      12,450
Antonio Martins           -        6     6,000           -       1       7,650
Total                      8       47    55,000           5       3      81,900
75.       In order to ensure cost-effectiveness and replicability, the project
would aim at (i) adapting and renovating existing buildings rather than con-
structing new miniposts wherever possible, and (ii) promoting local contribu-
tion of labor (para. 36). The building would comprise 2-3 rooms (40-50 m2).
Whereas the 1974 average unit cost of adaptation and/or renovation of an
1/   In the case of the "satellite" municipios around Umarizal, the coverage
also includes "urban" population at the seat of the-municipios.
2/   According to the most recent (October 1974) minipost network expansion
proposal of ANCAR/RN and Department of Health (which is not reflected in
the Project Preparation Report) for 1975-77, the following number of new
miniposts would be established in these 7 municipios: Parelhas 4,
Florania 4, Umarizal plus "satellites" 6, Alexandria and Antonio Martins -
Total new health miniposts in RN w' ld be 147. However, the,distri-
bution of miniposts by this plan is based on the assumption that there
would be no considerable improvement and increase in back-up support
health centers and ANCAR/RN supervision staff. Expansion is therefore
mainly planned for already-served municipios.



ANNEX 5
Page 27
existing structure is estimated to be Cr$5,550 (US$770), 1/ the cost of new
construction would be about Cr$16,500 (US$2,290). The Project would provide
for elementary equipment and demonstration material (para 37) at a cost of
about Cr$4,950 (US$690). 2/ In order to increase and improve delivery of out-
reach services, bicycles would be provided to community health workers at a
unit cost of approximately Cr$470 (US$65).
'76.      Health Centers.  Health centers would serve as referral points and
provide back-up support and supervision to six-nine community-based miniposts.
They would thus cover between 6,000 and 9,000 rural people. Including (urban)
population of the municipio centers, total coverage would be about 7,500-13,500
people per health center (Table 6). The Project would provide for the renova-
tion of five existing centers, operated by the Department of Health and Founda-
tion SESP, and the construction of three new health centers in Jardim de
Piranhas, Umarizal and Antonio Martins. They would probably be operated by
the Department of Health. However, the expansion of Foundation SESP's
activities into Jardim de Piranhas, contiguous to its Serra Negra do Norte
area of activities, would be recommended. 3/
77.       The building would have about 5 rooms (100 m2) and comprise (i)
only outpatient facilities 4/ or (ii) both outpatient and 2-3 bed inpatient
facilities. Average 1974 unit cost of renovation and new construction is
estimated to be approximately Cr$21,750 (US$3,020) and Cr$110,250 (US$15,300)
respectively. The cost of equipment would be about Cr$44,250 (US$6,150).
Every health center would have one or two vehicles for supervision of mini-
posts at a cost of Cr$30,000 (US$4,170) each.
(iv) Health Manpower
78.       Community Health Workers.  Table 7 gives the personnel required to
staff and supervise health facilities. Under Phase 1 of the Project, about
66 community health workers would be trained for three months by Foundation
SESP in Acu (para 40). Selection and training would follow the established
and successful pattern developed by ANCAR/RN and Foundation SESP (paras 38-45).
The curriculum may later be slightly modified, based upon results of Phase 1
1/   In the ANCAR/RN-Department of Health expansion plan, average unit cost
of adaptation and/or renovation is estimated to be only Cr$1,300 (US$190).
2/   Cost figures given by ANCAR range - according to equipment - from
Cr$2,100 to Cr$8,400.
3/   There does not yet seem to be a clear-cut policy of the Ministry of
Health as to the expansion of Foundation SESP activities into new areas
in the Northeast. Interviews suggested that the authorization to expand
might be given if the State of RN submitted a request under the new
POLONORDESTE program.
4/   Depending on inpatient capacity of other local facilities and other
factors.



ANNEX 5
Page 28
monitoring and evaluation.  At present, training facilities of Foundation
SESP in Acu are only used for three months per year and need not be expanded.
Community health workers would receive an additional three days training in
family planning by BENIFAM and apart from ADICAR/RN and Foundation SESP.
Table 7: Health Manpower for the First Phase Municipios
Supervising   Supervising
Community       Auxiliary       Social
Municipios                       Health Workers       Nurses       Extensionists
Sub-Area 2: Serido
Parelhas                             7                  3               1
Florania                             9                  2               2
Serra Negra do Norte                 6                  2               1
Jardim de Piranhas                    6                 2               1
Sub-Area 3: Umarizal
Umarizal (plus Lucrecia,            21                  5               4
Almino Alfonso, Rafael
Godeiro, Olho d'Agua dos
Borges)
Alexandria                           10                  2              2
Antonio Martins                       7                  2              1
Total                                 66                18              12
79.       The training of health workers in excess of the number of Phase 1
health miniposts allows for (a) drop-out rates, and (h) an improved
phasing-in of the community health scheme, given the very high initial
work and caseloads. Total three months training cost is about Cr$2,625
(US$365) per worker and includes transportation, room and board.
80.       Auxiliary Nurses.  Community health workers would be supervised by
health center-based auxiliary nurses with about nine months training, which would
correspond to Foundation SESP's present Visitadoras de Saneamento (paras 59
and 61). They would supervise an average of five health miniposts each and
visit communities, depending on distance and location, once a week for a
full day or preferably twice a week for a few hours. Since health centers
would be located at the seats of the municipios, there would be additional
auxiliary nurses for outreach health promotion among urban and semi-urban
populations (Table 7).
81.       If one allows for a 20% drop-out rate, the Project would train about
20 auxiliary nurses as Foundation SESP facilities. The 1974 cost of the 9
months training is estimated to be approximately Cr$7,500 (US$1,040) per
enrollee.



ANNEX 5
Page 29
82.       Social Extensionists.  ANCAR/RN's social extensionists and assistant
social exten-onists would continue promoting community participation in health
services and providing non-medical, opcrational support and supervision to
community health workers (para. 66).  However,  given effective technical super-
vision of miniposts by the health center-based auxiliary nurses, the extension-
ists' involvement in day-to-day minipost operations would be somewhat reduced
and their other community development responsibilities increased. They would
visit health miniposts about once a week and on average supervise four-five
community health workers each. Transport facilities would be improved. Table
7 gives the distribution of social extensionists by municipios.
83.       The Project's health component would provide for the 60 days pre-
service training of 16 social extensionists. 1/ Unlike at present, this
training would need to include a two week-course in the medical aspects of
community health. The curriculum for this course has already been developed
by ANCAR/RN and Foundation SESP; training cost is about Cr$6,600 (US$920) per
extensionist.
(v) Operating and Financing Community Health Schemes
84.       Since Phase 1 would constitute a learning-by-doing process, the
Project would provide for payment of (a) the minimum wage of about US$35 per
month to community health workers; (b) salaries of Cr$1,313 (US$182) to super-
vising auxiliary nurses; and (c) salaries of about Cr$2,100 (US$292) to super-
vising social extensionists. The Project would thus finance most of the
rural system's recurrent costs over the first years. The Department of Health
and Foundation SESP need to support the project to (a) adequately finance
other operating costs of the eight supporting health centers; (b) fully
staff these centers; and (c) ensure sufficient supply and improved distribution
of drugs (CEME), vaccines and sanitary materials.
85.       At the community level, after further assessment of both capacity
and willingness to pay, an increase of membership subscriptions to the
Health Society would be promoted, raising monthly contributions in 1974
prices from about Cr$1-2 (para 35) to Cr$3 (US 45 cents) per family. Non-
members would be required to contribute equally on a fee-for-service basis,
with a small premium added (to encourage membership).
(b) The Second Phase
86.       Under Phase 2, larger-scale implementation would follow after two-
three years, drawing on the results of evaluation of the cost-effectiveness
of Phase 1 interventions. Therefore, at this stage, the Phase 2 health
component can be quantified only in general terms.
1/   Allowing for the fact that there are presently eight social extensionists
in the project area and two in the first-phase municipios (Parelhas and
Umarizal)(para 66), that additional social extensionists are needed for
other health-related community development tasks and that there would
be one supervisor.



ANNEX 5
Page 30
87.       The rural population of the Project area is estimated to be approx-
imately 280,000 people in 1974 and about 290,000 in 1976. It has earlier been
assumed (para 73) that perhaps 80% of this population or 230,000 rural people
can be reached by community health schemes, of which 55,000 would be included
under Phase 1 and 175,000 under Phase 2. In the Phase 2 Project area, there
are presently 20 miniposts and 12 health centers, of which 3 are being operated
by Foundation SESP and 9 by the Health Department (Chart 2).
88.       Based on the above facilities and manpower ratios (paras 73-83),
the second phase of the Project would thus provide for (i) the adaptation,
construction and equipment of about 155 health miniposts; (ii) the construc-
tion and equipment (including vehicles) of 10 health centers, (iii) the
training of 175 community health workers; (iv) the training of 50 auxiliary
nurses, 1/ and (v) the training of 32 social extensionists 2/ (see Annex 10,
Tables 5 and 5a). Project Phase 2 does not pay for salaries of health
personnel. Since the existing health centers are either being operated by
Foundation SESP or are expected to be gradually improved under the State
government's regionalization program, Project Phase 2 does not provide for
renovation of existing facilities.
(c) Project Cost Estimates
89.       Tables 5 and 5a of Annex 10 present cost estimates for Phases 1
and 2 of the project. The cost of adapting, renovating, construction and
equipment facilities would be about US$216,500 for Phase 1 and US$630,000
for Phase 2; the manpower training cost would be US$59,000 and US$145,000,
respectively. The cost of Phase 1 salaries, provided under the Project,
would be about US$740,000. At the community level, total cost (Phases
1 and 2) of community health facilities, training health workers and Phase
1 salaries would be US$656,000, whereas total cost of facilities and manpower
at the second tier amounts to US$1,156,000. Thus total project cost of
the Rural Development Project's basic health services component would be
approximately US$1,749,000.
(d) Organization and Management
90.       The general Project Unit and the Monitoring Group, which are to be
located in CEPA/RN, would, respectively, be responsible for coordinating and
controlling and for monitoring and evaluating the health services component.
The staff of the Project Unit would include a human resources specialist, who
would deal with education, communication and health components and with gen-
eral community development aspects of the Project (see Annex 12 on Management
and Organization).
1/   Allowing for existing, well-sta'ted Foundation SESP facilities.
2/   There are presently 6 ANCAR/RN domestic extensionists in the Phase 2
Project area.



ANT*EX 5
Page 31
(i) Implementation
91.       The health component would be implemented by the Department of
Health, Foundation SESP and ANCAR/RN, which would form a task force. The
Department of Health would be the coordinating agency. The health facili-
ties module would be implemented by the Department of Health and Foundation
SESP. Foundation SESP would also develop the training programs and provide
technical assistance to the other agencies, and ANCAR/RN would promote and
develop the community health schemes. The task force would closely collabo-
rate with Health Societies and municipio administrations. It would report
to the Project Unit which would have disbursing authority.
(ii) Monitoring and Evaluation
92.       The Monitoring Group would essentially have a supervisory role and
would draw heavily on Foundation SESP's and ANCAR/RN's expertise and existing
recording systems. These agencies together with the Department of Health
would be responsible for data collection and day-to-day monitoring of opera-
tions, and would report to the Monitoring Group. Evaluative research on com-
munity health system's performance in terms of costs, resource utilization,
services delivered and impact on health status would be conducted by the RN
University program CRUTAC (para 15) and other university institutes (e.g.
Brasilia) on a continuing basis. Under the Bank's new health policy, Bank
staff would participate in evaluations of the cost-effectiveness of Phase 1
interventions and in the development of criteria for the second phase of the
Project (see also Annex 8 on Monitoring and Evaluation).



ANNEX 6
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROEJCT
Infrastructure, Marketing, Cooperatives
A. Infrastructure - Physical Distribution of Delivery Systems
Infrastructure
1.        The road network in the project area is not a major bottleneck
especially since movements of harvested crops and inputs are generally during
the dry season and because of the largely rocky nature of the terrain.
Two major paved arteries (in the north and center-south of the area) ensure
easy communication with Natal. No intervention with respect to the road
infrastructure would be undertaken within the project. However, the State
and municipalities would be expected to provide for the normal maintenance
and eventual upgrading of existing facilities through their normal operations.
2.        The present supply of essential production-related services is
characterized by inadequacies in the total amount and distribution of agri-
cultural extension, banking services, cooperatives, physical input delivery,
and cotton processing. Crop transport is dominated by private truckers.
Agricultural Extension
3.        A full treatment of the present situation is in Annex 2.  Probably
less than 60% of the project area is actually covered by the existing extension
network of ANCAR. Effective extension assistance is essentially directed to
larger farmers; hence, probably no more than 10% of the total number of farmers
in the project area receive assistance. The major bottlenecks to an efficient
extension coverage are the limited manpower resources devoted to field opera-
tions and the misallocation of the extensionist's efforts, currently con-
centrated on the processing of agricultural credit to large farmers.
4.        There are wide differences in the degree of extension coverage among
the sub-areas. Overall, Serido receives less coverage than others, such as
sub-area 1 (Pedro Avelino). Among the municipios actually receiving effective
coverage, sub-areas 3 and 4 (Umarizal and Santa Cruz) appear relatively better
off.
Gins
5.        There are 13 gins located within 10 municipios of the project area.
Some of the cotton produced within the area probably also is processed in a
gin outside the project area, in Joao Camara, close to sub-area 1 (Pedro



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Avelino) and possibly in another gin in Teniente Ananias, close to sub-area 3
(Umarizal). Most of the gins are located in the southern and eastern parts
of the project area (south of Serido and Santa Cruz area).
6.        There are 28 gins in the entire State, equipped with 7,650 saws and
113 rollers, providing a total ginning capacity of close to 195,000 tons of
seed cotton. The 13 gins of the project area represent 46% of the saws and
55% of the rollers, providing a ginning capacity of 92,000 tons, or a little
less than 50% of the State total. This could probably be raised to a capacity
of 115,000 tons, using longer working days and the equipment for part of
January and February. In contrast, actual production of the project area in
the 1973-74 season was about .48,000 tons.
7.        The gins are distributed unevenly among the four sub-areas;  only
one gin is located in sub-area 3 (Umarizal) compared to seven in Serido.
However, this unbalanced distribution of gins does not reflect cotton produc-
tion distribution which is almost equally divided among the four sub-areas
(about 25% each, Table 1). The ginning capacity in the center of the project
area (north of Serido, east of Umarizal and south of Pedro Avelino) is espe-
cially low in relation to cotton production.
Bank Branches
8.        The project area is covered by agencies of Banco do Brasil (BB) and
Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB). BB coverage is uneven: 3 agencies (Santa
Cruz, Currais Novas and Caico) operate in the project area, providing services
to 32 municipios (the whole Serido and Santa Cruz sub-regions). Hiowever, the
21 other municipios depending on five agencies located outside the project
area: sub-area 1 (Pedro Avelino) depends on three, sub-area 3 (Umarizal) also
on three, one of which (Catole do Rocha) is located in the neighboring state
of Paraiba. Some municipios, especially in sub-area 3, may be located as far
as 200 km from the BB branch they depend on. The situation in sub-area 3 would
improve with the opening of a BB agency in Umarizal by the end of 1975.
9.        BNB coverage is somewhat more even since 3 agencies are located
within the project area (Santa Cruz, Angicos and Jardin de Serido), providing
services to the 39 municipios of sub-areas 1, 2 and 4. The 14 municipios of
sub-area 3 (Umarizal) depend on 3 agencies located outside the project area,
one of which is outside the State (Catole do Rocha).
10.       Hence, sub-areas 2 and 4 (Serido and Santa Cruz) appear to be better
off in bank coverage than areas 1 and 3. Sub-area 3 is poorly served, being
divided among 3 different brancnes of both BB and BNB. The difference in
focus between BB an-d BNB operations, the latter concentrating its efforts
through cooperative:.s, further suggests that wide areas are poorly serviced
by bank agencies.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Cooperatives
11.       There are presently six cooperatives in the project area:  two are
located in sub-area 3 (Umarizal), two are in sub-area 4 (Santa Cruz) and one
each in sub-areas 1 (Pedro Avelino) and 2 (Serido).. In addition, there are
three other cooperatives: Acu (close to sub-area 1) and Apodi and Martins
(close to sub-area 3), all located outside the project area but whose zones
of influence include small parts of the project area. With two cooperatives
in Agreste (San Antonio and San Jose do Campestre), these constitute 11
cooperatives which are forming a Central Cooperative in Natal. These coop-
eratives vary widely in numbers of members, functions and success. Three
cooperatives (Umarizal, Santa Cruz and Sao Tome) are engaged in seed cotton
processing. Table 2 illustrates the distribution in membership, physical
assets and seed cotton marketing, pointing to the unequal weight and impor-
tance of cooperative coverage among sub-areas. An important feature is the
relative absence in sub-areas 1 and 2, Pedro Avelino and Florania, with each
having only one cooperative, limited membership and no ginning facilities.
12.       The most successful cooperative is Umarizal which has been growing
rapidly, capturing potential and actual membership of the neighboring coop-
eratives of Martins and Alexandria. As of November 1974 total membership
was 1,260. Its geographical zone of intense influence extends over 15
municipios, with members coming from 25 different municipios. BNCC lends
money for infrastructure to cooperatives. Although BNCC does not yet operate
in the project area, the Government hopes to expand BNUC's operations and
scope. Parallel to the project, BNCC will evaluate cooperatives' infrastruc-
ture needs; the Government may decide to finance some of these infrastructure
investments as complements to the project.
Physical Delivery of Inputs
13.       CIDA (Integrated Agricultural Development Company) is a newly created
State-owned input supply and development company established partially to re-
place COFAN/RN, the Agricultural Development Corporation, which hitherto
had principal responsibility for the official distribution of agricultural
inputs throughout the State. 1/ There are 30 COFAN outlets in the State, 20
of which are located in the "Casas do Agricultor" (literally the "Houses of
Farmers", which may house extension services and other services to farmers);
the remaining 10 are simple "postos" (selling points). Total COFAN sales are
limited, and, although doubled in real terms since 1970, probably did not
1/   CIDA will also include the former CIMPARN (Companhia de Implantacao de
Projectos Agrarios do Rio Grande do Norte), mainly responsible for the
settlement project of Vilas Rurais on the northern coast of the State.
It will finally be responsible for dam construction, a responsibility
previously assigned to the Secretariat of Agriculture. COFAN was prev-
iously operated through "convenios" with the Secretariat of Agriculture,
INFAOL and SUDENE, while receiving loans from several banks (BB, BNB).
The financial and organization structure of CIDA has not yet been estab-
lished definitively.



ANN.EX 6
Page 4
exceEd Cr$5.5 million for 1974 for the whole State 1/. COFAN purchases
include agricultural equipment (35% to 45% of all purchases), fertilizers
(5% to 10%), insecticides (10%), seeds (5% to 10%) and veterinary inputs (15%).
COFAN operations were plagued by managerial inefficiency, as witnessed by
excessive stocks throughout the year.
14.       Fifteen of the total 30 State outlets are located in the project area.
Sales in these outlets barely represent 25% of the State total, or approximately
Cr$1.35 million; more than 50% of this amount is transacted in the Serido sub-
area. Outlets and sales percentages by sub-area are distributed as follows:
Number of Outlets        Sales (%)
Sub-Area 1                             4                      18
Sub-Area 2                             5                      52
Sub-Area 3                              2                     12
Sub-Area 4                              4                     18
Project Area                     15                     100
The low 12% of sub-area 3 (Umarizal) is because the Umarizal cooperative
directly supplies inputs to its members. However, it appears that large por-
tions of the project area are not serviced by the COFAN network.
15.       Numerous small private outlets are scattered throughout the State
and the project area. Their volume of sales is not known; however, they are
of great importance in view of the inadequacies of the COFAN network, despite
generally higher prices they are mainly supplied by firms from the large
cities of the Northeast: Recife, Fortaleza, Natal, Campina Grande and Joao
Pessoa.
16.       Current State-level plans are for CIDA to perform substantially
better than its predecessor, COFAN. CIDA would be expected to provide for
timely distribution of inputs in all its outlets located in the project area.
New outlets, both within and outside the project area, should be contemplated
by CIDA in its regular planning program.
1/   Sales since 1970 are distributed as follows:
Current Cr.        1970 Cr.
- in Cr. million 
1970                      1.2              1.2
1971                      1.5              1.3
1972                      2.8             2.0
1973                      3.8              2.3
1974*                     5.4              2.6
*    Estimated



ANNEX 6
Page 5
B. 'Marketing
Minimum Price System
17.       A minimum price scheme was introduced by decree in 1966.  It is
currently operated by Banco do Brasil and the Production Financing Commission
(CFP) of the Ministry of Agriculture. cEP determines the minimum price level
for a number of agricultural cormodities in each major region. This price
determination takes place several monthis beforc the crop season to which
prices will apply (e.g. prices set in December 1974 for the 1975/76 crop
season). Prices are fixed for a "base-state" (Ceara in the Northeast, for
cotton) and adjustments are made for the neighboring states, and their
eventual geographical sub-divisions. In recent years, minimum prices have
represented from 60 to 70% of the actual market price.
18.       The minimum price system offers three possibilities for farmers
at the end of the crop season: (a) 180 day-term loan (representing 70
to 80% of the value of output estimated at the minimum price) without neces-
sary sale to CFP; (b) 90 to 300 day-tern  loan (for 100% of the value of
output) with possibility of sale to CFP, in which case the farmer is free to
sell his product to third parties at a higher market price at any time within
the loan term, the sale to CFP otherwise becoming automatic at the end of the
term; and (c) immediate sale to CFP at minimum price. Under the last two
options official grading of the product is required, as well as storage in
an officially acceptable place.
19.       Because there is a rather large difference between the minimum price
and the actual market price, the minimum price mechanism is becoming increas-
ingly inoperative. In effect, sales to CFP at the minimum price (especially
cotton) often concern low quality products which could not be sold elsewhere.
Such a process may act as a disincentive for improving quality of production.
20.       In most instances, especially for cotton, the Government may well
want to fix the minimum price considerably closer to the actual market
price. Alternatively, it might be possible (at least for cotton) to arrange
a "start of season" minimum price followed by a ;'mid--season" minimum
price which would be retroactive to prior sales.
Food Crops Marketing
21.       Beans and corn are the main subsistence crops in the project area
and are likely to continue having considerable importance for low-income
producers, larger farmers generally not being interested in producing them



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(Annex 4). 1/ However, a "subsistence mentality" as opposed to an "exchange
mentality" does not necessarily describe producers of food crops. Many small
producers live so close to the margin of subsistence that they cannot afford
to stock their own production for consumption throughout the year. They must
sell their beans and corn immediately after harvest, and "buy them back" on
credit later on (this is further aggravated by the need for cash to hire
labor for cotton harvesting); in this way, they sell their produce when prices
are down and buy it back when they are up. The vast majority of food crops
entering the market are sold at the local "ferias" (market fairs).
22.       Marketing of beans and corn is also subject to problems of consump-
tion habits (taste and categorization by class). The Northeast upper classes
for instance, do not buy the type of beans produced and consumed by the North-
east peasant, feiiao macassar (or Feijao de corda), preferring another more
expensive variety, feijao mulatinho, imported in large part from the southern
part of the country. However, as Center-South agriculture becomes increasingly
export oriented, and the opportunity cost of growing crops for local consumption
on these lands increases the Northeast might take over the production of domes-
tically consumed food products like corn and beans.
23.       The project would attempt to increase the production and product-
ivity of food crops, possibly to a level of marketable surplus. Through the
provision of agricultural credit for cotton production, especially at harvest
time, the need to sell food crops immediately after harvest would be greatly
reduced. Concurrently the project would aim to promote on-farm conservation
of beans and corn (Annex 4) to permit regular supply for on-farm consumption
and to delay sales of surplus production to benefit from higher prices during
the off-season. The project, through the experimentation interventions (Annex
4), would further encourage research on new improved varieties taking into
account consumers' tastes and habits. It would finally attempt to identify
new food crops (e.g., sorghum) which could complement existing ones.
Seed Cotton Marketing
24.       Picking of perennial cotton (Moco) commences in July and usually
continues into November and occasionally, as in the 1974 season, into December.
1/   The prevalence of bean and corn production reflects to a certain extent
the severe institutional barriers to planting anything else. In general,
the short cycle of a crop is a landowner's hedge against a tenant putting
down roots in his land. The sharecropper, tenant farmer and occupant are
traditionally prohibited from planting perennial crops because they are
considered fixed real proDerty, and if the tenant is expelled, he has
the legal right to idemnification for his property. In the case of perennial
cotton, this explains the relatively high turnover rate of sharecroppers
on large properties. For a full treatment, see "'Rural Development Issues
and Options in Northeast Brazil' IBRD Report No. 665a BR, June 23, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 7
The ginners normally start buying in July, closing down the gins in December
or January, although, with additional seed cotton supplies, climate conditions
would allow satisfactory ginning through to the end of February.
Producer Delivery and Selling Methods
25.       Officially, ginners may only purchase from landowners who have
registered with the gin through a process in which, at the landowner's
request, the local "land registry" of the applicable Municipio forwards a
registration card to the gin; except for very rare exceptions, almost all
sharecropper production is sold through the landowner's account. Ginners
are officially obliged to maintain separate accounts against each landowner
registration and render a return to the Municipio at the end of the season
stating quantity of deliveries made (in theory the information is used in the
process of re-assessing land values and land taxes). Ginners do purchase
from "unregistered" producer-landowners but then ofticially render a notifica-
tion of such deliveries to the tax authorities.
26.       It follows, therefore, that there are no middlemen buyers officially
authorized, only middlemen "transporters" of cotton. In practice, however,
the "transporter" very often becomes a middleman buyer through a series of
unofficial mechanisms which are largely associated with the producer's need
for "cash flow" credit during the latter part of the flowering season and
through the picking season.  In brief, the "transporter" makes monetary ad-
vances to the smaller growers (these advances he may have obtained from the
ginner initially) which have the effect of purchasing the crop in advance--
at levels often below real values. The project would attempt, via improved
credit distribution to farmers (Annex 3), to limit the gin's use of credit to
exert a semi-monopoly position over farmers. Informal and precooperative
market groupings of small farmers, organized with the assistance of extension-
ists, may allow small farmers to deal directly with the gins, which are often
willing to collect the cotton from the farms if quantities are sufficient.
Improved grading procedures may also contribute substantially (para 31).
With regard to sales from unregistered properties, both large and small,
complete land registration would be encouraged.
27.       Actual transport from farm to gin is relatively simple.  Smaller
producers deposit job lots in small roadside shelters and arrange collections
dates with the transporter during the weekly market day at the Municipio's
central "township". Delivery distances vary considerably and 80 km is not
uncommon. (However, transporter charges are consistently quoted at Cr$ 0.05
per kg irrespective of distance.)   In addition the transporter may receive
an end of season bonus from the ginner if agreed delivery targets are met.
Seed Cotton Grading/Lint Cotton Classification
28.       Seed cotton is graded as it enters the gin from delivery trucks in
sacks and classified after ginning in 180 kilo bales. The grading is of
prime concern to the producer, affecting the price he receives, and also



ANNEX 6
Page 8
serving as a sorting mechanism for the ginner in producing an even quality
batch flow of cotton then classified by type (fibre quality) and by length,
for sale to the spinning industry. There should be a close correlation be-
tween top seed cotton grades at the input side of the gin and top lint classi-
fications at the output side. However, this is not necessarily so at many
gins and complaints regarding the grades applied are very prevalent among
producers, particularly the smaller producers.
29.       Officially all gins should have a government classifier positioned
at each gin; in practice the coverage is incomplete. Even where official
classifiers are operative there appears to be no "audit" of their work stand-
ards (e.g. attempts to correlate input grades with output classification)
and there are thus widely different standards applied by different gins.
However, available information from selected gins in the area indicates that
the Moco cotton of the State is in fact relatively uniform. Generally, only
very short cotton (possibly mixed with some annual cotton), very dirty or
damaged cotton is rejected. Where gins are using a large number of buying
grades, such grades might be either fictitious or necessary only to compensate
for the gin's ongoing processing inefficiency.
30.       The belief by many growers that cotton is unnecessarily downgraded
at the gins requires attention and steps need to be taken to restore producer
confidence. This possibly implies several steps:
(a) Advice at field level as to what grades might be expected
coupled with advice on how to separate production into
grades at farm level (an extension service task);
(b) Tighter control of classifiers at gins, possibly coupled with
a check system and definite Moco and non-Moco grades at those
gins which accept both perennial and annual cotton. An
assurance would be sought at negotiations that the Government
of RN would effectively implement in the project area its
cotton grading regulations; and
(c) A producer sack stamp and identitication system, allowing
the source of job lot collection by transporters to be
specifically identified as a further control on transporters.
31.       Such actions would bear implications for the whole perennial cotton
production area of the Northeast. The project, however, could provide the
testing grounds for initiating these steps. Gins located in the project area
and supplied exclusively by project area cotton could thus be selected and
submitted to various alternative measures designed to improve grading and
classitication for the producers' benefit. Such actions should be combined
with interventions of the agricultural extension service. The Project Unit
would work with the State Sec-.starint of Agriculture in developing the appro-
priate steps to be taken and the n.ecessary organizational (institutional)
arrangements to carry them out.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Producer Prices
32.       With the exception of the Federal Government's official minimum
price (para 17), which in recent seasons has approximated two-thirds of ac-
tual final price statements of the more reputable gins, the ginners operate
in a free market. A variety of practices seem to op_rate, but a number of
gins operate by offering a base price early in the season, which they calcu-
late to give themselves a margin for error related to current world market
trends in cotton. This offer becomes a minimum subject to upward revision
at a "price fixing date"--usually mid-October--by which time forward sales
or market trends of lint cotton give a clearer indication against which to
"fix" the seed cotton price.
33.       Arising from the historical patterns, many ginners finance producers
through the picking season by a series of cash advances against anticipated
deliveries. Thus very few producer accounts at the gins pass into credit
balances until after the "fixing date" and only at the end of the delivery
season will the ginner completely balance accounts by making a final clearance
payment. This system appears to operate satisfactorily in regard to the
larger growers but as the final payment is usually drawn from the ginners'
headquarters offices, perhaps situated in Natal, the distance is a deterrent
to the small producer who often authorizes a third party to collect for him--
the third party being more often than not the middleman "transporter" which
further strengthens his position and makes it possible for him to in effect
operate all the "at gin" accounts of his suppliers.
C. Cooperatives
34.       Cooperatives in the project area should be placed in proper per-
spective. With less than 5,000 total membership in the six cooperatives cur-
rently functioning, cooperative members probably represent less than 20% of
the total number of farmers in the area. Cotton marketed by cooperatives
amount to about 18% of seed cotton production of the area. In addition,
large differences in the individual performances of each cooperative indicate
that the cooperative movement still has limited impact.
35.       The performance of cooperatives in the project area reflects the
history of the movement in the Northeast. The success has been spotty in
spite of official vocal support (the "cooperative solution" is an approach to
small-farmer problems having widespread vocal support within the Brazilian
Government without significant political or financial commitment). Despite
formal support for cooperatives by Banco do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste
do Brasil, only 7% of the rural credit of the Northeast banking system was
destined to them in 1972.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
36.       Obstacles to cooperative development are numerous.  First, several
aspects of tax and administrative regulations put cooperatives at some dis-
advantage. 1/ Secondly, although cooperatives can sometimes obtain financing
before the first rains and in time for planting, they are reluctant to pass
such financing to their members until the arrival of the first rains which
are normally some assurance that the year will not be drought-ridden. Since
the first rains can start several weeks after the beginning of the planting
season, the member is forced to take non-institutional credit at high rates
of interest until his cooperative financing is available. Third, the
cooperative-associated small farmer is often doubly disadvantaged in getting
institutional credit since he has to face the risk-averting disbursement
procedures of two organizations to get his credit, rather than just one.
Fourth, marketing cooperatives, in contrast to other intermediaries, cannot
pay their members immediately for the production they acquire, because of the
legal definition of the cooperative's acquisition of member produce as a
"cooperative act" and not a purchase and sale in the market. The cooperative
therefore, cannot get credit for payment in advance of resale and as a result,
it can only reimburse the farmer fully when his production is resold (in the
case of cotton, the product is handed over by the farmer from August to
November and he is fully repaid only in April). As a consequence, many small
farmers find it necessary to sell their product to the marketing intermediary
at a lower price for immediate reimbursement. Fifth, management is probably
one of the most serious constraints to the rapid development of the cooperative
movement in the project area. The somewhat unique success of the Umarizal
Cooperative is to a large extent attributable to competent and imaginative
management combined with local knowledge and respect.
37.       The industrial structure dictated by cotton and the decentralization
of ginning in the Northeast made it natural for producers to form marketing
rather than production cooperatives. Cooperatives that have focused on the
marketing process have in general been less prone to failure than production-
oriented ones. All the cooperatives of the project area are involved in
cotton. Arrangements have begun to be made between cooperatives for the
joint processing of seed cotton, even in cases where none of the participating
cooperatives owned a processing unit. In 1974, the Santa Cruz cooperative
arranged the acquisition of its own processing unit and undertook contract
processing for the cooperative at Santo Antonio. In 1974 also, the Umarizal
cooperative undertook contract processing for the Acu cooperative, and the
Florania cooperative obtained private contract processing services for its
members' production. Another significant development at the next higher
level in the cotton marketing system is the recent formation of a central
cooperative in Natal which would be responsible for collecting cotton lint
production from member cooperatives and reselling it in bulk, as well as
for input supply.
1/   See "Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast Brazil," IBRD
Report No. 665a-BR, June 1975.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
38.       The production of cotton encompasses a wide variety of producers
ranging from large holdings using sharecroppers to medium and small producers
which use few or no sharecroppers. While it is medium and some small owners
who avail themselves of the cooperative marketing program, even some larger
landowners producing through sharecroppers participate in the cooperative
availing themselves of the credit onlent through the cooperative. Coopera-
tive development probably brought no oignificant improvement in the conditions
of cotton sharecroppers. In addition, small farmers participate very little
in the decision process and general management of the cooperative.
39.       Cooperatives can play an important role in the development of the
area, as evidenced by the successful experience of the Umarizal cooperative.
However, in view of the situation discussed above, the approach to cooperative
development in the project area should be a cautious one; under present cir-
cumstances, a rapid expansion of the cooperative coverage cannot be anticipated.
Cooperatives in the area appear to have a potential comparative advantage in
marketing, input supply, extension service delivery and social mobilization.
Although they can further contribute to credit distribution, concentration of
cooperatives' efforts on marketing aspects should be encouraged, not only for
cotton which nevertheless would remain the predominant commodity to be dealt
with, but also for food crops (corn, beans). The supply of inputs is especially
important in view of the current inadequacy of the official input delivery
system,(para 13).
40.       Cooperatives in the project area already receive substantial assist-
ance from various sources. ANCAR/RN has several technicians seconded to most
cooperatives, providing technical assistance and agricultural extension serv-
ices. Training facilities are provided through a convenio between ANCAR and
SUDENE (Annex 7). BNB provides direct management support through seconded
personnel, mainly in the areas of general management and credit procedures.
The State Secretariat of Agriculture provides for management support in
accounting.
41.       BNB is especially committed to the development of "full service"
cooperatives, including the service of delivering credit in the less-than-50-
times-reference value (Annex 3). A potentially promising recent development
concerns BNB's suggestion of promoting the creation of "entrepostos" or store-
houses, as a means of enhancing the development and coverage of cotton coopera-
tives in the project area. These storehouses would be attached to, but operate
at a distance from, their respective parent cooperatives. Their functions
would be the same as the cooperative's (extension, input supply, credit), with
a special emphasis on concentration of produce for bulk transportation to the
cooperative. However, the "entrepostos" idea has not yet been tried in
practice nor its financial feasibility been studied in depth.
42.       All the actions proposed under the project would apply to coopera-
tive members as well as others. In specific instances (agricultural credit,
extension), selected actions would be tested and refined for the specific



ANNEX 6
Page 12
context of the cooperative movement. The Project Unit would include an
Adviser to deal especially with cooperatives and marketing aspects, who would
work closely with agencies already working with cooperatives.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area - Cotton Gin Capacity and Distribution
Theoretical
Capacity
No. of Gins   No. of Saws   No. of lRollers       Seed Cotton    Permanent Crops
Tons       %
Sub-area 1             2              580             114         16,o56   17.4     -      28
2             7             2,000             38          52,776    57.3          23
3             1               160                          3,456     3.8          23
4             3               800             10          19,800    21.5          26
Project Area          13-           3,54o             62          92,088   100.0         100
State Total           28            7,650            113         193,716                   -
Source: CEPA/RN



ANiEX 6
Table 2
NOHTHEAST BiRAZIL
RHO GRANDE DO NORThE RHllAL DEVELOPNENr PROJECT
Project Area - Cooperatives
Subscribed         Physical
Membership           Capital            Assets        Seed Cotton Marketing
1972      1973       1972      1973                     1972/73       1973/74
--------- '000 Cr. ---------       ------- tons --------
Sub-area 1
Pedro Avelino    350        350          7         7             12            na
Sub-area 2
Flenr:ani s      AiRQ                   AL0 8k    r'aAn                 ()oi0n           ion
Sub-area 3
Umarizal          870     1,020        106       175            530     (a)3,750       3,650
Alexandria        520       550         91        95             80     (b)   na         130
Sub-area 4
Santa Cruz     1,700      1,700         73        na             na     (a)  750       1,250
(b)   na        830
Sao Tome       1,06o        680         55        51            680     (a)  975       1,540
(b)   na      1,140
(a) Seed cotton, processed into lint at cooperative gin.
(b) Seed cotton, marketed without processing.
* 700 for 1974.
Membership of Other Cooperatives (1972)
Acu                 390        close to sub-area 1 (P. Avelino)
Apodi               760        close to sub-area 3 (Umarizal)
Martins             720        close to sub-area 3 (Umarizal)



ANNEX 7
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
I. Existing Situation
1.        In Rio Grande do Norte and elsewhere in the Northeast, infrastruc-
ture for training is largely available. However, the scope and nature of
training related to agriculture and rural development is limited. Training
is generally provided on a piecemeal basis and except for training of higher
staff in several official institutions (para 13), little or no interagency
cooperation takes place. Each agency which would participate in the project
administers its own training program suited to its own immediate objectives.
Farmers' training, the last and eventually most relevant level of training
because of its direct impact on target groups, is extremely inadequate.
Several groups of farmers (small landowners, sharecroppers) are largely
unattended, especially in productive fields (e.g. delivery of technical
packages). Training in social- and welfare-related fields has improved in
recent years, but still has limited impact.
Formal Education
2.        In formal education, the Northeast in general has a low level of
investment in human resources. There are about 4,000 primary schools in
RN with approximately 240,000 students in grades 1-4 and 22,000 in grades
5-8 (1973 data). Curricula are the same for urban and rural schools. The
estimated percentage of untrained school teachers in rural areas of the State
is 90, compared to 50 for the whole State and 37 for Brazil. Many school
teachers have not even completed fourth grade. The municipal authorities hire
non-qualified teachers because they cannot pay the higher salaries which
qualified teachers can demand by law. Lack of physical facilities results
in two or three school shifts per day and short daily sessions. The problems
are further compounded by many overaged children (40%) in the first four
grades, for whom no special vocational training is available.
3.        There are a few vocational high schools (e.g. agricultural schools)
in the State. In 1973 there were 220 graduates from the agricultural high
schools; 500 are expected in 1980. Higher education can be pursued at the
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte or at the agricultural college in
Mossoro.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Job Training
4.        Agricultural Extension staff of ANCAR-RN presently receive a pre-
service training dealing with credit procedures and administrative duties.
Little or no technical training in agricultural matters or extension method-
ology is given, since an ANCAR agent is mainly occupied with preparing credit
proposals for large farms. Social extensionists of ANCAR attend a pre-service
training course in Bahia or Ceara for extension staff from all Northeast
states. Although their work mainly consists of supervising community health
systems, they lack training in the medical aspects of administrating such a
system. However, they receive pre-service and regular in-service training
on health and nutrition education, extension methodology and planning methods.
5.        INFAOL staff frequently has had previous occupational experience
with ANCAR and only needs to acquire knowledge on the technicalities of seed
production, the main activity of INFAOL. Field staff is generally trained
on the job, while higher staff has been trained abroad.
6.        Cooperatives.  Assistance is provided by ANCAR/RN for technical
matters by seconding extension agents to cooperatives, and by the Secretariat
of Agriculture for administrative and accounting training offered to coopera-
tive management. Technicians of the Secretariat of Agriculture are trained
in a course given by SUDENE which emphasizes economics, accounting, marketing,
management and sociology. Managers and accountants receive a two-week course
in cooperative administration under the auspices of the Secretariat of Agri-
culture. The course is given four to five times a year and organized and run
by PIPMO 1/, a national organization specialized in training. ANCAR/RN trains
its own cooperative technicians. All these activities are carried out on a
limited scale as few cooperatives are presently functioning in the State (6
in the project area, see Annex 6).
7.        Banking personnel receive in-service training within their insti-
tutions (Banco do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil); however, this
training is geared to attitudes and procedures for dealing with large and
medium-scale farmers, the traditional borrowers.
8.        Community health workers currently receive a training of three
months in Acu; the sessions are organized by Foundation SESP and partly
financed by the municipality. Municipal authorities also pay for a three-day
training in family planning which is organized by BENFAM (a private family-
planning organization). Refresher courses are periodically given at the
health centers.
1/   "Programa Intensivo de Preparacao de Mao de Obra"



ANNEX 7
Page 3
9.        Auxiliary nurses (Qvisitadoras"), also receive training by Founda-
tion SESP for approximately six months. They are trained in medical aspects
rather than in supervision.
10.       Teachersfrom rural schools receive in-service training, in health
and nutrition education, and in community action under the Integrated Health
Education Project (Annex 2). The State Secretariat of Education and the
local authorities pay for this training. Upgrading of school teachers is
accomplished through various programs. To complete grade 4 adults can
follow "Project Minerva," a national program administered by the Ministry
of Education, under which courses are offered by radio followed by discussions
led by a monitor. Under "Project SACI" 1/, television receivers have been
installed in selected schools; programs are provided for the teachers first
and later repeated for use during school hours.
11.       Farmers and their families have access to training on an informal
basis, mainly provided for by ANCAR together with MOBRAL (the literacy move-
ment). Short courses are given to groups, e.g., on leadership or technical
subjects. 2/ Over 700 farmers were trained during 1974 in courses featuring
planting techniques (cotton, cassava and cocoa), horticulture, livestock and
small animal husbandry, and others. Permanent training is a focus of several
of the groups organized by ANCAR (mother's clubs, youth artisan and agricul-
tural clubs). The Syndicate of Rural Workers (FUNRURAL) is also active in
giving training to its members in leadership and organization, syndication,
cooperativism, etc. Instructors for these short courses are drawn from
qualified staff belonging to agencies working in the area. In places where
cooperatives exist or are in the process of developing, "cooperative weeks"
are held in the community. (Annex 6)
12.       Media.  Besides the educational radio and television programs to.
provide primary education up to fourth grade (Minerva, SACI) the network of
television receivers will be used in a new "Project SACI." Short television
films are shown on subjects of interest to farmers and their families, e.g.,
technical crop husbandry lessons at the appropriate time in the crop cycle.
Each film is followed by a discussion led by the monitor of a "teleclub"
organized around viewers. Each film is shown three times a week. Television
is used almost entirely for training programs.
13.       Most of the larger agencies (e.g., ANCAR, Secretariat of Health,
Banco do Brazil) use PIPMO to set up their training courses. PIPMO operates
1/   National program sponsored by the National Space Research Institute,
recently started in the Northeast.
2/   In 1974 ANCAR-RN opened a new training center (CETRERN) in Eduardo
Gomes, 21 km from Natal. This center has 21 ha of land which will be
converted into demonstration and training plots. Presently, courses
are frequently given in the weekends or evenings using school facilities.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
by training teachers and using the equipment available on the job to imple-
ment a training program tailored to the needs of the trainees. Active
participation of the trainees is sought. PIPMO usually develops, executes
and adjusts a training program for trainers within an organization. No
systematic development of new training techniques, nor any systematic col-
lection of data to evaluate the techniques used, is being done by PIPMO.
14.       Information is an important prerequisite and a necessary follow-up
of training. Agencies have their own newsletters and in-service training to
keep staff informed. Farmers and the people in rural communities receive
information through formal and informal channels. Informal sources include
local priests, the agents of the rural assistance service (SAR) and the
Syndicate of Rural Workers, and traders. Studies indicate that information
on the price of cotton is usually obtained from traders at the weekly market
days which are attended by some 60% of farmers. Formal channels supplement
the information thus obtained. Three radio stations ("Radio Rural") broadcast
farm prices and crop husbandry information at the proper time in the crop
cycle. These radio stations are largely financed by the Catholic Church and
managed by an independent board of directors; two out of the three operate
with a small profit through advertising. The four daily Natal newspapers
contain useful agricultural information, but circulation is limited in the
countryside. The television network is only used for training (not for farm
prices and other agricultural information).
II. Training Actions Under the Project
Introduction
15.       Training is an important element of the project because:  (a) new
target groups of small farmers, hitherto largely unattended, are to be
reached at the cost of considerable additional manpower; (b) existing and
newly recruited staff would need a reorientation toward the socio-economic
position of small farmers and ways to improve their situations; and (c)
largely experimental aspects of the project would require permanent adjust-
ments in staff work and continuous in-service training.
16.       The project would provide training for all categories of people
involved in the project. Recipients of the proposed training actions would
be: (a) the higher level staff of the various organizations responsible
for project implementation, administration and supervision, who would be
largely responsible for the training of the next lower echelon; (b) the field
staff who are in direct contact with the target groups; and (c) the target
groups, rural families who would benefit from the project actions.
17.       A general objective of training would be to familiarize all those
involved with the project nature, scope and objectives. Staff training
would be directed towards creating a body of motivated and dedicated men



ANNEX 7
Page 5
and women working together, each having the necessary technical skills to
fulfill their respective roles. The project would place heavy emphasis on
assuring consistency among the various training programs administered by
different agencies. Coordination of these programs would be developed under
the responsibility of the Project Unit. In addition, the training component
of the project would be subject to periodic review and evaluation, to adjust
rapidly to changing conditions brought about by the project development.
18.       Consultants (probably PIPMO) would be retained to assist the Pro-
ject Unit and participating agencies in developing new training approaches,
focusing on the training of the field staff and also higher staff responsible
for planning and coordination with other agencies. In this way, permanent
training would become a regular feature.
Specific Training Proposals for Each Agency
19.       The Project Unit and Monitoring Group.  Provision would be made under
the project for members to obtain informal training through seminars, observa-
tion tours, etc. organized by themselves or by consultants. Travel funds
would be provided to study specific technical questions (e.g. equipment for
animal traction) or implementation of similar projects in other parts of
Brazil or other countries. Their training should start as soon as possible.
20.       Higher planning and coordinating staff of the participating agencies.
These would participate in seminars organized by the Project Unit and, on an
individual basis, they would accompany members of the Project Unit on study
tours (e.g. the animal-drawn equipment to be tested by INFAOL). Consultants
(probably PIPMO) would train higher echelon personnel on how to train their
field staff.
21.       Field Staff
(a) ANCAR's Technical Advisers, the Agricultural Extensionists
and INFAOL field staff all would receive thirty day pre-
service training focusing on:
(i) the Project, its objectives and their role in it;
(ii) the area, its agronomic risks and potentials;
(iii) the initial technical package, practical training,
and technical solutions which still require more
research and experimentation;
(iv) the socio-economic and political structure and
characteristics of the target group;
(v) the survey and interview training; and



ANNEX 7
Page 6
(vi) their own attitudes towards the target group and
implications thereof.
After the initial training ANCAR/RN agricultural advisers
would conduct a field survey in their own area, to build
up working files on farms under their supervision. The
INFAOL staff would receive a one-month field training,
in existing practices, selection of sites and farmers for
conducting field trials (Annex 4).
(b) Technical Advisers 1/ would receive 20 more days of training
after completion of their survey to distill from the survey
results the most pressing problems in their area and to build
an extension plan based on the farmers' felt needs. Planning
methodology and extension methods would be emphasized and
each adviser would develop his own work plan for the first
few months with his Regional Coordinator's assistance.
(C) Agricultural Extensionists 1/ would receive the same basic
training. In addition they would be trained in the pro-
cessing of traditional credit proposals, problems of larger
farms and possible alternatives for their eventual joint
actions with Technical Advisers, Community Development
Officers, Village Assistants or Farmers' Representatives.
In-service training courses for the agricultural advisers
would be held regularly, at least three times a year, in
sessions lasting a minimum of two weeks. Topics covered
would include new technical methods and information,
management aspects and extension methodology. Perhaps
the most important training of agricultural advisers and
other field staff would be provided through the frequent
(often weekly) meetings between the field staff worker(s)
and the regional coordinator. These meetings would be
"two-way" sessions at which the previous results would be
reviewed and the field worker's subsequent program (for a
week or two) planned.
(d) INFAOL staff would receive further pre-service training in
the experimental system used, the research design and
11   As graduates from agricultural high schools and colleges would increas-
ingly be incorporated into the Staff of this project and similar Rural
Development Projects under POLONORDESTE, they should receive some
training in rural development _oncepts in their formal education
(e.g. emphasis on small prodaction units, cooperatives and communica-
tion skills could be introduced in the curricula of the schools).



ANNEX 7
Page 7
data gathering, the role of the consultant on the trials
program (probably the University of Ceara), their own
specific role in supervising the farmers. INFAOL staff
would also receive regular in-service sessions lasting from
a few days to two weeks to keep them up to Jate in the newest
techniques.
22.       Branch and Mobile Bank Managers would receive training in modified
banking procedures and relationships with the target group. This would be
followed by a short (perhaps two-day) training together with the agricultural
advisers, in which the extension file, the participating bank's credit
proposals and a plan or timetable for bi-weekly meetings in the community
would be discussed.
23.       The existing programs for training cooperative managers or coopera-
tive advisors are expected to be continued.
24.       Community Health Workers would receive the existing training course
in Acu conducted by Foundation SESP. The family planning course by BENFAM
would be continued.
25.       Auxiliary Nurses would receive a training of nine months, instead
of six as at present, to teach them the supervision skills which are called
for under the Project in addition to the existing focus on prevention and
curative medical actions. Foundation SESP would train all auxiliary nurses
("visitadoras") both for its own health centers and those of the Secretariat
of Health.
26.       Social Extensionists would receive 60 days of pre-service training,
which includes the medical knowledge necessary for their role in the health
program. Emphasis would be on community actions. A three-day training
session in the use of demonstration units for raising animals and vegetable
growing would be given during the first year of the project.
27.       One hundred rural school teachers for the project Phase I area
would receive a one-week training under the existing integrated school com- -
munity education program. They would be trained in health and nutrition
education, and community action by a multi-disciplinary team of health and
extension professionals with use of the demonstration units.
28.       Sixty caretakers for the demonstration units for small animal
raising and vegetable growing would be trained for one week at an already
existing unit or in an agricultural school, by experts from the agricultural
school and the extension service.
29.       Community Development Officers  (Annex 2) would be brought together
in small groups for special training from the extension service.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
30.       Over 500 teleclub monitors would be trained under the project to
lead the discussions for the teleclubs (Project SACI). The monitors would be
trained in use of a T.V. set and in techniques of group discussion.
Training of Target Population
31.       Training of farrers and other project beneficiaries would form the
critical link in the chain of training. Only if all the training efforts
are combined to create an integrated approach at the community level, can
project success be expected. Most of this burden of integration would fall
upon staff of the extension service which would have to integrate the train-
ing in technical components (for an estimated 15,000 farmers) with other
training. The agricultural advisers would be responsible for organizing,
with the collaboration of all community level workers and other agencies,
training in farmer's organization and leadership. The messages to farmers
and their families via the teleclubs would have to be followed up in
regular extension activities and meetings with the farmers. The viewership
of the teleclub is wider than the clientele of the agricultural adviser.
The subjects dealt with at the teleclub would not be restricted to agri-
cultural practices; films on health and nutrition education and topics of
general interest would also be shown. Social extension workers, school-
teachers and community health workers would follow up on these activities.
The activities of the community health workers, schoolteachers and social
extension workers would have to be integrated with the activities of other
agencies to give the full impact of the proposed training of the whole
community in health and nutrition education, sanitation and self-help
activities. Youth clubs, mothers' groups, and parent groups all would
receive training which would reinforce the approach and the messages of
the project actions.
Monitoring and Evaluation
32.       Monitoring would involve collection of data on numbers of people
trained, number of hours of training received and the subject of the training--
a quantitative collection of data. Qualitative information, e.g. the extent
to which training program worked towards project goals, would also be collected.
33.       Evaluation of each training program would be done by each agency
employing formal evaluation tools both at the end of the course and later,
in the field. The Monitoring Group would also try to determine the elements
in training which influence the project success (e.g., previous attitudes
and attitude changes, levels of technical and practical know-how.) Success
would be judged from the results at the community level.
34.       Permanent training is in itself a feedback mechanism, a monitoring
of adjustments judged necessary to carry out the project actions success-
fully. The lIonitoring Group would compare the system of regular in-service
training among the different agencies.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
Organization
35.       W4ithin the Project Unit, the Human Resource Adviser would be
responsible for formulating training policies under the project with the
participating agencies and consultants (Annex 12). He would be responsible
for harmonizing the training efforts of all participating agencies in project-
related matters, and adjusting the training policies, objectives and programs
according to the changes in the execution of the project. Within the Project
Unit the Human Resources Adviser would coordinate his actions with actions
of the advisers responsible for a particular field or agency (e.g., developing
extension training with the Advisor and ANCAR/RN). A committee would be formed
consisting of all training advisers of the participating agencies, chaired by
the Human Resources Adviser.
Cost Estimates
36.       Total costs for training are estimated at Cr$6.5 million (Annex 10
Table 8).



ANNEX 8
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Group
1.        Background.  An important element of the project would be the
detailed planning of subsequent steps based on actual results of earlier
actions. For Phase I in particular, which is intended largely to introduce
and refine technical, credit and extension delivery systems, this would be
especially important. Accordingly, a careful monitoring of project actions,
providing rapid feedback to the Project Unit and participating agencies,
would be crucial to project success. The project monitoring would provide
a continuing focus on the extent to which project actions were contributing
to the project's overall objectives, especially concerning the target group
of small farmers.
2.        A separate Monitoring and Evaluation Group would be created within
the Project Unit to evaluate the impact of the project by collecting and
analyzing information from the project area. The Monitoring Group would not
be directly involved in the implementation; however, a close relationship
with the Project Unit would be maintained to enable the Monitoring Group to
keep abreast of the project actions, to generate new data and feed back all
results rapidly and freely to the Project Unit and participating agencies
thus enabling the project to respond quickly to new knowledge (Scheme 1).
3.        Functions.  During and after familiarizing itself fully with the
project, the Monitoring Group would decide on the information necessary to
monitor and evaluate. The information to be obtained can be divided into:
(a) general information about underlying trends involving the target groups
and the project area due to the project or other causes; and (b) specific
information related to the project actions.
4.        As information collection has to be kept within limits, both
with regards to time and costs, priorities have to be established and a
work program drawn up. Possible priorities are:
(a) Monitoring of farm results, both for project and non-project
farms, implying an efficient farm data collection system,
which records yields, cropping and production patterns,
economic data for farm budget analysis, labor use and
requirements and participation of the farmer in the
project. Farms would be chosen on a sample basis from
different types and categories;
(b) Monitoring of technical package generation, development
and distribution, implying monitoring of adoption rates
and/or adaptations; and



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(c)  Monitoring of the different delivery systems proposed under
the project with special emphasis on credit, technology,
extension and health, and the extent to which they reach the
target groups of small farmers (mainly 0-50 ha. and 50-200 ha
farms) and others including the landless; and measuring the
cost-effectiveness of the different systems.
5.        To carry out the information collection task the Monitoring Group
would establish an information system, with the assistance of a consultant
to determine the appropriate methods of data-gathering, e.g., sample sizes.
Information would be collected through:
(a) small on-the-spot surveys;
(b) examination of the records of each participating agency;
(c) record-keeping on project and control farms on yields,
prices, household budgets, market information, etc.,
(d) market structure survey; and
(e) group meetings.
This process should be made as simple as possible in order to minimize time
and costs. Flexibility would also be important to monitor the project
actions as they are modified. Much of the work of the Monitoring Group
would be a continuing, simple and practical inquiry (or management information
system) into the impact of the project actions. Often this can be done by
Monitoring Group staff interviewing and observation on a small, simple and
rapid feedback basis.
6.        The Monitoring Group would analyse its data and regularly prepare
a short report with the highlights for immediate and widespread dissemination
and discussion. The Monitoring Group would translate data into a readable
form and compare them with stated goals. The Project Unit and the participat-
ing agencies would thus be able to make quick decisions in order to adjust
strategies. The management information function of the Monitoring Group
requires a flexible interpretation, covering progress on the above-mentioned
reports and information obtained from outside sources. A set of review
questions would be a useful tool to guide discussions between the Monitoring
Group and the Project Unit and participating agencies.
Phase I - II Evaluation
7.        The Monitoring Group would also support the evaluation and review
of Phase I to permit a decision on whether or not to proceed with Phase II,
and the timing and detailed design of Phase II. Important criteria of that
review would be:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(a) extent to which farmers have accepted and benefited
from the project's technical recommendations, as an
indication of the project's overall success in refining
and delivering technical packages profitable to target
farmers;
(b) extent to which effective credit procedures and
delivery systems have been developed and accepted by the
various size-groups of target farmers;
(c) effectiveness of an agricultural advisory body focussing
on the problems of the small farmer, and sufficiently
trained in the new delivery systems, extent to which more
cost-effective methods (e.g., farmers' representatives,
small group formation) have been developed;
(d) effectiveness of community development efforts: promotion
of community health societies and other community
activities such as produce-raising units, with
adequately trained supervisory personnel in both
the medical supervision channels as in the social
extension service;
(e) cost-effectiveness of delivery systems, particularly
extension, expected to be the largest item of recurrent
cost under the project; and
(f) adequacy of administrative procedures and institutional
coordination in meeting the above objectives.
The evaluation would necessarily examine whether the conditions during
Phase I were sufficiently "normal" to warrant drawing particular inferences.
The above mentioned criteria are linked to the response of the target
groups, the single most important criterion in the overall evaluation of
the project. Phase II would not be undertaken if the evidence from Phase I
does not provide adequate assurance that the target group would receive the
proposed benefits.
8.        Project actions under Phase II could be initiated at different
times for different actions. For example, the health and community develop-
ment and/or the farmer's education components could precede the credit-
extension components. Similarly farm level research should have expanded
into Phase II areas before the credit-extension components.
Staffing
9.        The M4onitoring Group would be staffed by at least two full-time
professionals, although their actual recruitment could be phased to match
the Monitoring Group's workload and staff availability. They should have



ANNEX 8
Page 4
field research experience on economic and social aspects of rural areas.
They would be backed by support staff, including at least four interviewers/
tabulators and administrative staff. The Monitoring Group would be assisted
by a consultant (firm, person, university or other) experienced in monitoring
or similar activities involving research design, survey work, field work,
data processing, analysis and interpretation of data. Data processing faci-
lities would be rented. The consultant service would require three to six
months per year. Part of the actual evaluation of Phase I would also probably
be done by consulting institutions.
Costs
10.       Total costs for monitoring and evaluation are estimated at
Cr$ 5,250,000 (US$700,000) for the five-year period (Annex 10, Table 7).



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Scheme 1
Each component has
social           economic         technological
aspects and implications
Project Unit                                                          Information
participating                                                         necessary on:
agencies
-N      ~~(1 ) annual                                ~4                                        Ikjj
work plan                                  (3)       /general project                  pr)iories
feed ack             (                              .ork
(10)                (2)       work                                         aspects
plan                                   specific project
actions       |
'planning of data
1 $ components                                                            collection
of project
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                         ( 6 )
(9) feedback to M.G. on its work plan
and methods
Lu1L~~~  _______         ~           (8)       data1        ( 7)         |methods   4 
ana  yslZ -            implementation
co



ANNEX 9
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Preparation Studies
Background
1.        The project area roughly corresponds to the area under perennial
cotton in RN State (Annex 1). The project would finance studies to determine
the prospects for further rural development efforts in other parts of the
State. Two areas would be considered: (a) the Serra de Santana, a small
(5,000 ha, 10,000 inhabitants) homogeneous area located within the project
area, well differentiated from the latter (higher altitude of about 600 m,
better rainfall averaging 500 to 800 mm annually, and better soils); and
(b) the Agreste-Coastal area, bordering the project area to the east and
extending to the coast, a large area of approximately 8,100 sq km with a
population of 725,000 (1970).
2.        The selection of these areas is based on:  (a) the location of
Serra de Santana within the project area, to which it could be rapidly
integrated after brief studies are conducted; (b) the importance of the
Agreste-Coastal area in terms of population, area and potential agronomic
use as well as the seemingly serious bottlenecks to development in this
area.
A. Serra de Santana Area
3.        The Serra de Santana is characterized by relatively good climate
and soil conditions. Combined with a favorable topography of elevated flat
tablelands, these characteristics allow for a diversified agriculture. Land
use data indicate the predominance of annual crops (46% of total farm land)
over perennial cultivation (9%). Food crops are important, especially corn,
bananas and manioc, while groundnuts appear to have some potential. Sisal
(on middle and large units) and fruit (on small size family farms) are also
grown. Beef and dairy cattle, feeding on native grass and crops residues,
are raised extensively and semi-extensively, although water availability
is a limiting factor. The land tenure situation appears similar to that of
the project area, with a seemingly relatively larger number of sharecroppers.
4.        The main issues concerning the development of this area may be
similar to those of the project area, despite the absence of perennial
cotton. No highly attractive technical packages are currently available
for the crops proiuced in the area. In view of the relative smallness of
the area, a major study is not warranted. Rather, the basic approach used



ANNEX 9
Page 2
for the project area could be fruitfully used in this area, i.e., a small
experimental phase to test and refine technical improvements adapted to the
specific conditions of the area. All other interventions under the project
would apply to this area (credit and agricultural extension delivery systems,
trials and experimentation, health services, etc.). The major prerequisite,
justifying the non-immediate inclusion of this area in the project area,
would be a study on the agronomical potential of the area for subsequent
selection of the relevant agricultural activities (food crops, fruit, live-
stock) to be experimented with.
B. Agreste Coastal Area
Brief Description
5.        The Agreste-Coastal area includes 52 municipios representing an
area of 8,100 sq km (15% of the State total area) with a total population
of 725,000 (47% of the State total) and a rural population of 330,000 (21%
of the State total and 41% of the State rural population). The area can
be divided in two major sub-zones: (a) the coastal area, a narrow strip
(20 to 30 km wide) along the eastern littoral, with good agroclimatic
characteristics (average annual rainfall of more than 1,000 mm), including
the main population center of Natal (300,000); and (b) the Agreste, a transi-
tion zone between the coastal area and the semi-arid Sertao (project area)
with average annual rainfall between 700 mm and 1,000 mm. The whole area
is marked by large diversity in soils (reflecting the division between the
crystalline formations in the South and sedimentary basin in the North) and
climate conditions. The agronomic potential is significantly larger than
in the project area (main crops are sugarcane, bananas, cassava, beans,
corn and herbaceous cotton, and livestock is generally important). About
37% of total farmland is in annual crops, the remaining 63% being largely
in permanent pastures (and permanent crops to a lesser extent). Land tenure
is varied, with 46% of farms under direct ownership (representing 90% of
farmland), 21% in renting and 26% under squatting. The area is also seem-
ingly characterized by serious underemployment, especially in areas close
to Natal.
Development Issues and Problems
6.        For the Agreste, the agronomic potential appears to be large and
varied, the nearby Natal consumption market is promising, and risks attached
to agricultural production are substantially lower than in the project area
owing mainly to a better rainfall pattern. However, the land distribution
pattern, present tenure arrangements and underemployment problems are
constraints whi-h sould be accounted for in any development effort.  From a
technical viewpoint, water availability still remains a problem, although
there appear to be yet untapped resources in subterranean waters in the



ANNEX 9
Page 3
North which could possibly be used for irrigation. In addition, the development
of this area should be conceived in harmony with that of the neighboring semi-
arid Sertao (project area) so as to avoid excessive dichotomy between the two
areas.
7.        In summary, the Agreste-Coastal area, whose exact liimits still
remain to be defined, could lend itself to a rural development effort directed
at small farmers, mainly owner-operators and tenants, with a special focus on
employment generation in agriculture. This could be accomplished through
development of food crops, vegetables, fruits and/or dairy production.
Emphasis should probably be placed on fully utilizing the resources of the
large Natal consumption market. Farmer organizations, especially for market-
ing, could be contemplated.
8.        The whole study program related to this area should necessarily
be closely related to the general study of coastal areas (Zona de Mata and
Agreste) in different states of the Northeast, initiated under the
POLONORDESTE program.
Program of Studies
9.        The existing information on the area is substantial.  However, it
is incomplete and partly inadequate for the purposes of elaborating a
structured rural development effort. The project would thus finance studies
which would have the following nature and scope:
(a) Inventory of all existing information, with subsequent
detailed analysis. The collection of_existing data can
be conducted at three levels: (i) at the State level,
CEPA/RN (the agricultural planning commission) already
has its own library, relatively well supplied, but there
are several other State institutions whose resources should
be fully exploited (ANCAR/RN, Banks, State secretariats, etc);
(ii), at the level of other states, several studies have
been-made, or are being made, in similar ecological areas,
especially in the Northeast; and (iii) at the regional and
federal levels, information is also available and should be
collected and analyzed (more specifically, the POLONORDESTE
program has already initiated studies of selected zones of
the coastal area of the Northeast for possible rural development
interventions; close contacts with the team of consultants in
charge of these studies should be developed).
(b) Characterization of the area from agronomic and socio-
economic viewpoints with possible differentation in homo-
geneous sub-areas. This phase should be accompanied by a
clear diagnosis of the present situation with a precise
identification of target groups and of a series of projects
and sub-projects of potential interest.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(c) Final selection of projects according to specific criteria
including: target groups, technical packages and their
economic impact, consistency with State and/or regional
planning, economic and financial viability.
(d) Preparation and appraisal of the projects selected.
10.       The complexity of the area warrants special care and emphasis to be
placed on the problems of interrelationships among the various sub-areas and
between the area and neighboring regions of the State (especially the pro-
ject area). These interrelationships concern most of the.important variables
at play in the area, e.g., man-power and labor (migration), technical aspects
(crop vs livestock, annual cotton vs perennial cotton, etc.), institutions
especially as they relate to services delivery systems such as credit and
agricultural extension), and others. In the context of Northeast Brazil,
particular attention should be given to the problems of unemployment/under-
employment.
Organization of the Program
11.       The inventory phase would be placed under the direct responsibility
of CEPA/RN. After collecting and analyzing all the existing information
(possibly with temporary assistance by consultants), CEPA/RN would prepare detailed
terms of reference for the specific studies to be undertaken under the second
phase (characterization/diagnosis/project identification). This phase could
be undertaken by CEPA/RN or by consultants (or by a combination of both). The
project selection phase would be the responsibility of CEPA/RN, but con-
sultants could be called upon for assisting in the methodological aspects.
The phase corresponding to the feasibility studies of the projects identified
and selected would be placed under the responsibility of consultants, with
supervision by CEPA/RN.
12.       The overall program of studies would not exceed three years.  The
time sequence of the four phases described above is somewhat theoretical.
A project (or sub-project) defined rapidly and with certainty in the second
phase could well be implemented before the end of other studies. The only
relative confidence in terms of timing, refers to the completion of the data
collection/analysis phase which would take about six months.
13.       Total costs of these studies (including the study referring to
the Serra de Santana Area) would amount to approximately Cr$2,000,000
(US$278,000), over three years. This is roughly equivalent to a total of
4.5 man-years of consulting. The exact distribution of tasks between CEPA/RN
and consultants and plan of action for study execution would be defined
precisely together with consultants' terms of reference (and subsequent
selection) before the end of the Aa&a collection phase, and presented to
the Bank for review and approval.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
ItIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit: Project Costs and Phasing
(in Cr$ '000)
1         2    - -3- Year - -              -  -   5 -rotal
Number of Participating farmers           935       2,070      3,255       5,290      8,290         8,290
Incremental                             935      1,135       1,185      2,035       3,000         8,290
Farmers not participating in              925       1,650      2,665       4, 30      6,710         6,710
credit component
Incremental Seasonal Cotton Production Cost   576        2,978      5,135       8,622     14,104
Seasonal Production Credit Requiriments17      691       3,5714     6,162      10,346     16,925
Seasonal CreditL/                         691       2, 883     2       588  4,18 6L579              6925
First year cotton establishment cost
(incremental)                                847       1,969      3,305       5,514      8,952
Establishment Credit2/                    847      1,969       33305                     8 9
On-Farm Investment Credit                    3,700       5,453      6,o57       9,562     14,558        39,330
Total Credit Project Cost               5,238      10,305     11,950      19,091     29,526        76,110
1/ Requirements assumed to be equal to 120% of cotton seasonal production cost, to account for requirements
for subsistence crops.
2/ Seasonal credit assumed to be repaid within a year (principal only).
3/ First year cotton establishment credit assumed to be repaid over 8 years average, with average 3 years grace.  
o



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE D) NORTE RURAL DEVUA3PBNET PROJECT
Credit: Total Requirements. Phasing and Credit Component of Proiect Costs
(in Cr) '000)
Seasonal Production Cost-Cotton                  Before                                   --Year  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Development          1                2                 3                4                5                 6                 7                 8                9
1. Farms 0-50 ha
Group A - 1080 Farms                    1,992            2,008             2,032            2,098            2,173             2,286            2,395              2,507            2,623            2.655
Group B-I - 2730 Farms                    -                 294              703            1,136            1,826             2,894            3,099              3,342            3,642            3,773
Group B-II - 2730 Farms                   -                 116            1.075            1,843            2,963             4,720            5,508              5,941            6,475            6,709
Sub-total                          1,992            2,418            3,810             5,077            6,962            9,900            11,002            11,790            12,740           13,137
2.  Farms 51-tO0 ha
Group M - 500 Farms                     2,880            2,896             2,920            2,984            3,080             3,232            3,408              3,592            3,784            3,840
Group N - 1250 Farms                      -                 134            1.120            1,946            3.452             5,844            6,234              6,733            7,382            7,680
Sub-total                          24880            3,030            4,040             4.930            6,532            9,076             9.642            10.325            11.166           11,520
Total Seasonal Cotton Costs               4,872             5,448            7,850           10,007           13,494            18,976           20,644             22,115           23,906           24,657
Total Seasonal Production Costs 2/             5.846            6,538            9.420            12,008           16.193           22,771            24,773            26,538            28,687           29,588
Incremental Seasonal Prod. Credit (Cumulative) -                  692            3,574            6,162            10,347           16,925           18,927             20,692           22,841            23,742
Project Seasonal Credit Requirements Net
of Collections-                              -               692            2.S8             2,588            4,184             5,579              -                  -                -                _
First Year Cotton Establishmene Cost
1. Farms 0-50 ha
Group A - 1080 Farms                    1,313            1,316             1,324            1,340            1,357             1,388            1,420              1,436            1,522            1 575
Grpmp B-I - 2730 Farms                    -                 201              473              751            1,202             1,890            1,929              2,006            2,126            2,24k
Group B-Il - 2730 Farms                   -                268               722            1,214            1,940            3,067             3.430              3,565            3.781            3,984
Sub-total                          1,313            1,785            2,519             3,305            4,499            6,345             6,779             7,007             7,429            7,800
2. Farms 50-200 ha
Group M - 500 Farms                     1,900            1,903             1,911            1,926            1,947             1,990            2,040             2,077             2,182            2,280
Group N - 1250 Farms                      -                 372              752            1.287            2.281             3.830            3.910             4.064             4,303            4.560
Sub-total                          1,900            2,275            2.663             3,213            4.228            5,820             5,950             6,141             6,485            6,840
Total Establishment Costs                 3.213            4.060             5,182            6.518            8,727            12,165           12,729             13,148           13.914           14,640
Incremental Establishment Costs                  -                847            1,969            3,305             5,514            8,952            9,516              9,935           10,701           11,427
4/
Project Establishment Credit Cost-          -                 847            1.569            3.385            5.345             8.389
On-Farm Investment Cost                            _              3,700            5,453             6,057            9,562           14,558             2,705
Project Investment Credit Cost                             3,700             5,453            6,057            9.562            14.558- 
Total Credit Lending               9_059           14.298           20.055           24_583            34_482           49_494           40.207             39_686           42,601           44_228
5/
Insurance and Bad Debts Costs                -                286              501              615               862            1,237            1,206              1,190            1,278            1,326
1/  Seasonal production costsfor cotton reer  to costs for years 2 to 5 of. perennial cotton cycle.
2/  Total seasonal production costs equal to 120% cotton seasonal costs to account for subsistence crops requirements.
3/ Project seasonal credit collected in a year (principal only).
4/ Establishment credit repaid over B years average, with average 3 years grace.
5/ Includes cost of Proagro insurance scheme and bad debt losses, equivalent to percentage oi total lending increasing from 2 to 3%.



lu"AiJX 1C
Ta le 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL D3VElLOPMENT PROJECT
igricultural Extensiofl: TotaL Cost and Project Costs (Sumnary)
( in Cr$ b o
- - - - - - - -  - - -_- Year  - - - - - - - - - - - -                   AnnualJ
PHASE I                          1             2             3             4             5          Total    Recurrent Costs
a.  Personnel             1,869         1,869         1,869         1,869        1,869         9,345         1,869
b.  Enuipmentt, "v%ts
Mainitenance and
Supplies              1,559          459           459           727           727         3,931           727
c. Training                 220           130           130           130           130           740          150
Sub-total                                     45 2,18  2,458  2.726     2,726        14.016         2;746
PHASE TI
a.  Personnel                      -                  1,112         2,917         5,519         9,508        5,519
b.  Eouipment, aents
Maintenance and
Supplies n                                       1 ,031        1,995         3,207         6,233         2,145
c.  Training              ---                           157           316           501           974           386
Sub-total          -_                            00       5.228         9.227        16.7y5 85nCn
Total Costs           3.648         2458   ,      .75_                       11X9L3 157796
Project Costsa
Salaries
Phase I (total)        1,869         1,869         1,869         1,869         1,869         9,345
Phase II (incremental)  -              _             _             926         3,528        4,454
Sub-total         1,869         1,869         1,869        2,795         5,397        13,799
Equipment, ihents, Main-
tenance and Supplies
phase I (total)        1,559           459           459           727           727         3,931
Phase II (incremental)__               -             656         1,334         2,426        4~416
Sub-total         1,559           459        1,115         2,061         3,153         8,347
fraining.           .        220           130           287           446           631         1 714
Total Project                                                                         23>860
Coats          3,8           2,1458       321532911                                2,6
1/  In addition, non-project recurrent costs would be incurred in the Phase II municipios in the first
years of the project (i.e., during Phase I), as follows (in Cr $000's): year 1 - 2,772; year3 - 1,285;
year 4 - 120. These costs are gradually phased into the above table of total costs (but not project
costs) in years 3, 4 and 5.
2/  Project costs include the total cost of extension in Phase I area and incremental cost in Phase II area.
'Without project" recurrent costs in Phase II area are Cr$2,772,000.
3/ For years 6 and onwards.



ANNIEX 10
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                                               Table 2a
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension: Phasing and Total Costs
(in Cr$ Million)
- -                        - Year- - - - - - - - - - -                             Annual
PHASE I                                      1            2            3             4            5          Total          Recurrent Cost
1. Personnel
Salaries                       1,135        1,135         1,135        1,135         1,135        5,675              1,135
Temporary help 11                114           114          114           114          114          570                 114
Social charges 2/                450          450           450          450           450        2,250                450
CDO's contingencies 3/           170           170          170          170           170          850                170
Sub-total                1,869               1.86,869             1,869        1,869        9,345               1,869
2.  Training                            220          130           130          130           130          740                150
3. Equipment
Vehicles                         810           -            -             210          210        1,230                 210
Maintenance 4/                   327           327          327           327          327        1,635                 327
Office equipment                 290           -            -              58           58          406                  58
Buildings (Rent)5/                55            55           55            55           55          275                  55
Supplies 6/                       77            77           77            77           77          385                  77
Sub-total                1.559           459          459           727          727         3,931                727
Phase I Costs                  3.648        2.458         2,458        2,726         2.726       14,016              2,746
PHA~SE II
1. Personnel
Salaries                         -             -            744        1,950         3,689        6,383              3,689
Temporary help                   -             -             74           195          369           638                369
Social charges                                              294           772        1,461        2,527              1,461
Sub-total                                           1.112         2,917                                         5,519
2.  Training                            -            -             157          316           501          974                386
3. Equipment
Vehicles                         -          ---             660        1,080         1,530        3,270                 654
'Maintenance                      -            -             206          542         1,019        1,767              1,019
Office equipment                 -             -            105           205          310           620                124
Buildings (Rent)                 -             -             25            70          145           240                145
Supplies                         -                           35            98          203          336                203
Sub-total                                           1,031         1.995        3,207         6.233              2,145
Phase II Costs                   -                        2300         5,228         9,227       16,755              8,050
Total Costs                           3.648        2.458         4,758        7,954       11,953        30,771
1/ Temporary help requirements estimated at 10% total salary.
2/  Social charges:  36% of salaries and temporary help.
3/ 10% of salaries (including temporary help and social charges) to account for possible utilization
of Community Development officers.
4/ Maintenance of vehicles at Cr. 9,350 per year per vehicle (20,000 km per year)
5/ Buildings maintenance at Cr. 5,000 per year per building (rent, repairs, maintenance)
6/ Office supplies at Cr. 7,000 per year per office (does not include teaching material for
farmers training).
NOTE: Annual recurrent costs before development are estimated at $cr 2.8 million.
These costs are phased out at year 4 of the project.



ANNEX 10
Table 2b
NORTHEAST bRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extensions Requirements and Phasing
------~~----- -   lear   ---------- -----
Total
Number     Unit Cost        1       2        3       4        5
(Cr$ '000)
Personnel
1. Phase I
Regional coordinators                 2       65.00           2       -
Extensionist (E. Agr.)                7       39.00           7       -        _
Technical advisers                  26        22.75          26       -
Administrative                       18        7.80          18       -        -       -
2. Phase II
Regional coordinators                6        65.00           -       -       2        2       2
Extensionists                        29       39.00           -       -       5        9      15
Technical advisers                  74        22-75           -       -      15       25      34
Administrative                       62        7.80           -       -      10       20      32
Equipment
Vehicles - Phase I                  41        30.00          27       -       -        7       7
Phase II                109       30.00           -       -       22      36       51
Office equipment
(a)  Coordinating units              4        40.00          2        -       -        1       1
(b)  New field units                14        30.00          5        -       2       3        4
(c)  Existing field units           22        15.00          4        -       3        5      10
Training
1. First year
(a) First preservice session of 4 weeks (5 working days per week).
(b)  Second preservice session of 3 weeks.
(c)  Refresher session of 2 weeks.
Drop-out ratio asswned to be 30%.
2. Subsequent years
3 sessions of 2 weeks each per year. Drop-out ratio estimated at 10-15%.
3. Cost assumptions
Trainees cost:      Cr50/day per trainee.
Coordinator:        Cr150/day
Instructor:         Cr500/day
Training Material: 10% of trainees cost.
1/ Purchase of vehicles for Phase I assumes that 8 vehicles are already available at lear 1, from
existing fleet. Maintenance costs are calculated for 35 vehicles.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTERUtRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Experimentation and b1arm ftrialu
(CR$ '000)
Annual1
- -- - - - - - -Year - - - - - - -                                          Recurrent
Personnel                    1           2           3           4           5         Total                Cost
General Coordinator       130         130         130         130         130           650               130
Regic.~al Coordinators    208         416         h16         416         416         1,872               416
Researchers               195         390         390         585         780         2,340               780
Technical Assistants      130         390         650         975      1,300          3,445             1,300
Sub-total              663       1,326       1,586      2,106       2,626         8,307              2,626
Training                     30          65          80         115         145           435               145
Eauipment
Vehicles                  210         240         120         210         210           990               200
MA.intenance               65         140         178         2)43        309           935               309
Eouipment-Supplies        133         265         317        421         525                              525
Sub-total              408         645         615         874      1,044         3,586              1,034
Travel-/                     65         160         203         281         360         1,069               360
Farm-level costs
Tnvestment                120         270         330        450         525         1,695                300
Operating cpsts            60         180         300         150         600        1,590                600
Insurance4/                45         113         158        225         281           822                225
Sub-total              225         563         788      1,125       1,406         4,107              1,125
Consulting                   5o0        450         450         450         450        2,250                225
Total Costs          1 841       3,209       3.722      4,951       6,031        19,754              5.515
1/  For the economic analysis of the project (Annex 13), the economic cost allocated to the benefit                        (D 
stream of farm income is assumed to be 30pZ of total cost.
/  Including social charges (36%)of salary)
3/ About 145 days per person per year at 75/day.
/ 25- of investment and operating costs.



NORrHEAST BRAZIL
RIO QGRNDE  DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
ibxperimentation and Farm Trialss Technical Assinmtions and Phasing
Unit Cost       --- ---                 Year----------------------
(Cr$ 000)       1            2           3            4           5          Total
Number of Sites -/(incremental)                      40           80           80          100          100         400
Man Power (incremental)2W
General Coordinator               130.0          1            -            -           -           -             1
Regional Coordinators             104,0          2            2            _-                       -            h
Researchers                        97.5          2            2            -           2            2            8
Technical Assistants               65.0          2            4           4            5           5            20
Vehicles (incremental)                  30.00          7           8            4           7            7            33
Fquipment: 20% of salary costs
Maintenance:                             9.35/vehic.
Consulting (man years)                  50            1            1           1            15
Travel: 150 days per year
average per professional
Program Costs
Tnvestments:   1,OOO/Cr/ha in first year, plus 250 Cr/ha additional each subsequent year
Operating costs: 500 Cr/ha
Insurance: 25% of total investment and operating costs to cover for losses and failure.
j Average area ner site estimated at 3 ha.
'/ Personnel costs include social charges (36%).  Salaries paid over 13 months. -
ei M



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDS DO NORTE RURAL DIVEILPM?T PROJICT
Costs of Farmers Develodpment
(in Cr$ '000)
-     -    -    -    -    -     -    ---    -     -    -    ---    -  Year  -    -     -     -     -    -     -    -    -    -    -     -     -    -     -
1               2                 3                 4                  5                Total
Farmers Training
Number of participating farmers (incremental)  l/1,460             1,560             1,780             3,080             4,390               12,270
Cost of program (Cumulative) 2/                      58               99               147               244                374                 922
Communications
Number of monitors trained 3/                        50               50                70               130                250                 550
Cost of monitors training 4/                          6                6                 8                 14                28                  62
Film preparation 5                                   60               60                60                60                 60                 300
Sub-total                                       66               66                68                74                88                 362
Consulting 6/                                         113              113               113                113               113                 565
Total Costs                                    237              278               328               431               575                  Z.72
l/ Number of participating farmers assumed to be equal to number of farmers reached by agricultural
extensionists (See extension , Table 2b)
2/  Training cost estimated at 40 Cr/farmer in first year of participation, and 25 Cr/farmer in                                                     oj&
subsequent years
3/  Incremental, including drop-outs                                                                                                                fr o
4/  Cost estimated at 120 Cr/monitor (3 days training)
5/ 60 films at Cr 5,000/film, distributed evenly over 5 years
6/ 3 months per year at 450,000 Cr/yr.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVBLOPNENT PROJECT
nealtli: Phasing and Total Project Costs
(in Cr$ '000)
- -   -    -   -    -   -_-_-_-_-_-_-    - -Yeafs  -  -    -    -   -   -  -   -   -   -
1               2                 3                4                 5                 Total
Phase I
Personnel                        427            1,109             1,267            1,267             1,267               5,337
Construction
Miniposts                   215              221               -                -                 -                   436
Health centers              154              286               -                -                 -                   440
Sub-total                369               507              -                 -                 -                   876
Equipment
Miniposts                   129              119               -                -                 -                   251
Health centers               89              133               -                -                 -                   222
Vehicles                    120               90               -                -.                -                   210
Sub-total                341               342              -                 -                 -                   683
Training                         214              214               -                -                 -                   428
Total Phase I             1,348            2,172             1,267            1,267             1,_267              7,321
Phase II
Construction
Miniposts                    -               -                 486              486               469               1,441
Health centers               -               -                 331              331               441               1,103
Sub-total                 -                -                 817              817               910               2,544
E'iuipment
Miniposts                    -               -                 272              272               272                 816
Health centers               -               -                 177              177               177                 531
Vehicles                     -                -                210              210               240                 660
Sub-total                 -                -                659               659               689               2,007
Training                         _                                  359              346               341               1,046
Total Phase II              _                                1,835            1,822             1,940               5,597
TOTAL COSTS                   1,348             2172              3.102            3,089             3,207              12,918  0
____  ____                                                                a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



ANNEX 10
rable 5a
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health: Requirements. Technical Assumptions and Phasing
Unit Cost               -     ------------ Year ----------------
1/  Cr $                  1          2         -3         4         5          Total
Personnel (Phase I)Cr                                                                                   T
Community health 3orkers?/  263/mth             33         66         55         55       55            -
Auxiliary nurses_ l         1,313/mth           10         20         18         18       18            _
Social Extensionists!       2,100/mth            8         16         16         16       16            -
Construction
Health viniposts
Adaptation              5,550                15         16         34        34        34           133
New Construction       16,500                 8          8         18        18        17            69
Health Centers
Renovation             21,750                 2          3          -         -         -             5
New Construction      110,250                 1          2          3          3        4            13
Equipment
Health  minipo9ts           4,950               26         24         55         55       55
Health centers.            44,250                2          3          4          4        4
Vehicles for aux.nurses  30,000                  4          3          7          7        8            29
Training
Community health workers  2,625                 33         33         58        58        59           241
Auxiliary nurses            7,500               10         10         17        17        16            70
Social extensionists        6,600                8          8         12         10       10            48
1/ Salaries paid over 13 months - Include 36% social charges
2/ For year 1 and 2, additional community health workers available for only 9 months because of
training in same year.
For years 3 to 5, allowance for 15-20% drop-out ratio
Year 1 and 2:  additional auxiliary nurses available for only 3 months because of training
in same year.
Years 3 to 5, allowance for 10% drop-out ratio.
v  Additional social extensionists available for 11 months becquse of trnining in same veAr.
Assuming that in two-thirds of cases existing structures wculd be adapted.
/  Allowing for additional equipment needed for existing facilities.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DUVE     LO PROJECT
Social Extension - Self-Help Demonstrations Phasing and Total Costs
(in Cr$ '000)
Unit Cost          ------    - Year  ----------
Cr$t000           1            2                           Total
Demonstration Units
1. Investment
Goats                 1.5            4.5           6.o          4.5             15.0
Sheep                 1.5            4.5           6.o          h.5             15.0
Vegetables             .5             2.5          2.5          2.5              7.5
Rabbits                .725           2.9          4.4          3.6             10.9
Sub-total                         1h.4          18.9         15.1             48.4
2.  Rotating Credit Fund-/               150.          150.         250.             55o.o
Training
Social Extcensionists         .9            7.2          7.2            -             14.4
Caretakers                   .75           13.5         16.5         15.o             45.0
Teachers                    1.0            30.0         ho.o         30.0            100.0
Sub-total                         50            63.7         45.0            159.4
Total Costs                          215.1        232.6        310.1            757.8
/ To provide special credit for a total of about 1,000 families over 3 years, as
direct beneficiaries of the demonstration program. Under this program each
recipient farmer would repay in kind within 12 months so the animals (goats,
rabbits, etc.) could be relent to other farm families.
(D E
o 



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURLL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*                         ~~~~~~~~1/
Administration - Evaluation: Phasing and Total Costs-
(Cr$ '000)
------------------- Year ----_____________
PROJECT UNIT                    1           2          3          4           5         Total
Personnel                  1,266      1,266       1,266      1,266       1,266       6,330
Training                     253        253         253        253         253      1,265
Equipment                    392        125         125         125        125         892
Consulting                   150        150         150        150         150         750
Travel                       100        100         100        100         100         500
Total Cost                 2,161      1,894       1,894      1,894       1,894      9,737
MONITORING GROUP
Personnel                    455        455         455        455         455       2,275
Training                      91         91          91         91          91        455
Equipment                    240          59         59         59          59         476
Consulting                   225        300         450        338         338      1,651
Travel                        50         50          50         50          50         250
Data Analysis                 50        100         150        150         150         600
Total Cost                 1,111      L,055       1,255      1143                   5,707
1/ For the economic analysis, costs of the Project Unit and Monitoring Group are gradually phased out until
Lear 10 of the project. Economic cost allocated to the benefit stream of farm income is assumed to
be 60 of total costs over 10 years for both.
CD 
0



AjNEX 10
Table 7a
NORTAEASiT BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Unit - Cost Assumptions
Number             Annual Unit Cost
(Cr$'000)
Personnel
Project Coordinator                            1                      117
Advisors                                       7                       91
Administrative: 15% of above
Social changes: 36% of salaries
Training: 20% of personnel costs
Equipment
Vehicles (Year 1)                              4                       30
Maintenance of vehicles                                                 9.35
Fixed equipment (Year 1)                                              147
Supplies                                                               34
Rent, maintenance                                                      54
Consulting                                     4 months/yr.           450
Travel                                                                100
Monitoring Group- Cost Assumptions
Personnel
Professionals                                  2                       65
Interviewers - Technicians                     4                      39
Administrative                                 2                       13
Temporary help: 10% of salaries of above
Social charges: 36% of all salaries
Training: 20% of personnel costs
Equipment
Vehicles                                       5                      30
Office equipment                                                      24
Building (furniture)                                                   7
Rent and maintenance                                                    5
Supplies                                                               7
Consulting                                   44 man-months            37.5 per month
Data analysis: 250 hours of computer time over 5 years @
Cr2,000/hour



NORtTHEAST bRhAZIL
RIO ORANDE DO NO2M! ERZAL DhVELOPHNT PROJECT
Training: Number of Trainees, Costs and Phasing, by Major Project Component
Project Component               Trainees                                             -fear
1           2            3            4__      __          Total
Number of Trainees
Agricultural Extensioirr   Agricultural Extensionist             10            8           15           26        44          103
Technical Adviser                     34          30           50           80        119         313
Experimentation - Trials  Iteseacher and Coordinators             4            4            0            2         2           12
Technical Assistant                    2            4           4            5          5          20
Farmers Training           Farmers                            1,460        1,56o        1,780       3,080      4,390       12,270
Health                     Community 'lealth Worker              33           33           58           58        59          241
Auxiliary Nurse                       10           10          17 ,         17         16           70
Social Extensionist                    8            8          12           10         10          48
Communi-ation              Monitors                              50           50           70         130        250          550
Community Development      Rural School Teachers                 30           40           30           -         -           100
Caretakers                            18          22           20            _                     60
Project Unit               Professional                           8            -            -           -         -             8
Monitcring Group           Professional                           2            _            -           _         _             2
3/
Total Costs  (Cr$'000)
Agricultural Extension                                          220          130          287         446        631        1,714
Experimentation - Trials                                         30           65           80         115        145          435
Farmers Training                                                 58           99          1147        244        374          922
Frealth                                                         2114         214          359         346        341        1,4714
Communication         2/                                          6                         8          16         30           66
Communit,, Development                          ~~51          64          145           -          -         160
rommunity Development                                           253          253          253         253        253       1,265
Monitoring Group                                                 St           9                        9          9           455
Total Costs                                                92,         922   1, 270            1_,51         61
1/  Dropouts included.                 ,a
2/  Inclixues three-day special training for social extensionists during Phase I, reEdself-help demonstration program.
3/ See references in tables referring to individual components cost estimates (Tables I to 7).



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRAM  DO NORTE RURAL DEVEPMNT PROJECT
Phasing of Tnvestment
(Cr$ million)
1-                       Year2                            Total
Credit (Table 1)123
Seasonal Credit                          .7        2.9        2.6         4.2         6.5          16.9
Cotton establishment                     .8        2.0        3.4         5.3         8.4          19.9
On farm investment                     3.7         5.4        6.0         9.6       14.6           39.3
Agricultural Extension (Table 2)              3.6         2.5         3.3        5.3        9.2            23.9
Experimentation a.id Farm Trials (Table 3)    1.8         3.2        3.7         5.0        6.o           19.7
Farmers Developt- nt (Table 4)                  .2         .3          .3         .4          .6           1.8
Health (Table 5)                              1.3         2.2        3.1         3.1         3.2          12.9
So ial Extension, Self-Help Demonstration       .2         .2          .3         -           -              .7
(Table 6)
Project Administration (Table 7)              2.2         1.9        1.9         1.9         1.9           9.7
Project Special Fund                            .5         .5          .5         .5          .5            2.5
Project Preparation Studies                     .5         .8          .7         -           -            2.0
Monitoring-Evaluation (Tnble 7)               1.1         1.1        1.3         1.1         1.1           5.7
Base-Cost Estimate                           16.5        23.0       27.1        36.4        52.0         155'.o
Price Contingencies                           2.3         5.5        8.9        16.0       29.1            61.8               3
Total Expected Cost of Project               18.8        28.5       36.0        L2.4        81.1         216.8
0
Note re Trainius : cosss of traia1in5 n,4 er ti,e project a:e included in a fiLimoer of tue auove co,ipo±ents
(e.g, extensionl.  A separate breakdown ot' training costs, extracted from the above, is shown in Table 8.
October 22, 1975



ANNEX 11
NORTThEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Quarter     Disbursed During    Cumulative Amount
Bank Fiscal Year  Ending       Quarter              Disbursed            Balance of Loan
1 2,000
1976         Mar. 31            240                  240                11,760
June 30            220                 460                 11,540
1977         Sept. 30           240                  700                11,300
Dec. 31            220                  920                11,080
Mar. 31            560                1,480                10,520
June 30            380               1,860                 10,140
1978         Sept9 30           380                2,240                 9,760
Dec. 31            340                2,580                 9,420
Mar. 31            720                3,300                 8,700
June 30            450               3,750                  8,250
1979         Sept. 30           450                4,200                 7,800
Dec. 31            410               4,610                  7,390
Mar. 31          1,050                5,660                 6,340
June 30            700               6,360                  5,640
1980         Sept. 30           580                6,94o                 5,o60
Dec. 31            590               7,530                  4,470
Mar. 31          1,590                9,120                 2,880
June 30          1,070              10,190                  1,810
1981         Sept. 30           860               11,050                   950
Dec. 31            500               11,550                   450
Mar. 31            450              12,QOO                      0



ANNEX 12
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Management
1.        The project would involve the detailed planning and implementation
of a number of actions to refine technical packages and delivery systems to
further the project's objectives. The initial phase would require several
developmental approaches which, based on careful monitoring of results,
would be modified as necessary. The project cannot therefore be defined
in advance with great precision and requires a flexible project organization.
2.        The project's detailed actions would be implemented by existing
agencies rather than by the setting up of a new institution. A Project
Unit would be established within CEPA/RN to conceive and stimulate actions
under the project, coordinate the work of the various participating agencies
(PA's), and control project finances. A Monitoring Group would monitor the
project and prepare for and participate in its evaluation. The Project Unit
would report periodically through a state-level agricultural policy coordinat-
ing body (Conselho Diretor) which includes representatives of the various
agencies involved in agriculture in the State to the special coordinating
group of POLONORDESTE, the Federal fund from which most of the Borrower's
contribution to the project would flow.
3.        The Project Unit would be expected to have a small staff which in
view of the complex nature of the project must be experienced and imagin-
ative. Much of the project's success would depend on the quality of the
staff of the Project Unit. The project should be able to offer attractive
salaries in order to recruit good people. Additionally, the project would
provide funds for further training (travel, courses) of the staff of the
Project Unit. Suggested terms of reference for the initial staff of the
Project Unit are in paras 22-29. These terms of reference would need to be
interpreted flexibly, depending on the project's evolution and on the parti-
cular experiences of the people the project recruits. In addition to func-
tional specialists, the Project Unit may require one or more field coordinators.
A general description of the role of the Project Unit follows.
Planning and Coordination
4.        The Project Unit would be the only body whose exclusive concern
would be the project. The various participating agencies (PA's) would have
an important role in project implementation, but for each the project would
be only one program if many. The Project Unit would thus be the principal
body for conceiving the on-going role of the project, stimulating the PA's
to carry out the detailed planning and implementation of each, revising plans
in light of observed results, and coordinating the work of the various PA's.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Operating Procedures
5.        The basic building block of the project would be the annual plan.
This would be prepared by each PA jointly with the Project Unit; the summation
of the annual plans of the various components would form the annual plan of
the project. The annual plan would be reviewed by the Conselho Diretor and
POLONORDESTE and would be subject to Bank approval. The Regional Coordinator
of POLONORDESTE would review implementation of the project plan.
Generation of Technical Packages
6.        The project would finance field trials and on-farm demonstration
plots for cotton and related crops and work closely with basic research. A
variety of potential technical packages exist which are in varying degrees
of development (Annex 4). The distinct focus or orientation that the Project
Unit could provide is the profitability to users (hence "saleability") of
the eventual results, rather than technical performance per se. It would
focus on crops and activities of importance to farmers of the Northeast,
particularly farmers not currently reached by the formal extension and credit
channels. The work is thus analogous to the "product manager" of a commercial
enterprise.
7.        The Project Unit, in creating technical packages, must also develop
close links with similar work in neighboring states having similar agricultural
conditions, bringing to bear in RN the appropriate results of other states.
It should develop good files on, and attempt a catalytic role in bringing
about coordination of the various technical investigations proceeding in
various parts of the Northeast.
8.        A Technical Committee would be established to coordinate planning,
implementation and review of activities (at the research station and farm
levels) to develop technical recommendations under the project. This
Committee would make recommendations to the Project Unit through its chairman,
the Technical Adviser of the Project Unit. Besides the Adviser, the Committee
would be made up of various experts on Northeast Brazil, including representa-
tives of the Federal University of Ceara, the IPA of Pernambuco, EMBRAPA,
the extension service (ANCAR/RN), INFAOL, BB and BNB. The Committee would
meet at least twice a year.
Credit and Extension Delivery Systems
9.        The development and expansion of credit and extension delivery
systems would be a major project activity. As noted in Annexes 2 and 3,
the initial actions in 11 pilot municipios involving a total of 33 agricultural
advisers would require especially close management attention and liaison with
the project during the initial phase. Accordingly, ANCAR/RN would establish
a special unit to oversee this action during the first phase (about three



ANNEX 12
Page 3
years). Similarly, the Project Unit would have an important role in working
with the participating banks in evolving cost-effective procedures for
making sub-loans under the project.
10.       Credit procedures would be developed through testing, monitoring
and evaluating two or three different credit delivery systems in selected
municipios, under the guidance of a Credit Committee. The Credit Committee
would meet at least quarterly and would be made up of representatives from
the ProJect Unit (the Credit Adviser serving as chairman), the participating
banks, ANCAR/RN and possibly SUDENE and the Central Bank (the latter two
probably participating less frequently).
Financial Control
11.       The Project Unit would be responsible for coordinating financial
arrangements under the project. Accordingly, it would coordinate and approve
the annual project plans and approve the PA requests for disbursements under
the project. It would be responsible for reporting on the project's progress
to Government and the Bank.
Fall-Back Implementation Capability
12.       Both the Conselho Diretor and the Coordinating Group of POLONORDESTE,
to whom the Project Unit would report, are composed of representatives of
agencies (e.g., Ministry of Agriculture) senior to the PA's which can be
expected to exert a positive influence. Nevertheless, performance of all PA's
may not be uniformly high. Accordingly, the Project Unit, representing the
interests of the project as a whole, must have some power to vary, at the time
of the annual project plan, the precise role of each PA. The extent of such
modifications is clearly limited, particularly in the short run.
13.       The Project Unit must also have a fall-back capability to actually
implement itself certain parts of the project (in addition to refusing to
approve disbursements of a particular PA) if a particular PA does not perform
satisfactorily. This provision would be expected to be used infrequently.
Mini-Project Preparation
14.       The Project Unit in its work would encounter situations where
small investments (e.g., small dams, storage facilities) would be necessary,
economically justified and in consonance with project objectives but for
which finrances would not have been provided under the project. A variety
of programs providing engineering and financing for such mini-projects
currently exist in the northeast. One of the roles of the Project Unit
would be to become intimately familiar with such programs so that it could
perform a "brokerage" role in bringing together specific mini-projects and
programs.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Cooperatives, Input Supply and Marketing
15.       The Cooperatives and Marketing Adviser (para. 26) would work
closely with other agencies in these fields to relate existing programs
to project objectives and work on specific problems (e.g., cotton grading
improvement).
Planning and Administering Studies
16.       The project would finance project preparation activities in areas
of RN outside the immediate project area. The Project Unit would be respon-
sible for finalizing terms of reference, recruiting, selecting and contracting
consultants, and supervising implementation of such activities.
Training
17.       The Project Unit's training activities are outlined in Annex 7.
Health
18.       The Project Unit's role in health is outlined in Annex 5.
Monitoring and Evaluation
19.       A separate Monitoring Group (MG) would be created within the Project
Unit to collect and analyze information on the project area and on the impact
of the project (Annex 8). MG would be staffed by at least two full-time
professionals (plus necessary support staff) experienced in research in
the social or economic fields, preferably of rural areas. MG would be
assisted by periodic consulting assistance (para 29). MG would not be
involved in actual project implementation; however, it would maintain close
liaision with the Project Unit in order to be familiar with the project's
actions and be able to report quickly and freely on results.
Suggested Staffing of Project Unit
20.       The task of the project unit is to further the objectives of the
project according to its prescribed method of operation, in conjunction with
other existing agencies. The magnitude and direction of particular year-
to-year actions under the project would be tempered by results; accordingly
a flexible project organization and staffing is required. The following
suggested terms of reference for Project Unit staff and staff numbers would
need to be interpreted flexibly in practice depending on the particular
experience of the staff the project recruits. It is possible that certain
jobs, or parts of the jobs, could be combined to result in a full-time staff
of fewer than seven persons.  'This c-re staff may need to be supplemented
from time to time by others.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
21. Project Leader/Coordinator
Duties: Overall direction and coordination of work of project
unit, liaison with other agencies, and reporting.
Experience: Leader/coordinator is the key job and the incumbent
should have a proven record of successfully leading a similar unit engaged
in projects, studies or similar activities. Experience in rural activities
in Northeast is essential.
22. Technical Adviser (the "Product Manager")
Duties:
(a) Coordinating the development, within the project and
elsewhere, of technical packages attractive to the target
group of farmers;
(b) Defining the project's priorities in developing, refining
and extending technical packages at the levels of the research
station, farm trials and widespread distribution to farmers
by use of farm budgets and similar tools in analyzing
attractiveness to farmers;
(c) Accumulating an extensive data bank on research and farm-
level trial results of technical work throughout the Northeast;
(d) Maintaining continuing effective liaison with relevant
research and extension workers throughout similar agro-
climatic areas throughout the Northeast;
(e) Liaising closely with other participating agencies
involved in research, trials, extension and credit;
(f) Working closely with the Extension Adviser in supervising,
directly or through regional coordinators, the initial
technical interventions of the project;
(g) Developing, with other members of the Project Unit and
in cooperation with other relevant PA's, the details of
project actions in particular micro-regions; and,
(h) Working with consulting assistance in achieving these tasks.
Experience. This is a key job and the incumbent should have a university
degree and/or adequate relevant experience in research and testing of technical
ideas for distribution to farmers. Experience in extension and agricultural
credit would be essential. He should be familiar with conditions in the rural



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Northeast. He should be experienced in the use of tools such as farm budgets
for analyzing the attractiveness to fanmers of various technical packages.
23. Extension Adviser
Duties:
(a) Working with other team members in planning details of
project actions in particular areas;
(b) Coordinating recruitment and training activities of
extension personnel under the project;
(c) Developing the appropriate overall mix of direct personal
representation (i.e., through extension workers) and of
other means of disseminating technical knowledge to
farmers (e.g., radio, mail, printed matter, etc.);
(d) Planning the appropriate messages, aids and methods of
distribution of particular "campaigns" in disseminating
technical ideas;
(e) Working closely with ANCAR/RN in coordinating the supervision
of actual extension actions under the project (including
supervising project field extension staff in the pilot
municipios during the first phase); and initially selecting
and training agricultural advisers and regional coordinators
under the project;
(f) Liaising closely with project Monitoring Group, consultants,
rural sociologist, participating agencies, etc., in devising,
implementing and revising the necessary training activities
under the project; and
(g) Continuously reviewing, in close cooperation with others
under the project, the costs of delivering credit and extension
to the target group. In this respect he should initiate
steps such as making use of existing or new farmer groups
of various sizes and types to do some of the work involved,
thereby reducing costs.
Experience:
(a) University degree in a agriculturally-related field
or relevant experience and;
(b) Experience in extension work including some supervisory
responsibility; and



ANNEX 12
Page 7
(c) Familiarity with Northeast agriculture, especially with
conditions in the project area.
4.  Credit Adviser
Duties:
(a) Liaise with participating banks (PB's) in planning and
implementing credit actions under project;
(b) Developing, with PBs, appropriate and simplified credit
procedures to accompany investment proposals; and
(c) Working closely with other members of the Project Unit
(especially the Technical and Extension Advisers) in
developing related actions.
EEperience:
(a) Experience with agricultural lending;
(b) Familiarity with Northeast agriculture;
(c) Could be person seconded from a participating bank; and
(d) Must have sufficiently broad experience to enable him
to put agricultural credit adequately into an overall
context of development.
25. Human Resources Adviser
Duties:
(a) In General. To coordinate the health, community
development, training and communications aspects
of the project;
(b) Health. To coordinate the rural health pilot project
uader the project, including detailed liaison with
the relevant participating agencies in the periodic
*detailed planning of the health pilot program and
supervising implementation;
(c) Communications. To coordinate the preparation by
the Brazilian Space Institute of farmers' training
films for eventual display in the project area via
television under "Project SACI"; this would include
the close liaison with PA's and other project staff
in developing "teleclubs" and other means of dis-
tributing technical information; and



ANNEX 12
Page 8
(d) Formal Training. To coordinate the conception,
planning and implementation of formal training programs,
(among and between participating agencies), in project-
related matters as the needs for this training become
apparent under the project.
Experience:
(a) University training or equivalent experience in socially-
related fields in rural areas. Experience in the (rural)
Northeast would be an advantage; and,
(b) Experience in rural health delivery planning and/or
execution.
26. Cooperatives and Marketing Adviser
Duties:
(a) Working with other team members and with other agencies
in coordinating programs involving cooperatives under,
or complementary to, the project;
(b) Coordinating, jointly with the Credit Adviser, lending
-Practices and procedures of cooperatives under the
-  project together with technical, financial and managerial
assistance to such cooperatives;
(c) Reviewing with the project Monitoring Group the
marketing activities of target farmers under the
project;
(d) Coordinating, with the Secretariat of Agriculture
and other agencies, studies and programs in marketing
including grading, statistical reporting, transport
and storage; and
(e) Gathering information on all existing programs and
studies relating to target farms.
Experience
(a) Experience in marketing and cooperatives;
(b) Person should be familiar with marketing arrangements
of principal crops in the project area. Actual work
experience in entities directly involved in agricultural
marketing in the Northeast would be desirable; and



ANNEX 12
Page 9
(c) Understanding of broad economic and social implications
of marketing.
27. Financial Controller
Duties:
(a) Coordinating the preparation of financial budgets of
the individual annual plans of the various participating
agencies under the project;
(b) Reviewing the disbursement requests of the participating
agencies; and
(c) Reporting to Government and the Bank on the financial
outlays under the project.
Experience:
(a) In maintaining and (as necessary) directing accounts of
a Brazilian public institution; and
(b) In management control, including budget preparation
and reporting.
Consulting Assistance
28.       The Project Unit would require from time to time some consulting
assistance in a number of its fields of activity (including those represented
by the above-outlined specialists). The specific consulting requirements
must be mDdified as the project progresses. The following consulting
assistance (beyond the project preparation studies envisaged for non-project
area parts of RN) can be identified as a first approximation:
(a) General Implementation Advice. The Project Unit could hire
a consultant with broad general experience in implementing
rural development projects to provide continuing part-time
advice on overall project implementation. The consultant
desirably should be familiar with Northeast Brazil but this
is less critical than breadth of experience in rural develop-
ment projects, especially the development of technical packages
attractive to small farmers and their systems of delivery.
He would visit the project several times each year for a total
assignment of perhaps two to three man-months per year. He would
work with the Project Unit and participating agencies in
reviewing previous results and in detailed planning.



ANNEX 12
Page 10
(b) Generation of Technical Packages. The Project Unit could
hire a consultant (or appropriate institute, university or
firm) to assist in planning the project's actions in farm
trials, limited distribution and wide dissemination of
technical packages, and in processing and analyzing results.
The consultant should have expertise both in technical aspects
and in analyzing results from an economic viewpoint. This
work would require professional time plus data processing and
other support work. Initial contacts have been made with the
agricultural economics department of the Federal University
of Ceara to do this work.
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation. Consulting services could be
needed to assist the Monitoring Group in designing its
information-collecting and data processing and analysis
activities. The consultant (individual, firm, institute
or university) must be experienced in mDnitoring or similar
activities involving research design, survey and field
work, data processing and analysis and interpretation
of results. CEPA/RN would also employ consultants to
assist in the evaluation at the end of Phase I.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Introduction
1.        The basis for the methodology used in the economic analysis of
the project and in the evaluation of its financial implications rests on
the general objectives to be reached and the means used to attain these
objectives. These are largely determined by the total investment under
the project, especially in terms of manpower, and its immediate relation-
ship with the beneficiaries or target group. Thus the major inputs having
direct impact on the productive level of the target populations are: (a)
agricultural credit (Annex 3); (b) the agricultural extension service
(Annex 2); and (c) field testing and experimentation effort to be under-
taken within the project (Annex 4).  An indirect impact also expected to
result from the health and training components and the various efforts of
the project administration and the monitoring and evaluation group (Annex 8).
2.        The first objective of the analysis was to determine the number
of agricultural advisers from the extension service which would be required
to reach a large number of farmers, especially small ones, while at the same
time considering the absorptive capacity of the existing structure and the
potential for development. The new extension requirements (see Annex 2)
(both quantitatively and qualitatively), called for the differentiation
between two types of agricultural advisors: (a) the agricultural exten-
sionist proper, a well trained individual with the equivalent of "engen-
heiro agronomo" background, a comparative advantage to deal with rela-
tively large farms (at least more than 50 ha); and (b) the technical
adviser, probably a younger individual with a degree from an agricul-
tural technical school, who would be specially trained to deal with small
farmers' problems. The objective of the project would be to increase the
total number of agricultural advisers in the whole project area to 136
over 5 years, from the present level of 38 (from 12 to 36 for agricul-
tural extensionists and from 26 to 100 for technical advisers).
3.        On the other side, the principal target group was identified as
farms of less than 200 ha, further divided into classes: (a) farms between
1 and 50 ha which would constitute mainly the "market" for the technical
advisers and (b) farms between 50 and 200 ha, constituting the market for
the agricultural extensionists. Because agricultural extensionists would
deal with all farmers with more than 50 ha, the second target class iden-
tified above (in the 50 to 200 ha group) would only represent about 70%
of their total "market".



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        The overall "market" for each agricultural adviser would be about
120 farm units, but the degree of job efficiency and farmers' acceptance
and response would be uneven. During the first year of the project, coverage
by each adviser would not be expected to be more than 50% of his future
coverage.
5.        Under these assumptions, the total coverage of the target group
by the agricultural advisers of the extension service would be approximately
15,000 farms after 5 years, 12,000 of which would be less than 50 ha and
3,000 would be between 50 and 200 ha. The phasing would be as follows:
Year                               1        2       3       4        5
Number of agricultural
extensionists                      7        7      12      21        36
Incremental                     7       -        5       9        15
No. of farms - 50-200 ha           300      600   1,000   1,800    3,000
Incremental                   300     300      400     800    1,200
No. of technical advisers           26       26      41       66      100
Incremental                    26        -      15      25        34
No. of farms - 0-50 ha           1,560   3,120   4,920   7,920   12,000
Incremental                 1,560  *1.,560   1,800   3,000    4,080
Total
No. of Agricultural advisers        33       33      53       67      136
Incremental                    33       -       20      34        49
No. of farms - 0-200 ha          1,860   3,720   5,920   9,720   15,000
Incremental                 1,860   1,860   2,200   3,800    5,280
Statistical Data - Sources of Information
6.        The major source of information providing comprehensive statistical
data on the various target groups has been the results of the survey undertaken
by SUDENE-IBRD/DRC in 1973. This survey covered the whole of Northeast Brazil
through a sample of some 8,000 farms. Four municipios only from the project
area were covered by the survey, giving rather small sub-sample populations
not necessarily representative or usable because of excessively large variation
coefficients. However, extrapolation could be made from the semi-arid zone



ANNEX 13
Page 3
C sub-sample population which covered a vast area largely representative of
the project area. In addition, when warranted, extrdpolation was also made
from the results of the whole state of Rio Grande do Norte.
7.        Complementary sources of Tfiormation, especially with respect to
the natural environment (soils, climate) and the technical aspects, included
several studies and reports originating from the University of Ceara, SUDENE,
and the State as well as consultants' reports (both from the Bank and else-
where), particularly with respect to the analysis of the drought factor and
technical problems. Good data on the rainfall patterns was available (45
years from several state recording stations, see Annex 1, para 3). Data
relating to the agricultural credit situation was provided mainly by the two
major banks operating in the area, Banco do Brasil (BB) and Banco do Nordeste
do Brasil (BNB).
8.        The various censuses of 1970 (Agricultural, Population) and the
Cadastral Survey of 1972 provided useful data in spite of some inconsis-
tencies and gaps. Finally, expert advice was available from several Bank
missions to the Northeast of Brazil.
Target Group Classification
9.        Since the major inputs under the project would be agricultural
credit and technical advice through the agricultural extension service,
farms were classified according to their present and expected response to
the delivery of credit and agricultural extension. There are thus eight
groups of farms:
1.   Farms from 0 to 50 ha - (12,000):
Group A (9% of total or 1,080 farms). These farms presently
have access to institutional credit. They are assumed
to continue using credit and to benefit intensively from
technical advice provided by the extension service.
Group B-I (25% of remaining, or 2,730 farms). These farms
do not presently receive credit but they would under
the project and would also be reached intensively by the
extension service. They would not be expected to expand
the area under cotton cultivation (para 19).
Group B-II (2,730 farms). The only difference with Group B-I
is that these farms are expected to expand the area
under cultivation, eventually reaching the level of
Group A (para 19).



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Group C (2,730 farms). These farms do not presently receive
institutional credit and would not do so under the
project. They will, however, receive strong, direct
benefits from the technical assistance of the extension
service (para 16).
Group D (2,730 farms). Like the preceding group, these
farms would not receive credit under the project.
In addition, although they are part of the "market"
of the technical advisers, they are expected to
derive less intensive benefits from the extension
service (para 16).
2.   Farms from 50 to 200 ha (3,000):
Group M (17% of total, or 500 farms). These farms are
equivalent to Group A of the previous class, i.e.
they currently receive credit, would continue to do
so under the project and would benefit from the
extension service technical assistance.
Group N (50% of remaining, or 1,250 farms). These farms
currently do not receive credit. They would do so
under the project, would benefit intensively from
extension, and would expand the area under cotton
cultivation. Although some individual farms may
expand area to the level of Group M, the group on
the average would remain slightly under Group M
level (para 21).
Group 0 (1,250 farms). These farms currently do not
receive credit and are not expected to under the
project. They would receive intensive benefits
from technical assistance.
10.       The phasing of reaching these groups over five years is assumed
to be uneven, i.e., Groups A and M are assumed to respond more rapidly to
the availability of credit and extension. Groups B and N, undertaking some
structural changes, would probably be somewhat slower. Groups C, D and 0
are expected to respond most slowly. Phase II of the project, i.e., expan-
sion to the whole project area, is assumed to begin (slowly) in year 3.
Phasing of the various groups would be as follows:



Annex 13
Page 5
--- Year  ------------- -
1        2         3        4         5        Total
Farms 0 - 50 ha
Groups A                160       160       160      260       340      1,080
B-I              300      400       400       650       980     2,730
B-Il             300      400       400       650       980     2,730
C                400      300       420       720       890     2,730
D                400       300      420       720       890     2,730
Sub-total             1X560    1,560    1,800    3,000    4,080    12,000
Farms 50 - 200 ha
Group M                   50       50        50       150      200        500
N                 125       125      175       325       500      1,250
0                 125       125      175       325       500      1,250
Sub-total               300       300       400       800    1,200      3,000
Total                    1,860    1,860    2,200    3,800    5,280    15,000
ii.       The characteristics of the groups corresponding to the present
situation ("without project") are:
Farms 0 -50 ha       Farms 50 -200 ha
Other                  Other
Group A   Groups   Group M        Groups
Cultivated area (ha)                  8         4.5        25            16
No. work animals                       1.7      1.3         5.3           3.4
No. beef cattle                        6.0      3.0        23.0          14.8
Family labor (man-day/mth)           36        36          40            40
Hired labor (man-years)                0.6      n.a.        2.2           1.1
% output crops                       85        72          81            75
% output livestock                   15        28          19            25
% use animal traction               100        50         100            50



A!NNEX 13
Page 6
Technical Assumptions
12.       The following hypotheses refer exclusively to aggregate situations,
i.e., yield figures do not correspond to individual farms, but rather to an
average for a relatively large group of farms. This is so because of the
large number of possible individual situations with e.tremely wide variations
in the existing circumstances at the farm level.
13.       Yields of cotton are expressed in yearly averages of the five-year
production cycle, in kg per ha. These yields represent average expected
values taking in consideration the drought probability coefficient (Annex 1,
para 3). The relationships between cotton yields and the technology used
are summarized as follows:
150 kg.   Base-line situation where little or no animal traction
is being used, rudimentary weeding is done manually,
traditional seeds are being used and there is little
or no spraying of insecticides.
175 kg.   Same as above except that weeding is more frequent,
early sowing used.
200 kg.   Corresponds to adequate spraying, without much
use of animal traction for cultivation, or use of
animal traction only with rudimentary weeding and
spraying.
250 kg.   Combination of spraying and animal traction use for
cultivation practices.
300 kg.   Optimal situation with existing technology.
350 kg and upwards. New technology available from research,
especially new improved seeds. 1/
14.       Additional important factors known to have a direct impact on
yields include: early sowing, land preparation including stump removal by
animal traction, various cultivation practices such as "bosque denso" (four
rows of cotton and for rows of food crops, see Annex 4), etc. Fertilizer
use is explicitly excluded in the above set of technologiws. As explained
in Annex 4, fertilizer use (chemical or organic) may be recommended under
specific circumstances where complete data on soils and other variables
are available.
1/   The 350 kg figure was used in the calculations, throughout the
life of the project.



ANNEX 13
Page 7
Phasing of Technical Improvements
15.       The starting situation (i.e., "without project") is assumed to
be: (a) 200 kg/ha for groups A and M (already receiving credit); and (b)
150 kg/ha for all other groups. (Note: On the basis of production costs
and income figures, these hypotheses yield results for the "without" situation
which are consistent with the data provided by the SUDENE-IBRD/DRC Survey,
for farms receiving and not receiving credit.)
16.       The assumptions on the phasing of cotton yields are summarized as
follows:
(a) Farmers receiving credit (A, B's, M and N) will achieve higher
yields more quickly than other farmers, taking into account
the greater access to modern inputs (seeds, insecticide,
equipment) and their possibilities of rapidly contracting hired
labor at harvest time;
(b) Since there is phasing of the number of farmers participating
in the project over a five-year period, farmers entering in
later years will reach their highest yield level relatively
more rapidly, mainly because of better coverage and improved
efficiency of the agricultural extension service. Eventually,
all farmers of the same group will reach the same higher yield
level at year 9 of the project. Thus the phasing is different
for each sub-group entering the project in a different year.
This accounts for the benefit of experience and results acquired
during the previous years.
(c) The residual groups of farmers not receiving credit (C, D and
0) but still under the influence of the technical assistance
from extension services would be expected to reach lower
yield levels than farmers from the other groups.
17.       More specifically, the phasing of technical improvements for
the various groups can be presented in summary form as in Table 1. This
table shows in what year of the project a sub-group entering the project
in year 1 and/or 5, would reach certain yield levels. All other inter-
mediate values for the other years and other sub-groups have been ex-
trapolated from these basic figures. 1/
1/   It should be clear that these yields do not necessarily represent target
levels for a specific group in a particular year. They merely represent-
the best available estimates of expected improvements at the time of
appraisal. In addition, being "expected" values including the drought
probability coefficient, they sihould be taken as averages of at least
a 6-7 year rainfall cycle. Daring project implementation, considerable
variation in yield recording can be expected (upward as well as downward)
for any given year, depending upon the rainfall registered in that year.



ANNEX 13
Page 8
Investment
18.       Group A, assumed to have already had access to credit is assumed
to be relatively more efficient than other groups in the 0 to 50 ha farm
class, partly because of better on-farm investment situation.  More specifically,
it is assumed to be equipped for animal traction. It therefore does not
require specific additional investment. (It should be recalled that only
the aggregate situation of farms is considered, i.e., an undefined percentage
of farms in Group A may well find it necessary to invest for on-farm im-
provements under the project.)
19.       Groups B-I and B-II are treated similarly.  The main difference is
that B-II farms will expand area under cultivation from 4.5 ha to 8 ha
(that is, to the level of Group A). This expansion is done in 2 years, with
an intermediate step to 6 ha (e.g. investment of 1.5 ha in year 1 and 2.0 ha
in year 2 of participating in the project). Investment requirements for
these two groups are: (a) 50% of the farms will require one work animal
with the proper equipment for cultivation (at least 1 cultivator and 1
sprayer); (b) 50% of the farms will require investment in fences for their
area already under cultivation; (c) all farms of group B-II (expanding
area) will require fencing for all new area. The assumption of fencing
investment includes the possibility for some farms to invest in small
storage capacity in lieu of, or in addition to fencing.
20.       Group M (50 to 200 ha) already receiving credit, is generally
treated in the same way as Group A. However, provision is made for 75% of
the farms to invest in storage facilities, on the basis of .8 m2 of storage
per ha under cotton.
21.       Group N is generally treated in the same way as Group B-II.  Farms.
in this group will expand area under cultivation from 16 to 20 ha, in the
first year of participating in the project. Investment requirements for
this group are: (a) 50% of the farms will require equipment for animal traction,
but no draft animals since most farms already have work animals (para 11),
even though they may not be used for cultivation purposes; (b) 25% of the
farms will require investment in fences for their area already under culti-
vation; (c) all farms will require fencing for all new area; and (d) 25% of
the farms will require investment in storage facilities.
22.       The life of the investments is:  (a) 4 years for equipment; (b)
6 years for animals (bought at 3 years); (c) 10 years for fences (replaced_
by 50% every 5 years); and (d) 20 years for storage facilities. Groups C,
D and 0 would not receive institutional credit under the project. They
would however, still have access to the non-institutional sources of credit
(landlords, intermediaries, etc.).
Operating Costs (Cuqteio)
23.       Operating costs are calculated on a per ha basis, at various
:Levels of cotton yields. The yield which is considered is the annual average
of cotton yields from year 2 to 5 of the cotton cycle. First year yield is



ANNEX 13
Page 9
considered only for cotton establishment (para 24). For each five-year
average yield corresponds a four-year average yield for custeio calculations.
The main components of operating costs are: labor (from 80 to 90% of custeio
per ha at various yield levels), insecticides, and transport costs. 1/
Annual Custejo Cost per Ha
Labor        Insecticide   Transport   Total
5-Year Yield  4-Year Yield   Days        Cr   1/ha     Cr        Cr       Cr
200            225        28      311   1.0       35        12      358
300            325        33      370   1.5       53        16      439
First-Year Cotton Establishment Cost
24.       For each five-year average yield, there is a corresponding first-
year average yield for calculation of the cost of establishing new cotton
areas. This is done on a per ha basis. Main components of cotton establish-
ment costs are: soil preparation, cultivation (including planting), harvesting,
seeds and insecticides, and transport. Labor costs at various yield levels
average from 85 to 90% of total establishment cost. From the first year of
participating in the project, first-year cotton represents 1/5 of the cotton
area (which itself represents 4/5 of the cultivated area). Although valid
at the aggregate level of numerous farmers, this assumption may not be
representative of the "without project" situation for each individual. How-
ever, it represents the objective to be reached by each farmer. As such, it
has important implications for the investment pattern (especially for plant-
ing of new areas) of each individual.
Subsistence Crops and Cattle
25.       The project would attach great importance to improved output of
foodcrops, mainly through the trials and extension components.  However,
because of the virtual absence of previous efforts on fooderops there is
insufficient data available to define expected potential yield increa&es;
hence foodcrops were excluded from the economic analysis. Subsistencc
crops generally occupy an area equivalent to the first year cotton area
since they are interplanted with cotton. Their labor requirement was taken
into account to estimate hired labor requirements for cotton.
1/ The apparently low figure for insecticide application is explained by
the fact that it represents an average application over a four-year
period. Applications in years 2 and 3 of the cotton cycle are in fact
relatively more important and are quite limited in year 5 when yields
would normally be low (main report, para 7.03). Transportation costs
are calculated on the basis of 0.05 Cr$/kg. (Delivery distances vary
considerably and 50 to 80 km are not uncommon--however, transporter
charges are consistently quoted at Cr$0.05/kg irrespective of distance.)



ANNEX 13
Page 10
26.       The sale of work animals purchased under the project was included
in the total benefit stream. At the aggregate level, 50% of farms in groups
B-I aad B-II (0 to 50 ha) display the absorptive capacity to support the
investment in work animals. Inevitably there may be individual limitations,
especially in the 0 to 10 ha range.
Methodology
27.       For each group, a "model" was prepared, not for an individual
farm, but for the group as a whole, without taking the phasing of farms
over the five-year project investment period into consideration. This
model was then disaggregated to show the hypothetical situation of an
individual farm which was used subsequently for phasing the various farm
sub-groups over the five-year period. Clearly the individual farm model
has little practical relevance in view of the numerous possible individual
situations which can only be accounted for on the average at the aggregate
level. 1/ The results (phased) for each group were then aggregated to pre-
sent the economic situation of the total 0 to 50 ha farms (12,000) on one
side, and the 50 to 200 ha farms (3,000) on the other. These results are
presented in Tables 2 and 3.
28.       In the financial and economic analyses, no differentiation was
made in the elaboration of the various models to take into account the
differences between sub-areas of the project area. These differences are
quite large (Annex 1) and would necessarily have to be accounted for during
project implementation. For the economic analysis however, it was not
possible to make further differentation because: (a) the number of relevant
farm models would have become unduly large, resulting in their being un-
manageable; (b) the exact allocation of project beneficiaries between sub-
areas would be premature before the results of phase I of the project are
known; and (c) the quantitative aspects of these differences is not con-
clusively documented at present. The assumptions presented above refer more
directly to the Serido area (sub-area 2), which is certainly the more
difficult and less favored sub-area of the project area. All the estimates
presented in this analysis would therefore represent relatively conservative
estimates for the other sub-areas.
Financial Analysis
29.       Because of the great diversity among farms, no financial analysis
of typical farms was undertaken on a systematic basis. This diversity is
illustrated by: (a) the land tenure system (sharecropping, renting, owner-
operating, squatting) under which dozens of critical assumptions would have
1/   However, several models of incividual farms under specific conditions
of investment (and not necessa,ily representative of all the groups)
were established for purposes of consistency and to give some ideas
of possible cash-flow and financial situations (para. 30).



ANNEX 13
Page 11
to be made for each farm class and each tenure arrangement; (b) the land
utilization system whereby critical differences arise from the possible
starting distribution pattern of the land cultivated under cotton (cotton
of first year, second year, etc.), 5ith serious implications for the invest-
ment pattern; and (c) the individual situations with rP3pect to the com-
petition between cattle and cash crops (cotton), where the information is
not sufficient to adopt a standard model, especially for farms of more than
50 ha.
30.       Financial analysis conducted on selected farm models under various
assumptions of investment pattern indicates that financial resuits of farmers
would be acceptable. As an example, an individual farm of group B-I (receiving
credit under the project but not expanding cotton area), with investments in
fencing for the whole cotton area, 1 work animal and corresponding equipment
(all investment in year 1) would have a financial rate of return of 13%.
With one-half the equivalent of this investment (fencing for part of the
area only), the rate of return would be increased to 21%. The net cash flow
position of the farmer in this instance would be acceptable, incremental net
cash income being about US$230 per year after 11 years (compared to present
level of about US$180). Under somewhat unfavorable assumptions concerning
credit obtainment and repayment, 1/ financial charges can be supported by
the farm. In fact, in most instances, farmers will be able to spread their
investment (especially fencing) over several years. Investment replacement
may also be spread over a few years. Hence, the situation analyzed in
this example can be considered rather unfavorable for the farmer. Most
farmers would be expected to be in relatively more favorable positions during
proj ect implementation.
31.       A general observation is that cash investments and operating costs
are kept low for each sub-group while the family labor component is relatively
large. Investment on smaller farms would seldom exceed Cr$7,000, or US$975,
and should not exceed the limit set under the project (50 times the reference
value, or about Cr$18,800) on farms from 50 to 200 ha.
Economic Analysis
32.       The economic analysis takes as the direct benefits of the project
only the incremental output of cotton, net of farming expenses. Incremental
output is derived from: (a) expansion in the area cultivated under cotton;
and (b) increases in yield of cotton per ha. Relatively small benefits are
also included from the sale of draft animals at regular intervals. Parts
of the costs of productive supports financed by the project are charged
against the benefit stream. Specific assumptions were made as follows:
1/   Seasonal credit every year, at 13% average interest rate:  cotton
establishment credit every year at 13% interest repayable in five
years; investment credit in year 1, repaid in 8 years including 3
years grace at average 7% interest.



ANNEX 13
Page 12
(a) Physical input prices. The prices of all variable inputs
were assumed equal to the local market prices. Special
atze-ntion was given to draft animals, seeds and chemicals
(pesticides and insecticides).
(b)  Labor.  All labor (family and hired labor) was priced at the
minimum salary level. Careful scrutiny led to the conclusion
that although the cost of hired labor was substantially above
the minim,=m off-farm wage level during harvest time (three
months) -Ad ccs:ewhat below for the rest of the year for on-
farm employment it would average at the minimum wage level
throughout the year. The same assumption would hold true
for family labori.  Thq,minimum salary level would be repre-
sentative of the oppor,unity wage level for off-farm employ-
ment.
(c)  Investment cost.  The casts of investment items are those
in effect at December 1974.,
(d)  Productive support cost.  The full cost of development of
the agricultural extensioi-'service was charged against the
benefit stream. Part of the costs of research and experi-
mentation (30%), project administration (60%) and monitor-
ing and evaluation (60%) weae also charged against the
benefit.stream, under the a$sumption that:  (a) large
benefits from research are expected to accrue to farmers
outside of the project area (in other parts of the State
and the Northeast); and (b) pioject administration and
control extends beyond the strictly productive aspects
of on-farm development. Finally, the expected cost of
operating the PROAGRO crop insurance scheme was added
to the investment cost for purposes of economic analysis.
(e)  Output prices.  The incremental output of cotton (equivalent
to 2% to 3% of Brazilian production of long-staple cotton),
was assumed not to affect the overall price relationship.
Price of cotton at the production level was assumed constant
throughout the development period, in accordance with inter-
national price projections. The price used already reflects
the substantial decrease in the international price for cotton
which took place at the end of 1974. The premium for long
staple cotton from the State (typical of the pro.ject area)
was kept unchanged. No shadow rate for foreign exchange was
used. The amount of the ICM (value added tax) has been added
to the producer price in calculating benefits.



ANNEX 13
Page 13
33.       In sum, approximately one-fou`rth'of tftalipOeoject investment costs
,(or' one-half 'of:proj,ect cqsts not in.cluding the credit component) have not
been chatged ag-ainst -the benefit str'eam fo  purposes 65-calculating the
economic. tate of-return.
';34.~ '  ,-' Underithtse- assumptions, the economic-rate,:of return of the
-pr6jebt'-woW}d be 151- (.Table, 4.)..
35.       A sensitivity analysis,was c'arried out w7ieh- indicated that the
economic rate of return would be mainly affected by"- ('a) changes in the
total investment cost; (b) the rate 'or'iparticipation of' farmers; (c) the
price of cotton; and (d) the expected cotton yields. 'The latter is especially
important since.with increases of,25% in cotton yields, the rate of return
would increase to 26%.  Rather conserv,ative assumptions.of ethe yield
1fi ures (taken as expected values includi'ng the drought probability co-
',Mfiifdiit<;'i^0the Area,.and x onserv,tivqly restricting the potential impact
of 'research at a fixed yield levei.tthr,u h ' ahe 'developmpnt "period) lead
to somewhat optimistic expectations that the basic rate of return could
in fact be substantially improved.  Conversely, a decrease of 10% in the
price of cotton would reduce the economic,rate of return to 9%, and so
would a general increase of 10% of all costs charged to the project. An
increase of 10% in cotton prices would raise the rate of return to 20%.
An increase of the total investment costs (excluding on-farm investments)
by 10% would slightly decrease the rate-of return'to 14%. Finally, a 10%
increase of all farm costs (i.e., on-farm investment cotton) establishment
and production costs) would decrease the rate of return to 12%.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO G-4NDE DO NORiT  RURAL DEVELOPE'IT PROJECT
Assumptions on Phasing of Technical Improvements (Yields in kg/ha)
(Five-Year Annual Average Expected Yield)
Sub-Group Ehtering    Before                          Project Year -/
Groups    Project in Year    Development    3        4         5       6       7         8        o
Ai and M          1                200      300               325                       350      350
5               200                        225              300      325       350
BIs and N         1                159                        275     300               350      35n
5               150                        175                       300       350
C and 0           1               150                         200                       250      250
5               150                        150     175               200       250
D                 1                150                        200                       200      200
5               150                        150                       175       200
!, Figures underlined correspond to the estimate for key yields (200 and 300 kg).  All other
yields are extrapolated from these figures.  (e.g. it was assumed that a farm from group A
entering the project in year 5 would reach the 300 kg mark in year 7, etc.).



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTH RURAL DEVElOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of 12,000 Farms (O to 50 ha)
-------------------------------------------   Year   --------__-__-_-__
Before
Development      1         2         3        4         5        6         7         8          9      10         11      12-20
Number of Participating Farmers               -        1,560    3,120    4,920    7,920   12,000
Incremental                                        1,560    1,560    1,800    3,000    4,080
Farms Receiving Credit                       1,080    1,680    2,480    3,280    4,580    6,540
Area Cultivated (ha)                        57,780   58,230   59,430   60,830   62,605   65,375   67,335   67,335   67,335   67,335   67,335   67,335   67,335
Cotton Area (ha)                            46,224   46,584   47,5 4   48,664   50,084   52,300   53,868   53,868   53,868   53,868   53,868   53,868   53,868
Production (tons)                            7,278    7,421    7,823    8,432    9,292   10,696   12,199   13,632   15,279   16,397   16,397   16,397   16,397
Investment (Cr$'000)                          -        2,779    4,532    4,808    7,123   10,869    2,705         -         -        -         -         -         -
Investment Replacement (Gr$'000)              -         -        -         -         -         166    1,152    2,626    3,152    4,277    5,786    4,955    3,793
First Year Cotton Establishment (Cr$'000)  8,553    8,627    8,834    9,094    9,436    9,994   10,443   10,715   11,182   11,613   11,613   11,613   11,613
Seasonal Production Costs (Cr$'O00)         12,064   12,221   12.611   13,179   13.930   15,144   16,425   17,347   18.446   19.034   19.034   19.034   19,034
Total Costs (Cr$'OOO)                    20.617   23,617   25,977   27,081   30,489   36,173   30,725   30,688   32,780   34.924   36,433   35,602   34,440
Gross Value of Production  (Cr$'000)
Cotton  (Cr$'O0) 1/                      20,378   20,779   21,904   23,610   26,018   29,949   34,157   38,170   42,781   45,912   45,912   45,912   45,912
Cattle  (Cr$'000)                                    -        -         -         -                  -          900    1,200    1,200    1.950    2,940   1_140
Total GVP (Cr$'000)                      20.378   20,779   21.904   23610   26018   29,949   34,157   39,070   43,981   47,112   47,862   48,852   47,052
Net Benefits  (Cr@'000)                    (239)  (2,838)  (4.073)  (3,471)  (4,471)  (6.224)   3432    8,202                   11,          429   13,250   1261
Value of Family Labor (Cr$'000)             18,064   18,483   19,123   19,755   20,785   22,438   22,994   23,571   24,394   24,964   25,139   24,859   24,940                 a,
Value of Hired Labor (Cr$'000)                 168       171        225     307       402      563       786       910    1,078    1,185    1,185    1,185    1,185
1/ Price of cotton at $Cr 2.@kg used for financial analysis,.to reflect market value. Price of $Cr 3.tY0g for economic
analysis, includes taxes, profit margin of the gins and reflects international cotton price situation.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
RIo0 GRAMN DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMHT PROJZCT
Economic Analysis of 3,000 Farms (50 to 200 ha)
--------------------------------------------- Year ------------------------------------------------------
Before
Development        1       2         3          4         5        6         7           8        9         10        11      12-20
Number of Participating Farmers                  -           300      600    1,000    1,800    3,000
Incremental                                   -          300       300       400       800    1,200
Farms Receiving Credit                            500       625       750       925    1,250    1,750
Area Cultivated (ha)                           52,500   53,000   53,500   54,200   55,500   57,500   57,500   57,500   57,500   57,500   57,500   57,500   57,500
Cotton ares (ha)                               42,000   42,400   42,800   43,360   44,400   46,000   46,000   46,000   46,000   46,000   46,000   46,000   46,000
Production (tons)                               6,800    6,935    7,185    7,579    8,281    9,485   10,606   11,765   13,371   14,500   14,500   14,500   14,500
Investment (Cr$'000)                             _          921       921    1,249    2,439    3,689         -         -         -         -         -         -          -
Investment Replacement (Cr$'000)                 -         -         -         -         -           34       381        395      575    1,074    1,422          395       809
First Year Cotton Establishment (Cr$'000)    7,788    7,868    7,965    8,106    8,367    8,796    8,957    9,165    9,581   10,008   10,008   10,008   10,008
Seasonal Production Costs (Cr$'000)            11,072   11,222   11.438   11,785   12.379   13.377   14.132   14,882   15.971   16.512   16.512   16,512   16,512
Total Costs (Cr$'000)                       18,850   20,011   20,324   21,140   23,185   25.896   23.470   24,442   26,127   27,594   27.942   26,915   27,329
Gross Value of Production2/Cotton)(Cr$'000)19,040    19,418   20,118   21,221   23,186   26,558   29,697   32,942   37,439   40,600   40,600   40,600   40,600
Net Benefits (Cr$'000)                         190       593)      206)       81       _- 662                               6     ,22 11,312 13,00 12,5 1 , 8 1 3 ,27
Value of hired labor (Cr$'000)                  4,216    4,497    4,756    5,181    5,999    7,398    7,614    8,467    9,309    9,803    9,852    9,748    9,786
1/ Price of cotton at 2.8 Cr/kg used for financial analysis, to reflect market value. Price of 3.0 Cr/kg for
economic analysis, includes taxes, profit margin of the gins and reflects international cotton price situation.



NORTiEAST Ba=ZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
-                       Project Year - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _      -
1      2      3      4       5        6       7       8       9       1o      11   12-20
BENEFITS
Incremental Value of Production  .8    2.8    5.8   10.5   18.3    26.2    34.9    44-9    51.7    52.4   53. 4    51.6
COSTS
Incremental Farm Costs          4.2    6.8    8.7  14.2    22.6   14.7   15.7    19.4    23.0    25.0    23.1   22.3
(including on-farm invest.)
Project Investm3nt Costs        6.2    5.2    6.3    7.6      8.7      _ -          -       -       -        -          -
Project Operating Costs          -       -      -      .9     4.1    11.5    11.2    10.8   10.5    10.0        9.7    9.7
(incremental)
Costs of Insurance and Bed Debts .3    .5      .6    .9    1..2    1.2        1.2     1.3      1.3     1,3     1.3    1.3
Total Costs                 10.7   12.5  15.6  23.6   36.6    27.4,  28.1    31.5   34.8   36.3    34.1   33-3
Net  Benefits               (9.9)  (9.7)  (9.8) (13.1)  (18.3)   (1.2)    6.8   13.4    16.9   16.1    19.3  18.3
Economic Rate of Return: 15%



IBRD 11684
6RAMI                                                                                               A/LA 9/40
Prooect A,re.                                                                           5NOR                                                                                                                                                            RA        aAsZIHJ
0      0n   20    00    40    50                                                                                                                                       ,4..                                                BR-0AZI
- Cotts Gins G -                                                                                          .                                                                                                                  u NORTE, uwin.   D2'V5LOPMENICA
-+~~~~~_                       _   _    _ _   _    _   _                                                                                          - 3 ,-a   "a                                T Iau    ndejeN /                             j  t L   -*, t<,, !i5          ; ;_IaEInr   
BANKING~ ~~~~ILMTER NETOR             /RVA (O                                                                                            791a                                                                   -2g     |.ne:Ap                           5m.1
PhA     I Areas                     ALONE//S                                              -                                                                                                                                  r  5    5                      n gIu L
Sub -Are-                                                                                                                              Pr rtec Area  Ikainf1             nrsrcue
A,,phalt Road                                                                           AR*
Secrdonry Roads                                                                        oc/.                                       .juN
Rives--                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CA
Mvcicpal BaundaniasN
State Baurdaries
BANKING NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     mcsn.a O  sts
Bra-ches.                                                                        .                                                                                                                                                   -(            AAOR Oo,
4,  Raoco Go Bra-,i             /TO /ABcLZEiRO  QCs 90R/9 /E                                              /                                                                                                                                       A 4i4R-k5
Banco Do Nordeste Do  /rsail 
RAINFALL
* _shyats  nmliees
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PDC A                                                                                                                            s
__ 33'                  R                                                                              36'35'NATAL
W    o    ./)O                            T Ih<d   m
A                                                     AL ooias-. ~FA  PAU DOS-ERROS                                                                                                                AITtAN
Sc"5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TEN EN/cE ANANIAS ",AardaCROCJC
"SERR4 NEROA     T---~                      AcA0   c0
TO0480  Pob                                                                 44m
N                          /d4              A
3.8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0/~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 3y<.3' 



