E  COPYwTo BE RETURNED TO REPOUS DESK
DOCUME  OF INERNA~O  BANK  OR RECoNSTRUCTION    AND DEVE'LOPMENT
ATFIONAL B3ANK FORa°S
Not For Pubcic Use
f aport No. p-1704-BR
CIRCULATINIG COPY
TO BE RETURNEO TO REPORTS DESK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIO
OF TIIE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PRoPoSED LOAN
TO
TILE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
Is THE STATE OF
RIO C;RANDE DO NORTE
November 13, 1975
ocdtB r  -Oise onrly by the Bank Grodoes not act ICresponslbil rte
accuracy or co e Opleteness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 27, 1975)
Currency Unit                               Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                        Cr$8 .67
Cr$1                                        US$0.12
Cr$1,000                                    US$115.34
Cr$1,000,=OOO                              US$115, 340



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$12 million
to help finance a rural development project in the State of Rio Grande do
Norte. The loan would have a term of 25 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 814 per annum. Approximately one-half of the proceeds of the
proposed loan would be utilized to refinance, through credit lines to be
established by the Central Bank with Banco do Brasil, S.A. and Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil, S.A., sub-loans to be made by the latter two banks to
small farmers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (812-BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10% over the
period 1967-74 has resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130%
increase in manufacturing output and a 350% increase in the value of exports.
During much of this period, with carefully designed fiscal and monetary
policies, the Government was successful in gradually reducing the rate of
inflation. The reform of the fiscal system, described in the report "Fiscal
Policy Issues and Options in Brazil" (884-BR dated October 3, 1975) recently
distributed to the Executive Directors, played a crucial role in the stabiliza-
tion of the economy, assuring balanced budgets while channelling substantial
budgetary savings into public investment and mobilizing a rising stream of
private savings to finance economic and social development. Some overheating
of the economy developed in 1973, and, as a result of the relaxation of
controls and higher import prices, inflation in 1974 was about 29%, compared
to an annual average of 18% in 1970-73. However, there has been some slow-
down in inflation during 1975.
4.        International economic developments in 1974 and 1975 have caused a
sharp deterioration of Brazil's balance of payments.   The fourfold increase
in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2 billion to the import bill), the
steep rise in the price of most imported raw materials, as well as the
hardening of terms of external financial credits, have made management of the
external sector difficult in 1974-75. Further, these external factors caught
Brazil at the time .hen its economy was overheated and growth of import demand



- 2 -
was very high because of limitations on domestic capacity in key sectors
coupled with inventory accumulation. The current account deficit, which
averaged US$1 billion in 1969-73 or 2% of GDP, widened to about US$7 bil-
lion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the sizeable differential between
import growth (abouti 100%) and export growth (roughly 30%). The bulk of
the deficit was financed by a large increase in the inflow of external
financial credits.
5.        The Government is acting to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It is continuing monetary restraint, balanced
budgets and a realistic exchange rate policy, and is attempting to reduce
stockpiles of imported intermediate goods accumulated by public enterprises
during 1974. The balance-of-payments outlook for 1975 is relatively favorable
because most Brazilian exports have continued to grow, import price increases
have slowed and there has been an increase in domestic oil production, thanks
to earlier discoveries of off-shore deposits in some Northeast states. However,
the Government's plan to reduce the trade deficit to about US$2.5 billion in
1975, compared to uS$4.6 billion in 1974, may have been jeopardized by a recent
freeze which has adversely affected production of some key crops, including
coffee. The loss in coffee production will be especially felt in 1976-77 as
the expected sharp decline in export volumes is unlikely to be offset by
price increases. The Government has been monitoring the balance-of-payments
situation very closely and in July adopted several new measures which helped
stabilize the reserve level which had declined moderately during the first
half of 1975, largely as a result of exchange payments related to the high
import level of late 1974 and of measures restricting short-term import
financing from abroad. The new measures establish advance import deposit
requirements on approximately 35% of merchandise imports, while allowing
again short-term external financing for those imports. In October 1975 the
Government took additional measures aimed at protecting the country's external
position in 1976. These included further increases in import duties, a 25%
increase in gasoline prices and continued restriction of public sector imports.
In addition, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS,
permission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies.
6.        In recent years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into the
world economy and its growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable
to changes in the world economic situation. The slowdown in the rate of
growth of the world economT could have an adverse impact on prices of Brazilian
primary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures. World
economic conditions will probably not permit Brazil to grow during 1975-80 at
the 10% pace attained in the preceding years. In fact, considerably slower
growth is likely during 1975-76 with the very steep decline in OECD economic
activity. However, a growth path averaging 6% per annum still seems feasible
over the 1975-80 period. l-t is estimated that to finance the projected growth
path, the average annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital (that is,
capital other than direct investments and financial credits) required for the
1975-80 period will be substantial, about US$1.8 billion, or three times the
average for the 1970-74 period. On the other hand, the direct import needs
of most public investment projects are relatively low, reflecting the ability



- 3 -
of the domestic capital goods industry to compete successfully under
international competitive bidding and the low direct foreign exchange
component of many projects with strong social impact. Hence, an apprecia-
ble part of official external financing would have to be made available
to cover domestic expenditures if Brazil is to achieve its growth targets.
7.        By the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt is expected
to reach about US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is
estimated at around 17%, which is in line with that of other countries at a
similar stage of development. Brazil's total (public and private) external
debt is expected to reach about US$20.9 billion by the end of 1975, of which
about two-thirds,or Us$1h billion, will be in the form of financial credits.
The debt service ratio during 1975 on this total external debt will be about
34h. However, it should be noted that net foreign exchange reserves as of
the end of September 1975 were still large, about US$4.2 billion, equivalent
to some four months of the expected 1975 imports of goods and non-factor
services. If an export growth rate of around 17% per year in dollar terms
(compared to 30% in 1970-74) can be maintained over the 1975-80 period and
if average maturities on new financial credits gradually improve from six
to eight years, the total debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected not to
exceed the level prevailing in the 1969-73 period (about 38%). The ratio
for public debt alone would remain at the present level of around 17%. None-
theless, the fact remains that Brazil's external debt service obligations
are high.  However, the large foreign exchange reserves accumulated over the
past several years ensure that Brazil will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term, while the country's record of
high caliber financial management provides grounds for confidence in the
maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run.
8.        There has been a remarkable broadening and deepening of the
country's productive base and of its infrastructure in recent years, as
well as a considerable strengthening of its external sector. However,
despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a country
with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute poverty.
The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's income
distribution problem--and-aecepts the responsibility for its alleviation.
While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate of growth
is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does not believe that
the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and is shaping a new
positive policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth."
To this end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs initiated
by its predecessor, the Government is also working on new measures for
improving income distribution. These can be classified into three broad
areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, although marginal, impact on income distribution.
9.        To promote regional development, the Government has formulated
a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural development in the Northeast (see
paragraph 22). Active consideration is being given to a major modification



- 4 -
in the state value added tax system to redistribute fiscal resources from
the richer to the poorer states, in order to givre the latter the fiscal
resources which they badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly
in education. In the area of social services, the Government has created
a new Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit
programs and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population.
It recently introduced a change in the Social Irntegration Program (PIS, a
social security fund) amounting to the introduction of a negative income
tax for the lowest paid workers covered by PIS by entitling these workers,
with incomes presently between about US$60 and Us$300 monthly, to withdraw
once a year up to one month's minimum wage (about US$60) from their PIS
accounts. The Government is also planning to strengthen the nutrition
program which, under the previous Government, got off to a poor start.
Greater emphasis is being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-
income housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms than
in the past. BNH is also developing a site and services program to reach
parts of the population even lower down the income scale. In agriculture,
the recently reorganized rural extension agency (EMBRATER) will expand and
strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale
farmer; and the newly established federal agriculture research institution
(SMBRAPA) is defining its program to include a selection of crops and farm
systems which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit from research efforts.
Overall, the Government's recently approved public investment program for
1975-77 gives high priority to education, health, agriculture and regional
development, which account for about 30% of total public investment. Finally,
the Government intends to use wage policy to improve income distribution. It
has already revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage
scale and has introduced can 8-10% increase in the real minimum wage.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
10.       By October 31, 1975, the Bank had approved 57 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$2,417.5 million, of which 34 had not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing
to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 mil-
lion in FY74, and US$248 million in FY75. Disbursements will continue to
increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of September 30, 1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
11.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$1437 million, including three loans totalling US$192
million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73, six loans
amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74, three loans totalling US$242 million;
and in FY75, five loans totalling US$426.5 million were approved. So far in



FY76, a loan of US$60 million for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion
program and a loan of $75 million for the FEPASA railway rehabilitation
and expansion program have been approved. We are working actively with the
Brazilians on the preparation of an agricultural research program, a
nutrition project, a second agro-industries project, a small- and medium-
sized industry credit project, a secondary and feeder road project, a
fertilizer project, a project in support of the establishment of a non-
flat steel enterprise, electric power distribution projects in the North-
east and in the State of Parana, and a rural development project in the
State of Minas Gerais.
12.       Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end
of 1974 totalled US$9.1 billion, and of this amount the Bank held 9.6%. The
Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.3%. If present trends
continue as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt out-
standing would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt
service would rise to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public
and private) external debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
13.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. Since 1957, IFC has made 27 conmmitments to Brazil, totalling
US$262.9 million, of which US$32.5 million has been cancelled, US$17.4 million
repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$86.1 million, US$63.6
million represents loans and US$22.5 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments up to September 30, 1975 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
14.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives, which are interdependent
and complementary. One of these objectives is to support the growing effort
of the Government of Brazil to identify and develop projects designed to
increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the popula-
tion, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups and to
alleviate human misery. The recently approved Lower Sao Francisco Polders
project and the proposed Rio Grande do Norte rural development project are
elements of this support, as it relates to the rural poor. A particular
effort is being made to help Brazil develop additional effective integrated
rural development projects to increase the productivity of the small farmer
in the Northeast, the poorest section of the country, and we hope to present
in the future an increasing number of projects with this objective. A project
is in preparation to support agricultural research in the Northeast (with
emphasis on improving the technology available to small farmers) and to
strengthen the federal mechanism for coordinating and supervising agricultural
research. We are also actively associated with the preparation of new projects
in the fields of water supply and sewerage, site and services, nutrition, and
rural education.
15.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used ecFoniomlcTIl.  This objective has been



- 6 -
important in our assistance to the transportation sector, where emphasis
has been given to the rational selection of investments and the reduction
of railway operating deficits. The support of institutional development
and policy reform is also particularly important in the proposed Rio Grande
do Norte rural development project, where a special project unit will be
established to coordinate more effectively the various activities of agencies
providing technical and social services to the rural population, and where
the capacity of those agencies to define and execute activities specifically
intended for the small-scale farmer will be substantially strengthened.
16.       Another important lending objective for the Bank has been to help
Brazil ease the foreign exchange constraint on its development, a constraint
that has become more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by
supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where
economical, to substitute domestic production for imports. Much of the
investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is
designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of exports. The balance
of payments will also be aided by the proposed fertilizer project and the
agro-industries program; the latter is oriented toward exports to supply
major quantities of foodstuifs to the rest of the world. Also, support of
the steel expansion program is helping Brazil develop output of a commodity
which can be produced efficiently in Brazil owing to the country's bountiful
supply of high grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets.
17.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. In some sectors, especially in electric power and steel,
the Bank's participation has helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources
in greater amounts and on more favorable terms.
PART III - NORTHEAST AGRICULTURE
Bank Participation in Brazil's Agricultural Sector and in the Northeast
18.       The proposed loan for the Rio Grande do Norte rural development
project would be the Bank's seventh loan for the development of Brazil's
agricultural sector. The Bank made two loans, totalling US$66 million,
for livestock development; two, amounting to UM$84 million, in support of
agro-industry and grain storage credit programs; one for US$6.7 million
for the Alto Turi Land Settlement project in the State of Maranhao; and
one for Us$23 million for the recently approved Lower Sao Francisco Polders
project. The proposed loan would be the third, after the Alto Turi and
Lower Sao Francisco projects, for the agricultural and rural development
of the Northeast of Brazil.
19.       For the past few years, an effort has been made to increase the
Bank's activities in the Northeast. Two special economic missions visited
the region, in 1972 and in 1974, and have helped us to acquire a more thorough
knowledge and understanding of the problems of the region, and to identify



- 7 -
and help prepare projects directed towards lower income groups, especially in
agriculture. The report of the 1974 mission, "Rural Development Issues and
Options in Northeast Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR, dated June 23, 1975), was
recently distributed to the Executive Directors. In addition to the agricul-
tural projects referred to above, the Bank in 1971 made a loan for an agricul-
tural and technical education project (part of which was located in the North
and the Northeast). A second education project was approved in late 1974,
to help implement part of the educational reform in eight different states of
the Northeast. That project includes studies for the identification and
preparation of rural education projects in several states, including Rio Grande
do Norte, which the Government hopes to present for Bank financing in the
future. The Development Research Center has continued a joint research effort
with SUDENE, the Northeast Development Superintendency, on the nature of
small-scale farming in the Northeast. Also, in July 1974, the Bank established
a liaison office in Recife to assist in the preparation of integrated rural
development projects.
Sector Background
20.       The Northeast of Brazil, with a population of 30 million (about
30% of Brazil's population), has for many generations had the largest con-
centration of poverty in Latin America. Its rural per capita income is
approximately one-fourth of Brazil's overall per capita income (about US$815 in 1974,
in 1974 prices). _Sixty percent of the population lives in the rural areas and
agriculture provides about 33% of the regional GDP. Agriculture is relatively
diversified, the main activities being the commercial production of sugarcane
and cocoa in the coastal Zona da Mata, cotton and sisal in the semiarid zones
and the subsistence production of rice, beans, corn and manioc throughout
the region. During the period of 1963-73, agricultural production grew at
an average annual rate around 4%, with growth mostly attributable to the increase
in cultivated areas, especially in the frontier states where new areas could
be colonized readily. Sugarcane, cotton, manioc, corn, beans and cocoa accounted
for 65% of the total value of crop production in 1972, and for 79% of the culti-
vated area.  Agricultural yields in the region are generally low, some 25%
below the average yields in Brazil; primitive production techniques, an inadequate
extension service, insufficient economic and social infrastructure, and weak
public institutions have kept agricultural productivity low despite considerable
efforts towards improvement.
21.       Rural poverty in the Northeast is the result of a complex environment
in which the effects of unfavorable ecological conditions -- semiarid weather
and scarcity of fertile lands -- are compounded by problems emerging from
concentration of ownership and associated sharecropping and renting arrangements.
For the Northeast as a whole, farms with less than ten hectares represent almost
70% of the total number of establishments but amount to less than 6% of the total
area; less than 40% of agricultural land is farmed directly by owner-operators.
Most of the land is cultivated by landless farmers who account for up to 80%
of the rural labor force -- be they sharecroppers or renters. The risk of
eviction discourages farm investments.  This situation, and the very limited



- 8 -
effectiveness of previous land reform efforts, have prompted the Govern-
ment to undertake an intensive review, now underway, of its land reform
policy and program. In addition, it is initiating special efforts to develop
integrated rural development projects. Initially, many of these projects
will be aimed mainly at small-scale owner-operators. This, however, is a
large group, often subsisting in conditions as poor as those of the landless
because of complicated procedures for receiving institutional credit and the
absence of strong technical assistance programs directed toward the small
farm. The problem of rural poverty in the Northeast has been recognized
for generations and there have been many attempts to deal with it, but
relatively few successes. Although some emphasis was given to the resettling
of Northeast farmers in other regions of Brazil, such as the vast Amazon area,
the past orientation of the Government's agricultural policies was predominantly
toward the promotion and establishment of large and commercially oriented
agricultural enterprises as -the main investment for developing the agricultural
sector.  It was feared that small-farmer programs would absorb considerable
public expenditure without a commensurate increase in production. It was also
assumed that large-scale agricultural, agro-industrial and industrial develop-
ment would generate more employment opportunities to absorb redundant or low
productivity agricultural labor than any program to assist small farmers
directly. Direct efforts to help the rural poor were often restricted to
social services.
22.       The Government of President Geisel, which assumed office in March
1974, has reformulated agricultural policy. On the one hand, it has established
a goal of 40p real increase in agricultural output for the 1975-79 period, with
the aim of making Brazil one of the world's foremost producers and exporters
of foodstuffs. On the other hand, acknowledging the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem, especially in the Northeast, the Government has
initiated programs designed to improve small farmers' productivity, including
the POLONORDESTE program which envisages investment expenditures of about
US$700 million during 1975-79S. This program is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to include
changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that the rural
Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore, uniform
standardized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-regions
covering large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be
used initially. Consultants have been appointed to prepare projects for some
of these while others will be prepared by the states. The proposed Rio Grande
do Norte project will be one of the first under POLONORDESTE, and the Government
hopes to present additional similar projects for Bank consideration in the future.
23.       Given the complexities of the region, the early stage of many of
these programs and the need to develop an adequate institutional environment,
progress is bound to be slow. Many of the projects or rural development programs
will be somewhat experimental and will be subject to more than the usual risks.
However, given the new direction in Government policy, and if the projects such



- 9 -
as the proposed Rio Grande do Norte project and others under preparation,
once completed, demonstrate that the Government's new approach can achieve
both distribution and productive ends, a great expansion of the resources
channeled to this field would be warranted.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Project Area
24.       The State of Rio Grande do Norte (RN), with a population of about
1.6 million and area of 51,000 km2, is one of the smallest of the Northeast
states, but is nevertheless representative of much of the Northeast. Natal
(population 350,000), the capital and principal city, is in the densely
populated narrow coastal belt. Moving inland, both the annual rainfall and
population density decline quickly in passing through a transition "Agreste"
zone into the semiarid "Sertao."  Both the Agreste and Sertao are vulnerable
to periodic drought. A variety of federal and state programs have fostered
the establishment of new industries, mainly around Natal, but these have not
provided sufficient employment to absorb the increase of the state's labor
force. There has been a gradual out-migration from the rural areas to the
cities of the Northeast and to the more industrialized Center-South of Brazil.
25.       The project area of 21,000 km2 corresponds approximately to the
state's perennial cotton-growing area or about 40% of the total area of
the state. The area is generally semiarid (average annual rainfall varying
from 400 mm to 700 mm) with erratic and unpredictable rainfall. The history
of periodic drought has influenced greatly farmers' willingness to innovate
and invest. Apart from valley bottoms, soils are generally poor. The area
is divided into 4 sub-areas and 53 municipios (similar to counties) and
encompasses significant variation in climate, geology, crops, infrastructure
and farm size. Population in the project area was 415,000 in 1970, of which
roughly 270,000 (65%) were rural. During the decade of the 60's the urban
population growth rate (2.6%) was twice that of the rural. Only about 18%
of the area is under cultivation with the balance either natural (bush)
pasture or unusable. Cash income is mainly derived from high-quality (but
low-yielding) long staple cotton from perennial plants having a five-year
cycle and considerable drought resistance, supplemented by cattle; maize
and beans are the principal foodcrops, generally grown in association with
first-year cotton.
26.       There are between 20,000 to 25,000 farm units in the project area;
roughly three-quarters are of less than 50 ha, accounting for one-quarter of
the cultivated land. However, because of the low percentage of area which
can be cultivated and the presently low output per ha, per capita incomes on
90% of the farms of less than 200 ha are below the "relative" poverty level
(defined for Brazil as about US$200 in 1974). Of the project area's rural
population of some 52,000 families, about 35% are paid laborers; 20% share-
croppers; 35% owner-operators with holdings of up to 200 ha; and 10% owner-
operators with larger holdings. Many of the smaller owner-operators, however,



- 10 -
also work for part of the year as laborers or sharecroppers. The most
common sharecropping system in the project area relates to the cash crop,
cotton, and often provides for a 50:50 split between the owner apd share-
cropper of crop proceeds, with the owner providing the original tlanting
and sometimes pesticides and the sharecropper having the right to plant
subsistence food crops in certain areas.
27.       Most farmers sell their cotton to various private gins (which in
aggregate have considerable excess capacity), either directly or through
a variety of buyer/transporters.  Four cooperatives in the area also market
cotton but are generally weak and together account for only 18% of crop
sales. Agricultural extension services, in the past focussing mainly on
credit administration, have been provided by ANCAR/RN (the state branch of
the Northeast Association of Credit and Rural Technical Assistance). These
services have been mainly directed to larger farmers, probably reaching less
than 10% of total farms; have suffered from erratic funding; and have had
hardly any support from research aimed at developing new financially attrac-
tive production techniques. Some credit to farmers is provided by Banco do
Brasil and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, the former having four branches in
the project area and the latter three. But over 80% of the farms in the
area do not borrow from these sources; some borrow from lenders tying the
borrower to a particular channel for crop sales and resulting in high im-
plicit rates of interest. Others have no access whatsoever to credit on
reasonable terms. The perceived risk has discouraged local bank managers
from lending to small farmers.
28.       A variety of communicable, water-borne or nutrition deficiency
related diseases are prevalent in the project area, reflected in higher
infant mortality and general incidence of sickness and lower life expectancy
than for Brazil as a whole. While most of the diseases are amenable to
simple, low-cost actions in preventive medicine and sanitation, community
health services reach less than 10% of the rural households and are seriously
hampered by inadequate supervision, backup and referral services.
Project Objectives and Components
29.       The project is one of the first under the Government's new
POLONORDESTE program. It was appraised by Bank missions in November/December
1974 and April 1975. A report, entitled "Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development
Project," No. 921-BR , dated November 11, 1975 is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is presented in Annex
III Negotiations took place in Washington, October 13 to 17, 1975. The
Borrower was represented by a team headed by Mr. Eduardo Martini, the national
coordinator of the POLONORDESTE program.
30.       The project components include:
(a) an expansion and improvement of extension services through the
addition of agricultural advisors especially trained to deal with small farmers'
problems; the provision of Logistical support; and an increase in the number of
social extension workers;



- 11 -
(b) the provision of additional credit to small farmers for on-
farm investment and seasonal production purposes; the testing of alternative,
simplified lending procedures for small loans; and the application of a
parallel program of crop/credit insurance for farmers;
(c) experimentation and farm trials to improve technical packages
for cotton and other crops;
(d) the expansion of rural health services and the strengthening of
supervision and referral systems;
(e) the training of project staff and development of training
materials for farmers;
(f) organizational support for project administration, monitoring
and evaluation, and a special fund for miscellaneous project activities; and
(g) the preparation of future rural development projects in other
areas of the state.
31.       The project's specific objectives would be to:
(a) develop an institutional capability and focus to conceive,
plan and implement in a coordinated manner actions to increase the incomes
and welfare of the target group of farmers at low cost levels that would
permit their replicability;
(b) increase the net income from cotton -- which represents about
70% of family income -- of participating farm families by some 50% within 5
years of joining the project; aggregate cotton production of participants
would roughly double, representing an increment of about 17,000 tons by year
9;
(c) generate a marketable surplus of food crops;
(d) extend, within a five-year period, institutional credit to
8,000 farm families and technical assistance to about 15,000 families, of
which over 12,000 would benefit directly and the remainder indirectly; and
(e) provide community health services, including a system of
referral, to about 80% of the project area's rural population, which totals
52,000 families.
32.       The principal initial target group under the project credit and
extension components would be the low-income farm families which own and
operate small farms in the project area. The state has determined, in this
case, that the strengthening of the institutional capabilities and mechanisms
to execute programs for small-scale farms would have to be carried out before
the establishment of a full land reform or the adoption of a program to revise
and enforce new crop-sharing and land tenure arrangements would be feasible.



Sharecroppers and other landless would therefore be reached only marginally
by the credit component. They would, however, benefit more from the envisaged
improvement in extension services. They would benefit fully from the health
component and would have access to attractive land purchase credits which are
being offered by the Government as part of the POLONORDESTE program. These
credits would finance up to 100% of the purchase price for parcels of a limited
size, with repayment periods of up to 20 years, including 5 years grace, at
7% nominal interest. The Government has agreed to offer such credits in
the project area parallel to the rural development project (see Section 3.U4
of the draft Loan Agreement).
33.       The difficult physical and human environment in the project area, the
relatively undeveloped agricultural technology for the principal crops grown
by small farmers in the area, the scarcity of relevant systematic research
data, and the special difficulties that will be experienced in assembling
competent project staff where specialized manpower has up to now been scarce,
combine to render this project subject to more than the usual number of
uncertainties. To reduce the risks thereby created, the project would be
phased. Phase I would focus on 11 representative municipios covering about
20% of the cultivated land in the project area. Phase II, expected to begin
in about the third year, would represent the expansion of the actions developed
and tested during Phase I to part or all of the remaining project area if the
results of Phase I are satisfactory. The decision to proceed with Phase II,
in which the Bank would have to concur, would depend on a thorough review of
Phase I (see Section 3.01(b) and paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
34.       Total project costs would amount to US$30 million equivalent, in-
cluding contingencies. The major categories of expenditures are:
US$ Equivalent
(Million)
Credit
On-Farm Investment Credit               8.2
Incremental Production Credit           2.4                 10.6
Productive Support
Agricultural Extension                  3.3
Experimentation and Farm Trials         2.7
Farmers' Training - Communications       .2                  6.2
Health and Social Extension                                    1.9
Project Administration; Monitoring and
Evaluation; and Special Project Fund
Preparation of Future Projects                                  .3
Sub-Total                                                21.5
Contingencies                                             8.5
TOTAL                                                    30.0



- 13 -
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$3.8 million, or about
13%.
35.       The proposed loan of US$12 million equivalent would cover 40% of
project costs, including the foreign exchange component of US$3.8 million
and Us$8.2 million in local costs. The inclusion of local expenditure
financing is justified by the considerations set forth in paragraph 6 above
and by the very desirable focus of this project on improving the productivity
of small-scale farmers. The Government has agreed to provide the local funds
necessary to assure timely completion of the project (see Section 3.01(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution and Organization
36.       A Project Unit to be concerned solely with the project has been
established and would be maintained by the Goveriinment within CEPA/RN (the
Rio Grande do Norte State Agricultural Planning Commission) to stimulate
and help conceive actions under the project, coordinate work of the various
participating agencies and control project finances. The actual execution
of most of the project components would be the responsibility of various
existing agencies (see paragraphs 39-45 below). The Project Unit would have
a small staff of about seven professionals, several of whom helped prepare the
project. In addition to a Project Leader, the staff would also include
coordinators for technical and field testing activities, extension, credit,
human resources, cooperative programs and marketing. Each would work with
representatives of the relevant participating agencies to coordinate and plan
work on the respective components. Also, a financial controller would coordi-
nate the project financial plans of participating agencies and review and
approve disbursement requests. The Unit would be assisted periodically by
consultants in specialized fields. A separate small monitoring unit would
also be established to evaluate project results and feed back relevant
information to the Project Unit and implementing agencies to allow for
periodic adjustments of project activities, as experience is gained. The
monitoring unit would be assisted by consultants in work design, data
processing, analysis and interpretation.
37.       Each participating agency would prepare jointly with the Project
Unit an annual work plan covering its activities under the project. In view
of the experimental nature of some aspects of the project and the possible
need for adjustments to some project activities as experience is gained, the
annual plans, as approved by the special Coordinating and Monitoring Group
of POLONORDESTE, would be submitted to the Bank for approval (see Section
3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, the Project Unit would provide the
Bank within four months of the end of each fiscal year the reports of the
project accounts of the various participating agencies, as audited by Govern-
nient auditors or, in the case of the participating banks, as audited by the
independent external auditors already satisfactorily in use-(see Section 4.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       The state government of Rio Grande do Norte with its various agencies
is central to the execution of the project, and has agreed to take all steps
--cessary on its part to support and maintain the Project Unit in CEPA/IN; to



- 14 -
enforce adequately its cottona grading regulations in order to enhance
farmers' benefits from higher grade cotton; and to support CIDA (the
state 's Integrated Agricultural Development Company, principally a
farm supply company) in its efforts to ensure adequate supplies of
improved seeds and other inputs in the project area (see Section 3 of
the draft Project Agreement).
The Credit Component
39.       The project credit component would be executed threugh Banco
do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, both previous Bank borrowers
(Loan 857-BR for grain storage credit and Loain 656-BR for industrial
credit, respectively). Suib-loans to farmers would be refinanced through
credit lines established by the Central Bank with the participating banks,
with terms reflecting those of the sub-loans refinanced. The banks will
retain a remuneration of 5% per annum on credi t outstanding under the
project. Project credit would be available for on-farm investments,
mainly draft animals, iencing, equipment anled s-mall-scale storage; and
for incremental seasonal productionL loans, fur improved seeds, pesticides,
costs of hired labor for picking and weedinig, etc. Banco do Brasil would
expand its lending for sriall-scale agricul,Iture by a variety of actions
including simplified lending procedures (e.g., shortening of application
forms and waiving of prope.rty collateral requiremnents on small working
capital loans), mohile. banking and lending to small groups. Banco do
Nordeste would expand its lending mainly through cooperatives and simplified
procedures. It would give assistance to the cooperatives to form branches
( 'entrepostos T) and arrange for an expansion of its accounting and managerial
assistance to cooperatives.  The Government also intends to strengthen the
National Cooperative Credli t Bank, BNCC. BNCC, which does not yet have a
program in the project area and would not be participating in the agricultural
credit component of the project, will be undertak<ing a study to identify the
physical infrastructure re-luirements of cooperatives in the area and to
prepare a financing program therefor. The Government has agreed to exchange
views with the Bank on the study and to provide BNCC necessary funds to carry
out its program parallel to the proposed project (see Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
4o.       Project seasonal production loans per farmer would be linmited to
25 times a reference valuc roughly equivalent to the minimum monthly wage
(or up to about US$1,250), subject to a ceilPvg on total indebtedness per
farmer (for both production and investment loans) of up to 50 times the
reference value (up to U-S$R2,.500).  Loans for seasonal production purposes
would have an interest rate to the farmer of 13-, except for a relatively
small amount of credit to finance purchase of several modern inputs such
as pesticides, for which sub-loans are non-interest bearing. Loans for
investanent purposes would have amortization periods of 5-12 years, depending
on the nature of the investment, with interest rates to the farmer of a
nominal 7%. The proposed unindexed interest rates, which are the Government's
standard rates for agricultural lending in the Northeast, will almost certainly
result in substantial negative real interest rates paid by the farmier, We
believe that this is accentatble in this particular case.  To be sure, we have,



- 15 -
over the past several years, strongly encouraged the Government to adopt
positive real interest rates in its official credit programs, and the Bank
has helped finance credit lines for the development of agro-industries and
grain storage in which the Government has achieved this objective. Hoiwever,
in the case of the proposed project, most of the beneficiaries are from the
lowest income groups (both because this group will be the special target
for the extension and credit components and berause ihe credit requirements
of the higher income farmers will usually fall outside the size linits on
credits under the project); also, the strengthenirng of extension services
would help guard against the misuse of funds.   The Brazilian Government,
which is in a strong fiscal position, would meet t;he costs of the interest
subsidy to prevent an erosion of the assets of the participat.ing banks.
The Government's entering into satisfactory agreements with the participatinr-z
banks outlining their respective responsibilities under the Droject would be
a condition of loan effectiveness (see Sections 3.03(a) and 6.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
41.       To help ensure that satisfactory progress is made in its efi'forts
to expand lending to small-scale farmers in the project area, the Goverrnme'k,
intends to carry out special annual evaluations of this project componeou,
including the terms and conditions under which fiunds are provided to the
participating banks and on-lent to small farmers, The Goverrmient has agrn-ec`
to present reports on these reviews, together vith recommendations for .ltU    -
action, to the Bank for exchanges of views, and to carry out the action, whio:i
may be agreed (see Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).    The Govera-
ment has also agreed to make available and promote in the project area (at
a cost to the farmer of about 1% annually on average loan balances) .t. i:Le <jq:
established PROAGRO crop/credit insurance program which covers crop fai-l.ur es
due to natural disasters (see Section 3.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement.).
The Extension Comnonent
42.       Expanded extension services, achieved thurough recruitment of
graduates from agricultural high schools and colleges, would be undertaken
by ANCAR/RN to provide more intensive assistance to, small farms. The coverage
of agricultural advisers would gradually be built up to a ratio of one per
120 farmers.  Tne project component would include salaries of incramental
extension workers (mainly of intermediate levels rather than uliversity
graduates), vehicles and equipment. Alternative extension approaches would
be used and attempts made to arrange for agricultLral advisers to work wfith
small groups of farmers, using different types of local extension intermediaries;
thereby increasing the reach of extension services and reducing the cost pe-
farmer.  The number of social extension workers would also be increased to ho1l
develop the health component (see paragraph 45 below), nutrition activities,
household garden projects and small animal projects.
Farm Trials -and Teclnical Proposals
43.       The initial production practices to be recoimnended for the target;
group of small farmers in the pilot areas would include the use of alimal
traction for rapid weeding and expanding cultivated areas; the application
of pesticides to improve plant protection; and the introduction of im1proved
seeds and on-farm storage of food cIrops. These techniques are currently usedl



hi% betler fairmers to good effect and would be further refinedi and made
:niore suit,A.ble for broader disstcrij-.ation during the first two y-earS.
nvun,mber of other tecluiiques to be irntroduced by the target farmers have
b,een identified, such as the use of herbicides, organi.c and inorg,anic
f-rtilizers, new varieties of food crops, soil cons-ervation and early
p.L..,-tr.in.  'These are in vary,-inc de;roes of readinc;sI for diffusion to
farmers, some still requiring on-farm trials anuid others additional work
al; hSrlc research station.  Because of the erratic rainfall. iln much of' the
p,ooect area, f'or example, use of cherical fertiliier at current prices
r-t ), f'inanr,-cially viable irn r,-any cases.  The projoct would include on-
r" trials to refine production techniques.    For example, new iLm-lements
t., _i.iiprove the effectiveness, of anliLal traction would be tested, as wiould
to iiprove plant protection through better pesticidce se].ection and
:jtwC)tl.  Initial trials would b( planned arnd supervis ed by PN'FPOL
Ithe 1 olt.he.0c;t Tnstitute for tie Development of Cot.ton and Oil Seed ) in
(C ''W.,,,a4,i.yjA . with the Project Unit technical coordinator  the ex.t'ension
; J--,r.s d the Ei.3F..APa (Brazil iani 1J.gricultuiral Researca 'eoc-) stion
.   i project area.  In this way, the basic research proDran, tcc    rcrriedl
o'.. J,'- i. (a.s part of the ove-rall Northea;t researcr  roi: rami for whii Chi
.;oiem-ent has also requested Bank financ.in) ?ould be linked to an
,1 rat.ed pron,r-m to discenuinate finencially attractive new;T techni_que-,s
sr.,L farers
F addition to the training activisies to ba incoror atee iI
t'.'; ; {rJr).wVS participating agencies for project persorne.l, the pl )roct
' i-c Ludc preparation of t.rainin  mr;terials fr  a radio ard exms-ir..n
r- in i  t- e]evision clubs, as well as printed materials on sUCe  UOs I eCtr;
prodluilion procedures and the use of cre(dit,
. ' ,Coi,nent
Tihe health component -     _ which is expect!d to ha-ve a proI.nuc:tive
iI C.ct i hOtlrouFrh reduced tirie lo- t frorn sicIkess a w;d would iro"vide imr,r-ed
lr_.f.iT-re for l-arge nurnbers of rural poor - durin.n  Phase I wouid prov di
-5rnit tv ieali,h cov,erage to the 11 pilot muniJio   by   n:oving o existiri
bo,.al:l heli}b centers (miniposts) and develop n-r ah.rout )-I5 new; ones.  also,
."uurt estin larger health centers would be st,encr ,rhened and thr-ee ne  ones
d. aon d     These larger centers would function as referral poi.'l.s icor
J.1Llip-)stS  For purposes of cost-effiectiveness, 'o,uJIdi_r21s wauolc ee   ri O".
"!.he      ie rather than built new and some coiwunaut-' vol.untee- 1 abhor would
.,. or' m azio'ed.  Under Phas-,e II, ba-sedd on the ev.Lu._t;i..orl  rn Phise I thif pro-r.-7
.-ou:1c' be eAtended to cover aboutt u0( of the pro ject area)' r-ral  uu   iOts
'hll- -,ro`u ct would include financin, for the full costs (includir  slr±-)
of t.he pilot activities in thc Phase I riunici ioC   but only the trO iti.n:,
co;sstructlon and equipment costs of' the Phase II munic_ioQos.
lnc cu,e coent and Dissbuirsements
- I'arm input,s purchased by individual fa-rmiers under the project credit
coms0,iponenL would be procured in small amnounuts tirough local trade chianels.



- 17 -
Much of the remaining project expenditure relates to training, build-up
of staffs, research and technical assistance. The proposed minor purchases
of equipment would be carried out by various of the participating agencies
and would be phased according to the expansion of project activities. All
equipment and small vehicles would be procured under local bidding procedures,
which are satisfactory. Construction of health posts and centers (totalling
about Us$0.6 million) would be of varied design and geographically dispersed,
and would therefore be executed through a combination of self-help, force
account and local competitive bidding.
47.       Bank disbursements for extension would be at 31% of total expendi-
tures or the equivalent of about 40% of incremental extension expenditures;
for all other components, disbursements would be at the rate of 40% of total
expenditures or sub-loans. Disbursements would be channelled through the
Central Bank against statements of expenditure initiated by the various
implementing agencies under the project and certified by the Project Unit
within CEPA/RN under annual plans approved by the Bank. Undisbursed funds
remaining after project completion could, with Bank agreement, be used for
other rural development activity in RN.
Economic Evaluation and Project Benefits
48.       Farmer benefits will arise principally from increased cotton
production, largely through increased yields but also as a result of a
minor expansion of the cultivated area. Further benefits will derive
from increases in the production of subsistence crops (corn, beans, sorghum)
through gradually improved varieties and cultivation practices; and from
improved health and social services. Average annual cotton yields are ex-
pected to improve from the 150-200 kg/ha at present to an average of 300 kg/ha
by the sixth year and, with results of research and further experimentation,
to a minimum of 350 kg/ha by the ninth year. The increase in production of
seed cotton on the farms of up to 200 ha expected to participate in the project
would be from some 14,000 tons now to almost 31,000 tons at full development.
On the average, net cash income per family from cotton production (which
averages about 70% of net cash income per farm) on farms up to 50 ha would
increase from about US$210 now to about US$430 at full development; on farms
of 50-200 ha the increase would be from US$590 to US$1,200. Further cotton
production benefits could be expected on farms larger than 200 ha which, while
not the focal point of the project, would benefit from the results of research
and improved extension.
49.       The project would provide a modest increase in employment in the
project area in addition to reducing underemployment. On smaller farms much
of the increased labor requirement would be met by family labor. Nevertheless,
the equivalent of approximately 2,200 new jobs would be created.
50.       In estimating the overall economic rate of return, variations among
farms have been taken into account. Only the benefits from the increased
cotton production on farms of up to 200 ha have been quantified and the costs



of the health and social components have not been charged against the benefit
stream, since benefits of these components cannot be easily quantified. More-
over, only 30% of research and experimentation costs and 60% of central project
administration costs have been set off against the project benefit stream
because benefits of these components can be expected to extend beyond the project
area and immediate beneficiaries.  On that basis, the overall economis rate of
return would be about 15%. A 10% shortfall in yields would reduce the rate
of return to 9% and a 10% increase over projected yields would increase the
rate of return to 20%. Substantial additional but not quantifiable benefits
could be expected from increased food production and improved health and
nutrition, as well as from the development of institutional capacity and of
experiences which might be repeated in other regions in helping increase the
incomes and productivity of the rural poor.
PART V - LEGAL DiSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Rio Grande do
Norte and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The major features of the draft Loan and Project Agreements are
described in paragraphs 32, :33, 35, 37, 38, 40 and 41 of this report. The
Government's entering into satisfactory agreements with the participating banks
outlining their responsibilities under the project credit component would be a
special condition of effectiveness (paragraph 40).
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 13, 1975



kmT_ -'f3 Ppaes
COURM DATA - MAZIL.
875T96                                              8W".2AIlion (mid-1972)                                     ? angAn
SOCIAL NDICATORS
OfPf nRcAnTA US$ ATLSBASdIS)a                                                   610l/a           750/A       760/.       2,320/
DENtGAPHIC
UM    Mth   rate (per thoos,d)                                    4.2          38~ If..5 /A                  21           1
Coode death rate (per thousand?                                  12           10~                97a        10             6 16.
Infant inrtalty rate (Pe, thousand 11w births)                  180          110                61 7;       4.0 7;        12.!. 7;
Life espect-,y, at birth (years)                                 50           61 /f..           65 7;-      70 75         72
tros   rerdocti-on rate                                      2.6          2.6               3           1.1 Inv       1.0
Psmn.lstion pO~~~~~~~~sth rate ~~~3.0                        2.9/              3.5 T7      1.377         1.1/c
population growth rat. - orba                                     6 /d         5 75              57;..       2 7-          3 7;
Age structure (peroest)
10-Il                                                        1.           1.2/i6                         2I         24
15-61                                                          54.         577               so50         668             7
65 end Over 
Age Denendency ratio A            ftoa                               3.            3                 4.0          9;7        7
Urban poyaulatioi, as                                            1.It  ftoa  6 /d  -4V                                      /
Flily planning. No' Of acceptors cuwulative (theus...                        250
No. of users (% of married onene)              .           1.6
fWM   oroffm  (thcuemode)                               22,700       29,600 Z,j       13,000        1,100 If     53,200 lao
Peroer.tage employed in agric,ator.                            54.         1.1                40          17 7        19.1-
Percentage uoeMployed                                          2.            2                 1           9 7F        i.4
or.tnl           n.       odo     yhget5                     28 /k        33 /k             36/1 .      21An
Percent of national jnocos  roesiVad by highest 20%              51. /k       62 7;             61. 7t.'    4.77
Pro..nt of national mnoose recived by lowaat 20%                  4.7;         3 7;              1A.         4I.
ftroent of national  soose, reei-ed by lowest 1.0%               12 7;        10 7;             ii  __      I,. 
% ownd by onlle.t 10% of oeners                                    .          .
N60IU4F-M       XIimslao                                        2,170       1,950              ,.0           91.0         880
Population Per ourato  pereon                                                 Go3,0          150          360            24.0
Popua:tio  per hospital bed                                      275         260               930         160 /n         80
Per Capita Calorie supply as 8 of requiremets a                  102         109               110          107          106
Per capita protein epply, total (gams par dayTL6                  61          61.               65           96           76
Of idichk, an,inal and pulse                                    38          39                28          61.           1.5
Death rate 1-4 . yers I?                                         3. .1                                      1.3          1.0A/
/8E kBpri.ary eohoo enrollnt ratio                           100I~        130 1yp            04 /       1.18Ip        100
Adjusted     eOndar   eho1 enrollment ratio                       1i          27 /3Y.           23           56           90
Yeere of alhooling pr"oid.d, first and second Ulevl               13          13                12           12           12
Vocat ional  nruollment as % of sec. school enrollment            19          17                24. /n       22I~          20
AdMl literary rate %                                              61          68 /q             81. 7-       91           99I.
ME  No. of persons per rco- (urban)                           ..         1.0               2.2/ I         .          1.0 /f
Percent of occpied units without piped water                      ..          67                61 7;- ob                   5    t
Access to electricity (as % Of total population)                  b.17                          59u "L
Percent of rural populatimn connected to electricity              8.7
E! eivmr. Per 1000 Population                                66          61 /a            301 Ia       507 Ia       658/a
Paseaa er cars per 10D pepulstio                                   7           29 7             28 7-        1.2 77      117 7
gleotric pesr coneuaptioo (kwh P.C.)                             328         5441 7;-          662 T.       836 7;     3,909 7;.
Newsprint consu.eption p.c. kg per year                          3.3         2.3 7;.           1.8 T;       7.1T. ;     19.6 7;.
Notes,  Figures refer either to tho latest Periods or to             aooOOn ofrosiro6mesa     tsporatur, body wlhe         n
the lat.st years. latest Periods refer in Principle to               distribution by age and am  of national populatimn..
the yearn, 1956-60 or 1966-70, the latest ye".e ..- P1-              Protein standards (reuirmeen'to) for all 00.riae as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                              ltobed by USDA Sconoelo Re-earh Barrios provide for a .inion
A   The Per Capito Os estioate is at marbkct   rices for             alowace of 60 passn of total protein per day, and 20 prm      of
Yra-e  tier th.. 1960,calcua.ted btY the ann  oonveraion         animal and plses protein, of wbloh 10 pram. should be animl
technque as the 1972 World Bank Atlos.                           protein.  Thwme standardasmar  einewbt lear  than tbwoe of 75
at Avaerge un.ber of daughter. per oaese   of reproductie            green of total prOtein end 23 Prass of animal protein ema
Sage                                                             averag  for th  world, propoed. by 760 in the Third World Pond
populotion go    h rmt.. sr. for t.n decades -ding is             3ZTrsy.
I?6O end 1970.                                                   SaNon  studiee hove soggtetd that crude death rates of childreo,
Ratio of populatim n cder 15 and 65 end o.er to popule-           apes 1 through 4. may be used ae a first approxteation oden of
tics of agee 15-61. for age dependency retio en   to labor       maloutrition .
force of ages 15-61. for econonic dependency rmtio.          L/. Percetage enwolled of Ceorreap-doing popolatin of school age
Fj AO reference standards represent phyaialogical re-               das'ftoed for each country..
quirave,nts for norea activity and health, taking
Is  192;  /  197;  /c  960-2;  /  Urbn and suburban cocos of administrative Centers of e.nlcipalitiee and dintricta;
-  /n  ocaTiio~ o  27~00 ormore;7?  E tont;  ~&   1973;  /h   Cities (shi) having 30,000 or nore inhabitncts;
77  tocluing Indin juogl  populaton;  ~  Enead on a om-ple tabulation of census retur.-,;  /k  EconomicallY active
populaion;  1  Houshold,  /n  199;  /n 1967;  Lo  Hospital peraonnel;   /P    1968; ~7Definition uclnkwn;
Ir   Tibc     g    itmt      oe    nool       auation of oensu, returns.      Date refer to duelling,;   A    Inside or outside;
/c  Incloding seni-pernanont dueUinge;  ~  970-75;  L.  Gets refer to housing units;  I   96-70;    /Y   Groos
i~roleentobictincldee  verag  etueoto   /n he net enr,ollecent retina in 197  cere 8h% & 181 for basic and
oscondary edocation respecti,ely;   /0      5years and ova;     /ab   Inside only;   /ac   Based on a 20 Percent o.nple
t.bulatton Of co-oon roturno.
O  Thiecna.      ciii lb. Banjk Atlas figure of 288530 for 1972.   The ALlan figure does ..t refloct recent revisio     n I
national ....owt.   h-.ch iSo reslted in 20% inrc-on    in ..tiatno Of GDP.
Japan heo bon   selected as an obj-tlv  coutry sioce the Uraailian G-cerneec,t h.o    houn particular icitrnt ic Japan.
doneloponta1 exporie.ce; also, thn too governoeto kayo Cod,.cid Joint ot.die. to identify poenible foturn oc-cocl
probieco of Bracil Oc the basic Of ii, esperianco of Japan
ib   ,,li t,y  I f, 7



ECONOMIC DEVELOP2ZNT DATA                                                   Page 2 of 3
(In millions of U.S. dollara)
Actual          Estimated     Protected      Average Annual Growth Rates         As percent of GDY
1971     1972     1973     1974    1975     1980    1970-74    1974-76    1976-80     1970     1974      1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS LI                    Amounts in 1973 prices and exchange rates
Gross domestic product             62,710   69,608   77,891   85,369   88,357   121,700    11.0        4.2        7.0      100.6     100.6   100.7
Gaine from tersa of trade (+)       - 609    - 598      -      - 469    - 965    - 819       .          .          .       - 0.6    - 0.6    - 0.7
Gross domestic income              62,101   69,010   77,891   84,900  105,278   120,881    11.0        3.7        7.1      100.0     100.0    100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                 5,199    6,357    7,577   10,073   9,183    11,264     24.0       -5.6        5.7        7.6     11.9      9.3
Exports (import capacity)           4,098    5,218    6,596    5,987   6,705    10,784     10.2       10.2       10.6        7.2      7.1      8.9
Resource gap                        1,101    1,139      981    4,086    2,478      480       *          *          *         0.4      4.8      0.4
Consuraption                       50,437   54,547   61,529   66,578  69,020    91,586      9.7        3.0        6.5      82.2      78.4     75.8
Inveatment                         12,765   15,602   17,343   22,408   20,910   29,775     22.0        0.5        7.1       18.2     26.4     24.6
Domestic savings                   11,664   14,463   16,362   18,322   18,432   29,295     16.4        6.7        8.9       17.8     21.6     24.2
National s-vings                   11,078   13,784   15,655   17,722   17,482   27,933     17.0        5.8        9.0       16.9     20.9     23.1
MERChANDISE TRADE                             Annual data at current prices                                                  As percent of total
imports
Capital goods                     1,241    1,734    2,143    3,108    3,569    7,522     31.0       14.3       16.7      42.8       24.8    36.1
Intermediate goods (excl.fuels)   1,210    1,451    2,233    5,091   4,636     7,343     57.0       -5.4       12.6      35.2      40.6     35.3
Fuels sod related materials         316      449      727    2,812    3,022    4,344     63.0        5.6        8.5       9.4       22.4    20.9
of which: Petroleum               251      344      605    2,495    2,650    3,711     71.0        4.3        8.1       6.9       19.9     17.8
Consumption goods                   478      598    1.089    1,519    1,221    1,610     42.0      -11.0        6.7      15.0       12.1      7.7
Total merchandise imports (fob)   3,245    4,232    6,192   12,530   12,448    20,819    50.0        1.9       12.5     IOO.O      100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products (excl. fuels)    2,315    3,063    4,718    5,606    6,987    13,142    25.0       17.0       14.4      84.8       70.4    61.2
Fuels and related materials          19       36       52       65       70       101    55.0        7.4        7.7                  0.8      0.5
of which:  Petroleum                8       16       16       30       30       40       .          .          .        0.4        0.4      0.2
Manufactured goods                  570      892    1,429    2,297    2,793     8,231    55.0       22.5       24.0      14.8       24.8     38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)   2,904    3,991    6,199    7,968    9,850    21,474    31.0       18.6       17.7     100.0      100.0    100.0
Merchandise trade indices                               1973-100
Export price index                   67       73      100      134      140       201     18.4       4.6        8.2
Import price index                   77       82      100      145      158       216     14.3       7.9        6.4
Terms of trade index                 87       89      100       93       88        93
Export volume index                  71       88      100       96      113       172     10.0      13.7        8.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR /2               Annual data at 1973 Prices and exchange rates                                        As percent of GDP
Agriculture                         8,850    9,12     9,535   10,346   10,760    13,995      6.8       4.5        5.5      14.6       15.1     14.3
Industry and mining                15,875   18,066   20,776   22,480   23,222    32,805     12.0       4.2        7.7      32.7       32.8     33.6
Services                           25,554   28,532   32,140   35,620   36,860    50,777     11.1       4.3        7.0      52.7       52.1     52.1
Total                              50,279   55,810   62,451   68,446   70,842    97,577     11.0       4.2        7.0     100.0      100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                         Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates
(Federal Governtent)
Current receipts                  6,168    7,316    8,629    9,757   10,399    15,540     16.9       6.2        9.0       9.4       11.5     12.8
Current expenditures              3,553    3,558    4,227    4,577    5,032     7,107      8.5       9.1        6.9       5.9        5.4      5.9
Budgetary saving                  2,615    3,758    4,402    5,180    5,367     8,433     28.1)      3.5       11.0       3.5        6.1      7.0
Other public -aving                3,393   3,669    4,832    5,825    6,348    10,510     15.5       9.0       10.7       5.0        6.9      8.7
Public sector fixed investment    6,404    8,037    8,705    9,667   10,344    15,198     15.8       7.5        8.0       9.8       11.4     12.6
USS millios
DETAIL ON PUbLIC SECTOR             at 1973 prices and ER
INVESTMENI PROGRAM                        1971-74  7. of Total
Social Sectors                           4,504       11.3
Agriculture                                 187        0.5
Industry and Mining                       6,060      15.2
Power                                    5,499       13.8
Transport and Co.naunications             7,384      18.6
Regional development                      1,441       3.6
Other /3                                 14,712      37.0
Total expenditure                        39,787      100.0
FINANCING
Public sector savings                  33,674      84.6
Foreign borrowings (net)                5,762      14.5
Domestic borrowings                      351        0.9
Total financing                       39,787      100.0
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                Total labor force                 Value added per worker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
In millions      7. or :total     1960-70      In U.S. dollars     % of average        1960-70
1960    1970    1960    1970   Growth rate      1960      1970     1960    1970    Growth rate
Agriculture                          12.2   13.1    54.0    44.4         0.7          --       402       --      33         --
Jndustry                             3.0     5.3    13.3    18.0         5.8          __     2,222      --      182         --
Service                               7.4   11.1    32.7    37.6         4.1          --      1.7       --      140         --
Total                                22.6   29.5   100.0   100.0         3.1          --      1,220      --     100         --
sot applicable
.ot available
LI The national accounts data were revised in September 1974 to reflect data obtained in the 1970 census. GDP in 1970 has been revised upward
by about 20%, mainly in the industrial sector. Revisions of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been completed.
/2 Net domestic product at factor cost.
/3 Includes financial investment.
May 14. 197S



ANNEX I
BRLANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                           Page 3 of 3
(In millions of U.S. dollars at current pricea)
Actual             Estimated                                    Projected
1971      1972      1973     E1     d     1975      1976      1977       1978        1979       1980       1985
SUMMUtY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NS)                     3,175     4,272     6,596      8,56r     10,614    12,116    14,001     16,422     19,507      23,274     52,488
ismor                       ~4 028     5 205     7.577      14 585    14,536    15 228    166        1,8         2096       24.308     50.264
Reacurce balance (X-M)                -~fl3     -'I~3     -  981        01     -3,922     -,11t     -2,85      -2,261     -1,458        -1,034    2,224
Intarest (net)                        -  302    -  359  , -  514     - 650     -1.273     -1,469    -1,747     -2,009     -2,272     -2,503      -3,053
Direct investment income              -  166    -  202    -  220     - 240     -   270    -  304    -  342     -  384     - 432       - 486      - 877
Workers' remittance                       -         -         -           -         -         _         -          _                      -          -
currjDt Transfers(not)                    14         5        27         23        40         50        50         50         50          50         50
8    1 vn current account            -1,307    -1.489    -1         -6 .81     -5 4T5    -4 .8'    -4 .8      -4 6g      -4 1T3      -3.974     -1
Private direct investment                168       318       940        845        940     1,035     1,135      1,275       1,435      1,615      2.908
Medium- and long- term loans
Diabursements                          835     1,099     1,376      1,800     2,025      2,226     2,443      2,654      3,004       3,397      6,218
-Repayments                         - 441      - 525     - 670      -  720    -  779     -  745    -  793     -  868     -1.062      -1,282     -2,867
Net disbursements                        3         34 574    706      1,080      1,245     1,481     1,650      1,786      1,942       2,115      3,351
Financial credits
Disbursements                        1,442     3,396     3,151      5,017      3,819     4,509     5,054      5,258      5,386       5,587      1,524
-Repayments                          - 641     - 860     -1.058     -1.300    -1.579     -2.190    -2.946     -3,715     -4.130      -4,500     -4,404
Net disbursements                        801     2,536     2,093      3,717      2,240     2,319     2,107      1,543       1,255      1,080     -2,880
Capital transactions n.e.i.              504       626       377        194         -         -         -          -           -          -          -
Change in reservea (--increase)       - 560     -2,565    -2,428      1,049      1,000        -         _          _      - 519       - 836      -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITHENTS                                                                                                   Actual               Eatimated
1971       1972       1973        1974
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                       Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                   256       455       199                   and diabursed                4,122      5,509       6,496      9,096
IDB                                    133       180       250                  Interest on public debt         211         296        440        619
Governments                            199       249       270                  Repayment on public debt        608         758        953      1,081
Suppliers                              324       350       775                 Total public debt service(gross)819        1,054      1,393      1,700
Bonds                                   -         -         80                 Other debt ervice (gross)        607        820       1,175      1,570
Loans n.e.i.                           121       100       110        _        Total debt aervice (net)/l     1,384       1,744      2,242      2,670
Total medium- and long-term loans      1,033     1,334     1,684                  Burden on export earninga (%)
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                    Actual debt outstanding on March 31. 1974     bli deb       i                25.8        24.7       20,6        L7.4
Disbursed only              Percent Total debt service                43.6        40.8       34.0        31.2
IBRD                                               708                   10.0     TDS + Invest. Inc.               48.8       45.6        37.3       34.0
IDB22
Goveroments                                      1,850                    25:3    Average Terma on
Suppliers                                        1,008                    14.2
Bonds                                              149                    2.1     Int. as 7. prior year DO & D      6.0         7.2        8.0        9.5
Financial credits                                2,875                   40.5    Amort. as % prior year DO & D     17.4        18.4       17.3       16.6
Public debt n.e.i.                                 273                    3.8
Total public debt                                7,095                   100.0    IBRD debt outa. & disbursed     347         484        647        872
IB8D as 7. public debt 0 & D       8.4        8.8       10.0         9.6
IBRD as % total debt 0 7, D        5.2        5.0        5.1         5.0
IBRD as 7, public debt service     4.2        4.8        5.0         4.3
IBRD as % total debt service       2.5        2.9         2.9        2.7
LI Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                          May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1975)
Loan                                                         Amount Less
No.      Year               Borrower              Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Twenty-Two        Loans fully disbursed                         612.2
L03      1965     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito I                    Power           57.0            0.1
h0h      1965     Centrais Eletricas de Sao
Paulo - Xavantes              Power           19.8            0.1
4741/    1966     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito II                   Power           39.0            1.1
565      1968     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Porto Colombia                Power           22.3            1.5
566      1968     Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande         Power           26.6            1.3
656      1970     Banco do Nordeste do Brasil     Industry        25.0            0.6
677      1970     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Marimbondo                    Power           80.0           13.8
728      1971     Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio         Power           70.0           19.0
755      1971     Brazil                          Education        8.4            5.3
756      1971     Brazil                          Ports           h5.0           38.7
757      1971     Superintendencia de Agua e     Water
Esgotos da Capital            Supply          22.0           13.4
758      1971     Companhia Metropolitana de      Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo       Control         12.0            7.4
786      1971     Rede Ferroviaria Federal       Railways        h6.0            5.3
797      1972     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry       6h.5           12.2
812      1972     Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                        Industry        63.0           17.0
813      1972     Brazil                          Roads           89.0            9.1
1/  In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
Loan                                                          Amount Less
No.      Year               Borrower              Purpose    Cancellations   Undisbursed
~~(Us$ Million)
828      1972     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry        6h.5           19.8
829      1972     Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao            Power           60.0           29.4
853      1972     Brazil                          Land Settl.      6.7            6.4
854      1972     Brazil                          Roads           51.0           12.8
857      1972     Banco do Brasil                 Grain Storage   30.0           16.8
868      1972     Brazil                          Livestock       26.0            7.2
887      1973     Light_Servicos de Eletricidade  Power           20.0           19.4
923      1973     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Itumbiara                     Power          125.0          119.7
924      1973     Brazil                          Agro-Ind.       54.0           43.1
1008     1974     Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV   Power           81.0            81.0
1009     1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao     Water Supply    36.0            35.8
1067     1974     Brazil                          Education       23.5           23.5
1074     1975     Rede Ferroviaria Federal        Railways       175.0          175.0
1075     1975     Brazil                          Roads          110.0          110.0
11511/   1975     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry        95.0            95.0
1152-/   1975     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry        60.0            60.0
1153-    1975     Brazil                          Agriculture     23.0            23.0
Total                                         2,342.5Z/      1,023.8
of which has been repaid to the Bank
and others                                   276.7
Total now outstanding                        2,065.8
Amount sold                   35.7
of which has been repaid    10.3              25.4
Total now held by Bank                       2,0L0.4
Total undisbursed                                            1,023.8
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ No IDA credits have been made to Brazil. A loan of US$75.0 million for the
FEPASA railway project was approved October 21, 1975.



ANNEX !I
Page 3 of 9
B. STATFIENT OF lFC lNVESTMENWT (AS OF SEPTXXBfl 30, 19275)
Year                                Obligor                                          Type of Business                      Amount tn U5$ rillion
Loans    Equity    Total
1957                  Sieens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                          Electrical Equipment                  2.00         -     2.00
1958                  Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                               Pulp and Paper                        1.20         -     1.20
1958                  D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                               Autoaotive Parts                     0.45          _     0.45
1958                 Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                         Motor Vehicles                        2.45         -     2.45
1959                  Cospanhis Mineira de Ci..ento Portland, S.A.                   Cmenc                                 1.20         -     1.20
1959                  Champion Celulose, S.A.                                        Pulp                                  4.00         -     4.00
1966/19681
1972                 A50Y Villares, S.A.                                             Steel                                 8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969             Papel e Gelulose Catarinense, S.A.                             Pulp and Paper                        4.06      3.13     7.19
196711972             Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio de
Fertilizantes                                                Fertilizers                           8.22      3.03    11.25
1969                  Petroquimica Unlio, S.A.                                       Petrochemicals                        5.50      2.88     8.38
1970                  Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Co-ercio                        Petrocheicals                         5.50      2.88     8.38
1971                  Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                             Petrochemicals                        4.60      1.44     6.04
1971                  Industria de Celulose Borregaad, S.A.                          Pulp                                  4.90         -     4.90
1972/1975,            Companhia de Cim.ento Nacional de Minas                        Cement                               29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974             Companhia Siderurgica da Cuanabara - COSIGUA                   Steel                                67.00      6.50    73.50
1973                  Capital Market Development Fund - FUlICAI'                     Capital Market Development            5.00         -     5.00
1973                  Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                         Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODESN, S.A.                                         Refining                          26.00      4.40    30.40
1974                  Industriss Villares., S.A.                                     Elevators and Industrial
Equiprent                           6.00         -     6.00
1974                  Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                               Textiles                             31.00              31.00
1975                  Capuava Carbonos Industriaim Ltd.                              Carbon BLack                          6.18      1.08     7.26
1975                  Oxiteno Nordeste, s.A.                                         Petrochemriacls                      10.0               10.00
Total Groas Cotitrentr                                                                             232.40     30.47   262.87
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                             168.85      7.98   176.82
Total Coitments Nov Held by IFC                                                                     63.55     22.49    86.05
Total Undikbursed                                                                                   38.77      2.75    u1.52



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1975)
There are now 30 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:   US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. The project is completed and the loan is
almost fully disbursed. Equipment costs were substantially
below estimates. The original Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
404       Xavantes Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.5 million loan of
February 27, 1965; Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The original
project was completed in early 1971 (after a delay of about 18
months).  The project had been amended to include the instal-
lation of equipment for an associated transmission line. In
March 1972, US$2.7 million was cancelled from the remainder of
the loan. The remaining US$18,000 undisbursed is expected to
be disbursed shortly against retention payments.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.3 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Changes
in the project layout and design have increased substantially
the local cost, which will be covered by ELETROERAS, without,
however, significantly affecting the economic justification
for the project. Construction work is completed. The Closing
Date of the project was postponed from March 31, 1975, the
original date, to December 31, 1975 to allow for disbursement
of retention payments.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:  US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The project
was delayed gix months by spillway foundation difficulties.
This problem and price escalation greater than estimated in-
creased powerhouse construction cost by 72%, but, as the
original cost was very low, the resulting cost per kW of
generating capacity is still attractive. The project is
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalu-
ation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Loan No.
virtually completed and the fourth and last generating unit
is expected to be in commercial operation shortly. The
Closing Date of the project was postponed a second time to
June 30, 1976 to permit payments to continue on several
purchases already placed. The original Closing Date was
January 31, 1975.
656       Industry:  US$25 million loan of February 16, 1970 to Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB); Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The loan has been fully committed. The Terminal Date for sub-
mission of subprojects, originally June 30, 1972 and postponed
to June 30, 1973, was postponed a second time to June 30, 1974
to give BNB an opportunity to submit subprojects in an advanced
stage of preparation. Accordingly, the Closing Date, originally
June 30, 1974 has been postponed a second time to December 31,
1975. Slow utilization of the loan was due mainly to BNB's
unusually burdensome security conditions on subloans and its
emphasis on larger scale projects, for which financing from
other than World Bank funds has been available. -
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$80 million loan of
May 25, 1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. Construction work
is proceeding on schedule. The cost of increased excavation
and concrete work resulting from poor rock foundation and in-
creased equipment cost will result in an increase over the
original cost estimate of US$42 million or 15%. This does not
significantly affect the economic justification for the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of
April 5, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. The construction
of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progressing satis-
factorily. A cost overrun of about US$72 million, due to
increased equipment and construction costs, is foreseen, but
this does not significantly affect the economic justification
of the project. The cost overrun is being financed by loans
from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction of
the transmission system, delayed to allow a re-examination
of ELETROSUL's market, is proceeding with corresponding
modifications.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Progress on the construc-
tion and equipment of the project schools is now proceeding
satisfactorily. However, the project implementation is behind
the original schedule due to initial delays.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of the project is
now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have been
further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by
the Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which
converted DNPVN from a government agency to a public corpora-
tion, PORTOBRAS. PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of manage-
ment consultants, has been improving port operations in Santos.
The National Port Development Study financed under the project
is nearly completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:  US$22 million loan of
June 21, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The project
suffered initial delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo
not furnishing the required counterpart funds which are now
included in the state budget. The Government has consoli-
dated all the water and sewerage companies in the state into
a single company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement
with the new company was concluded on December 18, 1974.
During the last four months progress has been slow but im-
provements are expected with new management of the company
which took office recently. The original Closing Date was
June 30, 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:  US$15 million loan of
June 21, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. A review of the
original design resulted in its modification to exclude the
discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
Bidding procedures are in progress for other portions of the
project. As a result of the modifications in the project,
the loan amount was reduced to US$12 million. The Government
has consolidated all the water and sewerage companies in the
state into a single company, SABESP, and a loan assumption
agreement with the new company was concluded December 18,
1974. Progress of the project is expected to improve with
new management which took office recently. The original
Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:  US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1978. The project is now completed,
except for the construction and equipping of the Borrower's
main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of equipment for this
workshop was delayed because of a change in the location of
the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to build
a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the
purchase of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally
September 30, 1975, was postponed to March 31, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Loan No.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project:   US$6h45 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Closing Date: July 1, 1976. The latest
cost estimate is US$617 million, an increase of about 46%
over the appraisal estimate due to design evolution, un-
foreseen site works and increases in local construction
costs. The project is now 70% complete and is about six
months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project:   US$63 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Closing Date: June 1, 1976. The latest
cost estimate is US$952 million, an increase of about 67%
from the appraisal estimate due primarily to design evolu-
tion and increases in local construction costs. The project
is 75% complete and is about six months behind the original
schedule.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Construction
works are more than 80% completed, but are slightly behind
schedule; the estimated total contract cost is slightly
above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility studies and
detailed engineering financed under the loan were started
later than planned, but are now completed at a cost sub-
stantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are
lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved
during the past year and are now expected to be completed
by the original Closing Date of the loan.
828       COSIPA Steel Exansion Project:    US$64.5 million loan of
June 14, 1972; Closing Date: January 15, 1977. The latest
cost estimate is US$720 million, an increase of about 52%
over the appraisal estimate due primarily to increased local
construction costs. This will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now
65% complete and is about nine months behind the original
schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of
June 1h, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1979. The con-
tract for the civil works was awarded t;o an Italian-Brazilian
consortium in May 1973, and the project is proceeding accord-
ing to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Closing Date: December 1, 1978. COLONE has
prepared revised farm development plans whose credit com-
ponent, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated,
although still low in comparison to other settlement projects.
Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit and COLONE working capital requirements and dif-
ficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start of
project exeMdtion. Settlement, however, has now begun and
the project should be completed in 1978 as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:  US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976. Construc-
tion is more than 60$ completed but behind schedule. However,
disbursement is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
The estimated total contract cost is slightly above the
appraisal estimate.
857       Grain Storage Project:  US$30 million loan of September 27,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979. After some initial
difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects, the project
has progressed satisfactorily. In September 1974, the Bank
and the Borrower agreed on a revised indexing system to en-
sure that sub-borrowers are charged a positive real interest
rate. However, in April 1975 the Government adopted a na-
tional grain storage financing program involving subsidized
interest rates. This may result in a cancellation of the
uncommitted balance (about 20%) of the loan.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:  US$26 million loan of
December 19, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. The project
is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully committed
and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:  US$20 million loan of April 16,
1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Principally due to dif-
ficulties encountered in preparing bidding documents and
delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the project
is about one year behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by
the loan will probably take until July 1976 and a postpone-
ment of the Closing Date may be required.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:_ US$125 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1902. Contracts
for both the concrete and earth works have been awarded and
procurement of main equipment is on schedule. Commissioning
of the first generating unit is scheduled for March 1980,
four months behind original schedule due to delay in awarding
of the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$5h million loan of
August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The loan
became effective on March 11, 1974. The demand for credit is
strong and the participating banks are expected to complete
commitment of project funds by the second quarter of 1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million
loan of June 17, 197h; Closing Date: December 31, 1978. This
loan became effective on April 15, 1975. A Bank mission re-
cently reviewed the progress of the preparation and implementa-
tion of plans for resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir. These plans are now at an
advanced stage of preparation, and construction of new towns to
house the urban portion of the population has begun. The rural
population is to be offered the opportunity of resettlement in
a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new vil-
lages on the edge of the future reservoir.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of
June 17, 197h; Closing Date: August 15, 1977. The loan was
declared effective on January 9, 1975. The State Water Supply
Company changed its name from Companhia Mineira de Agua e
Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais
(COPASA-MG). The project is progressing on schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
197a4; Closing Date: December 31, 1979. This loan became effec-
tive on April 17, 1975. Project execution has started reasonably
well.
107L      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. This loan became effective on
June 17, 1975. Project execution has started reasonably well but
project management and control still need strengthening.   The
Government is taking appropriate steps to improve the situation.
Cost estimates have increased substantially on several items,
which are now umder detailed review. Tendering for Bank-financed
items is on schedule.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Closing Date December 31, 1979. This loan became effective on
May 15, 1975 and execution is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         The Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:           US$12 million equivalent.
Terms:            Payable in 25 years, including 5 years of grace,
at gig interest per annum.
Relending
Terms:            Approximately one-half of the proceeds of the loan will
be utilized to refinance, through credit lines to be
established by the Central Bank with Banco do Brasil,
S.A. and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, S.A., sub-loans
to be made by the latter two banks to small farmers.
The banks will retain a remuneration of 5% per annum
on credit outstanding under the project. Credit terms
to farmers would be as follows:
Type of Credit        Repayment Term       Interest Rate
Seasonal Production   Depending on         13% nominal, except
production cycle     for credits to finance
of crop concerned.  several modern inputs
such as pesticides,
which will be non-
interest bearing.
Semi-Fixed Invest-
ment                Up to 5 years,       7% nominal
including up to
2 years of grace.
Fixed Investment       Up to 12 years,
including up to
6 years of grace.    7% nominal



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Project
Description:      The project includes:
a) an expansion and improvement of extension services
through the addition of agricultural advisors
especially trained to deal with small farmers'
problems; the provision of logistical support;
and an increase in the number of social extension
workers;
b) the provision of additional credit to small
farmers for on-farm investment and seasonal pro-
duction purposes; the testing of alternative,
simplified lending procedures for small loans;
and the application of a parallel program of
crop insurance for farmers;
c) experimentation and farm trials to improve
technical packages for cotton and other crops;
d) the expansion of rural health services and the
strengthening of supervision and referral systems;
e) the training of project staff and development of
training materials for farmers;
f) organizational support for project administration,
monitoring and evaluation, and a project special
fund for miscellaneous project activities; and
g) the preparation of future rural development
projects in other areas of the state.
Estimated Costs:                                           Local  Forein   Total
-- (US$ Million)-_---
Credit:
On-Farm Investment Credit               6.8     1.4      8.2
Incremental Production Credit           2.2      .2      2.4
Productive Support:
Agricultural Extension                   2.9     .4      3.3
Experimentation and Farm Trials          2.4     .3      2.7
Farmers' Training - Communications        .2     -        .2
Health and Social Extension                1.7     .2      1.9
Project Administration; Monitoring
and Evaluation and Special Project Fund    2.3     .2      2.5



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Preparation of Future Projects              .2     .1       .3
Sub-Total                           18.7     2.8     21.5
Contingencies                         7.5    1.0      8.5
TOTAL                                26.2    3.8     30.0
Financing:                                   US$ Million
Bank                         12.0
Federal Government           18.0
TOTAL                   30.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                         US$ Millions by IBRD Fiscal Year
FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81
Annually        0.5      1.h     1.9     2.6     3.8     1.8
Cumulative      0.5     1.9      3.8     6.h    10.2    12.0
Procurement
Arrangements:     Farm inputs financed under the credit component would
be procured through local commercial channels.   Equip-
ment and small vehicles would be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures. Construction of health
units would be executed by a combination of community
volunteer action, force account and local bidding.
Rate of Return:   The estimated economic rate of return is about 15%.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 921-BR, dated November 11, 1975.






IBRD 1
; Xr f ~~~~~~~~~RIO GRANDE DO tiORT'E ..                                 EGAcDN.,
r______ Project Are           0   20 ,0     40  50                  -                                         I   ,RANDE    D   NOj1E I U- el snstov BRAZIL 
Cotton Gins         KILOMETERS                                L-,NORTEI%5L                       RU.5.  `I~L. DJEVnIL F..W11A_,,i\l1 h.5,,IJEI I
PhaSub-Arecs                                                                                     Projecr Area. Roinfall & Infrostruchure
-      Asphalt Roads
Secondary Roads
Rivers
BMunicipal Bundaries       N 4                            /-
Shlte Boundaries           |        /j                         /                             ovMACAU            <      \_~4 ° .@q
BANKING NETWORK
Broncheu
o    Banco Do Brazil         rO rA,9WEO  DO NORT-                                         P\/d
O    Banco Do Nordeste Do Brazil
RAINFALL                 -                          .
- 60-I  sohyets (in millimeters)    /
J5^0 AN I
RTE  ANANIA.                                                                                    Co,rs,o,e.R
38-                                                    37-Ato-                                                                                                     35-
10 0 
JU5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



