CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1195 BR
Loan Agreement
(Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 1, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1195 BR
Loan Agreement
(Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 1, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1976, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "State" means the State of Rio Grande do Norte of the Borrower
and includes any successor thereto;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the State and the
Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "Project area" means an area of about 21,000 km2 covering 53
municipios in the State;
(d)   "Phase I" means the first stage of the Project, expected to be carried
out within the first three years after commencement of execution of the Project
and focusing, unless otherwise agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank,
on the following representative municipios: Parelhas, Florania, Serra Negra do
Norte, Jardim de Piranhas, Umarizal, Lucr6cia, Almino Afonso, Rafael Godeiro,
Olho d'Agua dos Borges, Alexandria and Ant6nio Martins, covering about twenty
per cent (20%) of the cultivated land in the Project area;
(e)   "Phase II" means the second stage of the Project, expected to
commence in the third year after commencement of execution of the Project, to
expand the actions developed and tested during Phase I to all of the Project area;


﻿4
(f)   "PROAGRO" means Programa de Garantia da Atividade Agropecuiria,
created by Law No. 5969, dated December 11, 1973, of the Borrower;
(g)   "Project Unit" means the Unidade Tecnica created by Decreto
No. 6708, dated September 2, 1975, of the State, and referred to in Section
3.01(c) of this Agreement;
(h)   "POLONORDESTE" means the special development program for the
Northeast of Brazil, established pursuant to Decreto No. 74794, dated October 30,
1974, of the Borrower;
(i)   "Reference Value" means the monetary correction factor periodically
established by the Borrower pursuant to Law No. 6205, dated April 29, 1975,
of the Borrower, to replace the monetary correction factor based on the minimum
monthly salary; and
(j)   "Special Group" means the Special Coordinating and Monitoring Group
of  POLONORDESTE       created  by   Portaria Interministerial  No. 41, of
April 16, 1975.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000) i
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured as follows:
(a)  the construction of health posts and health centers shall be procured
through a combination of self-help, force account and bidding in accordance with
the Borrower's normal procurement procedures;


﻿5
(b)   farm inputs shall be procured through local commercial channels; and
(c)   equipment, including small vehicles, shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's normal procurement
procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banco Central do Brasil is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not start
the execution of any part of Phase II until a complete report of the progress
of Phase I, as of March 31, 1978, or such other date as the Borrower and the
Bank shall agree, has been sent by the Borrower to the Bank and the progress


﻿6
reflected in such report has been considered satisfactory to the Bank. Such report
shall be sent to the Bank by April 30, 1978, or such other date as the Borrower
and the Bank shall agree.
(c)   For the purpose of coordinating the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain a Project Unit within Comissao Estadual de Planejamento
Agrfcola of the State, which shall be adequately staffed with a Project coordinator,
a financial controller, and other experienced and qualified staff including, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, advisors for farm trial arid experimentation
programs, extension services, credit to small farmers, human resources and
cooperatives and marketing.
Section 3.02. (a) Consultants who may be employed by the Borrower or
the Project Unit to assist in the carrying out of Part G of the Project, shall have
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b)   For the purposes of carrying out Part F of the Project, the Borrower
shall establish a ,-eparate monitoring group, within the Project Unit, staffed with
at least two full-time professionals experienced in research in social or economic
fields and to be assisted, if necessary, by consultants in work design, data processing,
analysis and interpretation.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central do Brasil, in its
capacity as the Borrower's financial agent, to enter into agreements with Banco
do Brasil S.A. and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A., whereby such banks will
undertake to adopt the lending policies and procedures set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement for the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the interest rates to be charged under
the loans included in Part B of the Project and of any modification thereof.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes: (i) to make annual reviews of the progress
made in expanding lending to small farmers in the Project area, the terms and
conditions under which funds for the carrying out of Part B of the Project are
provided to Banco do Brasil S.A. and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A. and on-lent
to small farmers, such conditions including inter alia the interest rate spread for
such banks, and the relationship of such conditions to the satisfactory expansion
of lending to small farmers; (ii) each year by November 30, or such other date
as the Bank shall agree, to present the report on such review and recommendations
for further action to the Bank for an exchange of views thereon; and (iii) to carry
out the actions that may be agreed following such exchange of views.


﻿Nw                                                7
(c)   The Borrower shall use its best efforts to cause the repayment of the
loans under Part B of the Project to be guaranteed under the PROAGRO scheme.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the credit terms for acquisition
of land in the Project area to be inter alia as follows: (i) credit shall be available
to finance the total price of the land; and (ii) the credit shall be repaid in a period
of up to 20 years, including a grace period of up to 5 years.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the interest rate to
be charged under the credits referred to in the precedent paragraph (a) of this
Section and of any modification thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1977 or such
other date as the Bank shall agree, prepare a work program satisfactory to the
Bank for the execution of Part G of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause: (i) each executing agency
participating in the Project to prepare jointly with the Project Unit an annual plan
covering actions to be taken under the Fcoject during the year: and (ii) such annual
plans, as approved by the Special Group, to be sent each year by August 31,
or such other date as the Bank shall agree, to the Bank for approval.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, specific security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at -no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term   "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Project Unit and the executing
agencies participating in the Project, including Banco do Brasil S.A. and Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil S.A., to maintain separate accounts to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the financial situation
of the Project; (ii) cause such accounts to be audited annually in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (iii) make available to the Bank, not later than four months after the end


﻿Nw                                              9
of each fiscal year, certified copies of such financial statements, as so audited,
and a copy of the report of such audit; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such otier
pertinent information concerning such accounts as the Bank shall reasonably request
from time to time.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes to send to the Bank, for comments,
by August 31, 1976, or such other date as the Bank shall agree, an analysis of
the physical infrastructure needs of cooperatives in the Project area and a program
for Banco Nacional de Cr6dito Cooperativo to provide the necessary financing
therefor.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof,
namely, that the State shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of the State under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof,
namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and to the State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the State have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b)   The agreements referred to in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement have
been executed;
(c)   The Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Banco Central
do Brasil; and


﻿10
(d)   All necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given
by the Borrower, the State, their political subdivisions or agencies, by any agency
of any such political subdivision, or otherwise to be performed or given in order
to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform
all of the obligations of the Borrower in this Agreement contained together with
all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been performed or
given.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the State and is legally binding upon
the State in accordance with its terms;
(b)   That the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central
do Brasil; and
(c)   That all acts, consents and approvals referred to in Section 6.01(d)
of this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in connection
therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and that no other such
acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying out
of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of the obligations of
the Borrower in this Agreement contained.
Section 6.03. The date June 1, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro Chefe da Secretaria de Planejamento da
Presidencia da Repablica of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿11
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Planejamento
Ediffcio DASP
Esplanada dos Minist6rios, Bloco 7
70000 Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
With copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Diretoria de Cr6dito Rural
Edificio Banco do Brasil S.A.
Setor Bancario Sul
70000 Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:                                Telex:
MINIPLAN                                      41139
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:                         Telex:
BANCENTRAL                              41344
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                                     440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By    /s /  Celso Diniz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    /s/  Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Loans to small                 4,200,000          40% of disburse-
farmers                                           ments made
(2)   Health facilities               800,000           40%
and services
(3)   Technical services,            2,000,000          40%
Project administra-
tion, vehicles, equip-
ment and materials
related thereto
(4)   Extension: salaries,           1,300,000          31%
rents, training,
equipment, supplies
and vehicles
(5)   Training (other                 300,000           40%
than for extension)
(6)   Unallocated                    3,400,000
TOTAL         12,000,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account


﻿14
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof,
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, in respect of any part of Phase II
until the Bank has approved the progress of Phase I as provided in Section 3.01(b)
of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A.     Improvement of agricultural extension services through the utilization
of the services of additional qualified agricultural advisors trained to
focus on small farmers' problems and of additional social extension
workers, and the provision of logistic support.
Part B.     Extension of loans, through Banco do Brasil S.A. and Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil S.A., to small farmers for seasonal production
purposes and for on-farm investments and expansion of cultivated area.
Part C.     Experimentation and farm    trials to improve technical packages for
cotton and other crops focusing on the practical needs of small farmers.
Part D.     (i)         Adaptation,   construction  and   equipping   of health
miniposts and health centers.
(ii)        Training of community health workers, auxiliary nurses
and social extensionists.
Part E.     Training of Project staff and development of training materials for
farmers.
Part F.     Monitoring and evaluation of the effects of the preceding Parts of the
Project on the Project area population.
Part G.     Preparation of future rural development projects in other areas of the
State.
*           *           *           *           *           *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                  (expressed in dollars)*
January 1, 1981                                            115,000
July 1, 1981                                               125,000
January 1, 1982                                            130,000
July 1, 1982                                               135,000
January 1, 1983                                            140,000
July 1. 1983                                               145,000
January 1, 1984                                            155,000
July 1, 1984                                               160,000
January 1, 1985                                            165,00
July 1, 1985                                               170,000
January 1, 1986                                            10000
July 1, 1986                                               190,000
January 1, 1987                                            195,000
July 1, 1987                                               205,000
January 1 1988                                             215,000
July 1, 188                                               220,0
January 1 1989                                             230,000
July 1, 189                                               245,000
January 1, 1990                                            250,000
July 1, 1990                                               260,000
January 1, 1991                                            275,000
July 1, 1991                                               285,000
January 1 1992                                             295,000
July 1, 1§92                                               310,0
January 1, 1993                                            325,000
July 1, 1993                                               335,000
January 1 1994                                             350,000
July 1, 1994                                               370,00
January 1, 1995                                            380,000
July 1, 1995                                               395,000
January 1, 1996                                            415,000
July 1, 1996                                               435,000
January 1, 1997                                            450,000
July 1, 1997                                               47000
January 1, 1998                                            490,000
July 1, 1998                                               510,00
January 1, 1999                                            530,000
July 1, 1999                                               555,000
January 1, 2000                                            580,000
July 1, 2000                                               615,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollars equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                 2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                           5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                           7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                                    8%
Nore than twenty-three years
before maturity                                 8-1/2%


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.    Loans for seasonal crop production will cover normal crop production costs
included in the techniques to be developed under the Project and costs of hired
labor. Loans for investment purposes will be mainly for draft animals, fencing,
equipment and small-scale storage facilities.
2.    Each loan for seasonal crop production will not exceed 25 times the highest
Reference Value in the country and will be repaid within a period consistent with
the production cycle of the crop financed.
3.    Loans for investment purposes will be repaid in (i) 5 years in the case of
loans for semi-fixed investment (work animals), including a grace period of up
to 2 years, and (ii) 12 years in the case of loans for fixed investment, including
a grace period of up to 6 years.
4.    The aggregate outstanding principal amount of loans for seasonal crop
production and for investment purposes will not exceed the equivalent of 50 times
the highest Reference Value in the country for each individual farmer.
5.    Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A. will expand its lending to small farmers
in the Project area through cooperatives or to individual farmers by establishing
simplified procedures, assisting the cooperatives to form branches, and expanding
its accounting and managerial assistance to cooperatives. Banco do Brasil S.A. will
expand its small agricultural loans through inter alia simplified lending procedures,
mobile banking and lending to small groups.
6.    Simplified lending procedures to be adopted under the Project will include
(i) lending predetermined amounts per hectare of land on an unsecured basis in
the case of loans for seasonal crop production, and (ii) taking into account the
applicant's projected debt service based on average yields obtained and area
cultivated, in the case of loans for investment purposes.


