Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20227-BUL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Loan 44990)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF
EURO 71.12 MILLION (US$75.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 19, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lev (plural Leva)
Lev I = US$ 0.4923
US$ 1 = Leva2.0312
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -  December 31
ABBREVIArIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL         -      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CCB          -      Cooperative Central Bank
CEEC         -      Central and Eastern Europe Countries
CIRL         -      Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
COM          -      Council of Ministers
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU           -      European Union
FESAL        -      Financial and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loan
IFI          -      International Financial Institution
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
LDP          -      Letter of Development Policy
SECAL        -      Sector Adjustment Loan
SFA          -      State Fund for Agriculture
VOCA         -      Volunteers in Overseas Cooperative Assistance
WUA          -      Water User Association
WUO          -      Water User Organization
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:    Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   John Nash, Henry Gordon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      11
9. Partner Comments                                                                     12
10. Additional Information                                                             12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frane Matrix                                    13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  21
Appendix: Borrower Comments
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P057925                                        Project Name: BULGARIA AGRICULTURE
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Team Leader. John D. Nash                                  TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 19, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: BULGARIA AGRICULTURE SECTOR                    L/C/TF Number: Loan 44990
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CountryIDepartment: BULGARIA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AA - Agriculture Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/29/1998                               Effective: 12/10/99
Appraisal:  04/01/1999                                MTR:
Approval:  06/22/1999                               Closing: 07/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                          Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:      Laura Tuck                                 Laura Tuck
Team Leader at ICR:   John D. Nash                              John D. Nash
ICR Primary Author:  John D. Nash
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
NVo Q. G available.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
To support rapid development of a more efficient and responsive agricultural sector, the principles of which
are enunciated in the Government's medium-term program. This objective was appropriate for achieving
balanced and sustained economic growth in the country.



3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The loan would support a comprehensive reform of agricultural sector policies. Reforms would occur in
the areas of pricing, trade, agricultural subsidies and finance, land markets, cereal markets, and agricultural
enterprise privatization. The reforms would increase domestic marketing competitiveness by expediting
development of a private land market, significantly reducing the state's role as a marketing and processing
intermediary, improving the incentives environment by eliminating price and trade controls, and reducing
subsidized govermment credit. This would improve income earning opportunities for rural people,
contribute to rural employment generation, and help raise rural living standards. Consumers would benefit
from improved agricultural product quality and availability, greater choice, and more efficient marketing
channels. All of these reforms had been identified through ESW (a series of policy notes) as ones that were
critical to improve the sector's competitiveness and prepare Bulgaria for EU accession, which was the
Government's primary goal.
It was the assessment of the Government and Bank that land policy reforms were top priority to
activate the land market, encouraging consolidation of the fragmented plots and more efficient pattems of
production. The first step was to cornplete restitution to remove uncertainties regarding ownership; then an
appropriate registration and cadastre law would be necessary to jump-start the market. Another top
priority was completion of the privatization of other state-owned productive assets to encourage
much-needed investment and upgrading. One component of the ASAL was focused on grain market policy,
since this is the single most important type of crop in Bulgaria (in both productive and political senses), and
a sub-sector in which the influence of the state enterprise Zarneni Hrani was still strong. The policy
conditions in the rural finance component were intended to ensure that the temporary interventions and
programs -- which were necessary in the Government's view because private sector commercial credit was
not available to agricultural producers due to the financial crash - would not prevent the emergence of
private credit providers. Finally, trade and pricing policy reforms were crucial to remove gross distortions
in the incentive framework which had carried over from the previous regime.
Overall, project components were appropriate for achieving the project's objectives.
L. Land Market Development
Component             ASAL I Condition
Restitution           Restitute at least 80% of the agricultural land area eligible for restitution.
Complete distribution of ownership documents on at least 18% of the agricultural land area
eligible for restitution.
Registration and      Submit a Land Registration and Cadastre Law satisfactory to the Bank to the National
Cadastre              Assembly.
Land Transactions     Amend the Land Leasing Law, eliminating the upper limit on area that can be leased.
Amend Land Law to eliminate ceiling on land sales (formerly 30 hectares) for a period of two
years after restitution.
Reduce the conveyance tax on land transactions to a minimum so as not to impede exchange of
agricultural land.
I. Food Security and Cereals Marketing
| Component            |ASAL I Condition
-2-



State Reserves           Limit grain storage capacity in the State Reserve and Wartime Stockpile to no more than
430,000 metric tons (MT).
Remove any references to 'release of stocks for purposes of stabilization' from the State
Reserves Act presented to the Council of Ministers, and remove provisions for creation of a
commercial company within the State Reserves.
Transfer no more than 180,000 MT storage capacity from Zarneni Hrani assets to the State
Reserves.
Limit grain stocks in the State Reserves and Wartime Stockpile to no more than 320,000 MT.
For the purposes of stock conditioning and turnover, limit total purchases and total sales of the
State Reserves, over a 12-month period, to no more than 50% of the maximum allowable stock
level.
The State Reserves should carry out any purchases and sale via competitive tender or through
the commodity exchange, with transactions conducted competitively at market prices.
Grain policy - licensing of Adoption of policy that private sector storage agents will have significant input in the warehouse
warehouses               licensing activities of the National Grain Service. Such activities will include formulation of
terms and conditions for licensing, decisions on granting of licenses, and decisions on license
suspension. Fees will be minimal, sufficient only to cover administrative costs associated with
licensing. Allow public storehouses and granaries to enter into commercial agreements for
purchase and sale of grain on terms that include advance payments, cash advances, and
conditional or installment sales secured by grain deposited in the storage facility.
Grain policy - registration Adoption of policies to ensure participation of private traders in the registration process
of grain traders         including formulation of terms and conditions for registration, decisions on suspension, and
establishment of fees. Registration fee is to be minimal and to cover no more than the
administrative costs associated with registration.
Zameni Hrani             Privatize at least 449,000 MT of Zameni Hrani storage capacity (out of 924,000 MT capacity
existing in January 1998).
Place all remaining Zarneni Hrani assets not scheduled for transfer to the State Reserves and not
currently in the MAFAR privatization program, into the Ministry's program. All remaining
Zameni Hrani assets should be scheduled for privatization or initiation of liquidation (with the
__appointment of a liquidator) in 1999.
III Privadtzation of Agricu tiralEnterprises
Component                ASAL I Condition
Enterprises              Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least 70% of grain
milling capacity in the MAFAR privatization program.
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least 14 Sortovi
Semena (seed) enterprises, out of a total of 24 enterprises.
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least 55% of
long-term assets of agricultural enterprises in the MAFAR privatization program (excluding
irrigation assets from the calculation).
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least 85% of
long-term food industry assets in the Ministry of Industry privatization program.
- 3 -



Irrigation               Advance privatization of irrigation systems through the following actions:
*  MAFAR and the Council of Ministers should issue an ordinance stating that Operation
and Maintenance (O&M) responsibility for on-farm systems and other associated
distribution systems, irrigation fields, canals and drains, small dam lakes, compensating
basins, water intakes, diversion dams, and pumping stations, will in the future be
transferred on demand to any registered Water Users Association (WUA) that requests
such transfer, with no requirement for depreciation payments. Requests will be submitted
to a designated unit in MAFAR, not the Irrigation Systems Company.
*  MAFAR should issue a ministerial ordinance describing procedures and a model contract
for transfer of O&M responsibility to registered WUAs for on-farm assets and other
structures. The instructions shall state that no depreciation payments will be required for
the assets, and the contract shall state that the ultimate arbitrator of disputes arising
regarding the terms of the contract shall be the Ministry of Agriculture.
*  MAFAR should transfer O&M responsibility for on-farm and other structures to at least
42 WUAs that have submitted requests for such transfer. By this and other measures,
MAFAR should transfer on-farm systems irrigating at least 100,000 hectares. It shall also
transfer O&M responsibility for the other off-farm structures related to 22,000 hectares of
irrigated area, including distribution systems, irrigation fields, canals and drains, small
dam lakes, compensating basins, water intakes, diversion dams, and pumping stations.
IV. Rural and Agr cultural Finance
Component        ASAL I Condition
SFA Short-term    Reduce total short-term financing provided by SFA in its 1999 budget by 25% from the level provided
Finance          in 1998
SFA Long-term    Set criteria for SFA long-term lending including the following:
Finance            *  Raise SFA's interest rate charge to banks intermediating investment funds to at least one-third
of commercial banks' cost of deposit funds
* Amortize long-term loans from SFA over the life of the loan, with at least annual payments of
principal
* SFA should establish objective criteria for bank eligibility in SFA programs (for example,
minimum standards for balance sheets) so as not to exclude or discriminate against good
candidates
*  Exclude from SFA programs banks having more than 10% non-performing loans from the
previous year's loans
V. Trade Regime, Market Regulation and Incentives
Component        ASAL I Condition
Licensing        Eliminate registration, licensing, and contract approval requirements for exports and imports of
agricultural products, with the exception of licensing carried out for a specified list of products for
reasons of conservation, sanitary or phytosanitary controls (endangered species, wild plant and wildlife
products, unprocessed timber, chemicals for plant protection, and sowing seeds)
Export Tax       Eliminate export taxes for all agricultural products, with the exception of unprocessed timber and
lumber
Import Tariffs    Liberalize the import tariff regime through the following steps:
* eliminate tariff exemptions for all agricultural products, with the exception of imports carried
out under international commitments (which are specified by decree of the Council of Ministers)
* reduce import tariffs on nitrogen fertilizers to no more than 35%
Non trade barriers Pass an ordinance of the Council of Ministers to allow automatic registration within Bulgaria of seed
and regulations   varieties listed in the EU Common Catalogue
Quantitative     Eliminate all quantitative restrictions on international trade in agricultural products, with the
restrictions     exception of export quotas for textiles and clothing under international agreements
Pricing          Eliminate all controls on prices of agricultural products, and end the contract pricing system, which
monitors wholesale and retail prices and margins
- 4 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The team working on the ASAL considered this to be an excellent project. The reform program
that it supported addressed all of the major problems in the sector in a coherent package. It was
underpinned with good ESW. The reform program was not perfect (especially in the field of rural finance,
some compromises had been made on both sides from our original positions), but it was very strong relative
to any other country in the region. The Government seemed strongly committed to a comprehensive
program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment in agriculture and other sectors. The
Government also had a strong mandate to carry out the program, since the previous govenmment had been
thoroughly discredited. Thus, two of the major risks in this kind of operation -- macroeconomic instability
and political backlash -- seemed minimal. All of the actions required by the legal conditions had been
carried out before Board presentation. Two actions originally planned as Board conditions -- passage of
the Land Registration and Cadastre Law and the Seeds Law -- were not possible to meet by Board
presentation, so the conditions were modified to call only for submission of the laws to Parliament.
However, the major objective of the Seeds Law was met by a decree of the Council of Ministers (COM)
while the law was in Parliament. The prospects for passing both laws was judged to be quite high, since (in
addition to being high priority for the Government) we had continual dialogue and both a Land Registration
and Cadastre Project and another ASAL in the pipeline.
A small setback in the reform program occurred shortly before Board presentation. We learned
that the Government was planning to expand the capital of the Central Cooperative Bank (CCB) (which
was still government owned, as were many other banks), with the new shares to be purchased by the State
Fund Agriculture (SFA), giving it a major interest in the bank. The Government's expressed intention was
to use CCB as a "model bank" to demonstrate the benefits and potential profitability of lending to
agriculture, to encourage other commercial banks to enter the sector. From the Bank's point of view, this
was a problem, since it not only continued the Government's pattem of intervening in the rural finance
market, but also sent the wrong signal about their intentions with respect to bank privatization. After
extensive discussions between the Bank and the Government, the Government confirmed that the shares
would be divested quickly. This was formalized in several of the conditions of the Financial and Enterprise
Structural Adjustment Loan (FESAL) II, including increased supervision of the CCB's lending by the
Central Bank, a commitment not to increase CCB's net lending, and the divestiture of government shares to
below 33% by June 30, 2000. With these assurances, the loan was declared effective on schedule, and the
Government soon thereafter divested shares to bring its holdings to below 50%.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Summary: The Loan was approved on June 22, 1999. All conditions were met before Board presentation.
The policy reforms supported by the loan have had a tremendous impact in changing the incentive and
institutional frameworks in the sector, as detailed below.
There has been no backtracking on the legal conditions, with the exception that grain storage levels
of the State Reserves appear to have gone temporarily above levels agreed under the ASAL. This is no
longer true, and the Government has told us that they do not plan to return to this level of stocks. The
legislation on land cadastre and registration, the parliamentary commission in charge of the legislation,
indicates no expected problems with passage of a law acceptable to the Bank. Two small setbacks in the
Government's reform program (which did not, however, breach ASAL agreements) have occurred in rural
- 5 -



financial policy. First, prior to Board presentation the State Fund Agriculture purchased some shares
previously held by Bulbank in the Commercial Credit Bank, and the State Insurance Fund increased its
holdings in this bank when the bank issued new shares, thereby giving the Government controlling interest
in the bank. Following discussions between the Bank and the Government, a schedule for divesting the
Government's shares was agreed, and the Governnent has now divested to a level below 50%, with the
holdings planned to be reduced below 33% by June 30, 2000. (See the more detailed discussion under
Quality at Entry.) The Government has also been reluctant to make the reduction for the year 2000 in the
short-term credit of the SFA in accordance with the Letter of Development Policy (LDP), and we have
agreed to revisit this issue in ASAL2 preparation. Given the depth and breadth of the reform program, and
the small magnitude of the financial interventions, these are relatively minor issues. The other area in
which the plans for follow-up actions (enunciated in the LDP) have been modified is in transfer of
irrigation assets. In the context of our ongoing dialogue with the Government on irrigation policy, we were
requested to help draft a law on water users' organizations, which would codify the legal status of the
Water User Organizations (WUOs). As some of the existing WUOs were reluctant to accept transfer of
assets until their legal status was clear, we agreed with Government that it should defer further transfer
until the law is passed, which should happen later this year, and will be a condition of ASAL2.
Trade and Pricing
In trade and pricing policy, in a very short period of time, Bulgaria has progressed from one of the
worst trade regimes to one of the most open in the region, perhaps in the world, as measured by standard
metrics of trade policy. All licensing requirements (automatic and non-automatic) for exports and imports
of agricultural products and livestock have now been removed. The Government has also discontinued the
practice of allowing duty-free imports within quotas of food items projected by the "material balances"
calculations to be in temporary short supply. Elimnination of the automatic licensing regime is significant
because it lends credibility to the Government's commitment not to undertake ad hoc interventions as in the
past. Without the information from the license applications, the Government will not be able to monitor ex
ante trade in these items. This will in turn reduce the ability - and temptation - to micro-manage. This
credible commitment will reassure farmers and traders that they can make decisions based on market
fundamentals, without worrying about ad hoc changes in trade policy.
The export taxes that were imposed on grains and oilseeds when they were removed from the
non-automatic licensing regime have now been phased out. In addition, other long-standing export taxes
(wool, hides and skins and live animals) have been removed. Thus, no export taxes remain on agricultural
products, consistent with the Government's commitment to develop an open, export-oriented economy. The
Government has also abolished the contract pricing system, which was the last vestige of price controls, so
prices are now freely determiined between buyers and sellers in the market.
In addition, the Government has taken steps to expand farmers' access to imported inputs. One such
step is the reduction of the tariff on fertilizer imports (formerly 40%) to 35% in 2000. Fertilizer imports,
249,000 tons in 1992, fell to around 33,000 tons in 1995 and 39,000 tons in 1996. While there are
inconsistent data on total fertilizer use, it is clear that use has fallen significantly during the 1990s.
Fertilizer prices in Bulgaria have been very high. While there are multiple causes of the high price of
fertilizer and reductions in its use and imports, the 40% tariff-- intended to protect domestic manufacturers
- has certainly been a contributing factor, so its reduction will provide significant benefits for farmers.
The Govemment has also committed itself to further reductions in the tariff to 25% in January 2001 and
20% in 2002.
Bulgaria joined the World Trade Organization on January 1, 1997. Its levels of bound tariffs on
- 6 -



agricultural products are, in general, a bit high relative to those of other CEECs, according to an
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) evaluation of bound tariff rates and
those of developed countries, including the EU. Applied Bulgarian agricultural tariffs are high in
comparison to those on industrial imports, though close to those in the EU.
However, for the most important primary products, the level of import tariffs is not relevant, since
Bulgaria is self-sufficient or an exporter. The actual prices producers receive is for most products closely
aligned with world market prices. A product-by-product comparison of world prices with domestic prices
shows a nominal protection rate of only 2% averaged across crops and livestock products, and an average
effective rate of protection of only 4%. A few products, including milk, show high rates of protection.
Land Policy
Under the ASAL, the Government increased resources devoted to the land restitution effort and
eliminated the fee for issuance of notarial deeds. It also eliminated all taxes on land transactions. These
steps have paid off in an acceleration of the process, so that by the end of 1999, 95% of land subject to
restitution was returned to the original owners, although critical ownership issues, as well as proper titling,
are far from resolved. About 39% of the land subject to restitution has been titled, either through a formal
titling process or through a decision of the Land Committees, which (under amendments to the law of 1999)
have the power of notary deeds. However, much of this land must still be divided among heirs before it is
titled to individual owners. The completed restitution will result in a rather fragmented ownership. After
the completion of the process, Bulgarian agricultural land will be owned by around 3 million (or by some
extreme estimates 5 million) people. For this reason, Bulgaria's current farming structure, which is highly
dichotomized, requires further restructuring. Looking retrospectively at the process of restitution in
Bulgaria, the complicated process itself and the changing political attitudes resulted in a much lengthier and
disruptive land settlement process than occurred in most other Central European countries, which did not
try to return land to the original owners but rather used other forms of compensation. Notwithstanding the
inherent problems with restitution, however, the land is now privatized, direct legal barriers to land market
development (leasing and sales) are removed, and once a good cadastre and registration system is in place,
the stage will be set for the necessary restructuring process.
Pnvatization
The privatization of the sector began in the early 1990s with the sale of the less politically sensitive
enterprises. Progress in the Government's overall privatization program was very slow until 1997. From
1992 to 1997 only 18% of long-tern assets were privatized. (A firm is defined as privatized when at least
67% of its shares are privately owned.) The pace of privatization increased from 1997 onwards. Progress
was still hampered by valuation procedures that sometimes led to the setting of unrealistic minimal bids,
and by slow procedures for reducing these. Demand for the assets has been low partially because of the
generally depressed state of the economy. The result of both these factors was that many agro-industrial
assets did not attract bidders when put initially into the privatization program.
However, recent privatization policies under the ASAL introduced several changes in legislation
and thereby addressed key issues of and obstacles to privatization. These include amendments to facilitate
writing off the debts of companies, better division of responsibilities between the Privatization Agency and
the branch ministries, limitations on the preferences given to management-employee buyouts, and changes
in the treatment of investment vouchers. The result is very positive, and at the end of 1999 privatization in
agro-processing is close to completion (as of September 30, 1999, 88.9% of the assets of the food industry
were privatized). Under the privatization process, an open, liberal policy has been applied toward foreign
- 7 -



investors. Though there are no significant restrictions on foreign investments and there is a freedom to
repatriate profits, the privatization process of agro-processing in Bulgaria has attracted relatively modest
foreign investments.
Now the industry will have to go through a restructuring process. With the exception of a
relatively small number of domestic and foreign owned companies, the agro-processing industry shows
signs of serious operational difficulties after privatization. The new owners, in many cases, lacked
financial resources for investments and product improvement. There are significant difficulties with
corporate govemance, especially in companies owned by employees or investment funds. A significant
number of enterprises are near bankruptcy. As a result, the inherited, over-sized, technologically out-dated
plants work with low level of capacity utilization and efficiency.
Rural Finance
This is the area where the least progress has been made, both in terms of policy reforms and
impact. While the reforms made under the ASAL have not been reversed, the Govemrnment has now
requested that we consent to a deferral of the target for reduction of short-term lending for 2000, citing the
fact that commercial banks are not making the short-term loans needed by farmers. We agreed to look at
this issue on the first ASAL2 mission in April, 2000. Certainly, availability of long-term investment
capital continues to be a constraint on the ability of agricultural and agro-industrial producers to
restructure and improve competitiveness. While aDecdotal evidence suggests that there may be some
marginal improvements in credit access compared to past years, it is clearly not sufficient. Banks continue
to demand high collateral (both because of the very stringent prudential regulations they face and because
they view agriculture as a risky sector in which they have little expertise), and farmers continue to be
reluctant to mortgage their homes, which is the only kind of collateral they have which banks currently
consider acceptable. Investment credit lines of SFA are not used because banks are not willing to make
what they consider small, high-risk loans for the small margin on these lines. The Govemment should focus
on getting farmers some liquidity for investment capital, but in ways that will attract, and not crowd out,
lending by the commercial banks and other forms of financing. We have made a number of suggestions.
This is an area where we need to continue to work patiently with the Govemment to find solutions.
Grain Market
Apart from general issues in wholesale and retail marketing, the cereals subsector has some unique
problems, which are relics of its previous state-dominated structure. The Govemment has made tremendous
strides in this area in a short period of time. The state monopolistic grain agency -- Zarneni Hrani -- has
been privatized and liquidated, and the institutions have been put in place for development of a warehouse
receipts system. (In developing the conditions for this component of the ASAL, we worked closely with US
VOCA (organization of volunteer advisors) -- which provided TA for this -- and with the EBRD, which has
made a loan to assist in the development of the system.) Nonetheless, the State Reserves Agency continues
to make quite large purchases and sales. The Government has adopted some operating rules that seek to
minimize the degree to which the State Reserves interferes with market development, but some further steps
would be useful. What is needed is to: better define the operating rules for the State Reserves purchasing
and sales so as to limit their impact on market prices, and make the impact more predictable; gradually
reduce the overall size of the stocks; shift some storage to private facilities (thereby improving quality of
storage and encouraging private warehouse development); and eliminate in-kind grain loans. All of these
issues will be discussed in the context of ASAL2
4.2 Outputs by coinponents:
-8 -



Outputs were policy changes (see Annex 1) and institutional development (section 4.5).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was high in areas of grain marketing, input and output
marketing, and farmer services. Socialist era government-owned enterprises were privatized, and the
monopolistic grain agency was dismantled, supporting development of private sector institutions. The
institutional development impact was moderate in the land market. Most land has been restituted and a
cadastre and registration law has passed Parliament. The Government has made good progress in the
restitution of land and issuing of Land Commission certificates with the legal status of titles, with the task
over 90% complete. However, these titles now need to be entered into a public registration system that will
allow a secure real property market to operate in rural areas. An important step toward this objective was
the passage of the Law on Cadastre and Property Register, which fully passed Parliament with some
provisions entering into force on April 25, 2000, with the balance on January 1, 2001. Under the new Law
the cadastre and registration systems now need to be implemented, and the World Bank is working with
Government in preparing an investment loan for this purpose, planned for implementation in mid 2001.
However, the new Law will need fine-tuning in the coming months, resulting from lessons arising from
planned trials; improvements to the mortgage system are also needed. A World Bank team is working with
Government to achieve these improvenments, and these will be some of the conditions of ASAL2.
The other problem is that the certificates issued by Land Commissions are usually in the form of a
title to a specific parcel granted to the former owner or the heirs. If there is more than one heir, they must
then agree on how to split the parcel before the land actually becomes usable in a land market for collateral.
A legal expert recently visited Bulgaria to analyze the legal framework and made recommendations on how
land market development might be encouraged.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
All factors relevant to implementation were under the control of the Government (broadly defined to include
the Parliament) and implementing agencies. Several policy conditions were in the IMF program. Of
course, the Government was subject to conflicting political forces, but in Bulgaria, the leverage of
anti-reform factions was not as strong as in many other countries. The main opposition had lost credibility
in its period of governance, and the Government had a clear majority in Parliament and thus an ability to
implement the elements of the program that required mainly political will. Some elements also required a
certain degree of administrative capacity (e.g. development of the warehouse receipts system and water
users organizations), and for these, the Bank and other development partners provided technical assistance
to assist in implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The experience in implementing and sustaining reforms under sector adjustment loans in general around the
world has been mixed. So far at least, the implementation record of reforms under this loan has been
impressive. Several factors have contributed to this. One is that this Government (and the Bulgarian
public which elected them) has learned from the experience of previous Governments that slow reforms --
in the whole economy, not just in agriculture -- are a recipe for disaster. By 1996, Bulgaria was caught in
-9-



a hyperinflationary spiral, the economy was disintegrating, and the country was being left behind in the
race for EU accession by the faster reformers. Thus the Government came to power with a clear mandate,
and immediately requested assistance from the Bank and the Fund. The international financial institutions
(IFIs) responded quickly and decisively. The Bank made an emergency loan, and the Fund put together a
stabilization package that included a currency board arrangement which almost instantly restored
macroeconomic order and bolstered the credibility of the Government's reform efforts. The Bank and Fund
have also acted as advocates for Bulgaria in dialogue with the EU, since the IFIs have been more aware of
Bulgaria's recent changes. All of these actions have resulted in a close working relationship between the
Bank and the Government, so that even when policy discussions were tough, all parties understood that
these were in the nature of disagreements among development partners. Both sides displayed flexibility in
the loan's preparation. Thus, the agricultural sector adjustment program (ASAP) was really owned by the
Government. Another factor that contributed to the program's success is the Government's tight budgetary
situation. Many of the potential agricultural policy disagreements between the Bank and its clients involve
reduction of financial support. These issues are largely - though not totally - irrelevant in Bulgaria
because of the budgetary stringency under the currency board arrangement. Finally, the Government's
focus on EU accession has contributed to the success of the reform program, as they have correctly
perceived that these were necessary steps to create a functioning market economy which could compete in
the unified market, which are prerequisites for EU membership.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
See 5.1 above.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Most reforns are highly sustainable. (See Section 4.1.) Sustainability is enhanced by the fact that most
reforms are necessary for EU accession, which is Government's overriding priority. Sustaining the ASAP
conditions and deepening and broadening the reforms will be conditions of ASAL2, now under preparation.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank preparation was technically very good, timely and cost effective. This was greatly facilitated by the
foundation work in the policy notes exercise. Relations with the client improved through project
preparation. The Bank showed flexibility by increasing the loan amount from $50 to $75 million in the
aftermath of Kosovo.
7.2 Supervision:
Since this was a one-tranche operation, only one supervision mission was carried out, jointly with the CEM
mission. This was satisfactory, since the two activities are highly complementary.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.
- 10 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government cooperation was excellent. Appropriate personnel for technical discussions were always
available, Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister (who were needed to make major decisions) were generally
available.
7.S Governmentimplementationperformance:
Implementation was generally very good, though a few of the original targets (e.g. privatization) had to be
scaled back slightly. The only serious implementation problem was with the Land Registration/Cadastre
law, which was delayed by internal difficulties between ministries, with the result that its submission to
Parliament was much delayed.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
See 7.5 above.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
One of the overriding questions that has been debated about economic policy in transition economies is the
relative merit of a "big bang" approach relative to a more gradualistic strategy. The argument against the
big bang that has been most popular recently is basically that everything cannot be done at once, and that
canrying out incentive reforms (which are the ones that can be done quickly) in the absence of institutional
reforms will create new distortions and will in the end not be sustainable. Bulgaria's experience, as
exemplified by the reform program supported by this ASAL, indicates that under the right conditions, the
big bang works well. Although Bulgaria notionally started the transition in 1989, in reality it moved so
slowly that as of 1996, the incentives and institutions differed little in many fundamental ways from those
under socialism. It was furthermore in a state of hyperinflation. The Government adopted quickly a
stringent stabilization program based on a currency board along with a very ambitious structural
adjustment program. It is now clear two years later that this has been successful in the sense that the
economic structures in Bulgaria now more closely resemble those of a market economy than do those of
some countries that were more advanced in 1996. While growth has re-kindled somewhat, it has been
hampered by the disruptions of the Kosovo crisis. Still, the stage seems set for growth to accelerate, and
the population seems willing to stick with the current Government's program. This willingness is
undoubtedly bolstered by the fact that the alternative transition strategies espoused by previous
governments were manifestly disastrous.
A second lesson of general relevance may be the value of constructive disengagement in a poor policy
environment. While the Bank made several loans to the previous governments, several of these, including
the Agricultural Loan (Agricultural Development Project -- Loan 3771), hardly disbursed. As the policy
environment deteriorated, the Bank did not press to disburse these loans and refused to prepare new
operations. Thus, since we were not associated with the old regime, we were well-positioned to engage the
new Government when it assumed power. The Bank moved quickly to support the new Government
through the Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan (CIRL) as soon as it became clear that they were serious
about reform.
A third lesson is the value of good sector work to lay the foundations for good lending operations. We
carried out substantial sector work, first through the CIRL preparation, and then much more
comprehensively in the Policy Notes. These latter were extensively discussed with the Govemment and the
- 11 -



public, and began to build support for the reforms they recommended. This formed the basis for the
program eventually embodied in the ASAL conditions.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Please see Appendix.
icr-gov.pdf
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
None
- 12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator/Matrix                               Actual/Latest Estimate
Restitute at least 80% of agricultural land eligible for restitution; complete  Done: 90% restituted, over
distribution of ownership documents on at least 18% of agricultural land eligible  20% titled.
for restitution.
Submit a Land Registration and Cadastre Law to the National Assembly, and  Done. Law was passed on
pass through first reading in the National Assembly a law satisfactory to the  April 25, 2000.
Bank.
Amend the Land Leasing Law, eliminating the upper limit on area that can be       Done
leased.
Amend Land Law to eliminate ceiling on land sales (formerly 30 hectares) for a    Done
period of two years after restitution.
Reduce conveyance tax on land transactions to a minimum so as not to impede       Done
exchange of agricultural land.
Limit grain storage capacity in State Reserve and Wartime Stockpile to no more    Done
than 430,000 metric tons.
Remove any references to 'release of stocks for purposes of stabilization' from   Done
State Reserves Act presented to Council of Ministers and remove provisions for
creation of a commercial company within the State Reserves.
Transfer no more than 180,000 MT storage capacity from Zarneni Hrani assets       Done
to the State Reserves.
Limit grain stocks in State Reserves and Wartime Stockpile to no more than  Temporary breach of
320,000 MT. For purposes of stock conditioning and turnover, limit total    ceiling. Corrected.
purchases and total sales of State Reserves, over a 12-month period, to no more
than 50% of the maximum allowable stock level.
State Reserves should carry out any purchases and sale via competitive tender or  Done
through the commodity exchange, with transactions conducted competitively at
market prices.
Adoption of policy that private sector storage agents will have significant input  Done
in the warehouse licensing activities of the National Grain Service. Fees will be
minimal. Allow public storehouses and granaries to enter into commercial
agreements for purchase and sale of grain on terms that include advance
payments, cash advances, and conditional or installment sales secured by grain
deposited in the storage facility.
Adoption of policies to ensure participation of private traders in the registration  Done
process. Registration fee is to be minimal.
Privatize at least 449,000 MT of Zameni Hrani storage capacity (out of 924,000    Done
MT capacity existing in January 1998).
- 13 -



Place all remaining Zarneni Hrani (ZH) assets not scheduled for transfer to the       Done
State Reserves and not currently in the MAFAR privatization program into the
Ministry's program. All remaining ZH assets should be scheduled for
privatization or initiation of liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) in
1999.
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least  Done
70% of grain milling capacity in the MAFAR privatization program.
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointmnent of a liquidator) for at least  Done
14 Sortovi Semena (seed) enterprises, out of a total of 24 enterprises.
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least  Done
55% of long-term assets of agricultural enterprises in the MAFAR privatization
program (excluding irrigation assets from the calculation).
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least  Done
85% of long-term food industry assets in the Ministry of Industry privatization
program.
Advance privatization of irrigation systems through the following actions:
*      MAFAR and the Council of Ministers should issue an ordinance stating    Done. Further action
that Operation and Maintenance (O&M) responsibility for on-farm systems and  deferred pending passage of
other associated distribution systems, irrigation fields, canals and drains, small  law on WUOs, which has
dam lakes, compensating basins, water intakes, diversion dams, and pumping     been drafted with the
stations, will in the future be transferred on demand to any registered WUA that  support of the Bank's
requests such transfer, with no requirement for depreciation payments. Requests  irrigation project team.
will be submitted to a designated unit in MAFAR, not the Irrigation Systems
Company.
*      MAFAR should issue a ministerial ordinance describing procedures and           Done
a model contract for transfer of O&M responsibility to registered Water Users
Associations (WUAs) for on-farm assets and other structures. The instructions
shall state that no depreciation payments will be required for the assets, and the
contract shall state that the ultimate arbitrator of disputes arising regarding the
terms of the contract shall be the Ministry of Agriculture.
*      MAFAR should transfer O&M responsibility for on-farm and other                 Done
structures to at least 42 WUAs that have submitted requests for such transfer. By
this and other measures, MAFAR should transfer on-farrn systems irrigating at
least 100,000 ha. It shall also transfer O&M responsibility for the other off-farm
structures related to 22,000 ha. of irrigated area, including distribution systems,
irrigation fields, canals & drains, small dam lakes, compensating basins, water
intakes, diversion dams, and pumping stations.
Reduce total short-term financing provided by SFA inl its 1999 budget by 25%          Done
from the level provided in 1998.
- 14 -



Set criteria for SFA long-term lending including the following:
*      Raise SFA's interest rate charge to banks intermediating investment
funds to at least one-third of commercial banks' cost of deposit funds.
*      Amortize long-term loans from SFA over the life of the loan, with at
least annual payments of principal.                                               Done
*      SFA should establish objective criteria for bank eligibility in SFA
programs (for example, minimum standards for balance sheets) so as not to
exclude or discriminate against good candidates.
*      Exclude from SFA programs banks having more than 10%
non-performing loans from the previous year's loans.
Eliminate registration, licensing, and contract approval requirements for exports  Done
and imports of agricultural products, with the exception of licensing carried out
for a specified list of products for reasons of conservation, sanitary or
phytosanitary controls (endangered species, wild plant and wildlife products,
unprocessed timber, chemicals for plant protection, and sowing seeds).
Eliminate export taxes for all agricultural products, with the exception of       Done
unprocessed timber and lumber.
Liberalize the import tariff regime through the following steps:
*      Eliminate tariff exemptions for all agricultural products, with the
exception of imports carried out under international commitments (which are       Done
specified by decree of the Council of Ministers).
*      Reduce import tariffs on nitrogen fertilizers to no more than 35%.
Amend relevant laws to allow automatic registration within Bulgaria of seed  Amendment to law in
varieties listed in the EU Common Catalogue.                              Parliament, but condition
effectively met by
Ministerial decree while
awaiting passage of
amendments.
Eliminate all quantitative restrictions on international trade in agricultural    Done
products, with the exception of export quotas for textiles and clothing under
international agreements.
Eliminate all controls on prices of agricultural products, and end the contract   Done
pricing system, which monitors wholesale and retail prices and margins.
- 15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million  uivalent)
75.80           75.80           100
Total Baseline Cost                                   75.80            75.80
Total Project Costs               75.80
Total Financing Required               75.80            75.80
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
jftcenageofAppraisal
1: ~~~~~.                                                  -. z_t:Vf .: 
0.0   0.0   0.0
75.80                      75.80                     100.0  0.0   0.0
0.0   0.0   0.0
-16 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 17 -



Annex 1. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Sa  oPe cof Persons and Specialty                                             Perfonna   Rating
(e.g. 2 E ists I FMS, etc.)        Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Con         Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
6/98                          2   Economists                            S                 S
I   Rural Finance Specialist
I   Grain Marketing Specialist
9/98                          3   Economists                           S                  S
11/98                         1   Economist                            S                  S
1   Economist/Trade Specialist
I   Privatization Specialist
2/99                          2   Economists                            S                 S
1   Agric. Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
2   Economists                           S                 s
I   Agric. Economist
5/99                          2   Economists                           S                  S
Supervision
9/99                           1  Economist                             S                 S
4  Agric. Economists
ICR
0
(b) Staff:
Stage of ProjectCycle                     Actua t aEs timaie
__________________                No. Staff weeks              US$(1000)
Identification/Preparation               58.5                       136.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    14.9                        40.5
Supervision                               8.5                         11.5
ICR                                       4.0                         6.0
Total                                    85.9                        194.0
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
 Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Sector Policies                        * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
 Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Institutional Development              0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  0 N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
M Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
S Private sector development             * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-19-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           *HSOS  OU  OHU
[ Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
D Preparation                                        *HS OS  O  U  O HU
LJ Government implementation performance             O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agencyperformance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS   0 U   O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Policy Notes
2. Back-to-Office Report
- 21 -



Appendix. Borrower Comments
IDI363,From: 202-473-8787,  To: World Bank,                      30MAY00,11:06, Page003of012
30/05 '00 TltE 17:57 FAX 359 2 971 2045     WORLD BANK SOFIA
Republic of Bulgaria
Ministry of Forstry and Agriculture
Office of the Minister
23 May, 2000
To:
Mr. John Nash
Chief Economist
Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector Unit
Dear Mr. Nash:
ASAL (Loan 4499-BUL)
In response to your letter from 4 May, 2000 I am sending you attached a brief
evaluation report on the project and comments on the draft of the overall performance
report.
Ventsislav Varbanov
Minister
22



30/05 '00 TUE 17:57 FAX 359 2 971 2045      WORLD BANK SOFIA                               UI003
PROJECTEVALUATIONREPORT
1. INTRODUCTION AND OBJECT YES
Agriculture is a key sector in the overall strategy of the RVpublic of Bulgaria for
transition to maket economy as well as in the process of EU integration. This is
determined from the crucial role of agriculture not only in Bulgarian economy but in the
common policies and the considerable part of the total budget of the Community it
represents.
The main target which define the policy of Bulgaria in agriculture are as follows:
- To build a modem and competitive agricultural sector matching the criteria for
membership in the EU
 To ensurc a normal life standard of living for people employed in the agricultural
sector
* To raise consumer protection through heightening the standards for the quality and
safety of user goods
* Sustainable development in agriculture and cattle-breeding and also in rural areas
consistent with environmental protection.
The main target of the ASAL project is to offer support for the restnuctuing and the
rapid development of an effective agricultural sector. The reforms necessary for the
implementation of this process are in the areas of price fonmation, trade, financing of
agriculture, the land market and the privatization of agricultural enterprises.
The principal tasks ensuing from the targets are:
* Completion of the process of restoration of the property of agricultural lands
* Further implementation of the structural refonn in agriculture
*  Acceleration of the privatization of enterprises assuring goods and services for
agriculture and cattle-breeding
* Harmonization of Bulgarian and EU legislation in the field of agriculture, cattle
breeding, veterinarian and phito sanitary control
* Preparation and implcmentation of the Common agricultural policy of the EU and the
obligations towards the WTO
23



30/05 '00 TUE 17-58 FAX 359 2 971 2045      WORLD BANK SOFIA                               1a004
*  Modification of the administrative structtres and procedures to match the criteria for
EU membership
*  Improvement of the access of Bulgarian agricultural goods to EU markets
* Drafting a program for the development of nrual areas and Bulgarian priorities for
the use of finmncing fiom the EU sat ucutul-41 fds.
The Government has completed the major part of its tasks before the approval of the
loan on 22 June, 1999.
2. PURPOSES ACHIEVED AND RESULTS
Reforms in the field of land policy have been among the highest priorities of the
government which aim at making the land market more active and at the regrouping of
fragmentary patches of land. The Law for Cadastre and Property Register, which is
acceptable to the Bank-, has already been passed in Parliament.
As for the grain market and the quantity of the State Reserve, the Govermnent has
planned to define and negotiate a set of terms for the practical management of the
reserve and the intervention rules and other aspects of activities pertaining to strategic
reserve.
Tlhe trade regime was changed within a very short term towards liberalization.
At the same time the customs stakes for the import of ferfilizers were decreased.
In the domain of privatization significant progress was made with the amendments
in legislation aiming at the facilitation in the sharing of responsibilities among the
Privati2ation Agency and the ministries, the restrictions on preferences given to MEBO.
This yielded very good results and the privatization process has been almost completed.
As a whole the project achieved the targets set by the govrnmcnt because it was
well developed, timely and useful-
3. EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
The World Bank teamn has managed flawlessly the implementation of the project.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry deeply appreciates the Bank's support for the
refomis not only during the preparation of the ASAL I but also rates highl.y the
preparation of ASAL 2, where nearly all of the conditions have been agreed upon and
coordinated with the Bank.
24



30/05 '00 TUE 17:58 FAX 359 2 971 2045      WORLD BANK SOFIA                               000O5
COMMENTS ON THE OVERALL PERFORMANCE REPORT
During the ASAL I negotiations an agreement has been reached for the restitution
of at loubt 80% of agricultural laud, subject to restitution and the issuing of notary deeds
for at least 18% of this land. Both goals were successfully achieved by The Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry. 90% of the agricultural land subject to restitution was
restituted. On the other hand, taking into account the arnendment to the law which gives
the decision of the Land Restitution Commission the weight of a notary deed, the owners
of all the rcstituted land have the documentation practically enabling them to manage
their land as they please. According to World Bank experts and to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry this helped the development of the land market, which is very
important for the progress of Bulgarian agriculture.
In the field of the land market a number of steps were taken among which: a draft-
law for land registration and cadastre was proposed in the National Assembly, the Rent
Law was modified - the restrictions on the quantity of agricultural land that can be rented
etc
The Bulgarian Government and the World Bank have also very similar views on
the pace with which privatization of enterprises from the system of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry is to take place. This made the negotiations about this section of
World Bank- conditions faster and easier. In the end, the privatization of 55% of the
assets of the MoAF subject to privatzation was reached and even exceeded.  Specific
privatizational goals have also been achieved with respect to different enterprises such as
Zurneni Hrani, Sortovi Semena etc.
The problems that arose in fulfihling the ASAL 1 conditions were mainly in
irrigation. Experts from MoAF and the World Bank have reached the conclusion that the
current legislative norm has serious flaws and new regulations for the statute of the
unions of water users are needed. With the help of the WB irrigation team the new draft
law was drawn up and it is currently at the Council of Ministers.
The upper limits for the State Fund 'Agriculture' short term financing under the
agreement had to be renegotiated, because the decrease at the envisaged pace did not,
unfortunately, lead to an adequate increase in financing on the part of banking
institutions. Nevertheless, an agreement acceptable both for the World Bank and
Bulgaria was reached.
The trade regime was liberalized and the MoAF is thankful to the World Bank
experts for their very positive evaluation in their letter - "The economic sttuctures in
Bulgaria are nIow more like those of a market economy", more than they are in other
counties.
25



30/05 '00 TUE 17:59 FAX 359 2 971 2045        WORLD BAXK SOFIA                                 o008
The MoAF highly appreciates the World Bank support - mainly in terms of
expertise but also the political support which was offered at all stages of negotiations and
during the implementation of the negotiated terms of ASAL I.
World Bank Us
\SueetTiOiv Di   CCBG@ECANA! SMDTTRAN5kNASH.DOC
5i30100 5:30 Phl
26



30/05 '00 TUE 17:59 FAX 359 2 971 2045  WORLD BANK SOFIA                            0007
PEUYlSlHA BJlrAPHSI
MHHcTEPaBo HA 3EMF4EHETIO
nmrornm
MCOP~ A
r-H  XOH HEE
rsABEH EKOHOMHCT
CECTOPLA EHUHIEIA
PErHOH EBPOUA H IAEHTPAJJIA A3H51
iOoeno: ACAJI (JAEM4499-BUL)
YRAZAEMH rociiozmi HEIl,
B orroBop Ha Bame imemo OT 4 Mar, 2000 r. Bg Hmpa38M  HNoxQeHo
KpaTr AoSaA 3a ouemca za npoeICra  a KOMeCTap  a HRpoerrM Ha HAzOa sa
lWSocso HL2eRxe.
27



30/05 '00 T[E 17:59 FAX 359 2 971 2045        WORLD BANK SOFIA                                lOOs8
QaOKJA 3A OJ4EHJ(A HA HPOEKTA
1. BIBE4EHXE H lW.I
. CcICcOTO CTOlanCTrBO e xuooB CeCKTop, KaKTO B iaocTmaTa cTpaTerMs Ha
PenyGnHKa Biarrapua 3a npexo, XErM na3apaa HxOHOMHKa, Taca H B npogewc Ha
rIogroToaJCaTa 3a IpEcL,eARHSBaHe  LLM EC. ToBa co onpe.Aexu OT pemanaBaaTa
poain Ha 38M0AeJIcKRR cerrop He camo B 6Ljr1pcKcaTa HKOHOMIICa, nO aI B o6nTe
UoRmTHxx 7 3.HsaTem    MYy AuSI B o65rAa 6IopxXeT Ha O6nocna.
OcnoBare rem, onpeA1eaw  arpapuaTa nonrrmca iia ELnrapHx ea
cnie,nrTe:
TbrpacAaHe Ha C%BwMceHeC  H KOKypeHTHorHocoeH arpapeH cearop,
OTwoBfptI Ha KpKTepHirTe 3a 'E1CHOThO B EC
   OoanypmBaHe Ha HopMa8IeEH BW3HeH craHzapT 3a 3aeTmTe B CeCJICKOTO
cTona9cTo
*   loaHmuaBane 3axwnara Nia aoxpe6Gkrere  ipe3 noammaBaHe Ha
cTaHgAapTxTe 3a Ica'ecTmo H 6eonaCaOCT Ha rioTpe6rrencxHTe aTOXZ
I   YcToral'no pa3BMTHe Ha 3eMeAeJmeTo a )flBOTHOBsg0ThOTO, KToL O  Ha
cencKire paHOHfl B CsOTheTcTBxe C%C 3BaflHaTa Ha oXoJHaTa cpegaB
OcHoBnaTa feIi Ha urpoerra ACAJI e Aa oease IOfAxCfIa 3aa
rIpeCpylcypHpaHCTo H 6ipSoTO pa3BmTCe Ha 4e3TBeH cencKocTonaXIBH         ceKcrop.
Pe@opMETe, HCeo6XOUMH 3a OCLTiCeTBABBHeTo HB TO3H Ipo[ec BKO9BaT OJiBacTHTe
Ha uexoo6pa3yBaHeTo, ThproBmuTa, lHaHaHcpaHerO na semeAenReTo, imapa Ha 30Ma
H upHBaTHx3azsTna na cNacJKocToUaUcHE iIpegIpHaTH.
flpor3TianMTe OT XXeMMo OCHOBEB 3a,a'u 5xa:
*  flpmmogaane Ha nipogxeca Ha Bb3cTaHoBxBaHe Ha cof6cmenoera B7pXy
3eMeCe4CIMTe 3eMH
*  rlo-:aTaTmmHo R3TmeHHe Ha crpyicTypHaTa pe4fopma B 3eMleCJIeTO
*  YcKopnmaHe Ha npHBsTiaiRT  Ha npexpipfTlA, ocHrypAsBaa CypOBEHHH H
ycnIyra 3a 3eMe,D;enETO H IOTHOBACTBOTO
*  XapMOH3&a  H2a. 6brapCxoTo 3aKOHOIBoaTeOCTBO CLC 3aKoHoaTejCMCTAOTO Ha
EC  B o6,aara, na 3eMemeflTo H  KHBOThOBbATBOTO, BeTepfNapHHH  H
4?aTocaHHTapeH KOHTpOIX
* HIoArroToBxa aa npmraraue Ha O6wuaTa 0e4u00TOnuc2Ka nornxnna Ea EC H
3a4BJIXCCHXT nLM CTO
*  Ifpume=aaE Ea BBn4HUCTpaBThBBTe orpyicrypx H upoueiypH B C$ooTBmnBe a
HSHCfBHaHrra 3a '*eJBCTDO B EC
*  rloAo6pamase ua ,AoCflna Ba &IrapciH 3eCme8lgecxmc cTlm A ona3apHTe Ha EC
*  Pa3pa6oTsae Ha porpama 3a pa3arrine HIa ceIeCHTe pBAoHH H UpHopHTm Ha
BLarapm 3a HSHnoASSaHe Ha 4*iHBHcHpaHe nO JIHHH  Ha c2pyITypHHTC 4XOHZOBC
Ha EC.
28



30/05 '00 TUE 18:00 FAX 3539 2 971 2045      WORLD BANK SOFIA                                 ooj0
lIpaBrTeicOTo  HiTJH  oCHOEHaaTa 'aCT OT CBoHTre S3ga'i  oICe upea
ogo6pnsauero Ha 3aeMa Ha 22 ioHn 1999 r.
2. I1OCTHMATHI IEJIfl fl PE3YJITATfI
Pc4IopMxre B o6nacrra Ha no38MeJneHT  noraTca 6Ouxa ei  or Haik-
BaETc IpHOpHTeTH Ha npafeHmTCCToTo c tReCi arCHBH3Hpa8H  ua3apa Ha 3eMA Ha
iacibp-1aBaMc  OMoacaWIu a Ha bparmencmpamre napseia SOME. 3aOEasT 3a
Kaa8Cnpa H mOTHES peromp, ap lemHo    3a EUaHCaTa BeYe e npHrT CT IapJIaMeHTa
OTHOCHO  nasapa Ha 3SpN   u  KO2nxecTaTa B    pfBHJ  peseps
I8paBHTeCICTBOTO UPCZBJW  oppeeJIsme R aoronapnie Ha HaGop ot yCIOEHA OTHOCHO
npaivnaTn sa ynpaaneHne ua S3anaCHTe, npaBrzaTa 3a HaMeca u apyrn acnexrm Ha
4eonocnml, envpnsa C01 .fpaxonh'vlsIca pO3spDIE.
TtpronccmnL  pexm  6e npoMeHeH 3a CLBcem KpanTo BpeMe B nocoKa
nm6epa3sagasA CSUXecTBeHo 6ca HBaMaBiesH H mmTH'ecCIGTe craK  3a EEOC Ha
TOpOBe.
B o6nlacTra Ha pIHBaTHIawHTa 6e iocTernaT 3Ha8JreR S     aarH LX KxaTo
Gxxa  HaIpaBOHH  UQonpaUIH  B  3aKoHoAaTcjicTooTo   C  IeJ  yuJcCH1c
paaInpeAeneHkeTo na oTroBopHoenTe MeCJKy AreHriua no npnannauat z
OTpaCJIOBHHT  MEnHcteperBa, oIpaHHIYeHasTa Bspxy nppe4epcnHr,  aEaBHx EHa
PMJJ. [Jo 103H 8893ff Ga%    6 a ocTnaT  03Ko3 eT1o  Ao6pH pC3ymJTf   H
npogeeTr a npXlBaTH38aI  6e nort'  npscmoRen.
KaTo U5U10 HpOexCTT H      utHBU nociaBenEwe or HpaBHTCCTDBOTo UeaH,
muri xcaro Ge AoGpe pa3pa6oTex, HaspeMeneH H UOJIe3eH.
3. OI.EHEA HA H3IJ}bJIHEHETO HA EiAHRATA
EtKnbT Ha uiakaTa cc capasi oTJIH9o c mmaSL     eCHCeeTo s HZpocTK.
MunHcTepCaTBnom  aQ 3eMeAeaNeTo a ropTe ogeunna BHCOKO noxupenaa 11a
EamHK2T   32 H3BbP aDrHeTS peJIOpMH ie CaMO HO BnpeM  Ha InOAJOTOBKaTa Ea
ACAI 1, HO aBaHa H  ooJwrHJiaoiZeOUKa 3a uoaroTOnwaTa na ACA! 2, imaero
fO5ThM BCH9KIK yCJIOBHs Ca BeCIC MH3IThJ1CNN U Ci.rfalCyBiRs     C BamarTa.
29



30/05 '00 TUE 18:00 FAX 359 2 971 2045      WORLD BANK SOFIA                               lJ 010
KOME ITAPH 1OIOJI,4A 3A I4JIJIOCTHO 03H3HHEHJE
B xoga Ha nperoBOpxTe no 3a80a ACAJI 1 6dxa nocmruam AoroBopeUOCTH
3a peTnrryqi ifta Nad-ManNo 80 %  or 3cMOACacKarT 3emg, nfOWnCIa Ha
peCTHTYInx  N 13A8aHe nB HQoTapaHaUH  0B3 3a NaR-Manlo 18 % OT Ta3x ,3es. H
uBere fOtrosTseN  xei  6s Ha sAMnaT  oTrI CT aepraor  Ha ncMejmcfnOTo a
ropNTe. Beme pecTnTypaHa 90 % OT n1OecaMnST  Ha pecrarynr z 3eWeCAICKa
3em. (T upyra crTpaa C nanpaBeHlira nonpasia B 3S8Koxf, KO Aama Ha pemeemwo
HN I3OOMJICNSTB KOMNOCH CMaTa Ha NOTap}HaeRH aICr, B ,AeRCcmTenocT 3a naTa
pecClTHpaHa 3eMeAe8cKS sem  coMCOTBOHHWTe HPaT AIOIYMeBTH, oBIXcCam1 rI
xa ce pasnopeAfrT c Hex xacro HaMCpNt 3a ,Ao6pe. C Tona 6emc gOuUOMOrHaTo
pa3BRa ero Hla Iasapa Ha 3eMA, Koero Hma rojamO sanene 3a PaSNTHCTO Ha
6LIapcioTo 3eM0RAHe8, xarro cnopeA CKCnepTS Na CBonBaTa 6aRHa, TaKa I
CenopeA MHfUCTepCfOTO Ha NeMCMeJNnTO N roHPTe.
B o6JCTTB Ha pa3BHTWrIo Ha na3apa HHa3emna 6da upearpuern peAza
npyra Aeflct s mxaro HaiapiMep: npoerro-3aKoH 3a no3OMnBeaTa perHacTpaWs H
xaACTsp, BHeCCH B HapomO cs6paue, deme npoMeHeN 3aKoH8 3a apeHAaTa KaTo
B HOerlO ixa IIpeMaXHaTM orpaSeHZYBa npeA KOfNeCTBOTO 3eMCACJICKg 3eSMl,
iooro noze .za ce OTAaBB noA apeEfOa B Ap.
Bwnpcxcoo flaBtRTeCO H CoOBRTB Hua ioAaxa c6o Tmaa miaoro
nOA06HH           3a TeMnoBOTC, C KORTO Aa Ce H3pl%m1 pa3,1psapICafnCtro xa
IPeCAPHATN  OT NCcTeMaTa RHa MNHHOTep oTo Ha SCMeCAeneTO a A upHIe, OetTO
Hanpa&uBfpi unopre no TOS pasAc ycnouso Ha CtBeroBaTa 6arca necva H 6$pGH.
B KpaHBa cMeK IleUU  sa pBaiTmi38      Ha 55 % Or axrmsBTe Ha M3, loAnexam
Na npHathjdga 6eme AOpx HaAMHhLfd. Cslo TUa 6dxa HhHeHNH cxneu4rw
npamsl3anuilMi MarI  no oTioTMeHfNe a trAenAm  nperMpx   KarO 3ipnoax
x Con ana ceea H AiP.
xpadm, COOHCCmcHaH.Ip
flpo63JIet  npa H3IThJIBANTO e a yC3IOBBTa Ha siaea ACAJI I ce o'epraxa
rflfslu B oiftaca Ha ialOBaEH6eOT, IMro OeICCpTH Ba M3r m Ha  cBrOam
6anxa A0cTmHXa AO 3a13uoAa,p qe cGumecnmyBas8x       3a80Hx05a ypeA6a NBa
c)ieICOeBn cafteo e f e HeOdXOfrIMO 1pxanmN    o HOBO perJaMeRTNp6aH fga
CraTyTk. Ha cApyzeHEBT  Ha ft  OANOCBaBSTOml. C  HOMONITS Ha c01na Ha
CSeCTsCmTS d6aua no nanon3anero 6eme noIra, H HoBo   npoero-scou, xoitTo B
MOOle}TLa Ce na    B MINHCTepCICI C'BeT.
HauronR ce c7snqo T.Ka npeAorOBapae Ha 3ahIo)eHNTe B cnOpa3yMeHneTa
ropli rpanmx  Ha IcpancOCpoWlO 4nmancapaae OT CTpaiHa  a HaJ3, it xao
BaMaRNCeTo Ha TOBa  HKaRCHpaue c npeArH.IIe'r Temnose 3a cLwaneHCe He
BoACme Ao aACKxamJo nogmnaBane Ha 4HaHciCpaHmTO vr aTpaoa NBa 6&azoB
HHcrTmryim. Bce naK, B KKpHa cMerCa ce  OCTero a AO pHMemmBO 3a 6nrapcKaTa
CTpaSa H sa C oeroarTa 6aHxa pemeHRe.
ThproBcxnrr peaom 6eme naepassipaa a M3r 6JIoAaBpH Ha exKOiepU
Ba Caeroanra 65aHra 3a liCOXaTa ogeEmca, ciSApxcaia ce B nIICMOTO, a UmeHOO, We
30



30/05 '00 TUE 18:01 FAX 359 2 971 2045       WORLD BANK SOFIA                                 i 011
"HIOHQOw CIOfle cTpyErax B aInrapHa Cera upzH3IHT uo3eCe Ea TCSH Ha ejHa
ina3apa pHOHOHmKa OTCOJKOTO B Apynt CWpsH.
M3r BNCOKO ogetsBa nOAxpCaTa - r2J1BHO CKCUeCpHa, HO CLo,O Taa N
nomrzccxta OT 01rpaEa Ha CBrTOEBaTa 6aHxa, KOsTo 6eme oKa3B8Ha HBcrm
elal OT HperOBOp]ITC H NO BpeMe Ha H3nUIEHHCeTO Ha OIOrOBOPeHOTC TO no
ACAJI 1.
31



