Report No. PID6664
PID6664.TXT
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Agricultural Sector Adjustment (@)
Loan
Region                           ECA
Sector                           Agriculture (AA)
Project ID                       BGPE57925
Borrower                         Government of Bulgaria
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Agrarian Reform
55 Hr. Botev Blvd./ 1040 Sofia
Tel:     (3592) 951 5816
Fax:     (3592) 981 9173
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           March 25, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         April 5, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 22, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1. In the first five years of the transition period Bulgaria failed to
significantly reform economic incentives or institutions. Economic
performance was correspondingly poor, with negative growth in three of the
five years, and Bulgaria lagged well behind other transition countries.
Agriculture was hit hard by a simultaneous drop in domestic demand for food
and agricultural products, and the loss of CMEA export markets.
2. Despite this record and agriculture's currently small 10 percent share of
GDP, the sector has historically been an important contributor to the
overall economy. During the pre-communist period it produced a wide range
of cereals and oilseeds products, dairy products, wines, and horticulture
products for domestic consumption, and was an important regional exporter
of some of these commodities. Because of this historical record and
evidence that agriculture was severely taxed by government policies in the
1990s, the sector's growth potential is deemed good, and the sector
therefore has a prominent place in the recently agreed Country Assistance
Strategy (Bulgaria CAS, April 9, 1998).
3. During 1996, Bulgaria suffered a severe economic crisis, the main symptoms
of which were hyperinflation, widespread bank failure, massive
depreciation of the lev, and an 11 percent fall in GDP. The economic
crisis helped to precipitate general elections in April 1997, leading to
election of the newly unified Union of Democratic Forces (UDF). The
country now has a reform-minded government with a substantial majority in
Parliament. Stabilization policies have taken hold and macroeconomic
indicators have improved markedly, with low inflation and positive growth.
The Country's Adjustment Program



4. The new Government's agricultural policy record was at first mixed. During
1997, land restitution continued at a moderate pace, and prices were
largely liberalized. However, progress in eliminating export taxes and
privatizing agricultural enterprises was slow.
5. The Bank has been involved in an increasingly frequent dialogue with
Government since early 1996. Early discussions on agricultural policy
focused heavily on the cereals sector and the land restitution process.
Much attention was given to cereals and oilseeds pricing policies, the
trade regime, and the role of Zarneni Hrani (the state grain agency) and
the state reserves. The central finding of these early missions was that
the previous regime's pricing and trade policies had a strongly negative
effect on market development and producer incentives. A mission in July,
1997 concluded that price and trade policies in the wheat subsector alone
cost farmers $457 million over the three years from 1994 to 1996. The new
regime's policies, while an improvement, still kept in place obstacles to
growth.
6. Although some important steps were taken in this early reform effort, plans
overestimated government implementation and resource capabilities and fell
short of goals, as in the privatization and land restitution programs, or
were marked by haphazard implementation, as in the cereals sector. In
addition, major policy constraints remain unaddressed, including severe
instability in the trade regime; cumbersome privatization procedures; a
poor legal framework for land transactions and for secured bank lending and
leasing.
7. The government has now embarked on a more consistent and sustained approach
to agricultural reform, and has made great progress. This program includes
elements in the following areas, which would form the basis for the ASAL:
land restitution and the establishment of a legal and institutional
framework to promote development of land markets; acceleration of the
privatization of agricultural and agroindustrial assets under the
Ministries of Agricultural and Industry; limitation of the government's
intervention in grain markets and establishment of a legal environment
conducive to private sector development in this sector; expansion of
commercial credit to agriculture by phasing out the government's programs
of subsidized and directed short-term credit while restructuring the State
Fund Agriculture as a counterpart agency for EU pre-accession funds under
the SAPARD program and improving the legal framework for collateral and
leasing; and trade reform, including elimination of export taxes and non-
tariff barriers to exports and imports, reduction of the number of products
covered by tariff-quotas, improving the regulations governing seed imports,
and reduction of tariffs on fertilizers.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
8. The agricultural reforms are planned to be carried out in two successive
stages. The reforms in the ASAL program are as front loaded as possible,
particularly in areas where government seems willing and able to move
quickly, such as trade. Because of the need to induce private market entry
and investment by firmly establishing the government's credibility, it is
important to introduce trade reforms early and sustain them for an extended
period. However, efforts have been made to design a reform path that is
feasible given Government administrative capabilities and budgetary
- 2-



resources, and in some areas such as privatization of irrigation
facilities, much of the activity may come in stage two.
9. The adjustment assistance is planned to be delivered as two single tranche
operations As the first operation is being implemented, reforms will be
monitored and detailed second tranche conditions will be developed.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
John Nash
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-8000
Fax No.:         (202) 614-0159
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 16, 1999.
- 3-



