Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7309-BUL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON AN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 71.12 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
May 25, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World-
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 25, 1999)
Currency Unit = Lev (plural Leva)
Lev 1 = Euro 0.0005
Euro l = Leva 1,957
Lev 1  = US$0.0005
US$1  = Leva 1,846
Weights and Measures
Metric System
BULGARIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDIIVOCA           Agricultural Cooperative Development International/
Volunteers in Overseas Cooperative Assistance
ASAL                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CEEC                Central and Eastern European Countries
CEFTA               Central European Free Trade Agreement
CIRL                Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
CMEA                Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EFTA                European Free Trade Agreement
EU                  European Union
EFF                 Extended Fund Facility
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
LIBOR               London Inter-bank Offer Rate
PHARE               European Union Development Agency
SAPARD              Special Accession Program for Agriculture
and Rural Development
SFA                 State Fund for Agriculture
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Andrew Vorkink
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Team Leaders: John Nash, Henry Gordon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
LOAN  AND  PROGRAM  SUMMARY ............................................................................                  .                          i-i
1.   INTRODUCTION .............................................................................I
2.   BACKGROUND ON ECONOMIC POLICY AND PERFORMANCE .......................................................... 1
A. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ..........................................................................................I
B. BACKGROUND: AGRICULTURE IN THE BULGARIAN ECONOMY .................................................................................3
C. DEVELOPMENTS IN THE SECTOR AFTER 1989 ..........................................................................................4
D. AGRICULTURAL POLICY IN THE TRANSITION ..........................................................................................5
3.  THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN AGRICULTURE ................. 11
A. TRADE AND PRICING POLICY .........................................................................................                            12
B. LAND MARKET DEVELOPMENT ................................I.....................................................14
C. FOOD SECURITY AND CEREALS MARKETING ..................................................................                                        15
D. PRIVATIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL AND AGROINDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES ............................................................. 17
E. RURAL FINANCE ..................................................................                                                              17
4.  THE PROPOSED LOAN ........................................................                                                                       19
A. RATI ONA     LE FOR THE LOAN ...................................................................                                              19
B. COMPosITION AND QUALITY OF THE BANK PORTFOLIO ..................................................................                             20
C. THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) AND THE ASAL ..................................................................                          21
D. LoAN AMOUNT AND TRANcHNG ...................................................................                                                  21
E. LOAN CONDITIONS ....................................................................................2 1
F. DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT ...........................................................                                                     24
G. REPORTING, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ............................................................                                               24
H. I MPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT ...........................................................                              25
I.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE ASAL ...........................................................                                           25
J. POTENTIAL RISKS ...........................................................                                                                   25
K. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF, EU, US, AND JAPAN ...........................................................                                    26
5.  RECOMMENDATION .................................................. 27
ANNEXES
Annex I           Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 2           Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Annex 3a    Selected Key Economic Indicators
Annex 3b    Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 4           Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 5           Agricultural Projects by Other Donors in Bulgaria
Annex 6           Selected Technical Papers
Annex 7           Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria and Status of IFC Operations
Annex 8           Bulgaria at a Glance
MAP               IBRD No. 26532R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



-1-
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Bulgaria
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agrarian Reform
Beneficiaries:    Individual landowners and farmers, private processors and storage
agents, small private input dealers.
Loan Amount:      Euro 71.12 million
Terms:           IBRD terms with 20 years maturity including 5 years grace period,
at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single
currency loans in these currencies.
Commitment Fee:   0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Objectives:       The objective of the loan is to support rapid development of a more
efficient and responsive agricultural sector, the principles of which
are enunciated in the Government's medium-term program.
Description:      The loan will support a comprehensive reform of agricultural
sector policies. Reforms will occur in the areas of pricing, trade,
agricultural subsidies and finance, land markets, cereals markets,
agricultural enterprise privatization.
Benefits:         The reforms will increase domestic marketing competitiveness by
expediting development of a private land market, significantly
reducing the state's role as a marketing and processing
intermediary, improving the incentives environment by eliminating
price and trade controls, and reducing subsidized government
credit. This will improve income earning opportunities for rural
people, contribute to rural employment generation, and help raise
rural living standards. Consumers will benefit from improved
agricultural product quality and availability, greater choice, and
more efficient marketing channels.
Risks:            The most important risks are, first, political resistance by powerful
interest groups, and second, that the program will be undermined
by a non-supportive macroeconomic environment. With regard to
the first risk, the Government of Bulgaria and the World Bank
have engaged in a broad program of consultations with



- 11 -
stakeholders in the process of preparing and disseminating policy
notes on all the areas of reform supported by the ASAL, as well as
a special workshop on rural finance. To assist those who may
experience negative effects in the short term from the adjustment
program, especially the poor and the most vulnerable groups, the
Government has undertaken a program to improve its safety net
system, which is being supported by a World Bank Social
Protection Adjustment Loan ($80 million, effective December
1998).  The second risk is addressed by the Government's
successful implementation of a currency board arrangement and
prudent macroeconomic policies, which have resulted in low
inflation and a secure fiscal situation.
Environment:      The proposed loan has been placed in Category C.
Financing Plan:    IBRD:     Euro 71.12 million
Total:     Euro 71.12 million
Disbursements:    FY2000:   Euro 71.12 million
Project ID Number: BG-PE-57925
Rate of Return:   N.A.
Map:              IBRD No. 26532R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Agriculture Sector Adjusttnent Loan (ASAL) to Bulgaria for Euro 71.12
million. The loan will comprise a single tranche in Euros, and will be payable in twenty
years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based
single currency loans in this currency.
1.2   The ASAL provides foreign exchange for balance of payments support (Euro
71.12 million). The loan is conditioned upon an extensive program of policy reform
aimed at developing a competitive, market-based agricultural sector. This is the first
comprehensive reform of the agricultural sector that has been undertaken in Bulgaria.
Past efforts at reform in most areas of agriculture have been halting, without significant
impact on the degree of state domination of agricultural markets and with only minimal
development of the private sector. This has now been rectified, and the current
government, which came to power in 1997, has expressed its intention from the outset of
its term to re-orient sectoral policies to make Bulgaria a fully functioning, outward-
oriented market economy and a leading candidate for EU accession as quickly as
possible. It has followed up its statement of intentions with a broad program of reform,
followed by concrete actions.
1.3   This loan supports the Government's medium-term agricultural policy as set out
in its ASAL Letter of Sector Policy, included as Annex 1 of this report. In addition, it
complements other extensive reform efforts being implemented concurrently. The first is
a macroeconomic reform program under an IMF EFF (Extended Fund Facility). The
second is a set of structural reforms supported by two World Bank Finance and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loans, one completed and one under preparation. The
reforms in the ASAL are also mutually supportive with two agricultural sector investment
projects being prepared by the Bank (a cadastre and registration project and a
participatory privatization of irrigation project), with the reforms improving the policy
environment for the investment operations, and the investments helping to provide the
infrastructure to enhance the supply response to the reforms.
2. BACKGROUND ON ECONOMIC POLICY AND PERFORMANCE
A. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
2.1   Macroeconomic conditions have improved remarkably since the crisis of 1996-97,
with the most important accomplishment being macroeconomic stabilization. Sound
policies have led to a decline in inflation, single digit interest rates, and to a return of



-2 -
confidence in the currency and the banking system. In 1998, Bulgaria's economic
developments remained quite favorable despite the Asian and Russian crises.
Macroeconomic stabilization has been successfully maintained largely due to the
currency board arrangement and tight fiscal stance. Inflation, at one percent at the end of
1998, remained below expectations. As the stabilization program has taken hold,
economic activity has begun to recover. One positive impact of the stabilization program
has been recent increases in real wages and salaries, which has enabled a recovery in the
purchasing power of the population from its very depressed levels. This created some
modest growth in domestic demand. As a result, economic growth also rebounded and
real GDP growth reached a rate of 3.5 percent in 1998. The economic recovery seems to
have slowed in the latter part of 1998, partly as a result of the turmoil in international
markets, weak external demand, and the restructuring taking place in the country's
industrial sector. Consistent with the recovery in GDP growth, the unemployment rate
declined from 14 percent in 1997 to 12 percent in the end of 1998. Despite the recovery
in economic growth, the slow pace of restructuring the industrial sector has led to some
stagnation in exports. With exports stagnating, the country's trade balance has also been
deteriorating, and the current account swung into a deficit of 2.2 percent of GDP. These
results indicate that considerably more needs to be done to facilitate a restructuring of the
economy in order to achieve sustained economic growth.
2.2   The early 1999 economic developments indicated a further weakening of the
economy even before the Kosovo crisis. Industrial sales and manufacturing went down
by nearly 20 percent in the first quarter of 1999. Business confidence in industry also
recorded some deterioration, and inventories began to grow indicating a further
weakening in demand. This is likely to lead to some increase in unemployment, as
enterprises adjust to the worsening business environment. Also, export performance
continued to weaken, as in the first two months of 1999 exports declined by more than
one third compared to a year earlier. This contributed to a widening of the current
account deficit to US$252 million in the first quarter of 1999. Traditional exports of
chemicals, fertilizers and metals kept falling mainly due to lower world market prices and
the restructuring in these sectors, while textiles, apparel and footwear offset some of the
fall in other exports.
2.3   The economy's weakening performance has been exacerbated by the Kosovo
crisis. If the conflict is prolonged, the external position of the Bulgarian economy could
be severely affected with a stronger than envisaged deterioration in the trade and current
account balance. Bulgaria's trade has suffered direct losses from lost trade flows to and
from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY). In addition to these direct losses,
Bulgaria's trade with EU, CEFTA and EFTA is going to incur additional losses from
higher transport costs. Bulgarian trade with EU, CEFTA and EFTA, excluding Greece
and Romania, account for about 45 percent of total exports and 45 percent of total
imports. The re-routing, congestion, delays, etc., are expected to increase direct and
indirect transport costs of all non-gas imports and non-electricity exports that used to
transit through FRY. Bulgaria will also lose revenue from reductions in tourism. Foreign
direct investment (FDI) would be affected by the negative crisis-induced investors'
sentiment. A conservative estimate of the crisis-related FDI loss is about US$200
million. The weaker investor interest will result also in lower portfolio investments. The
crisis is expected to affect the overall economic performance and to result in a weaker



- 3 -
real GDP growth rate and higher unemployment rates in 1999. Inflation is expected to
rise above the baseline projection due mainly to higher transportation costs reflected in
import prices. These negative external developments have increased the importance of
adhering to the stabilization and structural adjustment programs, and the Government has
re-affirmed its commitment to do so.
2.4   External demand is expected to be weaker in 1999 due to the impact of the
international and Kosovo crises, and this will result in lower GDP growth rates.
Nevertheless, if the Government continues to aggressively pursue the structural reform
program, including privatization, higher growth rates of at least 4 percent could be
achieved in the medium term due to improvements in the external environment, and
increased domestic investments-both private and public. These expectations are based
on the assumption that the private sector will continue to grow while public investment
will grow in line with the public investment program of the Government.
B. BACKGROUND: AGRICULTURE IN THE BULGARIAN ECONOMY
2.5   Before World War II, Bulgarian agriculture was a diversified sector producing a
wide range of raw and processed products for domestic consumption and export. In the
post-war period, the communist government's economic policy emphasized industry over
agriculture, consistent with the role played by Bulgaria in the Council for Mutual
Economic Assistance (CMEA) trade system. Nonetheless, agriculture continued to play
a significant, though diminishing, role in the economy during the socialist period.
2.6   Bulgaria has good natural growing conditions on the two-thirds of its area that are
not mountainous. It has fertile soils in the Danube and Maritsa Plains and on its coast.
The climate is mild Continental in the north and Mediterranean in the south. Summer
crops require irrigation, but water supply has not in the past been a constraint, since there
are many rivers and lakes. Before 1989, about a quarter of the land was irrigated. Major
crops include (in descending order of area cultivated in 1987-89) cereals (especially
wheat), sunflower, grapes, vegetables, fruits, and tobacco. Livestock accounts for around
one-third to one-half of production value in the sector.
2.7   The importance of the agricultural sector in Bulgaria is high relative to other
Central and Eastern European Countries (CEECs). The sector's share in GDP (about 13
percent between 1991 and 1996) is second only to that of the sector in Romania (20
percent). By agricultural share in employment, Bulgaria ranks behind Romania, Poland,
and Lithuania. During the economy-wide decline since 1991, and especially the crisis in
1996-97, the significance of agriculture has increased in two ways. First, while the rest
of the economy continued to decline in 1997 (GDP overall shrank by about 7 percent in
1997), agriculture grew by 30 percent (due to a large extent to favorable growing
conditions for grains), thereby increasing its share of GDP to a historical high of 23
percent. (In 1998, this share declined slightly, as agricultural growth of 1.2 percent was
slower than the 3.5 percent rate recorded by overall GDP.) Second, agriculture has
served as a safety net to absorb some of the labor that has been released from other
sectors. Thus its share in employment has grown every year since 1991, and in the crisis
year 1997 reached a high of 24.3 percent. It is the only sector in which employment
actually grew continuously over this period.



- 4 -
2.8   By share of agriculture (including food) in exports, Bulgaria (19 percent) ranks
first among the CEECs. Historically, Bulgaria was, even more than other CEECs,
integrated into the CMEA trading bloc. As in other socialist countries, trade deals-often
barter-were arranged by a state trading agency which had a monopoly position. The
country was a significant exporter of agricultural and agroindustrial products, although
since exports in this sector (particularly tobacco and fruits and vegetables) were oriented
largely toward the CMEA markets, neither price competitiveness nor quality mattered
much. Once these markets broke down, Bulgarian exports were in a poor position to
compete in the global economy.
2.9   To a greater extent than some other CEECs, agriculture in Bulgaria was organized
in very large state-operated farms in the communist era. Before the communist takeover,
there were 1.1 million farms with an average size of 4.3 hectares. Few were large-most
in holdings under 20 hectares-and over 80 percent were owned by the operators. This
network of small private farms was supported by marketing and credit cooperatives.
Following the communist takeover, collectivization was carried out in stages. By 1958,
90 percent of the land was organized into 3,290 cooperatives, averaging 1,200 hectares.
After several more stages of consolidation, by 1971 the dominant structure was the "agro-
industrial complex" (APKs), of which there were 161, with an average of 24,000 hectares
and 6,500 members. In 1973, seven industrial-agricultural complexes were created,
averaging 55,000 hectares. After this, successive waves of reforms reorganized and
increased the numbers of the APKs in attempts to increase their productivity and make
them more financially self-sufficient. Throughout the communist period, a small share of
the land (around 10 percent) remained under private control as "household plots",
producing a disproportionate part of the total output, especially in fruits and vegetables.
Privately owned livestock represented a share of the total livestock population ranging
from 18 percent of cattle to 38 percent of poultry.
2.10 Agriculture in Bulgaria was sometimes presented as a model for other socialist
countries, as per capita production and yields increased in the period 1950-80. In
retrospect, and in common with other socialist economies, much of the growth was not
due to improvement of total factor productivity, however, but to intensive use of other
inputs, especially chemicals and fertilizers. Also in common with other socialist
countries, government policy was to encourage consumption of meat; thus livestock
production was boosted by heavy subsidies to intensive production methods. In the
1980s, agricultural production stagnated, so that by 1989, agricultural production value
was only 3 percent above its 1980 level.
C. DEVELOPMENTS IN THE SECTOR AFTER 1989
2.11 With the end of communism, the Government's first priority in agriculture was to
dismantle the most visible symbols of that system-the complexes. This was given
priority over other reforms in the areas of pricing policy and privatization, and the way in
which it was carried out was quite disruptive. Non-land assets were to be distributed
among those who had contributed land, non-land assets, or labor to the cooperative.
Animals were the first assets to be distributed. Because of the highly subsidized nature of
livestock production in the socialist period, the livestock population was inefficiently
large, and would have declined as subsidies were reduced in any case. This tendency was



exacerbated by the fact that many animals were given to farmers who were ill-equipped
to care for them, resulting in a large reduction in the herd. In the distribution of land,
farmers were supposed to be charged for improvements that had been undertaken in the
socialist period. The level of these charges was set relatively high, and land tenure was
still tenuous, with the result that land claimants inflicted widespread intentional damage
to irrigation infrastructure, livestock buildings, and orchards to reduce the value of the
improvements and minimize their financial liability.
2.12  The adverse effects of these internally generated supply-side disruptions were
magnified by sharp falls in demand for agricultural products. This was due to declines in
both domestic demand as the economy contracted, and external demand as Bulgaria's
traditional trading relations in the CMEA disintegrated. Agricultural exports as a whole
in 1991 were about 21 percent of their 1989 value, and exports to the former CMEA
markets fell from 79 percent of the total in 1989 to 57 percent of the sharply diminished
total in 1991. While exports have begun to recover, the share to former CMEA
economies has continued to decline.
2.13  In the communist period, prices of inputs, especially fertilizer, were kept
artificially low. The partial de-control of prices after 1989, which excluded many
agricultural products, caught farmers in a "scissors", with the prices of inputs rising and
the prices of their products falling or staying the same. Mineral fertilizer use declined
precipitously from close to 800,000 tons total in 1989 to less than 200,000 tons in 1996.
Mechanization also declined, although not so dramatically.
2.14  Strongly affected by the transitional processes taking place in Bulgarian economy,
agricultural production has declined both in terms of output and yields of main products.
In 1997, agricultural production stood at about 55 percent of its 1989 level, according to
official FAO figures. Since the number of animals sharply declined and this was
accompanied by lower yields, the result has been a drastic reduction in output of all
livestock products. Crop and livestock production in total output are now of about equal
importance after an increase of the crop production share in recent years. The main crops
are cereals, vegetables, tobacco. The major livestock products are meat, dairy and eggs.
The share of agricultural and food industry exports has declined in the overall share of
total exports (from 20 to 14 percent), despite the preferential agreements signed by
Bulgaria in the last two years. The most important export products are wine, tobacco,
fresh and processed fruit and vegetables. Imports of primary and food industry products
are between 8 and 10 percent of total imports.
D. AGRICULTURAL POLICY IN THE TRANSITION
2.15  Pricing and trade policy. Bulgaria's trade regime has been characterized by
tremendous instability since 1991, when import and export licensing requirements were
removed for most products (with significant exceptions, especially in agriculture) and
private and state trading organizations were allowed to import and export without special
permission. This early liberalization notwithstanding, non-tariff trade policy measures
have been used intermittently by Government ever since. Instability has been severe in
recent years, especially affecting grains, oilseeds and their derivative products. From
December 1995 to September 1997, basic regulations governing licensing exemptions
and bans were changed no fewer than 25 times. This has created severe impediments to



- 6 -
market entry and investment, with private firms understandably viewing any favorable
policy change as temporary.
2.16  As direct control mechanisms used under central planning were reduced during
the 1990s, there was a tendency to use trade policy for very detailed, short-term
intervention aimed at micro-managing domestic supplies and prices. Instruments for
implementation of this policy abound, and include automatic and non-automatic licenses
(import and export); export quotas, taxes and bans; minimum import and export prices;
and duty free import quotas.
2.17  Pricing and trade policy during the transition was driven by a preoccupation with
providing low-priced domestically produced food for the urban population.  The
mechanism for implementing this policy-the "material balances" approach-in some
important respects resembled that of central planning. Prices of important food products
were set by the Government. Domestic consumption was estimated, and at a time when
the forthcoming harvest could be forecast, the projected domestic consumption was
compared to the quantity to be harvested. Any excess of supply over consumption was
considered surplus to be sold abroad. Export licenses could then be issued up to this
quantity. If it appeared that there would be deficit that would need to be met with
relatively high-cost imports, and the Government would sometimes issue licenses for
duty-free imports, within a quota equal to the size of the projected deficit. Trade controls
were reinforced by price controls. While the formal price control apparatus went through
a number of changes-in products covered as well as in mechanics of operation-
between 1989 and 1996, the goal was always to keep food prices low, and so agricultural
products were always among the products covered. Products which were not expected to
be in short supply were monitored through the "automatic licensing" regime, which was
less burdensome than the "non-automatic licensing", but which nonetheless served as the
means by which the government would collect information to decide if and when
products should be transferred back to the non-automatic licensing regime.
2.18  Producer prices of the major crops were held by this system at levels far below
those that could have been received in a liberal trading environment. A World Bank
mission conservatively estimated that price and export controls and taxes on wheat alone
cost farmers US$457 million in the 3-year period from 1994-96. The large gap between
world and domestic prices also generated huge incentives to evade the export controls,
and led to extensive corruption and illegal exports.
2.19  In 1996, the effects of these policy problems combined with poor weather to
produce a dramatic fall in production, particularly of grains, production of which fell by
almost 50 percent (compared to 1995). The harvest shortfall produced a domestic grain
shortage, which was exacerbated by widespread illegal exports. This was one facet of the
generalized economic chaos that led to the downfall of the socialist party government at
that time. Fear of a repetition of these shortages shaped the early policies of the current
govemment.
2.20 Bulgaria joined the World Trade Organization on January 1, 1997. Its levels of
bound tariffs on agricultural products are in general high, relative to those of other
CEECs (comparable to Poland and Slovenia, but below those of Romania, according to



an Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) evaluation of
bound tariff rates) and those of developed countries, including the EU. Applied
Bulgarian agricultural tariffs are high in comparison to those on industrial imports,
though close to those in the EU. For primary agricultural production, current tariffs on an
import weighted basis are 24 percent, or twice the level obtaining for industrial tariffs.
(This is higher than the Czech and Slovak Republics and Slovenia, though lower than
Hungary, Poland, and Romania.) The highest protection among primary products is
afforded to meats (especially poultry), vegetables and fruit. Among processed food
products, protection is very high for vinegar, dairy products, fermented beverages and
alcohol, frozen and preserved vegetables, meat preparation, sugar, chocolate, and
vegetable oils. The tariff schedule shows a strong cascading pattern, with higher tariffs
on finished and processed products than on primary products. One implication of
cascading is the relatively higher protection it affords to domestic processors, rather than
primary producers. One issue of special significance for the agricultural sector has been
the high (until recently, 40 percent) tariff on fertilizer imports. This was imposed to
protect the domestic fertilizer industry, and has contributed to the low fertilizer use by
farmers.
2.21  Food security and cereals marketing. The state-owned enterprise until recently
charged with purchasing and processing grains is Zarneni Hrani (ZH). Although ZH's de
jure monopoly position in grain trading and milling was changed several years ago, it
continued to dominate the market, making the playing field for the private sector far from
level. Intervention by ZH has been substantial and has created uncertainty for private
traders while crowding out their involvement in the grain market. For example, in 1996
when international and local traders were preparing imports of corn and wheat to relieve
local scarcities, ZH bought imported corn and wheat, selling it in the domestic market at
a price below the cost of imports. In addition, ZH's buying and selling have in the past
compressed intra-seasonal price variation, thereby reducing incentives for storage, and
further crowding out the private sector.
2.22 Crop financing has biased the marketing system in favor of ZH and other state
enterprises. State mills using government guarantees have had access to credit, putting
them at an advantage vis-a-vis private mills who must use their own assets in order to
obtain credit. Private mills thus obtained only a fraction of their needs in working capital
during the 1997/98 crop season. In addition, farmers obtaining credit through the State
Fund for Agriculture (SFA), the government's agricultural credit facility, are committed
to selling their crop through forward contracts mainly to state mills and enterprises, or
directly to the SFA.
2.23  These obstacles notwithstanding, domestic markets show evidence of increased
competitive small-scale trading and investment. External trade and investment is far less
developed. There are only a few foreign firms currently involved in the market, and they
exhibit a cautious attitude influenced by unstable government policies. Despite the
overall impression of competition in domestic cereals and oilseeds markets, there is
evidence of high margins. Part of the reason is that in Bulgaria's relatively undeveloped
private market, the real costs associated with commodity assembly, storage, transport,
handling, spoilage and risk are high. Physical facilities for storage, loading and unloading
of cereals at Bulgarian ports are inadequate and significantly limit future exports. Yet



- 8 -
policy constraints on private market development have been numerous and severe and
provide at least a partial explanation for high costs and, at some times and places, lack of
competitiveness.
2.24  An additional constraint on market performance is that associations of private
grain farmers and traders are at a rudimentary stage of development in Bulgaria. Lack of
voluntary private associations is an impediment to market efficiency that hinders the
market involvement of small operators, both farmers and traders.
2.25  Inadequate market information is another problem that reduces market efficiency
in the sector. The chief market information system, AMIS (Agricultural Marketing
Information Service), is hardly used by farmers. The major complaint with the AMIS is
that information is considered too outdated to be of real value.  Rather, market
participants tend to rely on their own informal contacts for their information. As in many
other agricultural systems, smaller farmers have poorer access to accurate, timely market
information.
2.26 Land policy. To achieve rapid and sustained agricultural growth in Bulgaria,
land must be put to its most productive use. This requires the development of market
mechanisms for leasing, purchase and sale. Two essential requirements for land market
emergence are establishment of security of ownership and free transferability of land.
2.27 Restitution-return of land to former owners, wherever feasible-is the method
by which land in the state-operated farms is being privatized. Restitution advanced
slowly at first, but has gathered momentum since 1997, and has partially addressed the
need for security of ownership. However, even after restitution, uncertainty exists
regarding the status of rights set out by Land Commissions. For example, many believe
that certificates of ownership provided by the Commissions establish ownership rights,
while others think that a notarial deed is required. This uncertainty is a significant
constraint to development of a land market since potential buyers are hesitant to buy land
over which they do not have a firm claim. Alternatively, they may heavily discount the
price at which they purchase, which is undoubtedly a factor underlying the low prices
observed in many land transactions. Confidence in Land Commission decisions as proof
of ownership would be greatly increased if these were maintained in a national, unified
system for land registration.
2.28 Court disputes have slowed restitution. Approximately 70 percent of the
restitution has been undertaken through reallocation plans, rather than restoration of land
to former owners (or their heirs) within old boundaries, and many such plans have been
disputed.
2.29  Establishment of ownership rights through restitution is essential but not in itself
sufficient to improve the efficiency of land allocations. A further requirement is that land
be readily transferable through lease, purchase or sale, and that some legal and
institutional supports for land transfer (for example, provision of information to new
landowners on land transfer options) be in place.



- 9 -
2.30 Until recent amendments, the Land Leasing Law obstructed leasing transactions
through provisions stating that the lease contract must be in written form, certified by a
public notary, and registered in notary and Land Commission registration books.' There
was also a ceiling of 600 hectares on the amount of land that could be leased. In part
because of these restrictions, few formal leasing transactions take place. Land transfers
that have the appearance of lease transactions do occur, but these are typically informal
and unrecorded.  The sub-rosa nature of these activities undoubtedly reduces the
competitiveness of the leasing market and increases costs.
2.31   There is at present no real market for purchase and sale of land. A great number
of owners are reluctant to sell, and demand is depressed due to low agricultural
profitability as well as lack of collateral mechanisms for immovable property, which
reduces the value of land assets. These factors have been compounded by uncertainty
over security of ownership and the existence of a high effective conveyance tax on land
transactions. The tax was set at 12 percent of the value of the land transacted in the case
of urban land, and 2 percent of the value of agricultural land. This 2 percent rate does not
seem high on its face, but the land value was set administratively-as opposed to using
market or actual transactions value or value assessed for tax purposes-so the effective
tax rate was sometimes much higher. The lack of options for individual landholders to
lease or sell their land in a market led many to place their land in a cooperative on
extremely unfavorable terms.
2.32  Privatization of agricultural enterprises.  State enterprises have dominated
Bulgaria's economy and have played a major role in its poor performance. Progress in
the government's overall privatization program was very slow until 1997. From 1992 to
1997 only 18 percent of long-term statement of expenditure assets were privatized. (A
firm is defined as privatized when at least 67 percent of its shares are privately owned.)
The pace of privatization increased in 1997 with the introduction of ambitious targets by
the new government. In agriculture, by August 1997, privatized enterprises accounted
for about 26 percent of agriculture and food industry long-term assets. Privatization
proceeded slowly for a number of reasons. One serious constraint was the lack of
political will by the previous government. The current govermnent has made more
serious efforts, but has been hampered by valuation procedures that sometimes lead to the
setting of unrealistic minimal bids, and by slow procedures for reducing these. Demand
for the assets has been low partially because of the generally depressed state of the
economy. The result of both these factors has been that many agroindustrial assets have
not attracted bidders when put into the privatization program.  These obstacles
notwithstanding, the Government has made more progress in 1998 and 1999, and plans to
take additional actions to accelerate the process further (see below).
2.33 Rural finance. From 1990, which marked the transformation of the regional
branches of the Bulgarian National Bank into "commercial" (but initially not private)
banks, until 1996, the banking sector was fragmented and inefficient. State banks
propped up loss-making state owned enterprises, and many banks made large loans to
poor risks in the private sector. When privatization was carried out, it was done in a non-
' Rights enumerated in leasing contracts are personal rights, not real (ownership) rights. Most countries do
not enter statistical data of this type in a land registration system.



- 10-
transparent manner to managers and businessmen, who did not operate the banks as
professional institutions. The banking system collapsed in 1996, resulting in the
bankruptcy of approximately one-quarter of the country's financial institutions.
Following the crisis, the activities of banks still focused mainly on government bond and
foreign currency transactions, rather than commercial lending, and savings mobilization
in rural areas was poor. Few banks lent to agriculture in 1997, the only exceptions being
the Central Cooperative Bank and Hebros Bank. Not only has commercial lending to
agriculture been limited, but government credit schemes using commercial banks as
agents encounter disbursement problems.
2.34  Since 1992, the Government has operated a specialized agricultural credit scheme,
the Agricultural Credit Center, which has provided medium and long-term investment
loans. Another specialized agricultural credit scheme was started by the EU PHARE
program in 1996 as a system of credit cooperatives. The PHARE program contributed
resources along with the coop members, and loans were made at below-market interest
rates on a revolving basis.
2.35  These schemes have, however, been relatively small players in the agricultural
credit market compared to the much larger credit program, the State Fund for Agriculture
(which began operating in early 1996 and has been lending resources of around 2-4
percent of agricultural GDP), and in 1997 an ad hoc loan guarantee scheme for wheat
purchase. The SFA's main activity is to provide funds directly to farmers, using
commercial banks only as agents, with these banks contributing none of their own funds.
The types of schemes financed vary from year to year, but they have included a seasonal
credit facility financing inputs for wheat, maize and sunflower production (with a 50
percent interest subsidy); direct subsidies per unit area for the same crops; and 70 percent
interest subsidies on special investment loans approved by a council of experts under the
SFA. Wheat producers receiving credit under the input-financing scheme at planting
were obliged to sell wheat to mainly state connected companies designated by the SFA,
at contract prices negotiated before planting. This requirement limited development of a
wheat market still heavily influenced by the marketing agency Zameni Hrani and state
millers.
2.36 The loan guarantee scheme was designed to guarantee loans extended by
commercial banks to purchasers of the wheat crop. It was one of a set of interventions
introduced in the 1997 crop year because wheat exports in 1996 were considered to be
excessive and lack of finance was viewed as the main culprit. In 1997, a 260 billion leva
wheat purchase guarantee scheme was therefore introduced, through which the state
served as ultimate guarantor of loans to purchase from farmers at the official guaranteed
price. Along with this scheme, the govermment also introduced a high official purchase
price and an export tax. While a large number of commercial banks were involved in
intermediation of the loans to purchase the crop, final borrowers were limited to Zameni
Hrani and another twenty state purchasing companies and mills. This allocation pattern
was an additional blow to development of a competitive wheat market, since it effectively
excluded the private trade. The aftermath of this scheme is still a significant problem.
Subsequent to the government's setting of the guarantee price (at around US$130 per
ton), the world price for wheat fell. In addition, the wheat crop was low quality because
of rain around harvest. Mills and ZH were stuck holding high-cost, low quality



- 11 -
inventory, which they have been reluctant to sell at a loss. This in turn caused many of
them to default on their loans, with banks threatening to foreclose. This has still not been
fully resolved, but one consequence was that banks were reluctant to make any loans for
purchase of the 1998 harvest.
2.37  The SFA program designed to give farmers an advance in the fall against their
future harvest was modified somewhat in 1998 (for the 1999 harvest). Under the new
rules, farmers were paid a first installment of 77,000 leva (about US$48) per ton in 1998
for grain that they contracted to deliver in fall 1999. At the time of delivery, they will be
paid a second installment equal to the difference between 77,000 leva and the larger of
either a) 110,000 leva or b) the current market price. SFA will then own the grain except
when farmers choose to pay in cash. The scheme effectively sets a guaranteed minimum
price of 110,000 leva for the 1999 harvest, but since this is quite low by historical
standards, this is not likely to create the same kind of problems as did the high support
price last year. Rather, the problems with this scheme are that it crowds out private
sector activity in both rural finance and grain marketing, and creates potentially large
short-term financial liabilities for the government if grain prices rise substantially before
next year's harvest.
3. THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN
AGRICULTURE
3.1   The interim government (which assumed power in February 1997 after the fall of
the previous government) and the current government have expressed a desire to turn
Bulgaria into a free-market, export-oriented economy. But in the crisis environment,
many policy decisions have been very much shaped by short-run expediency, by the
experience of their predecessors (in particular by the events of 1996), and by the desire to
fight corruption. Nonetheless, their wish to distance themselves from past policies
allowed them to make some very significant reforms early in their term, including
removal of price and margin controls and elimination of nontariff barriers against imports
and exports of fertilizers and almost all agricultural products. These were supported by
the Bank's Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan (CIRL), approved in April 1997. The
Government also recognizes that agriculture has in the past been discriminated against,
and wishes to redress this, which bodes well for future policy. However, fear of another
grain shortage and a perception of corruption in the grains trade (and perhaps some
lingering reluctance to relinquish centralized control in a sensitive sector) caused them to
use ad hoc trade policy measures in a way that is inconsistent with the goal of a free
market economy.
3.2   World Bank staff have been working in coordination with other international
partners (including the EU PHARE, the US Department of Agriculture, and the USAID-
sponsored ACDI/VOCA program) to assist the Government in considering options and
designing a reform program that would continue Bulgaria's progress toward a functional
market economy, while minimizing transitional costs. The Bank carried out an informal
sector review in 1997/98, which culminated in public presentations and discussions with
civil society stakeholders around the country, based on a series of notes addressing major
issues in agricultural policy. Many of the recommendations of the notes have been



- 12-
incorporated in the reforms that would be supported by this ASAL, and others are
included in the Government's medium-term sectoral strategy that is described in the
attached Letter of Sector Policy.
A. TRADE AND PRICING POLICY
3.3   The Government began to liberalize the trade and price policy regime with a
package of reforms supported by the Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan (CIRL).
Specifically, the Government in mid-1997:
(a) Eliminated the system of controls on profit margins of agricultural and food
products. This was, however, replaced for some food products by a contract
pricing system, which required producers and importers of a list of food items to
contract with traders the sale prices at which the goods should be offered to
consumers and the terms of sale. The decree also ordered that buyers of
agricultural products for which minimum farmgate prices have been determined
may not contract or actually buy the goods at prices lower than those minimum
purchase prices, and that they may not sell on the internal market or export until
they have completely accomplished their contractual obligations to the producers,
presumably including payment of these prices. This system was much less
onerous than the system it replaced. It did not oblige producers or intermediaries
in the market chain to sign contracts, unless contracts were demanded by those
from whom they purchase. The terms in the contracts were voluntary, except that
producers could not be paid less than the minimum price determined by law, for
the products with a legal minimum price (grains). However, after the contract
was negotiated, producers could complain about non-compliance with its terms,
and there was no clear mechanism or rules for judging such complaints; this
presented the opportunity for confusion and corruption. On balance, although this
was a step in the right direction, the contract pricing system was not fully
consistent with the operation of a market economy.
(b) Eliminated import quotas and duties on most cereals and cereal products.
Among grain products, only wheat flour remained under a tariff-free quota
regime.
(c) Eliminated all export bans. All formal bans were eliminated. However, exports
of some products remained effectively banned in two ways. First, the system of
high minimum farm-gate prices functioned as an export ban, especially for wheat,
particularly when combined with the system of ex ante licensing for exports,
under which exporters had to show compliance with applicable rules before being
given a license. In addition, export taxes were introduced for grains and oilseeds
at levels that served as effective export bans.
(d) Liberalized the retail sales prices of cereals and other cereal products.
However, the same decree imposed controls on the minimum prices ;at which
farrners could sell at the farmgate.



- 13 -
(e) Removed non-tariff barriers against import and export of fertilizers. This
was a helpful step, but fertilizer remained subject to a punishingly high import
duty of 40 percent.
(f) Abolished subsidies for wheat, wheat flour, bread, and other cereal products.
Direct subsidies were eliminated, although municipality-owned bakeries and the
few bakeries still state-owned continue to receive some indirect subsidies, since
they were not charged rent.
3.4   In short, while the Government took significant steps in mid-1997 toward
liberalizing trade and prices of agricultural products, the reforms were incomplete. Some
commitments made during the discussions on the CIRL-such as not to impose export
taxes on products when direct export controls were eliminated and to offer for. sale all
state trading companies and all state grain mills by the end of 1997-were not fulfilled.
The Government's reluctance to further liberalize the trade and pricing regime was
largely driven by a fear of repetition of the previous year's shortages, combined with a
perception that the controls could be used to fight corruption2, and perhaps with some
lingering desire to maintain a vestige of central planning-type controls over a strategic
sector.
3.5    Since these first steps, however, the Government has made steady progress in
liberalizing trade in agricultural products. All licensing requirements (automatic and
non-automatic) for exports and imports of agricultural products and livestock have now
been removed, with the exception of wood3. The Government has also discontinued the
practice of allowing duty-free imports within quotas of food items projected by the
"material balances" calculations to be in temporary short supply. Elimination of the
automatic licensing regime is significant because it lends credibility to the Government's
commitment not to undertake ad hoc interventions as in the past.  Without the
information from the license applications, the Government will not be able to monitor ex
ante4 trade in these items. This will in turn reduce the ability-and temptation-to
micro-manage. This credible commitment will reassure farmers and traders that they can
make decisions based on market fundamentals, without worrying about ad hoc changes in
trade policy.
3.6    The export taxes that were imposed on grains and oilseeds when they were
removed from the non-automatic licensing regime have now been phased out. In
addition, other long-standing export taxes (wool, hides and skins and live animals) have
been removed. Thus, no export taxes remain on agricultural products, consistent with the
Government's commitment to develop an open, export-oriented  economy.   The
2 This fundamentally misdiagnosed the cause of the crisis. The corruption and shortages associated in the
Government's mind with exports in 1996 were in reality caused by the trade and price controls, which
created huge rents for those who were sufficiently lucky, skillful, or corrupt to be able to buy cheap grain
domestically and export it for a much higher price.
3 It makes sense to maintain controls on wood exports as a conservation measure for a natural resource with
uncertain ownership rights until clear ownership is established or a stumpage fee system can be put in
4place.
Of course, the Government will still receive the same statistical information on trade flows on these items
as it receives for other products from Customs data.



- 14-
Government has also abolished the contract pricing system, which was the last vestige of
price controls, so prices are now freely determined between buyers and sellers in the
market.
3.7    The Government has also taken steps to expand farmers' access to imported
inputs. One such step is the reduction of the tariff on fertilizer imports (fonnerly 40
percent) to 35 percent. Fertilizer imports, 249,000 tons in 1992, fell to around 33,000
tons in 1995 and 39,000 tons in 1996. While there are inconsistent data on total fertilizer
use, it is clear that use has fallen significantly during the 1990s. Fertilizer prices in
Bulgaria have been very high. While there are multiple causes of the high price of
fertilizer and reductions in its use and imports, the 40 percent tariff has certainly been a
contributing factor, so its reduction will provide significant benefits for farmers. The
Government has also committed itself to further reductions in the tariff to 25 percent in
January 2001 and 20 percent in 2002.
3.8    The Government is also amending its seed laws and regulations, which have until
now required that before being imported, varieties had to first be submitted for MAFAR
approval ("registration"), which required lengthy testing. This is a common requirement
among developing countries, based mainly on a paternalistic assumption that farmers are
not capable of making good decisions on their own as to which varieties they should
plant. There is now considerable evidence from countries that have reformed seed laws
that this assumption is incorrect, and that in fact these reforms allow farmers access to
technology that they would otherwise be denied. (This was demonstrated most recently
in Romania, where the Government adopted the EU's Common Catalogue of Seeds under
the ASAL, with good results.) The Council of Ministers of Bulgaria has now submitted
legislation to the National Assembly to allow automatic registration in the country of all
seed varieties in the EU Common Catalogue of Seeds.5  This is both a step toward
accession and a step which will have salutary effects on productivity. While this
legislation is pending in the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers has passed an
ordinance with the same effect, which will allow farmers to take immediate advantage of
the changed policy.
B. LAND MARKET DEVELOPMENT
3.9    The current government has attached high priority to activating a functional land
market. The first priority has been to complete land restitution and titling. Among other
actions, it has increased resources devoted to this and has eliminated the fee for issuance
of notarial deeds. It has also reduced the conveyance tax to 2 percent for all land, with
the basis being the actual market value of the land (or tax assessment value). This has
paid off in an acceleration of the process, so that now (April 1999) over 80 percent of
eligible land has been restituted, and 24 percent (of all eligible land) titled. This exceeds
5 Under the EU system, any variety tested and approved for one country is normally automatically accepted
in all the other EU countries. Thus, farmers in each country have access to a tremendous range of varieties
in the Common Catalogue. Even this system is somewhat restrictive relative to the system used in the U.S.
and India, among others. In these countries, varieties do not have to be approved by the government to be
sold, so farmers have access to an even wider assortment of varieties than do farmers in the EU. However,
for countries which will in the near future accede to the EU, it makes more sense to adopt the EU system.



- 15 -
the targets agreed for the ASAL. The Government is committed to completion of the
process, with all eligible land restituted and titled by the end of 1999.
3.10 The Government has also turned its attention to removing other remaining
administrative and institutional barriers to land market development. To further increase
security of tenure, the Government has submitted to the National Assembly amendments
to the Law on Ownership and Use of Agricultural Land (LOUAL) that would give the
documents (decisions) issued by the Municipal Land Commissions the power of notarial
deeds. Other amendments to the LOUAL which have been passed by the National
Assembly eliminate the ceiling (currently 30 ha) on the size of agricultural plots which
can be bought and sold within two years of restitution and eliminate the upper limit on
the area that can be leased (previously 600 has.).
3.11 The Govermment recognizes that a safe and cost effective system of registration of
real estate property must be designed as a matter of urgency and implemented
progressively throughout the country to protect the rights of owners, tenants and financial
institutions and protect all interested parties against fraud and high transaction costs.
This is also considered essential to strengthen the confidence of families, farmers and
businesses to improve their land and property, gain access to cheaper credit, and facilitate
the more intensive and sustainable use of their assets. There is general consensus in the
country to replace the existing personal system of notarizing deeds with a parcel-based
registration system that will be linked to a unified cadastre. The present institutional
arrangement also should be re-engineered to create either a single agency responsible for
real estate and registration and cadastre or two agencies working closely together. A law
for real estate registration and unified cadastre, which outlines the institutional set up and
the technical framework for implementing the cadastre and real estate registration, has
been submitted to the National Assembly. The World Bank is preparing an investment
project to assist the Government in setting up the cadastre and registration system.
C. FOOD SECURITY AND CEREALS MARKETING
3.12 As described above, the activities of the state-owned cereals marketing agency,
Zarneni Hrani (ZH), have been quite disruptive and an obstacle to the development of a
vibrant private sector in grain marketing. This is not unique to Bulgaria; the experiences
of other countries that have such intervention systems in Eastern Europe and elsewhere
has not been any more encouraging. Grain intervention agencies in Poland, Croatia and
Turkey, among others, have encountered severe financial difficulties in defending
minimum  prices.   More importantly, their actions have de-stabilized markets
(notwithstanding their legal mandate to do the opposite) and discouraged the evolution of
a well fimctioning private sector.
3.13 To encourage private sector development in this market the Government has
followed a four-track strategy: 1) dismantle ZH and ensure that it is not replaced by
another similar intervention agency; 2) ensure that the State Reserves and Wartime
Stockpile is not operated in a market-disruptive way; 3) remove regulatory obstacles to
private traders, and 4) support the development of a private warehouse receipts system to
encourage storage and trade and to unlock private financing for producers, traders and
processors.



- 16-
3.14  First, the Government is committed to abolishing ZH as a legal entity. Of the
assets owned at the beginning of 1998-including about 924,000 tons of warehouse
space-almost one-half has been privatized, with the exception of around 180,000 tons of
capacity transferred to the State Reserves. Progress was especially impressive during late
1998 and early 1999, and targets for the ASAL have been exceeded. The Government
has closed the Sofia headquarters of ZH, and all that remains of the company now are a
few regional offices which are overseeing the completion of the privatization of company
assets. Privatization will be completed and ZH terminated as a legal entity by the end of
1999. Although the Grain Law (and previously the State Reserves Act) authorizes the
Government to set up another intervention agency with functions similar to ZH, it has
pledged not to do so. To lend credibility to this commitment, the Goverrnent has
amended the State Reserves Act to remove references to such an agency, and has also
pledged that it will in the medium term amend the Grain Law to remove the clause
authorizing an agency with this function (with the exception of the agency needed to
implement the Common Agricultural Policy).
3.15  Second, the storage capacity of the State Reserves has been limited to 430,000
metric tons, and it will store no more than 320,000 tons of grains for any extended
period.6 It was agreed during the preparation of the policy notes and subsequent
discussions that this would meet legitimate security needs, while not creating an
"overhang" large enough to threaten market stability. The State Reserves has also
committed 1) to carry out any purchases or sales via the commodity exchange or by
competitive tender to make transactions transparent and minimize rent-seeking
opportunities, and 2) to limit transactions to 50 percent of the maximum stock level on an
annualized basis. In the event, it has until now not carried out any sales or purchases.
3.16 Third, with technical support from the USDA, ACDI/VOCA and the B3ank, the
Government has made significant progress in setting up the institutions necessary for an
efficient private trading system. One cornerstone of this is the warehouse receipts
system. This system, which greatly enhances efficiency of grain markets in most
developed economies, facilitates the issuance of receipts for stored grain. These receipts
verify title and can be used to secure loans and to transfer ownership without physically
moving the grain. The Government has passed legislation and regulations to enable
licensed warehouses to issue receipts, to enter into commercial contracts usiilg stored
grain as collateral, and to establish a privately managed and funded indemnity fund to
secure depositors of grain against fraud or other losses. The licensing is carried out by
the National Grain Service, and agent of the MAFAR, but with participation by the
private sector in formulating conditions for licensing and in licensing decisions, Several
warehouses are in the process of being licensed and a few receipts have been issued and
used as collateral under a pilot program; thus, the system has begun to function, though
so far on a small scale. As the private marketing channels develop, the threat of ad hoc
state interventions diminishes, and real interest rates decline, it is likely that more and
more users will take advantage of the system. Because of what the Government views as
past abuses and involvement of a criminal element, the National Grain Service requires
registration of grain traders. As with warehouse licensing, the MAFAR has involved the
private sector in formulation of registration criteria and in licensing procedures.
6 It is necessary to have capacity larger than actual storage needs to allow for stock rotation.



- 17 -
D. PIUVATIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL AND AGROINDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES
3.17 The ASAL would also support the Government's privatization program for assets
in the agricultural sector, but not related to grains, including those under the control of
both the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agrarian
Reform. Those long-term assets under the MOI relevant to this operation are mainly
food processing enterprises. Of these, 85 percent of the assets have been privatized or are
in liquidation. The MAFAR has also controlled some enterprises (for example, pig and
poultry enterprises, machinery services, greenhouses, among others), and of these, almost
60 percent have now been privatized (or are in liquidation), exceeding the ASAL target
of 55 percent. This includes over 70 percent of the grain milling capacity and 14 of 24
enterprises previously belonging to the state-owned seed company, Sortovi Semena.
Privatization of the seed company assets will significantly increase the private sector's
role in this key input market, and will complement the other major reform in this market,
the adoption of the EU Common Catalog of Seeds (see trade policy section).
3.18 The Government is committed to completion of the privatization of all
agricultural sector and food industry assets by the end of March 2000. To this end, it has
recently made several changes to the law, in order to address key issues of and obstacles
to privatization. These include amendments to facilitate writing off the debts of
companies, establish better division of responsibilities between the Privatization Agency
and the branch ministries, limit the preferences given to management-employee buyouts,
and change the treatment of investment vouchers.
3.19  The Government has also agreed to expedite the transfer of responsibility for
operation and maintenance of small-scale irrigation assets to water users' associations.
While this transfer had been made to a few associations with assistance from the Bank's
pilot project, the process had been stalled for some time, with the Irrigation Systems
Company ISC) reluctant to make further transfers which would erode its power base.
The MAFAR has now issued an order stating that in the future operation and
maintenance responsibility for these assets will be transferred on demand by the WUAs,
with authority to approve the transfer moved from the ISC to a unit in MAFAR, with no
depreciation charges, and with the MAFAR (not the ISC) as arbiter of disputes arising
under the transfer contract. On-farm assets irrigating around 100,000 hectares (out of
around 600,000 irrigable hectares) have been transferred to 42 WUAs which have
submitted applications under the World Bank pilot program.  Furthermore, the
longstanding logjam in transferring ISC-owned assets was recently broken, and assets
associated with around 22,000 hectares have now been transferred. The Government
plans to continue this process with individual WUAs and to facilitate the formation of
associations of WJUAs, which would be able to take responsibility for increasingly larger
infrastructure, for example, canals and pumping stations that service large areas. It is
also training MAFAR staff to help organize WUAs and assisting them in applying for
transfer, thereby institutionalizing the work until now carried out only by the World Bank
pilot project unit.
E. RURAL FINANCE
3.20 The State Fund Agriculture (SFA) provides the main government channel to
subsidize agricultural production. This mechanism has the advantage-compared to



- 18 -
subsidy schemes in many countries-of being transparent budgetary transfers. However,
as it currently operates, the SFA has a number of negative features. Of most concerm, it
preempts the development of the multiple channels between agriculture and the financial
system that characterize well-functioning economies and interferes with privale grain
marketing channels. Since this is clearly not the intention of either the Government or the
management of the SFA, reforms are needed, but the process is complicated for several
reasons. One is the "chicken and egg" nature of the problem, with the Government
reluctant to withdraw SFA from a market where there are not yet well-developed private
alternatives, the development of which it prevents by its own activities. The seconid is the
fact that the SFA will be the counterpart agency for pre-accession funds under the EU's
Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD). Thus, it
cannot be simply abolished, but rather must be restructured so as to perform effectively in
this new role. The final complicating factor is the current state of the Bulgarian financial
system, which is improving, but still in disarray.
3.21  In recognition of the political and technical difficulties inherent in reforms in the
rural financial sector, the Government and the Bank have agreed to a phased approach to
reducing government involvement, beginning with those policies which create the
greatest obstacles to private sector development. Under this strategy, top priority will go
to reducing the adverse impact of the SFA's program of direct short-term lending. These
loans have the greatest potential to crowd out private credit channels and the mechanism
through which they are administered keeps the Government involved in procureinent of
grain. The Government has agreed to a step-wise reduction of the resources available for
this credit program, so that the program is eliminated following the crop year 2000/2001,
at the latest. This phase-out was begun with a reduction of 25 percent between 1998 and
1999.
3.22 The issue of long-term credit is more difficult, since banks are making very few
long-term loans, even in sectors where there is no crowding out by state lending. The
strategy here would focus on technical assistance to ensure that alternative private credit
providers are able to fill the gap as the SFA's programs are reduced and reoriented
toward providing counterpart funds for the SAPARD. Thus, no up-front reductions are
envisioned for the SFA's long-term lending programs. Rather, the long-term strategy
was discussed in a workshop in May, aiming to generate ideas to help the Government
develop its strategy to promote these alternative channels (which would include
equipment leasing, mortgage credit, and other long-term credit sources common in
developed markets). The workshop also disseminated information on how these c]hannels
operate in other countries to increase the Government's confidence that these will also
develop in Bulgaria in the appropriate policy environment. Long-term finance issuies will
also be addressed in tri-partite discussions among the Government, the EU, and thLe Bank
on how to restructure SFA as a SAPARD counterpart agency, and how the World Bank
can leverage our efforts with SAPARD to have the maximum impact.
3.23 In the meantime, the Government has agreed to several principles by which the
SFA will operate its long-term lending program, and which should maximize its
efficiency and minimize it effects in crowding out private credit. First, it will aimortize
investment loans over the life of the loan, with at least annual payments of principal.



- 19-
3.24  Second, it has established objective criteria for bank eligibility in SFA programs
(e.g. minimum balance sheet standards) so as not to exclude or discriminate against good
candidates, but will exclude from SFA programs banks having more than 10 percent
nonperforming loans from the previous year's loans. In addition, the SFA's interest rate
charge on its long-term funds to banks (for onlending to borrowers for investments) has
been raised to 1/3 of the cost of deposit funds of commercial banks.
4. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. RATIONALE FOR THE LoAN
4.1   The current Government inherited an economy in disarray and a set of agricultural
policies that heavily taxed farmers and relied to a large extent on planning mechanisms
that in important respects differed little from those used under socialism. Privatization of
state-owned assets and land restitution and titling had almost stalled.   The
macroeconomic situation was hyperinflationary. The financial system had collapsed. In
short, Bulgaria's progress in the transition to a well-functioning market economy had
virtually ground to a halt.
4.2   The Governmelnt moved decisively to reverse this situation. Because of its
importance, the agricultural sector has been accorded high priority by both the
Government and the Bank. While the reforms in the agricultural sector are far from
complete, progress is impressive in all the important areas of the Government's
agriculture sector adjustment program, which is supported by this ASAL. The sector still
suffers from the legacy of the past, but markets are beginning to work and output is
recovering. These efforts deserve to be supported. The proposed ASAL will not only
bolster the reforms directly; it will be an important signal to other potential investors of
the opportunities available, and should encourage their participation as well.
4.3   The deepening of Bulgaria's reform  process is dependent on continued
international support to help meet its external financing needs under the three-year
Extended Fund Facility agreed with the IMF. Unforeseen developments beyond
Bulgaria's control have significantly increased the financing gap for 1999. The external
environment has weakened more than expected, partner country demand has slowed,
world prices for key exports continue to fall, and international investors remain cautious.
The external current account deficit was estimated to reach as high as 4.2 percent of GDP
in 1999 with moderate growth in import volumes and a further decline in export volumes.
The Kosovo crisis will further significantly increase the financing gap. This is mainly
due to the loss of direct and transit trade, reduced tourism receipts, and weakened
economic and investor confidence. While uncertainties preclude precise estimates, the
incremental financing gap in 1999 as a result of the Kosovo crisis is projected to be in the
order of US$300-400 million.7
4.4   Pledges from Bulgaria's development partners at the joint G-24 Consultative
Group Meeting on April 21, 1999 successfully bridged the financing needs estimated
7 This assumes that the crisis will be prolonged. If the crisis is resolved more quickly, the incremental gap
would be lower.



- 20 -
prior to the impact of the Kosovo crisis. Some multilateral and bilateral agencies
increased their pledges in response to the Kosovo crisis. The Bank's response was to
increase the amount of this proposed loan from a planned US$50 million to US$75
million. The Government and the international community need to continue to make
concerted efforts to successfully tackle the challenge presented by the weakened external
environment. For its part, the Government is already adjusting its economic program. It
has tightened the fiscal stance and reaffirmed Bulgaria's commitment to continued
structural reforms, in particular privatization, liquidation, and restructuring of enterprises,
and increased financial discipline in the enterprise sector. But policy adjustment alone
will not be sufficient. The international community also needs to do its share by
mobilizing timely balance-of-payments support on concessional terms, given Bulgaria's
already high debt burden, to avoid the need for a further significant contraction of
economic activity.
B. COMPOSITION AND QUALITY OF THE BANK PORTFOLIO
4.5   The Bank-financed loan portfolio in Bulgaria currently consists of ten operations.
They are designed to help upgrade social protection and health services, support
community-based development, provide technical assistance, support environmental
remediation, and develop energy, water supply, and railway infrastructure. Aggregate
lending for these operations, net of cancellations, amounts to US$438.5 million. Of
these, one operation-the Social Protection Adjustment Loan (US$80 million)-is
providing balance-of-payments support; the remainder are investment loans. The
undisbursed balances for all loans as of April 30, 1999 total US$219.2 million.
4.6   The performance of the Bulgaria portfolio has made a remarkable turnaround in
recent years. During the FY94-96 period, about one-half of the projects were rated
unsatisfactory for either Development Objectives or Implementation Progress. The
disbursement ratio was also low-in the 5 to 7 percent range, compared to an ECA
average of about 18 percent. As of June 30, 1998, the number of unsatisfactory projects
had dropped to 38 percent of the total, and the disbursement ratio had increased to about
23 percent. Bulgaria's portfolio has improved further since then. As of April 30, 1999,
all problem projects have been upgraded to satisfactory and the disbursement ratio is
about 21 percent, exceeding the ECA average of about 13.4 percent. These results
exceed the milestones agreed in FY98 in the context of the CAS.
4.7   This turnaround is the result of several initiatives: the integration of portfolio
issues into all aspects of the country dialogue; proactive Resident Mission-based
supervision; regular portfolio performance reviews carried out jointly by the Government
and the Bank, accompanied by decisive action to restructure or cancel non-performing
loans; and more recently, the establishment of a unit for coordination of World Bank-
supported activities at the level of the Council of Ministers. The Bank and the
Government intend to maintain the increased level of attention to portfolio management
through our general dialogue, regular project supervision, and the joint portfolio review
process.



-21 -
C. THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) AND THE ASAL
4.8   As recognized in the CAS (endorsed by the Board on April 28, 1998), a strong
Bank group effort in agriculture is critical, given the sector's role in the economy and the
dearth of alternative international partners for the Government in the sector. The Bank's
basic strategy, as enunciated in the CAS, has been 1) to carry out in-depth sector work,
disseminating this to generate grass-roots support for a reform program; 2) support the
broad sectoral reform program through adjustment lending; 3) prepare investment
projects in areas where we have some comparative advantage. Substantial sector work
has already been completed in preparation for the ASAL, and more targeted analytical
work is ongoing on selected topics. The ASAL itself implements the first phase of the
second prong of this strategy. Further ASALs will be prepared as needed to further
advance the reform agenda. The third prong is being implemented by projects dealing
with the irrigation sector and land markets. The IFC envisages investments in both
agriculture and agribusiness to buttress the supply response to the improved policy
environment. The ASAL reform program also supports other general CAS objectives,
including private sector development and strengthening and rationalizing the role of the
state.
D. LOAN AMOUNT AND TRANCHING
4.9   All conditions have been fulfilled and the proposed ASAL is a one tranche
operation. Upon loan effectiveness, Euro 71.12 million would be released. The loan
would be payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans in the chosen currency (Euros).
E. LOAN CONDITIONS
This section enumerates actions which the Government has taken to meet conditions in
the ASAL Policy Matrix, all of which have now been fulfilled.
* Promoted development of a land market through further land restitution and
titling, and established a supportive legal regime. To this end, the following
measures have been taken:
(a) Restitution of at least 80 percent of the agricultural land area eligible for
restitution
(b) Completion of issuance of ownership documents on at least 18 percent of the
agricultural land area eligible for restitution
(c) Reduction of the conveyance tax on land transactions to a minimum so as not to
impede exchange of agricultural land
(d) Submission of a Land Registration and Cadastre Law, satisfactory to the Bank, to
the National Assembly
(e) Amendment of the Land Leasing Law, eliminating the upper limit on area that can
be leased.



- 22 -
(f) Amendment of Land Law to eliminate ceilings on land sales (currently 30
hectares for a period of two years after restitution).
Supported development of a private grain market, while protecting domestic
food security, through undertaking the following measures:
(a) Measures undertaken to privatize the state grain marketing agency, Zarneni Hrani:
1) Privatization of at least 449,000 mt of Zarneni Hrani storage capacity (out of
924,000 mt capacity existing in January, 1998)
2) Placement of all remaining Zarneni Hrani assets not scheduled for transfer to
the State Reserves and not currently in the MAFAR privatization program,
into the Ministry's program; and scheduling all remaining Zarneni Hrani
assets for privatization, or if not privatization, initiation of liquidation (with
the appointment of a liquidator) in 1999
(b) Measures to limit the State Grain Reserves stock levels and role, and to prevent
adverse market effects arising from its operation:
1) Limitation of grain storage capacity in the State Reserve and Wartime
Stockpile to no more than 430,000 metric tons
2) Removal of any references to 'release of stocks for purposes of stabilization'
from the State Reserves Act presented to the Council of Ministers, and
removal of provisions for creation of a commercial company within the State
Reserves
3) Transfer of no more than 180,000 mt storage capacity from Zarneni Hrani
assets to the State Reserves
4) Limitation of grain stocks in the State Reserves and Wartime Stockpile to no
more than 320,000 mt
5) For the purposes of stock conditioning and turnover, limitation of total
purchases and total sales of the State Reserve over a twelve month period, to
no more than 50 percent of the maximum allowable stock level
6) Implementation by the State Reserves of all purchases and sales via
competitive tender or through the commodity exchange, with transactions
conducted competitively at market prices.
Privatized agricultural enterprises through the following steps:
(a) Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for
at least 70 percent of grain milling capacity in the MAFAR privatization program
(b) Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for
at least 14 Sortovi Semena (seed) enterprises, out of a total of 24 enterprises
(c) Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for
at least 55 percent of long term assets of agricultural enterprises in the MAFAR
privatization program (excluding irrigation assets from the calculation)



- 23 -
(d) Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for
at least 85 percent of long-term food industry assets in the Ministry of Industry
privatization program
(e) Advancing privatization of irrigation systems through the following actions:
1) MAFAR and the Council of Ministers issued an ordinance stating that
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) responsibility for on-farm systems and
other associated distribution systems, irrigation fields, canals and drains, small
dam lakes, compensating basins, water intakes, diversion dams, and pumping
stations, will in the future be transferred on demand to any registered Water
Users Association (WUA) that requests such transfer, with no requirement for
depreciation payments. Requests will be submitted to a designated unit in
MAFAR, not the Irrigation Systems Company.
2) MAFAR issued a ministerial ordinance describing procedures and a model
contract for transfer of O&M responsibility to registered Water Users
Associations (WUAs) for on-farm  assets and other structures.   The
instructions state that no depreciation payments will be required for the assets,
and the contract states that the ultimate arbitrator of disputes arising regarding
the terms of the contract shall be the Ministry of Agriculture.
3) MAFAR transfered O&M responsibility for on-farm and other structures to at
least 42 WUAs that have submitted requests for such transfer. By this and
other measures, MAFAR transfered on-farm systems irrigating at least
100,000 has. It also transfered O&M responsibility for the other off-farm
structures related to 22,000 has. of irrigated area, including distribution
systems, irrigation fields, canals and drains, small dam lakes, compensating
basins, water intakes, diversion dams, and pumping stations.
. Limited volumes of short-term finance (maturity under one year) provided
through State Fund Agriculture and set criteria for allocation of long-term loans
(maturity over one year) that are minimally distorting, through the following
measures:
(a) Reduced total short-term financing provided by SFA in its 1999 budget by 25
percent from the level provided in 1998
(b) Established the following criteria for SFA long term lending:
1) Raising SFA's interest rate charge to banks intermediating investment funds
to at least one-third of commercial banks' cost of deposit funds
2) Amortizing long-term loans from SFA over the life of the loan, with at least
annual payments of principal
3) Establishment of objective criteria for bank eligibility in SFA programs (for
example, minimum standards for balance sheets) so as not to exclude or
discriminate against good candidates
4) Excluding from  SFA  programs banks having more than  10 percent
nonperforming loans from the previous year's loans.



- 24 -
* Liberalized domestic and international trade in agricultural products (primary
agricultural and agroindustrial products, including processed goods and inputs)
by the following actions:
(a) Elimination of all quaotitative restrictions on international trade in agricultural
products, with the exception of export quotas for textiles and clothing under
international agreements;
(b) Elimination of all controls on prices of agricultural products, and ending the
contract pricing system, which monitors wholesale and retail prices and margins;
(c) Elimination of registration, licensing, and contract approval requirements for
exports and imports of agricultural products, with the exception of licensing
carried out for a specified list of products for reasons of conservation, sanitary or
phytosanitary controls (endangered species, wild plant and wildlife products,
unprocessed timber, chemicals for plant protection, and sowing seeds);
(d) Elimination of export taxes for all agricultural products, with the exception of
unprocessed timber and lumber;
(e) Liberalization of the import tariff regime through the following steps:
1) elimination of tariff exemptions for all agricultural products, with the
exception of imports carried out under international commitments (which are
specified by decree of the Council of Ministers)
2) reduction of import tariffs on nitrogen fertilizers to no more than 35 percent
(f) Passage of an ordinance of the Council of Ministers to allow automatic
registration within Bulgaria of seed varieties listed in the EU Common Catalogue.
F. DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT
4.10 In accordance with the February 8, 1996 Operational Directive on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral
Adjustment Loans, funds disbursed under the proposed ASAL will be released against
satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program and progress shown in carrying
out the program set forth in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 1). Disbursements will
not be linked to any specific purchases. Thus, evidence will not be needed to support
disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be necessary.
G. REPORTING, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
4.11 The Government of Bulgaria will maintain accounts and records, or ensure that
such items are maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with
provisions of the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintained in a
form acceptable to the Bank, and the Bank may require an audit of such records by
independent auditors.



- 25 -
H. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
4.12 Reporting requirements will ensure that the Bank is able to monitor developments
in some areas which are of special concern. These include several measures of credit
market activity by the State Fund Agriculture and grain market activity by the State
Reserves. This information will be collected by a special office attached to the Deputy
Prime Minister. Also, data from a recent survey of rural areas will be analyzed to provide
a baseline against which future impact can be measured. This and other activities
associated with preparation of a second ASAL will allow close monitoring of continuing
progress in reforms, and impact on the ground. In addition, preparation activities for two
other projects dealing with the irrigation sector and land market will monitor
developments in those specific areas.
I. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE ASAL
4.13 The ASAL will have no significant impact on the environment. While any
improvement in production incentives is expected to increase intensity of production,
thereby increasing use of pesticides and fertilizers somewhat, input use is currently at
very low levels and will not rise dramatically over the short term. The exact impact
depends on supply responses to reform, relative price changes and input substitution
patterns, but any effects on the environment are likely to be small. The impact of land
policy changes on the environment is likely to be positive, given that this will restore and
secure private property rights in land, improving incentives to prevent its degradation.
The proposed loan has been examined by the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development unit of the ECA region and placed in Environmental Category C.
J. POTENTIAL RISKS
4.14 The main risk, as with any strong adjustment program, is that a political backlash
might undermine support for the reforms and cause their subsequent reversal. We
consider this unlikely in Bulgaria for several reasons. First, and most importantly, the
Government's ownership of the ASAL reform program is beyond question. The goals of
the program are the Government's own. The role of the Bank team has been to assist in
resolving design issues to make the program more effective and coherent, to push for
more expeditious actions when appropriate, and to help build support among the public
and the technocrats who will implement the reforms. Second, specific to the agricultural
policy reforms, is that these have been discussed publicly and thoroughly with
stakeholders via the agricultural policy notes and several associated workshops in Sofia
and regional centers, which were held specifically to explain and build public support for
the reform program. The reform program in rural financial policy has also been publicly
discussed through a series of more recent workshops. Third, the general economic
policies of the previous government were so thoroughly discredited by the events leading
up to the 1996 crisis that reforms enjoy fairly broad support in Bulgaria, even when they
involve short-term pain. Fourth, EU accession is a top priority for the Government and
people of Bulgaria, and the structural adjustment program is correctly viewed as a step
toward that goal.
4.15 Notwithstanding the above considerations, some parts of the program will remain
more vulnerable than the others. The grain market in particular is a very sensitive sector,
due largely to the shortages during the crisis of 1996. Any real or imagined shortages



- 26 -
will create pressure for re-imposition of trade controls or for producer subsidies, and any
problems with the marketing chain may tempt the Government to resort to direct
intervention. Given Bulgaria's natural comparative advantage in wheat production and
the improvement in producers' incentives due to the removal of trade and price controls,
the probability of shortages is relatively remote. In addition, because of reforms
supported by the ASAL, farmers will have access to more seed varieties and the price of
fertilizer will be lower, thereby further improving production incentives. We will
continue to work with the Government and with USDA, USAID, and ACDI/ VOCA to
improve the environment for private grain marketing. Another part of the program that
remains vulnerable is the transfer of operation and maintenance responsibility for
irrigation assets to users. This runs contrary to vested interests, and continued transfer on
a larger scale may be opposed on putatively technical grounds. The preparation work for
the Irrigation Restructuring and Participatory Privatization Project will allow us to
continue to work with the Government to ensure that technical problems are resolved and
bureaucratic obstacles overcome.
4.16  A second risk with any adjustment program is that macroeconomic instability will
undermine the reforms. The risk is minimal in Bulgaria since the adoption of the
currency board arrangement has successfully stabilized inflation and allowed the
Government to run a budget surplus last year.
K. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF, EU, US, AND JAPAN
4.17 The preparation and implementation of ASAL reforms has been carried out in
close cooperation with a number of other donors. Overall preparation was supported by a
PHRD grant from the Government of Japan. Technical assistance and investments of
other donors before and during preparation laid the foundation for ASAL reforms in
several areas.
4.18  The EU-PHARE program provided information and logistical support to ASAL
preparation teams, and from the beginning of preparation has been apprised of our
discussions with the Government. PHARE's analytical work and a pilot investment
program to assist the land restitution program also helped formulate and implement
actions in the Land Reform section of the ASAL .
4.19 The US has sponsored assistance to the Government in formulating grain market
policy (through USDA) and in setting up the legal and institutional framework for a
warehouse receipts system (through ACDINVOCA and USAID). The preparation work
for the ASAL has benefited from synergies with these efforts, as we have participated in
the associated policy discussions, and have coordinated our own technical assistance to
warehouse receipts system development, so that it complements the assistance from
ACDI/VOCA. The ASAL team has also carried out informal discussions with the EBRD
to suggest that it should consider the possibility of an investment operation in Bulgaria to
support the warehouse receipts system.
4.20  Preparation of the ASAL has been carried out in close collaboration with the IMF.
The initial agreement with the Government on a policy matrix for the ASAL was reached
while ASAL team members were participating in a workshop organized for the Council
of Ministers by the IMF in March, 1998. Subsequent discussions with the Fund and



- 27 -
Government resulted in incorporation of several key agricultural policy actions into the
program supported by the Fund's EFF, approved on September 25, 1998.
5. RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
May 25, 1999



- 28 -                             Annex 1
Page 1 of 11
BULGARIA
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Letter from the Government of Bulgaria on Its Medium-term Policy for the
Agricultural Sector
The backdrop for our medium-term agricultural policy is the economic collapse of
1996 and early 1997, which led to election of our administration and establishment of a
new set of economic policies. Our will to set a new course for the economy is expressed
in the Government manifesto, "Bulgaria 2001: Program of the Government of the
Republic of Bulgaria, 1997-2001", which sets out the medium-tenn goals that govern
our actions:
"The reform-minded Government has become now a fact of life as the
reform-minded majority itself has. After many years of imitation of reforms,
plundering of the state, and de-capitalization of the Bulgarian economy, there is at
last a chance for Bulgaria to take the right way and get back to normal life in the
broadest sense of the word. We are aware that the activities we are undertaking
today will have impact for decades ahead. The events of the last few years had at
least one positive, although in a sense tragic, aspect: it deprived the majority of the
Bulgarians of their illusions. They now understand that there is only one way-the
way of reform. They know that the difficulties we are going through today are not
engendered by them, but these are an outcome of the lack of reforms. They know
that the reforms can only be strong-minded and drastic. The ultimate goal of our
program is for Bulgaria to enter the new millennium as a civilized European country.
We know how difficult this will be; we know that the confidence we have received is
unique and that it will not be given to us again. That is why we are determined not
to ruin the chance given to us by the Bulgarian people through their votes."
To progress toward these objectives, we have already undertaken many difficult
reforms in a number of spheres. These include the adoption of a currency board
arrangement, which has successfully stabilized the inflationary macroeconomic
environment, so that inflation last year was less than 1 percent, compared to several
hundred percent in 1996. We have also undertaken a broad range of structural reforms.
The core of the structural reform program continues to be the privatization process. The
reforms, however, include important changes in policies regarding energy, agriculture,
trade, health, social security, public administration, and the judicial sector. These
actions have begun to pay off in the rekindling of economic growth, which reached 3-4
percent last year, compared to a contraction of around 9 percent in 1996. We recognize,
however, that these achievements must not create complacency, especially in the current
unsettled global economic environment. The experience of other countries shows that
partially completed reforms do not lay a firm foundation for economic growth and
development. Our intention is to continue to implement a full program of reforms to
complete as rapidly as possible the transition to a fully functioning market economy and
become a full-fledged member of the European Union.



- 29 -                       Annex I
Page 2 of 11
Agriculture is a key sector both in our overail strategy for transition to a market
economy and in the preparation for Bulgaria's accession to the EU. This is determined
both by the decisive role of the agrarian sector in the Bulgarian economy, its central role
in the EU common policies and significant (over 50%) share in the Community common
budget. In our view, the actions necessary for the restructuring of the agricultural sector
to meet the demands of the market are fully consistent, and indeed complementary, with
those necessary for accession.
In the next few years, in the period preceding the accession to the EU, the major
objectives of the agrarian policy of Bulgaria which guide our medium term program will
be:
* First, building a modem, competitive agrarian sector, meeting the economic
criteria for EU membership. We recognize that one of the key criteria enumerated
in the Acquis Communautaire is this;
*  Second, provision of a normal living standard for those employed in agriculture
and stock-breeding;
* Third, raising the consumer level protection through an increase in quality and
safety standards for consumer goods;
* Fourth, sustainable development of agriculture and stock-breeding as well as rural
regions in compliance with the environmental protection.
The necessary tasks following from these underlying goals are:
* completion of agricultural land property restoration;
* further implementation of the structural reform in agriculture;
* acceleration of privatization in the food-processing industry and the industries
providing inputs and services to agriculture and stock-breeding;
*  harmonization of Bulgarian legislation with the EU legislation in the area of
agriculture and stock-breeding, veterinary and phytosanitary control;
* preparation for implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the
EU and World Trade Organization (WTO) obligations;
* bringing administrative structures and procedures in compliance with EU
membership requirements;
* improvement of accessibility of Bulgarian agricultural commodities in the EU
markets;
* development of a program for rural development and priorities of Bulgaria for
making use of financing from EU Structural Funds.
We requested the support of the World Bank for our reform program in agriculture
in the form of an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan, by letter of Deputy Prime Minister
Bozhkov to Mr. Kenneth Lay on March 31, 1998. Since that time, we have held many
intensive discussions with Bank staff on design and implementation of the Government's
adjustment program in agriculture, and we have advanced on many fronts. In this letter,
we describe for each area of policy our objectives, our progress to date and our plans for
the future.



- 30 -                       Annex I
Page 3 of 11
Trade and Price Policy
We recognize that one important characteristic of a market-based, export-oriented
economy is an incentive framework that ensures that consumers and producers base their
decisions on prices that reflect the true value of goods and services to society. We are
committed to an economic policy of prices freely determined by market conditions, not
by administrative controls. Our trade policy will not rely on export controls or taxes
(apart from controls required by international treaties) and will include only low,
relatively uniform import duties with no non-tariff barriers to imports (with the exception
of those needed to enforce sanitary and phytosanitary norms or related to public security).
Domestic prices of products will thus be closely linked to international prices of similar
products, which represent the social value of products and services that are imported or
exported.
When the interim government assumed power, the prices of a number of food
products were still administered by a system of margin controls and retail price ceilings,
combined with subsidies on staples such as bread. While the purpose of these controls
was to safeguard consumers and producers from exploitation, it is clear that their actual
effect was to contribute to the economic crisis and shortages that characterized the
economy of that period. Since that time, we have moved quickly in stages to liberalize
these. We first abolished the direct controls on the margins and ceiling prices and
replaced them with a system of monitoring of contracts to ensure honesty in the
transactions between producers and marketing intermediaries, while allowing more
flexibility in price determination. At the same time, we abolished direct food subsidies
from the budget of the central government. Then, in mid-1997, we abolished the system
for monitoring contracts, as well, thereby completing the process of liberalization of retail
prices. The last vestige of price controls was the minimum price for wheat, which was
put in place because of a fear that criminals were engaging in extortion to force farmers
to accept prices below a true market value. This legal minimum price was abolished the
following season. Though the government maintains a support price system, farmers are
free to sell to others at whatever price is mutually agreed.
Other mechanisms used to keep consumer food prices low under previous
governments were administrative controls and taxes on exports. In 1996, there was an
extensive array of controls, including automatic and non-automatic licensing, and export
bans for some grains. This government began to phase out these controls in mid-1997.
Starting with the export ban on grains, we have by early 1999 abolished all export
controls and taxes on all food and agricultural products. This includes the system of
"automatic licensing", which was a mechanism used to monitor trade flows, and compute
the "material balances". This was used in the past as an indicator that tariff exemptions
within quotas or controls on exports were needed to micro-manage domestic supplies and
prices. Elimination of this mechanism will provide proof of this Government's intentions
to abstain from any such trade controls in the future, as we recognize that they are
fundamentally inconsistent with our objectives. We have now also eliminated all
temporary import duty exemptions for food and agricultural inputs and outputs. Finally,
we have revoked all taxes on exports of food and agricultural products. The only



- 31 -                       Annex 1
Page 4 of 11
exceptions to the general policy of abolishing non-tariff measures and export taxes are
those needed to comply with international agreements (e.g., textile and clothing quotas);
those needed for reasons of conservation (e.g., licensing for protection of endangered
species; export taxes on timber, until such time as a stumpage fee system can be put into
effect); or licenses needed for sanitary and phytosanitary controls and protection of public
health and safety.
It is clear from the recent performance of the sector that steps need to be taken to
improve the productivity of agriculture. It is also clear from the steep decline in fertilizer
use in recent years that increasing the incentives for fertilizer use will assist in recovery
of productivity. One of the early actions of this Government was to abolish controls on
imports and exports of fertilizer. We also plan to progressively lower the tariff on
imports of nitrogenous fertilizer, and have begun by reducing it from 40 percent to 35
percent in 1999. This will be followed by further reductions to 25 percent by January
2000 and 20 percent by January 2001. Another important source of productivity growth
in modem agriculture is technology embodied in improved seeds. To allow Bulgarian
farmers access to the best seed technology from abroad, and to harmonize Bulgarian
requirements with those of the EU, all varieties approved for use in the EU (as listed in
the EU's Common Catalogue of Seeds) will now be automatically allowed to be imported
into Bulgaria. This reform is in conformity with best practice in the world in this policy
area, and recognizes that farmers are the best judges of what varieties perform best under
their conditions. This Government also intends to undertake a more comprehensive
review of other regulations and licensing requirements that affect seeds and other
agricultural inputs and equipment (including laws on intellectual property rights) to
ensure that these are not unjustifiably restricting farmers' access to the best technology
available.
As a member of the World Trade Organization, Bulgaria has undertaken
obligations not to impose non-tariff barriers to imports, nor to raise tariffs above certain
bound levels. We are committed to lower maximum industrial product tariffs to 32.5
percent by January 2000 and 30 percent by January 2001. We will unequivocally abide
by those agreements.
Land Policy
A well-functioning land market based on rights of ownership and free disposition is
of fundamental importance for both agriculture and the non-agricultural sectors of the
economy. This is essential to strengthen the confidence of families, farmers and
businesses to improve their land and property, gain access to cheaper credit, and facilitate
the more intensive and sustainable use of their assets. This is being tackled on three
fronts: completion of restitution and conferring of ownership documents for land
previously not privately owned, removal of legal restrictions that retard land market
development, and improvement of land-related institutions.
Completion of the land restitution process, and conferring of ownership documents
for this land, are necessary pre-conditions for development of a land market in Bulgaria.



- 32 -                       Annex 1
Page 5 of 11
In recognition of this, these tasks were accorded the highest priority by this Government.
Because of lack of commitment by previous administrations, and or a number of
technical reasons, the process lagged behind its targets for years.  However, this
Government has taken a number of steps - including increasing the funding for its
administration - that have been successful in accelerating the process. By December,
1998, fully 80 percent of the land subject to restitution (excluding forest land) was
restituted, and our goal is to complete the process by the end of 1999.
Once the land is returned, it is necessary to give the new owners documents that
confer ownership. In the past, the process of giving ownership documents has gone
slowly, hampered by a number of requirements, including a multi-stage process that
involved issuance of a certificate by a land commission and then a notarization of the full
title. Both the fees and time required were deterrents for new owners to obtain title. In
addition, the slow pace of titling reflected low demand. For example many restituted
plots had multiple inheritors who needed time to decide on the division of land among
themselves (a process often taking up to two years) before requesting title.
Notwithstanding the strong efforts of this Government to persuade people to obtain full
title for their land, only 24 percent of the land to be restituted has been titled to date.
However, under a package of amendments to the Law on Ownership and Use of Farn
Land, we are now taking two steps to reduce the impediments to titling. First, the
amendments eliminate the fees for notarial deeds. Second, they make a notarial deed
unnecessary, by declaring that the documents issued by the Municipal Land Commissions
have the power of notarial deeds. By these measures, we believe the process can be
accelerated, and completed by the end of 1999.
The Government is also acting on a number of other fronts to encourage land
market development by liberalizing the rules for sale and lease of private land. In
amendments to the Land Leasing Law, we have made a number of improvements,
including eliminating the ceiling on the size of land parcels that can be leased (formerly
600 hectares), and the upper limit on duration of a lease (formerly 50 years). We have
also amended the Law on Ownership and Use of Farm Land to eliminate the ceiling on
the size of land plots that can be sold within two years after restitution (formerly 30
hectares). We have also revised the regime of taxation of land transactions. In the past,
conveyance taxes were imposed at differential rates for agricultural and non-agricultural
land (2 percent for the former and 12 percent for the latter), and were based on an
administratively determined valuation. The net effect of these two policies was that the
effective tax rate on land sale was sometimes quite high. We have unified the two rates
and revised the valuation system, so that all sales are taxed at 2 percent of the actual
market value (or the tax assessment value, if this is higher).
The Government recognizes that institutional reforms to the system of registration
of real estate property must be designed and implemented to protect the rights of owners,
tenants and financial institutions and protect all interested parties against fraud and high
transaction costs. There is general consensus in the country to implement a parcel-based
registration system linked to a unified cadastre. A law for real estate registration and
unified cadastre that would meet this goal has now been submitted to Parliament. We
will work with the World Bank to ensure that the draft legislation is improved, so that it



- 33 -                       Annex I
Page 6 of 11
creates the framework for a well-functioning cadastre and registration system. We will
work to pass this legislation in the fall of 1999. We intend to work in partnership with the
World Bank to implement this system nationwide and ensure that all parcels are
registered.
Rural Finance
Our agricultural reform program recognizes the critical role played by an efficient
financial sector in supporting agricultural restructuring and rural growth. This is also a
pre-condition for EU accession, which requires that acceding countries have competitive
rural economies. Such an economy cannot emerge without the development of financial
markets that serve the rural sector in an efficient and sustainable manner. Our vision is to
develop a financial system having the broadest possible outreach to rural entrepreneurs
and farmers, both large and small. As in developed market economies, suppliers of funds
in this system will include a wide range of institutions, not only banks but also insurance
companies, specialized investment funds, leasing firms, finance companies, domestic and
international trading concerns dealing in agricultural outputs and inputs, and others. This
will maximize the supply of finance to the rural sector and improve the chances for
integration of smaller farmers and rural non-farm enterprises into the financial system.
Our policy framework for rural finance is evolving as we learn more about the
types of constraints that exist in private financial markets. We are now carrying out a
large number of studies to better understand specific constraints to financial market
development and to develop measures that address them systematically. One important
element of our program is support for measures to develop bank lending. A precondition
for bank lending to agriculture is continued rapid progress in privatization of state banks,
and we are actively pursuing this with Bank support under a separate project (FESAL II),
and through an IMF Extended Fund Facility.
We know that banks and non-bank lenders do not currently extend credit to
agricultural borrowers in part because of a weak legal framework. This is a critical
missing element in the finance system, and includes lack of adequate laws allowing the
use of fixed and movable property as collateral. We have begun to address this through
preparation of amendments to the pledge law, which will improve the environment for
use of movables as collateral. We will press for passage of these amendments this year.
We are also looking at options for improvement in land mortgage legislation and have
commissioned a study that will present policy options in May, 1999. Finally, judicial
enforcement of debt contracts is another area of weakness. We will examine options to
improve enforcement mechanisms and take action to improve enforcement.
Lenders will not accept property as collateral without a properly functioning system
of registries. Registries for movable and fixed property are absent or poorly developed
and we are taking steps to fill this gap. A pilot registry for movable property has been
developed for Sofia. We intend to extend this system more broadly to serve rural and
agricultural areas. For fixed property, the Government has introduced to Parliament a
Law on Land Registration and Cadastre that contains plans for a unified (rural and urban)



- 34 -                       Annex I
Page 7 of 11
land registry. We will strongly support expeditious final passage of this legislation in the
fall of 1999.
While leasing of land and machinery is not generally recognized as an important
source of finance for agriculture, it is critically important in developed market economies,
and we believe that its role should increase in Bulgaria. An advantage of leasing finance
is that it can be developed relatively rapidly, whereas bank credit can be expected to
evolve more slowly as the legal framework improves and banks invest in network
branches, staff skills and technologies necessary to lend profitably to rural enterprises.
We have commissioned a study of machinery and equipment leasing, and on the basis of
the study's recommendations intend to modify any policies, regulations or institutions
that inhibit development of such activities. In the area of land leasing, we plan to
commission a study by mid-1999 that will suggest measures to improve the coordination
and efficiency of these transactions.  Here too, we will consider the study's
recommendations and take necessary action to improve the leasing environment.
We understand that rural finance markets are not perfect, but we also know that
Government lending into imperfect markets is no long term solution to the deficiencies of
the market. That is why the bedrock of our strategy is development of an appropriate
legal, institutional and policy framework to support development of an active network of
private financial institutions. Beyond this, we have engaged in limited government
lending to agriculture through the State Fund Agriculture (SFA). Any government
lending programs such as SFA should follow certain general principles in order to
achieve the aims of such lending while ensuring an appropriate incentives environment
for private lending, and minimizing crowding out of potential financial flows from the
private sector. For example, such efforts should generally be temporary, they should be
capped and they should be phased out over time. In accordance with these principles, we
are restructuring the SFA to serve as the counterpart institution for EU pre-accession
structural funds and phasing out its other directed credit functions not related to this role.
We will focus first on the types of activities that have the greatest potential to
crowd out private sector credit-short-term, direct lending by SFA. We have already
taken the first steps in reducing short-term directed credit by capping SFA 1998 short
term financial allocations. Our 1999 allocation has been reduced by 25 percent from
1998 levels. Similar reductions will occur in succeeding years until short term finance is
phased out within 3 years, so that the last crop year for which SFA will make short-term
direct loans will be crop year 2000/2001.
The potential for SFA's long-term lending to crowd out private sector activity is
not as great as is its short-term lending because private credit providers are not yet ready
to lend significant amounts to agriculture. However, we recognize that in the medium
term, this type of lending (apart from activities associated with EU funds) should be
phased out as well, as private loans to agriculture gradually expand. We will- revisit a
strategy and targets to do this for long term finance at a Rural Finance workshop to be
held in early March. We also believe that when directed credit is given it should be
aimed at rectification of clearly documented problems in private financial markets, and it



- 35 -                       Annex 1
Page 8 of 11
should be well targeted. The credit allocation mechanisms used should be minimally
distorting. For example, SFA credit should be made available to borrowers on a
competitive basis, and the interest rate terms of these programs should move rapidly to
market levels, particularly for final borrowers who are typically able to pay market rates.
We have taken steps to modify allocation mechanisms and loan terms for SFA
long-term finance to improve the effectiveness of the loans and minimize crowding out.
These include movement of interest rates closer to market levels for banks intermediating
SGA loans and for final borrowers; minimal grace periods to ensure amortization of loan
principal over most of the life of the loan; improved bank access to SFA program on a
non-discriminatory basis; and exclusion from SFA programs of participating banks
having greater than 10 percent nonperforming loans from the previous year. Over the
medium-term we will continue with these measures, refining and adding to them where
necessary. We will also introduce appropriate guidelines and terms for short term credit.
Privatization
Until recently, agricultural marketing, processing, and production of agricultural
commodities was dominated by state enterprises, with considerable impediments to
private sector entry. By the end of August 1997, 337 of the 849 enterprises in the
agriculture and food industry (AFI) sector had been privatized, yet these privatized
enterprises accounted for only 26 percent of total long term assets in the AFI sector. We
recognized privatisation of state agricultural enterprises as a crucial element of a strategy
for development of an active private markets and agricultural growth, and resolved to
accelerate the process.
Most AFI enterprises fall under the MAFAR privatization program or the program
operated in the Ministry of Industry (MOI). To date MAFAR has privatized or liquidated
55 percent of total long terms assets in its program (the base figure does not include
irrigation assets, which are treated as a special case with separate targets, discussed
below). Within this global target, we have achieved some privatization targets for
specific enterprise types: 70 percent of long term assets for grain mills have been
privatized, and 14 of 24 Sortovi Semena seed enterprises have been privatized. We have
also succeeded in privatizing 85 percent of agro-industrial firms in the MOI program.
We will continue this accelerated pace of privatization in the future and expect to
complete privatization of state owned agricultural enterprises in the MAFAR and MOI
programs by March 31, 2000 At that point, market competitiveness will depend more
heavily on the business, tax and regulatory environment for privatized firms (which
affects market entry), and sector restructuring will depend heavily on the business
environment as well as progress in removing constraints to rural lending. Over the
medium term we will take steps to identify problems in both areas and to address them
actively.
While irrigated agriculture plays a key role in production, much of the irrigation
infrastructure was destroyed in the early years of the transition, and much of what



- 36 -                        Annex I
Page 9 of 11
remains under the control of the Irrigation Systems Company has fallen into disrepair due
to poor operation and maintenance. With assistance from a pilot program of the World
Bank, the Government began on a small scale the transfer of operation and maintenance
responsibility for irrigation infrastructure to Water Users' Associations (WUAs), in line
with best international practice. This has been successful in encouraging farmers to
undertake minor repairs and to operate the assets more efficiently. It is our intention to
continue to support the formation of such WUAs with assistance of a larger project being
prepared by the World Bank, and to accelerate the transfer to these groups of the
responsibility for 0 and M of on-farm assets and related infrastructure (including canals
and drains, including related structures, small reservoirs and pumping stations) at their
request and without charge. We have issued instructions from the Minister of Agriculture
order to this effect, as authorized by the Council of Ministers, and have so far actually
transferred on-farm irrigation assets associated with about 15 percent (100,000 has.) of
Bulgaria's total irrigated area of 631,777 has. The related off-farm assets of the Irrigation
Systems Company have been transferred to users for about one-fifth of the total 100,000
has. We will accelerate this process. We also plan to institutionalize the transfer process
by training staff of the MAFAR regional offices to organize WUAs and assist them in
applying for transfer. We also will pass a law on WUAs that will give them firm legal
standing and facilitate the eventual transfer to them of ownership of the irrigation assets.
Food Security and Cereals Marketing Policy
Cereals have always been the most important group in Bulgarian crop production,
accounting for about half of arable land use, and providing food for Bulgarian consumers
and key inputs to the domestic livestock industry. Among cereals, the most important is
wheat. Its significance is due not only to its role in output, but also because Bulgaria's
position as a major producer and structural exporter has provided a high level of food
security for the country. However, in the past, the agricultural sector in general-and
especially cereals-was implicitly heavily taxed by an array of policies in order to
provide a source of revenue for the government and cheap food for the urban population.
A World Bank mission estimated conservatively that the price and export controls on
wheat alone cost farmers around $457 million in the 3-year period 1994-96.
This Government is strongly committed to reversing this policy of discrimination
against agricultural producers. We have manifested this commitment through our actions
in removing export controls and taxes on grains and oilseeds, as described in the section
above. In addition, we began early in our term of office to reduce the role of the state
grain marketing organization, Zarneni Hrani (ZH), and to privatize its assets, transferring
a limited part of them to the State Reserves. This process is now mostly complete. It will
be completed fully by the end of 1999, at which time and Zarneni Hrani will be
terminated as a legal entity. The Council of Ministers has passed a resolution declaring
that ZH will be terminated as soon as the last assets - which are subject to restitution
claims - are privatized. This Government is committed to abstaining from establishing
another market stabilization or intervention agency to replace ZH, with the exception of
an intervention facility required to implement the EU's Common Agricultural Policy.



- 37 -                       Annex I
Page 10 of 11
The Government has not just dismantled the existing grain trading monopoly, but
has taken active steps to encourage the emergence of new private sector involvement in
this vital sector. With technical assistance from USDA, USAID, ACDI/VOCA and the
World Bank, we have put in place a system to inspect and license warehouses to certify
them to issue warehouse receipts. The Government has passed legislation to enable
licensed warehouses to issue receipts, to enter into commercial contracts using stored
grain as collateral, and to establish a privately managed and funded indemnity fund to
secure depositors of grain against fraud or other losses. This licensing is carried out by
the National Grain Service, an agent of the MAFAR, while registration of traders is
undertaken directly by MAFAR. Both activities occur with participation by the private
sector in formulating conditions for licensing and in licensing decisions. Any licensing
fees will be minimal, only sufficient to cover administrative costs. With these steps, we
intend to support the use of warehouse receipts, opening up a new source of collateral to
secure loans and giving grain buyers and sellers the ability to transfer ownership without
physically moving the grain.
While this Government has pledged it will not take any actions to undermine
private sector market development by reversing these reforms, we recognize that the
credibility of the reforms will be enhanced by incorporating them into legislation. That is
why we have made amendments and additions to the Law on the State Reserve, so as to
avoid possible market intervention and stabilization functions on behalf of the State
Reserve, as well as possible establishment of a trade company within it. In the medium
run, we have also engaged ourselves to amend the Law on Grain Storage and Trade,
which will prevent the establishment of an intervention fund for market stabilization,
except for the EC requirements for introduction of CAP mechanisms. We also have
engaged ourselves to give an institutional framework to the existing practices, namely (1)
to include representatives of the private business in the activities for strengthening the
warehouse receipts system; and (2) the licensing fees to be only high enough to cover the
administrative expenses. This institutionalization might be done through secondary
legislation, the possibility for which is given by the Law on Grain Storage and Trade. It
might prove necessary to make amendments and additions to the law or secondary
legislation which would allow the choice for obligatory licensing only for those
warehouses, which would like to issue warehouse receipts. The amendments might also
explicitly permit the currently existing practices that the warehouses might enter into
commercial contracts on terms including advance payments, cash payments and sales,
guaranteed by grain at storage.



- 38 -                       Annex I
Page 11 of 11
We feel the need to ensure a degree of food security for the population, but we
understand the potential for market disruption that would be created by a large stockpile
of grain. We have therefore limited the storage capacity of the State Reserves to 430,000
metric tons (including no more than 180,000 tons of capacity transferred from ZH). This
will limit grain stocks in the State Reserves and Wartime Stockpile to no more than
320,000 tons (around 16 percent of 1997 human food grain consumption ), since extra
capacity is needed for stock rotation. For the purposes of stock conditioning and
turnover, total purchases and total sales of the State Reserve over a twelve month period
will be limited to no more than 50 percent of the maximum allowable stock level. To
further minimize any potential for disruption, the State Reserve will carry out any
purchases and sales via competitive tender or through the commodity exchange, with
transactions conducted competitively at market prices.
Over the medium term, as private storage security develops under the warehouse
receipts system, the State Grain Reserve will shift to the use of private storage facilities
for the SGR, while privatizing existing state-owned capacity. By October 1999, we
intend to undertake a study of comparative costs of using public sector and private sector
storage facilities, which will also reassess maximum stock requirements and the private
market's capacity to deal with deficit balances. Based on the results of the study, ceilings
on State Reserves grain stocks may be reduced further, more efficient mechanisms for
maintenance and release of grain stocks introduced, and a program for shifting to use of
private sector storage facilities put in place.
Yours sincerely,
A xand r Bozbkov                    Ventzislav Varbanov
Dep ty Prime Minister and         Minister of Agriculture aud Food
/Ministerof Industry    /



BULGARIA: Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
POLICY REFORMS PROGRAM MATRIX
L Land Market Development
Component   ASAL I Condition                                                             Short and medium term (end-
1999 through 2000)
Restitution   Restitute at least 80% of the agricultural land area eligible for restitution.  Restitute and give ownership
documents to 100 % by end 1999.
Complete distribution of ownership documents on at least 18% of the agricultural land
area eligible for restitution.
Registration    Submit a Land Registration and Cadastre Law satisfactory to the Bank to the National  Pass final law by fall. Adopt
& Cadastre    Assembly.                                                                 implementing ordinances acceptable
to the World Bank and begin to
implement registration and cadastre
system, with support of Bank project.
Land          Amend the Land Leasing Law, eliminating the upper limit on area that can be leased.   Maintain reforms. Consider
Transactions                                                                             recommendations of study on
Amend Land Law to eliminate ceiling on land sales (formerly 30 hectares) for a period  obstacles to mortgage market
of two years after restitution.                                            development.
Reduce the conveyance tax on land transactions to a minimum so as not to impede
exchange of agricultural land.
x
0



II. Food Security and Cereals Marketing
Component   ASAL I Condition                                                              Short and medium term (end-1999
through 2000)
State         Limit grain storage capacity in the State Reserve and Wartime Stockpile to no more    Carry out a reassessment of maximum
Reserves      than 430,000 metric tons.                                                  requirements for reserve stock and
storage capacity and possible use of
Remove any references to 'release of stocks for purposes of stabilization' from the  rented private storage space, taking
State Reserves Act presented to the Council of Ministers, and remove provisions for    into account the overall stock
creation of a commercial company within the State Reserves.                 situation and the development of the
private market's ability to deal
Transfer no more than 180,000 mt storage capacity from Zarneni Hrani assets to the    effectively with deficit balances.
State Reserves.
Reduce ceilings on State Reserves
Limit grain stocks in the State Reserves and Wartime Stockpile to no more than  grain stocks further.
320,000 mt.
For the purposes of stock conditioning and turnover, limit total purchases and total
sales of the State Reserves, over a 12-month period, to no more than 50% of the                                      o
maximum allowable stock level.
The State Reserves should carry out any purchases and sale via competitive tender or
through the commodity exchange, with transactions conducted competitively at market
prices.
Grain policy -  Adoption of policy that private sector storage agents will have significant input in the   Institutionalize market-friendly
licensing of   warehouse licensing activities of the National Grain Service. Such activities will  practices in Grain Act and
warehouses   include formulation of terms and conditions for licensing, decisions on granting of  implementing ordinances.
licenses, and decisions on license suspension. Fees will be minimal, sufficient only to
cover administrative costs associated with licensing. Allow public storehouses and
granaries to enter into commercial agreements for purchase and sale of grain on terms
that include advance payments, cash advances, and conditional or installment sales                                 X d
secured by grain deposited in the storage facility.                                                               eQ 0
Grain policy -  Adoption of policies to ensure participation of private traders in the registration  Institutionalize market-friendly  o
registration of process including formulation of terms and conditions for registration, decisions on  practices in Grain Act and  ON
grain traders   suspension, and establishment of fees. Registration fee is to be minimal and to cover   implementing ordinances.  O
no more than the administrative costs associated with registration.         _



Zarneni Hrani Privatize at least 449,000 mt of Zarneni Hrani storage capacity (out of 924,000 mt  Complete privatization and terminate
capacity existing in January 1998).                                         Zarneni Hrani as legal entity.
Place all remaining Zarneni Hrani assets not scheduled for transfer to the State  Amend Grain Act to remove
Reserves and not currently in the MAFAR privatization program, into the Ministry's   authorization to establish stabilization
program. All remaining Zarneni Hirani assets should be scheduled for privatization or  and intervention agency, except as
initiation of liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) in 1999.   needed for CAP.
IIL Privatization ofAgricultural Enterprises
Component   ASAL I Condition                                                              Short and medium term (end-1999
through 2000)
Enterprises    Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least 70%    Complete privatization/liquidation of
of grain milling capacity in the MAFAR privatization program.               MAFAR assets by end of 1999,
except for those with legal problems.
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least 14  Complete privatization/liquidation of
Sortovi Semena (seed) enterprises, out of a total of 24 enterprises.        MOI food industry assets by end-
March 2000.
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least 55%
of long-term assets of agricultural enterprises in the MAFAR privatization program
(excluding irrigation assets from the calculation).
Privatize or initiate liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) for at least 85%
of long-term food industry assets in the Ministry of Industry privatization program.
Irrigation    Advance privatization of irrigation systems through the following actions:  Institutionalize transfer process by
training MAFAR staff to help form
*  MAFAR and the Council of Ministers should issue an ordinance stating that WUAs and then to assist them in
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) responsibility for on-farm systems and other preparing and applying for transfer.
associated distribution systems, irrigation fields, canals and drains, small dam  Transfer off-farm assets for 40,000
lakes, compensating basins, water intakes, diversion dams, and pumping stations, hectares by end-1999; 90,000 hectares
will in the future be transferred on demand to any registered Water Users by end-2000. In longer term, pass    CD U
Association (WUA) that requests such transfer, with no requirement for legal framework for WUAs, which          w
depreciation payments. Requests will be submitted to a designated unit in will allow them to assume actual      o
MAFAR, not the Irrigation Systems Company.                              ownership of larger assets.



* MAFAR should issue a ministerial ordinance describing procedures and a model
contract for transfer of O&M responsibility to registered Water Users Associations
(WUAs) for on-farm assets and other structures. The instructions shall state that
no depreciation payments will be required for the assets, and the contract shall
state that the ultimate arbitrator of disputes arising regarding the terms of the
contract shall be the Ministry of Agriculture.
* MAFAR should transfer O&M responsibility for on-farm and other structures to at
least 42 WUAs that have submitted requests for such transfer. By this and other
measures, MAFAR should transfer on-farm systems irrigating at least 100,000 has.
It shall also transfer O&M responsibility for the other off-farm structures related to
22,000 has. of irrigated area, including distribution systems, irrigation fields,
canals and drains, small dam lakes, compensating basins, water intakes, diversion
dams, and pumping stations.
x
Op
0h
0"



IV. Rural and Agricultural Finance     ___`_______ed_um_trm__end_199_throug
Component   ASAL I Condition                                                    Short and medium term (end-1999 through
2000)
SFA Short-    Reduce total short-term financing provided by SFA in its 1999 budget by 25%   Continue reductions, and eliminate direct
term Finance  from the level provided in 1998                                   short-term loans after crop year 2000/01.
Refine allocation mechanisms and targeting of
transitional short-term finance.
SFA Long-    Set criteria for SFA long-term lending including the following:    Any government lending programs such as
term Finance                                                                    SFA will follow certain general principles in
*  Raise SFA's interest rate charge to banks intermediating investment funds  order to achieve the aims of such lending
to at least one-third of commercial banks' cost of deposit funds  while ensuring an appropriate incentive
environment for private lending, and
*  Amortize long-term loans from SFA over the life of the loan, with at least  minimizing crowding out of potential
annual payments of principal                                   financial flows from the private sector. For
example, such efforts will generally be
*  SFA should establish objective criteria for bank eligibility in SFA  temporary, they will be capped and phased  4
programs (for example, minimum standards for balance sheets) so as not to out over time Refine allocation mechanisms  w
exclude or discriminate against good candidates                and targeting of long-term finance to improve
effectiveness and minimize conflict with
*  Exclude from SFA programs banks having more than 10% non-performing private financial market development.
loans from the previous year's loans                           Restructure SFA to focus mainly on its role as
counterpart agency for EU funds.
Review and amend laws to improve legal
framework for use of collateral in secured
transactions and mortgages.
Review laws and regulations and amend as
necessary to improve environment for leasing
(mainly agricultural equipment and          (D (
machinery)                                  v
0o



V. Trade Regime, Market Regulation and Incentives
Component   ASAL I Condition                                                         Short and medium term (end-1999 through
2000)
Licensing     Eliminate registration, licensing, and contract approval requirements for  Maintain trade regime free of non-tariff
exports and imports of agricultural products, with the exception of licensing    barriers.
carried out for a specified list of products for reasons of conservation, sanitary
or phytosanitary controls (endangered species, wild plant and wildlife
products, unprocessed timber, chemicals for plant protection, and sowing
seeds)
Export Tax    Eliminate export taxes for all agricultural products, with the exception of  Refrain from imposing export taxes. Design
unprocessed timber and lumber                                         and implement stumpage fee system and
eliminate export tax on timber and lumber.
Import Tariffs  Liberalize the import tariff regime through the following steps:     Reduce fertilizer tariff to 25% by January 1,
2000 and 20% by January 1, 2001. Review
*  eliminate tariff exemptions for all agricultural products, with the exception  overall trade regime in context of accession
of imports carried out under international commitments (which are  requirements, and begin to make appropriate
specified by decree of the Council of Ministers)                   adjustments.
*  reduce import tariffs on nitrogen fertilizers to no more than 35%
Non trade     Pass an ordinance of the Council of Ministers to allow automatic registration    Amend relevant laws to allow automatic
barriers and    within Bulgaria of seed varieties listed in the EU Common Catalogue  registration within Bulgaria of seed varieties
regulations                                                                          listed in the EU Common Catalog. Amend
laws and regulations on agricultural
machinery, fertilizers and biopesticides to
minimize regulatory obstacles.
Quantitative    Eliminate all quantitative restrictions on international trade in agricultural  Maintain trade regime free of non-tariff
restrictions    products, with the exception of export quotas for textiles and clothing under    barriers.
international agreements
Pricing       Eliminate all controls on prices of agricultural products, and end the contract   Maintain reforms.
pricing system, which monitors wholesale and retail prices and margins



- 45 -                                                Annex 3A
Page I of 1
Bulgaria -- Selected Key Economic Indicators - 1996-1999
Actual                  Preliminary Estimate
Indicator                              1996          1997         1998              1999*
Gross Domestic Product
GDP (US$ million)                                          9831         10146         12255              12860
Real GDP growth (%/o)                                      -10.1          -7.0          3.5                0-2
Investment (% of GDP)                                        8.4         11.4          14.7               .....
Public                                                    1.4           1.9          2.7                .....
Private                                                   7.0           9.5          12.0               ....
Consumption (% of GDP)                                      88.5         83.1          86.3              ......
Public Sector Balances 1/
Expenditures (% of GDP)                                    42.3          33.4          34.3             36-37
Revenues (% of GDP)                                        31.9          31.4          35.6             34-35
Deficit (-) (% of GDP)                                    -10.4          -2.0           1.3                -2
Extemal Financing (% of GDP)                               -2.9          -0.8          -2.1                1-2
Balance of Payments
Financing Requirements (US$ million)                          -16          1902         1542               1700
o/w Current Account Deficit 2/                             -522         -818          -178                400
o/w Debt Service (scheduled)                               1259         1045          1137               1000
olw Increase in Foreign Exchange Reserves                  -753         1675           583                300
Financing Sources (US$ million)                               -16          1902         1542               1300
o/w Unrequited Current Official Transfers                   103          129            59                200
o/w Donor Financing 3/                                      270          639           866                700
o/w FDI and Other Private Flows 4/                            8          640           182                350
o/w Arrears Clearance and Debt Relief                       105           103          -18                 50
o/w Others, inc. Errors & Omissions                        -470          391           453                150
Financing Gap (US$ million)                                                                               400/5
External debt
Total Extemal Debt (in % of GDP)                          100.4          99.5          82.2                80
Debt Service (in % of total exports)                      20.0          16.5          20.3                 20
* Very preliminary estimates based on a prolonged Kosovo crisis/scenario.
11 Central Government Budget, GFS presentation. Incl. SFRD.
2/ Excluding interest payments and official transfers.
3/ Including Use of Fund credit, other budgetary/balance support.
4/ Incl. Eurobond issue of US$ 200 million. If Eurobond is not issued reserves will be adjusted accordingly.
5/ This is a preliminary estimate based on a prolonged crisis scenario. There is still considerable uncertainty surrounding
these estimates. If extemal financing is not available to close this gap, a further contraction of imports and economic
activity would be necessary.
Source: Official data, IMF staff and Bank staff preliminary estimates.



- 46 -                                               Annex 3B
Page 1 of 1
Bulgaria - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual               Estimate Projected*
Indicator              1994   1995    1996    1997    1998       1999
Total debt outstanding and          9801   10302    9872   10095   10072       10300
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a          212.0  -334.0  -410.0       122     302       429
Total debt service (TDS)             686    1144    1245    1045    1137         1000
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                          185.7   148.7   156.2   152.0   175.8       211.3
TDO/GDP                           100.1    78.6   100.4    99.5    82.2          80
TDS/XGS                            13.0    16.5    20.0    16.5    20.3          20
Concessional/TDO                      ..     ..       ..       ..     1.4        1.2
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                   2.3     2.7      3.6      5.4     5.1        5.8
Preferred creditor DS/public       23.4    34.2    30.0    43.2    41.6        30.1
DS (%)'
IBRD DS/XGS                         0.3     0.4      0.7     0.7      1.0       1.1
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                   415     444      453     501      477       451
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)          ..      ..       ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                      0        0        0       0        0         0
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
* Very preliminary estimates based on a prolonged Kosovo crisis/scenario.
a. Includes medium and long-term public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of I
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF,
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



- 47 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
BULGARIA: Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:          10 months
Prepared by:                    Government, with the assistance
of IBRD staff and consultants
First IBRD mission:             June 1, 1998
Appraisal mission:              April 5, 1999
Technical discussions:          May 10, 1999
Negotiations:                   May 21, 1999
Planned date of Effectiveness:  August 1, 1999
Expected program completion:    July 31, 2000
Team Leaders:   John Nash and Henry Gordon
Team:           Elaine Patterson, Nikolay Nikolov,
Andriana Sukova-Tosheva,
Sofia Davidova, Ron Gibson,
David Gisselquist, Kenneth Peoples,
Panos Varangis, Charles Woodruff



AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Donors' Assistance to Bulgaria for the Period 1996-1999
DONOR       Project Title and Donor: # D tI    Amount in US$                              Project Objectives
DONOR  Project Title and Donor #  t Durat on  Type/Terms                 (Beneficiary Institution)
UNDP      Establishment of a Land      94-97         337,000       UNDP is assisting the MAFAR to establish a Land Information and
Information Management                    FTC/Grant     Management System, especially for the identification of the polluted lands
System (BUL/94/002)                                     and their new owners. (MAFAR)
USAID    Restructuring Agriculture and  91-00       22,000,000     To foster the development of Bulgarian agriculture through providing
Agribusiness (180-0024)                   FTC/Grant    technical and financial assistance to Bulgarian farmers; to support the
restructuring of the dairy production sector through assisting in the
establishment of a Milk Producer's Association; to help the establishment
of both the Private Meat Processors and Private Flour Millers
Associations; to provide technical assistance to the milling and bakery
sub-sector to alleviate problems created by wheat storage; to start a grain
warehouse program to mobilize substantial credit to the farm sector in the
country. (PRIVATE ENTERPRISES)
Co
Japan    Agricultural Reform in        95-97        5,370,000     To formulate and elaborate the agricultural development plan in the three
Bulgaria - Feasibility Study (-)          FTC/Grant     pilot regions in Petrich, Rositza and Sredna Tunja. One of the regions is
selected as a priority area for feasibility study on agricultural reform plan.
(MAFAR)
Germany   KFW Consultancy to the        93-97         1,645,000     The project provides permanent consultant from the German Ministry of
Ministry of Agriculture                   FTC/Grant     Food, Agriculture and Forestry to the Bulgarian Ministry of Agriculture
(BUL-002-000-057)                                       and Food Industry. (MAFAR)
France    Support to the Department on  96-96         66,000       To provide assistance from French experts to the Department on Statistics
Statistics of the Ministry of             FTC/Grant     of the Ministry of Agriculture and to support the improvement of the
Agriculture (BUL-3PO-3220)                              Agricultural Statistical Information processing. (MAFAR)      P;
OQ
0



AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Donors' Assistance to Bulgaria for the Period 1996-1999
DONOR       Project Title and Donor #    Duration    Amount in US$                         Project Objectives
Type/Terms                         (Beneficiary Institution)
France    Permanent Consultant to the   96-96         144,000      To provide assistance from a Highly Qualified Permanent Consultant of
Ministry of Agriculture                   FTC/Grant    the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fishing of France to the Ministry of
(BUL-3PO-216)                                            Agriculture in Bulgaria the fields of Agrarian Reforrn, European
Integration, Agricultural Producers Support and Bilateral Partnerships.
(MAFAR)
Germnany   KFW Collaboration between     97-97         85,000       To support the collaboration between the Saxon and Bulgarian
Saxon and Bulgarian                       FTC/Grant      agricultural enterprises and to supply the Bulgarian ones with agricultural
Agricultural Enterprises                                techniques. (MAFAR)
(BUL-114-000-271)
EBRD      Feasibility Study on          96-97         244,000      To prepare the Feasibility Study on EBRD investment project "Bulgarian
"Bulgarian Wholesale                      ITC/Grant      Wholesale Agricultural markets". (MAFAR)
Agricultural Markets" (-)                                                                                                  I
UNDP      Support to the Establishment  97-99     141,000 (UNDP)  The project aims at providing agricultural policy makers in Bulgaria with
Phare    of an Agriculture Production               FTC/Grant      relevant and reliable information to enable them to formulate and monitor
France    monitoring System                       179,000 (France)  the implementation of an effective national agricultural policy. (MAFAR)
(BUL/97/011) (-) (-)                      FTC/Grant
France    Assistance for Elaboration of  97-98        59,000       To provide technical assistance to the elaboration of new juridical
New Cadastre Reglementation               FTC/Grant    reglementation of the Cadastre in Bulgaria (MAFAR)
(BUL- 3H7-215)
FAO      Strategy for Agricultural     98-99         318,000       To formnulate a strategy for agricultural development and food security in
Development and Food                      FTC/Grant      Bulgaria, which will be consistent with sustainable economic
Security in Bulgaria                                     development, GATT/WTO commitments and with the country's objective
(TCP/BUL/7821)                                           to eventually join the EU. (MAFAR)
fD rD
CF
F-h



AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Donors' Assistance to Bulgaria for the Period 1996-1999
l                          l           l Amount in US$  l                        Project Objectives
DON OR       Project Title and Donor #    Duration   TyDe/Terms                          (Beneficiary Institution)
Sub Sciuj;SuprtSn'r
EBRD      Agricultural Wholesale        96-99        41,307,000     The project will result in the construction and upgrading of a set of
Germany   Markets                                  (EBRD)IPA/Loan  modem wholesale and assembly market facilities. These will provide
(-) (BUL-014-000-074)                      2,862,000     competitive outlets for private sector suppliers and traders of fresh
(GFR/KFW)    agricultural products. (PRIVATE ENTERPRISES)
FTC/Grant
EBRD      Feasibility Study on          96-97         244,000       To prepare the Feasibility Study on EBRD investment project "Bulgarian
"Bulgarian Wholesale                       ITC/Grant     Wholesale Agricultural Markets". (MAFAR)
Agricultural Markets" (-)
Japan     Support to IBRD Study on      97-99         389,000       To support the preparation of the IBRD Study on Irrigation Restructuring
Irrigation Restructuring and               FTC/Grant      and Rehabilitation in Bulgaria. (MAFAR)
Rehabilitation (TF 29304)
Switzerland  Sustainable Agriculture      96-98         1,055,000     Private Bulgarian farmers are assisted in optimization of their production,
(75/95)                                    IPA/Grant      in order to be prepared for the market economy requirements in
Agriculture. Small credits will be reimbursed in leva and will be used for
a revolving fund for further projects. (PRIVATE ENTERPRISES)
United    British KBF Support to        96-96          78,000       Technical assistance for the Agricultural sector and especially for the
Kingdom    Bulgarian Agriculture                      FTC/Grant      privatization of the system for seed supply in Bulgaria. (MAFAR)
(265-500-02-AW-001)                                  _
The      Development of Seed Potato    97-00         1,429,000     To support private seed potato cooperatives in the regions of Samokov
Netherlands  Sector                                     FTC/Grant     and Smoljan. (PRIVATE ENTERPRISES)
Sub Secor Ixdsra =np             .____  __;________._.___ . 
France    Marketing Study and Training  97-97          59,000       To elaborate a Marketing study and to provide training on Perfume Plants
on Perfume Plants                                         development in Bulgaria. (MAFAR)
Development (BUL-3P5-210)
D



AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Donors' Assistance to Bulgaria for the Period 1996--1999
DONOR   | Project Title and Donor #             [ Duration | Amount in US$               Project Objectives
DONO~~e(R:l  Project Title an          Duration     Type/Terms                         (Beneficiary Institution)
Germany   KFW Consultation in Dairy     96-98         867,000      Improvement of the productivity and quality control of the diary industry.
Industry and Quality Control              FTC/Grant     Model project is started in Burgas region which includes consultancy and
(BUL-002-000-256)                                       equipment delivery. (MAFAR)
Germany   KFW Consultations in          95-97         183,000      To assist the Regional Center for Selection and Reproduction of Livestock
livestock Reproduction and                FTC/Grant    in the region of Sliven through sending a German consultant. (MAFAR).
Selection in Sliven region
(BUL-014-000-253)
The      Establishing Private Pig Farms    92-98   1,371,000     Support for private pig farming in Bulgaria through setting up of fifteen
Netherlands  in Bulgaria (-)                           IPT/Grant     pig farms in the Pazardjik region. (PRIVATE ENTERPRISES)
Belgium    Improvement of Pasture Land  95-98         400,000      To provide technical assistance for the improvement of Pasture Land
Exploitation and of Quality of            FTC/Grant     exploitation in Bulgaria, for enhancing the quality of roughage by means
Roughage (-)                                            of suitable growing techniques and better feed crops. (MAFAR)
Japan    Fermented Dairy Products      96-02         250,000      The main objective is to improve technologies for raw milk quality
Development (-)                           FTC/Grant     control and to develop fermented dairy products. The specific objectives
are: to assign under the project 4 to 5 Japanese long-term experts; to
provide equipment necessary for the project implementation; to support
the technical training of Bulgarian counterpart personnel in Japan.
(MAFAR)
Belgium    Veterinarian Specialization  96-98         500,000      To provide specialization and training for 1,200 veterinarians in the
and Training (-)                          FTC/Grant     Livestock sector in Bulgaria on a practice-oriented complementary
program. In the second stage the "train the trainer" principle is
implemented, whereby the Bulgarian Veterinarians and farm managers
that have benefited of the program would convey the knowledge to their   > 
colleagues. (MAFAR)
I-l



AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Donors' Assistance to Bulgaria for the Period 1996--1999
DONOR                 tle and D                i A          i                               Project Objectives
DONSecor PFrojceileadDnoh                  uato         yp/em                              (Beneficiary Institution)
Su Sector; Forestry
France    Elaboration of Information    96-96          57,000       To elaborate a modem information system for the Bulgarian State
System for the Committee of                FTC/Grant     Committee of Forests in close cooperation with the French Office
Forests (BUL-3P6-243)                                    National des Forests. (COMMITTEE OF FORESTS)
Switzerland  Sustainable Development of   96-00         2,168,000     The main objectives are to assist the Bulgarian Committee of Forests in
Forests (84/96 + 1/97)                     FTC/Grant      creation and implementation of a National Strategy on sustainable
development of forests. (COMMITTEE OF FORESTS)
France    Program for Cooperation       95-96          119,000      Technical assistance for the elaboration and implementation of a national
between the Bulgarian                      FTC/Grant      strategy in the filed of forestry. (COMMITTEE OF FORESTS)
Committee of Forests and the
French National Office of
Forests (BU B3/1194)
Sob Sector Fiseries                     _ 
FAO      Rehabilitation of Inland      95-97          226,000      To assist the MAFAR with consultancy on fishery legislation, commercial
Aquaculture                                FTC/Grant      aquaculture, fishery statistics, policy and planning with particular
(TPC/BUL/4451+671 1)                                     emphasis in the transformation and rehabilitation of aquaculture.
(MAFAR)
PIJARE Projects
Pilot Project I.L.I.S.        96-97        1,929,926      Assist in land restitution and land reform by elaborating an integrated land
(BG 9206)                                                information system on a pilot basis to serve the future unified cadastre.
Development of software to link the technical with the legal information
on ownership of immovable property. (MAFAR, Ministry of Regional
Development, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Finance, Dobrich
Municipality)
Equipment for P.P. for ILIS   96-96         450,155       Supply of equipment for Dobrich Municipality, Notaries, Regional  >
(BG 9206)                                                 Cadastre Offices.
0



AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Donors' Assistance to Bulgaria for the Period 1996--1999
DONOR       Project Title and Donor #    Duration    Amount in US$                       Project Objectives
Type/Terms                         (Beneficiary Institution)
Digital Cadastre Maps PIL    96-97        1,081,043     Elaboration of digital maps for the whole territory of Dorich Municipality
(BG 9206)                                               to get a full map.
Privatization of SOEs under  96-97        2,054,849     Assist in the privatization process of agricultural and food industry
MoA (BG 9206)                                           enterprises and improve procedures at all steps of the process. Assist in
the privatization of a list of companies and propose options for solving
restitution and other claims
Market Development project   96-97        2,080,000     Construct 5 livestock and one fruit and vegetables assembly markets
(BG 9206)                                               which comply with the EU veterinary and hygienic standards
Support to Veterinary.       96-97         537,848      Improve the FMD diagnostics and prevention through introduction of new
Sanitary Export Control (BG                             laboratory methods. Supplies of equipment for the central laboratory on
9206)                                                   FMD.
TA to NAAS (BG 9206)         95-98        1,611,868     Assist in the establishment and strengthening of the extension service in
(BG-9507)                                               Bulgaria in close collaboration with the Agricultural Academy. Train the
experts working in the 33 local advisory offices, 4 central and 3
specialized offices, providing free-of-charge advice to farmers.
TA to Credit Line            96-99         470,000      Assist the establishment of a network of agricultural rural credit
(BG 9206)                                               cooperatives (33) and channel a credit line of 7 MEURO as a revolving
fund to private farmers
TA to PAU and IPD            97-98         489,800      Assist the overall integration process in agriculture through technical
(BG 9507)                                               assistance to the Integration Policy Department
TA Approx. Legal Framework    98-98        349,860      Assistance to the working groups on the approximation of legislation and
(BG 9507)                                               establishment of a legal information system for agriculture
TA to support the National   97-97          50,000      Support for the restructuring of the two inspectorates
Inspectorate for grain and
grain fodder and the National
Inspection of field testing and
seed control (BG 9507)
TA to NSPPQAC                98-98         350,000      Assistance to the national service on plant protection, quarantine and
(BG 9507)                                               agrochemistry, training of laboratory specialists in new control methods
.  (D
Lu



AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Donors' Assistance to Bulgaria for the Period 1996--1999
DONOR  Poject Ttle andDonor  ~Duratio    A_mount in US$                         Project Objectives
DONOR        Project Title and Donor #    Duration   Type/Terms                          (Beneficiary Institution)
Streng. NSPPQAC Lab.          98-98         396,336       Supplies of equipment
(BG 9507)
Supplies for FMD Control      97-97         299,984       Supplies of equipment and introduction of new methods for diagnostics
(BG 9507)                                                and prevention of FMD
Streng. Grain & Food Inspec.  97-98         99,992        Supplies of laboratory equipment for introducing new control methods
Laboratory
(BG 9507)
Streng. Field Test/SCI Lab.   97-98         99,990        Supplies of laboratory equipment for introducing new control methods
(BG 9507)
Notes:
Tr lThe information in this table is based on the UNDP Development Cooperation Report for Bulgaria for 1996 - 1997; and the January 1998 Monthly Report
of the PHARE PMU at the MAFAR.                                                                                                     U,
2/   Donors' assistance under US$ 50,000 is not included.                                                                               -I
3/   FTC stands for Free-Standing Technical Cooperation; and IPT stands for Investment Project Assistance with Technical Cooperation Component.
P
0
h



- 55 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
BULGARIA: Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Selected Technical Documents Available in Project File*
"Cereal & Oilseed Marketing and Performance in Bulgaria - Current Situation, Major
Constraints and Recommendations": Panayotis Varangis (Dec. 1997)
"Bulgarian Rural Financial Markets": Plamen Mishev (Nov. 1997)
"State of Land Restitution and Development of the Land Market in Bulgaria": Jan H. Bakker
(Oct. 1997)
"Privatization of Agriculture and Food Industries Enterprises:   Current Status and
Recommendations": Charles E. Woodruff (Feb. 1998)
"Privatization of Agriculture and Food Industries Enterprises: Note on Financial Performance
of State Enterprises": Charles E. Woodruff (Feb. 1998)
"Report on Bulgarian Agricultural Trade Policy": John D. Nash (Dec. 1997)
"The Bulgarian Livestock Chain": Sophia Davidova (Dec. 1997)
"Bulgarian Inputs Policies and Regulatory Environment": David Gisselquist (Oct. 1997)
"Bulgaria Agricultural Policy Notes (cereals, livestock, finance, trade, land, privatization,
inputs)" (Jan. 1998)
"Bulgarian Banking in the Agricultural Sector": Peoples, Kenneth L. (Mar. 1999)
"Equipment Leasing in Bulgaria: Alternative Financing for Agricultural Food and Processing
Equipment": Peoples, Kenneth L. (April 1999)
"Secured Transactions, Financial Sector Development and Agricultural Finance in Bulgaria": P.
Holden, J. Sobotka-Elias, L. Locklin, Enterprise Research Institute (April 1999)
"Mortgage in the Bulgarian Agricultural Sector": Renee Giovarelli (April 1999)
"Warehouse Receipts as an Instrument for Financing Grain Stocks": Silas Matthies and
Krassimir Kiriakov (April 1999)
Bulgaria Rural Finance Policy Notes (mortgage, secured transactions, warehouse receipts,
banking, equipment leasing)" (May 1999)
"A Rapid Survey of the Current State of the Land Market in Bulgaria": Dr. Svetla Bachvarova,
Ivan Stanoev, Plamen Valchev, under supervision of Demina Bairaktarska
Including electronic files.



CAS Annex B8
Generated: 05/25/99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                          disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.       orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp prog
Number of Closed Projects: 7
Active Projects
BG-PE-8307      1991   REPUBLIC OF BULCARIA              TA REFORM                               17.00        0.00        4.77           .73        5.47        1.74       S          S
BG-PE-8322      1993   GOVT. OF BULGARIA                 TELECOMMUNICATION                       30.00        0.00        0.00          2.10        1.91        0.00      HS          HS
BG-PE-8316      1993                                     ENERGY                                  93.00        0.00        0.00        44.10        44.71        0.00       S          S
BG-PE-8319      1994   GOVT. OF BULGARIA                 WATER COMPANIES RESI                    98.00        0.00       41.00         41.59       52.44       19.11       S          S
BG-PE-8318      1996   cDVo. OF BULGARIA                 HEALTH SECTOR RESTRU                    26.00        0.00        0.00         18.65       16.59        0.00       S          S
BG-PE-8315      1996   BDZ                               RAILWAY REHABILITATI                    95.00        0.00        0.00        32.53        27.39        0.00       S          S
BG-PE-8323      1997   MOF                               SOCIAL INSUR. ADMIN.                    24.30        0.00        0 .00        18.34       10.'74       0.00       S          S
BG-PE-33965     1998   REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA              ENV. REMED. PILOT                       16.00        0.00        0.00         16.00        5.17        0.00       S          S
BG-PE-55156    1999   GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA             REG. INITIATIVE FUND                     5.00        0.00         0.00         4.90         .29        0.00      HS          S
BG-PE-51151     1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               SOC. PROTECT. ADU.                      80.00        0.00        0.00         39.70        0.00        0.00       S          S
ul
Total                                                                                           4 84 .30      0 .00      45.'77      2 19 .24     164.71       20 .85                         t
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 218.34              559.10              777.44
of which has been repaid:                 15.33                46.53               61.86
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 423.20              512.56              935.76
Amount sold                                       0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              219.24                0.00              219.24
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter hased system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU   highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94- 901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
0011
(D CD
0
_,
Generated by the Operations Information System (01S)



CAS Annex B8
Bulgaria
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Euromerchant FND         0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Interlease Inc.          3.50     .30    0.00    0.00    2.00      .30    0.00    0.00
1997                   Sofia Hilton           10.80    0.00    2.00    9.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Devnya Cement           30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  Isiklar Holding         13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00    8.00      .38    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   58.20    6.80    2.00    9.50   10.00    4.68    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999                  BAC BANK                 0.00    0.00    4.86    0.00
1998                  DEVNYA CEMENT           15.00    0.00    0.00   50.00
Total Pending Commitment:          15.00    0.00    4.86   50.00
0
FhO
Generated by the Operations Information Systemn (OIS) on 05/25/99



-  58  -                                                        Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
Bulgaria at a glance
.....6 &    Lo w er.     .     _ _  ,_               ,  _ , , ,_5_8199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                   ointrl  middle
Bulgd#       AIa  income        Development dlamond'
1998
Population, nmid-year (milons)                       8.3      476      2,285                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methd, US$)                  1,230     2,320D    1,230
GNP (Aitas method, USS bililons)                    10.2     1,106    2,818
Average annual grawth, 199248'.
Poplation ()             -010                                  0.2       1.2     GNP
Labor force IO                                      *0,9       0.5      1.       GNP          <mGss
per                           pnimary
Most recent esUMStsle   st ye.r MDa"b, 1992498)                                  capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of popvlatnbelow neone(pOwyline)          33-
Ufban popuiation (% o lotappaWiJ7)                   89        67       '' 42
Life expetancy at biM (years)                       71         89       89
Infant mofrity (per 1;00   bir:                      18 25    -3
Child malnutitiot (% of choi/ri*n imW0( .              ..    -..          ,               Access to safe water
Access to,safe water %otpWo,) 100                               ..       84
Illiteracy (% of pop eltan age' 15*)  .:               .         ,.      19
Gross prnmry enrollment (% of s ,aoMge population)   90         92      111               ulgana
Male                 --.,1.QO                                 ..   .118                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             98         ..      113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM.TRENDS
f977    1987      199W    ,1S98 
Economic rtose
GDP (US$ blins)                               .    :28.4      10Q1      12.3
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 ..    32.s      11.4      14.7Trd
Exports of goods and serviceedGDP             .     40.8      81.9      45.2
Gross domesticsavings/GDp                     ..    31.1      16.9      13.7
Gross nationai savinrs/GOP                    ..    302   '15.7         t2.9
Current accourt balance/GDP                   ..    -2.5      :4.2      -2.1     Domestic       / 
Interest payments/GDP                        ..            1    .        4.2         st                      Investment
r-ottl4ebtGDP                    ..                          '2: 99.5  8 2      . Saig                        nvsn
Total debt servicelexports                   ..    17.2       16.S      20.3
Present value of debt/GOP
Present valueof debt/exports . .:.
Indebtedness
1977-47  1988.8  1997         1998
(average annual gnJ ,t-)
GDP                                3.6    -4.0    -7.0         3.5                    Bulgana
GNP per capita                     3.5    -3.0    -5.5         4.8                         Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and seMces       :82      42.2      31      415.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       40
Agriculture                                  ..    11.4       23.8      18.7
Industry                                     ..    59.5       25.3      25.5    20
Manufacturing                               ..      ..       18.6     17.0
Services                                     ..    25.9       40.6      46.2    .0              C    _              95 1 9S
Private consumption                          ..    61.5       70.3      71.2   .4
General govemment consumption                ..      7.4      12.8      15.1                     G01    - r  GDP
Imports of goods and services                ..    42.6       56.4      46.3
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agrculture                                 -2.5    -2.6       32.9       1.4    T0
Industry                                    6.4    -6.4      -11.3       4.3    20
Manufactunng                                                                   10
Services                                    3.8    -5.5      -19.3       0.5
Private consumption                         3.3     4.3      -17.2       8.2   .10-    93             9 go
General govemment consumption               8.6    -4.3       -1.4       4.0
Gross domestic investment                   3.2    -8.8       33.1      10.3   -20
Imports of goods and services               6.1   -16.3       -2.7      -2.8             -    Exports     o-Imports
Gross national product                      3.7    -3.8       -6.2       4.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



-  59  --                                                          Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Bulgaria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (V)
(% change)                                                                         1.2000
Consumer prces                                                1,082.3      22.3     800
Implicit GDP deflator                                  0.1      948.7      22.2      4o0
400
Govemment finance                                                                    200
(%6 of GDP, includes curfent grants)                                                  0
Current revenue                                       60.2       32.7      35.7              93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                                            1.7       2.5               -     GDP deflator    *  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           2.1       2.5
TRADE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Exportandimportievels(US$mllions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 10,287      4,940    4,293      o,0oo
Other metal                                          1,801                          s oo     
Other agriculture                                    1,479                          4 000
Manufactures                                  .
Total imports (cif)                                 11,298      4,932     40995      00
Food                                          ..     409200
Fuel and energy                                     1,565 6,0D                                                 _
Capital goods                                       5,128       831       504        0
92   91   94   95   96   97   98
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       95         97       87
Import price index (1995=100)                           65         87       85                m Exports      EImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..    148         112      102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%
Exports of goods and services                       11,444      6,277     5,548       -
Imports of goods and services                       11,959      5,730     5,716      4
Resource balance                                      -515       547       -168      2
Net income                                            -314       -357     -314      -24U'_
Net current transfers                                  108       237       236      -4
Current account balance                               -721        427      -253     -e l           E
Financing items (net)                            ,     389      1,248      836      12
Changes in net reserves                                332    -1,675      -583           92   93   94  9s   98   97   96
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..    2,474      3,057
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                        1.3   1,696.0   1,760.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           38    8,266    10,095    10,072
IBRD                                          0        0       501       477                     G 740 A: 477
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                                  cl 1,120
Total debt service                              2    1,989      1,045     1,137
IBRD                                          0        0        47        58                                      D  1
IDA                                           0        0          0        00:2
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                    E 1Z
Official grants                               0        0        129       59
Official creditors                            0      651       251       310
Private creditors                             1      779       -129       -8
Foreign direct investment                                      507       401
Portfolio equity                                               133      -219              F:6,406
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0        140      101      A-IBRD                         E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        0       101       196      B - IDA    D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0         16       20      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0        0        85       176
Interest payments                             0        0        31        36
Net transfers                                 0        0        54       139
Development Economics                                                                                                   5/28/99



IBRD 26532R
22'                \i23'                                                      24'                                    25-                                    26'                                     27'                                                                            29"               =
44             v orot)                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      ~              ~~~~~~~~                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~R 0 M A N I A  ~'IW  p
44ZooeevKY                            d /CI- k                                                                                                                                                                      IFOo                   .r '
'0                      ,  -C                                                                                                 Drorfro.r                                           Alfe.e                            X         ec`re
0,4                  n                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~RAZGORAD 
FED.  REP.                                                kIro e                 ,          \     w''                          oor'o9..%r                                                                                     A N                 eeee
o F                                      M. MONTANA                         SleAree                                 y)                           /  '                      Rcgred*                                   VAN                  Sk1-%-...
Moe, ~~~                                       2   Ploege                                                                        Scow'                                                           (coerne, I~kj -
YUJGOSLAVIA                                              ,'               Chr                                                                                                                0 emroo  Ppee"1Peo
(SERBIA/MONT.)                                                   Ro                  -d(4                                                                                                   ooerew
0Kccoooe  <                    k,   (  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-   VtC H,0          a                                                                                                                                                                         430
0< .0~~~~~   -I  .i
~~Acyeo  Debreceyt,V-                                                                                                sd           ~B 
S    <"'~~~~~~~~~-
2            e0 u~u0             Q f ~ Zere                           N         . 
K tl ~    ~       ~       0                                    V                                              Si-o
la    KI,sen            EreKe                                                                                    K                ~           ooro
Toororte52~e                         Rodp                                                                                                                                           -'<--~0  KA-C
S.  N ~~~~~~~  ~ ~    ~ ~~          .             (A       5      e-~~~~~~~~~~~~ a ~~K-oreo                                                                    ,       e r
\      Rx<   d.4                  / (KKEelefo
To Kotee    ~~  Kyeoeodd< -       SneoroCol 'C                                                                            See         bO-U R GA S                                                                          -4
r\c..~e...r(.                No'    ~          SOFIA          bSeroekee       (~                      goetFovA.,                     KHA        KQV                                                          '     IAeho\io
Telol  ' &Toooe                              uno              ~             <>     Peerohi        ' '                                    LyhoDe01 G,.ooeek
0A4eoerr,r  '?  eWe KeorA otroen-                        Y,        KH      K~~O      V                                                  ,.    *C ,        ,0c                                                                           2
42'                                -~~~~       0Blngeooqre~d   '                                                0 9~ rrrr Aoege         ,hroe                        ''     ~                                                                                                                    9
/            -                                                            0114/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K .-  h. -i
FY                                                         boeok2odce.                       SseA           Sole                                             St-edoo  '4
MACEDONIA    To Srr~~~~~~~~~oroe ~~~    GenerA                        Cvig,?  V, P~ht               InX>Oeoedrd                                i            )B                                                                         L         A       I
/~~~~~~~~6it 23                                                                                                                                                                                                OBLARKCAPITAL
MA EDOANIA                                                                                                                                   I                                                            '                                 BULPORTS
<0                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST BOUNDARIES
2          N            <-<-2'                               '-< '-                   4'                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
4  PEDRO'   Te<.'-                                   ~~~~~~~~41                                                                                               <-Q
ISEE0I,SA/oDOeTI/     BULGARIA                                                                                                                                S n0                                                                                     20        40         60         80        255
SR -I  SdRe                                                                                              <-   2                A Jan2 ---7<NI                                                                                                                      'I 
K ~~~'o"  ,/                                                                           <'<                                          '    '                          Thrr crop  er prodered Fry he Mop Doeogo Our of Tho vi0ad Rook~~~~~~~~~y b~:.p   -g, ~itf r~ W1,;B..
AERANIAfe  '<<-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                            2                                                                      0 0 beco don oc, colore, donoorioc boo eod coy other mc Fooooyoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tlh~,b,,,
A,LMNIA ~          ~     22            T UR KE Y                                                                                                        -                                             prho-o  rohie orop dc  c rpr  coeor!                                         ol  ekGop
,s'  '                                                                                                                                                                    orry judgorcor err rho (opel erorer el coy roorilo,y, or ooy oodeoeoooeor~~~~~~~~~~y ~dg f -th~1~.i ct~ d   y  -ilq,  Y ---
GREECE                                                                                                                                                               26e 4'2  9  '<o -eopto-  of -oh So-d-ro-
NVEMERRR1995



