CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1301 PO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Sixth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTRICIDADE DE PORTUGAL - EMPRESA PUBLICA
Dated September 24, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and ELECTRICIDADE DE PORTUGAL - EMPRESA PUBLICA (hereinafter
called the Borrower).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Charter" means the Borrower's charter provided in
Decree Law No. 502/76 dated June 30, 1976.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six mil-
lion dollars ($36,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan. Such goods and services shall
be selected by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engi-
neering, public utility and financial practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
in such detail and with such dispatch as the Bank shall reasonably
reauest from time to time, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress and cost of the Project and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,


﻿-6-
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, with-
out limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of the Borrower and records and documents relevant
to the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times conduct its
business and carry on its operations in accordance with sound
business and public utility practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
existence and right to carry on its operations and shall take all
steps required to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privi-
leges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, equipment and property, and from time to
time make all necessary repairs or renewals thereof, all in ac-
cordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not, without the prior con-
sent of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
its major assets required for the efficient carrying out of its
operations, including the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
public utility practices; and


﻿-8-
(b) without limitation or restriction on the preceding pro-
vision, the Borrower shall formulate and apply by July 1, 1977,
to all its operational units, a uniform insurance policy for each
type of risk consistent with sound public utility practices.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall assemble by December 31,
1977, a comprehensive set of key indicators to monitor the Bor-
rower's financial and technical performance.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall develop, and not later than January 1,
1978 shall implement, uniform financial and accounting systems and
procedures in all its operational units, and shall keep the Bank
adequately informed about the implementation of such systems by
such units.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall from time to time take all
steps (including, but not confined to, adjustments of the level
or structure of its rates for the sale of electricity) required
on its part to obtain, during each of its fiscal years after 1976,
revenues from the supply of electricity sufficient: (i) to cover
operating and administrative expenses including taxes, adequate
maintenance and interest payments; (ii) to provide for adequate
depreciation; (iii) to meet periodic repayments on long-term debt
to the extent that such repayments exceed provision for deprecia-
tion; and (iv) to leave a surplus, after dividends, to finance a
reasonable proportion of the Borrower's average cost of investment
in power facilities in the current year and the preceding year.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall, starting with its fiscal
year commencing January 1, 1977, provide for depreciation on all
of its assets in accordance with the laws of the Guarantor and
with methods, including rates, satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any long-term indebtedness if, after such
incurrence, the aggregate long-term indebtedness of the Borrower
would exceed 1.5 times the sum of the Borrower's equity capital
provided by the Guarantor and surplus of the Borrower existing on
the date of such incurrence.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "long-term indebtedness" shall mean any debt
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of exe-
cution and delivery of the contract or loan agreement providing
for such debt;
(c) the term "surplus" shall mean surplus (including the
statutory reserve fund) as determined in accordance with sound
accounting practices; and
(d) whenever it shall be necessary to value in currency of
the Guarantor debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all steps on its part
necessary to obtain from the Guarantor approval of an adequate
revised structure of its rates for the sale of electricity, which
shall take into due account the marginal cost of supply thereof,
and not later than December 31, 1977, or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Bank, shall commence implementation of such
revised rate structure.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited; (B) the re-
port of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (C) certi-
fied copies, in English, of the said financial statements and au-
ditors' report; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Bor-
rower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.07. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt except as otherwise stated in writing to the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Assumption of Prior Loan Agreements
Section 6.01. The Borrower represents that pursuant to the
provisions of Decree Law No. 205-0/75 of the Guarantor, dated
April 16, 1975, and to the provisions of the Charter, the Borrower
has succeeded to all the rights and obligations of the borrowers
in the loan agreements set forth below:
(a) Loan Agreement (Hydroelectric Power Project) between the
Bank and Hidro-Electrica do Douro S.A.R.L., dated November 6, 1963;
(b) Loan Agreement (Thermoelectric Power Project) between
the Bank and Empresa Termoelectrica Portuguesa S.A.R.L., dated
November 6, 1963;
(c) Loan Agreement (Carregado Power Project) between the
Bank and Empresa Termoelectrica Portuguesa S.A.R.L., dated
April 29, 1965;
(d) Loan Agreement (Carrapatelo Power Project) between the
Bank and Hidro-Electrica do Douro S.A.R.L., dated June 14, 1966;
and
(e) Loan Agreement (Carregado II Power Project) between the
Borrower and Empresa Termoelectrica Portuguesa S.A.R.L., dated
June 14, 1966.


﻿- 1)4-
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date December 23, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Electricidade de Portugal - Empresa
Pdblica
Lisboa,
Portugal
Cable address:
12826 CPEECP
Lisboa


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M.P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ELECTRICIDADE DE PORTUGAL - EMPRESA PUBLICA
By /s/ Fernando Ivo Goncalves
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              6,ooo,ooo          100% of foreign
materials for                                exDenditures or
hydro power                                  100% of ex-fac-
plants                                       tory cost of
goods manufac-
tured in Portu-
gal
(2) Equipment and             14,000,000         100% of foreign
materials for                                expenditures or
thermal power                                100% of ex-fac-
plants                                       tory cost of goods
manufactured in
Portugal
(3) Equipment and             12,000,000          100% of foreign
materials for                                expenditures or
transmission                                 100% of ex-fac-
and distribu-                                tory cost of goods
tion facilities                              manufactured in
Portugal
(4) Consulting ser-            1,500,000          100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(5) Unallocated                2,500,000
TOTAL     36,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or de-
crease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement and for consulting services
other than those provided by consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory
to the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank


﻿-19-
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to
the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of
the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the Borrower's investment program for
the years 1976 through 1978, and includes all facilities under
construction on January 1, 1976 or construction of which is to be
started by December 31, 1978, and may include but not necessarily
be limited to the following:
A.   Power Generation
Construction of hydroelectric power plants with an
aggregate capacity of about 1,600 MW, including the
plants at present under construction.
Construction of thermal power plants with an aggregate
capacity of about 1,700 MW, including the plants at
present under construction.
B.   Power Transmission Lines and Substations
Installation of transmission lines, as follows: about 1,200 km
of 400-kV lines; about 950 km of 220-kV lines; about 600 km
of 150-kV lines; and about 140 km of 60-kV lines.
Construction of substations for various voltage ratios re-
quired for the expansion of the generation and transmission
systems.


﻿- 21 -
C.   Power Distribution Systems
Expansion of the Borrower's distribution networks and
rural electrification systems.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
June 1, 1979                                    870,000
December 1, 1979                                910,000
June 1, 1980                                    950,000
December 1, 1980                                995,000
June 1, 1981                                  1,035,000
December 1, 1981                              1,085,000
June 1, 1982                                  1,130,000
December 1, 1982                              1,18o,ooo
June 1, 1983                                  1,230,000
December 1, 1983                              1,290,000
June 1, 1984                                  1,345,000
December 1, 1984                              1,400,000
June 1, 1985                                  1,470,000
December 1, 1985                              1,530,000
June 1, 1986                                  1,600,000
December 1, 1986                              1,665,000
June 1, 1987                                  1,745,000
December 1, 1987                              1,820,000
June 1, 1988                                  1,909,000
December 1, 1988                              1,985,000
June 1, 1989                                  2,075,000
December 1, 1989                              2,165,000
June 1, 1990                                  2,260,000
December 1, 1990                              2,365,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          3.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          6.50%
More than elever years but not
more than Thirteen years
before maturity                          7.65%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8.85%


﻿SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
The goods shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Identical or similar items to be so procured shall be
grouped together, wherever practicable, for the purpose of bidding,
and such grouping of items shall be subject to the concurrence of
the Bank.
B.   ENaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Do iestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically--manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Portugal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Portugal if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Portugal equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Portugal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported.and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lcwest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 26 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. If the Bank and the Borrower
agree that equipment suppliers shall be prequalified, the follow-
ing prequalification procedures shall apply in addition to those
set forth in the Guidelines. The Borrower shall, before qualifi-
cation is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of pre-
qualified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifica-
tions and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank


﻿- 27 -
for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Bor-
rower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifica-
tions in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 28 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's agreement, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivering
to the Bank the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to delivering to the Bank the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


