                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         ReportNo: T7679-RO



                                    TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                             ONA

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                        INTHEAMOUNT OFEUR29.6MILLION
                            (US$37.7MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                                          ROMANIA

                                           FORAN

   AVIAN INFLUENZACONTROLAND HUMANPANDEMICPREPAREDNESSAND
                                    RESPONSEPROJECT

                                         UNDERTHE

       GLOBALPROGRAMFORAVIAN INFLUENZAAND HUMANPANDEMIC
                        PREPAREDNESSAND RESPONSE(GPAI)

                                        August 16,2006




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
EuropeandCentralAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 6,2006)
                          Currency Unit = New Romanian Lei (RON)
                              RON3.53 = EUR1
                              EUR0.28    =   RON 1


                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1   -    December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AI     Avian Influenza
ANSVSA National Sanitary Veterinary and Food Safety Authority
APCP   Agricultural Pollution ControlProject
BIP    Border InspectionPoint
CDC    Center for Disease Control
CFAA   Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CoA    Court of Accounts
DA     Designated Accounts
DSP    Public HealthDirectorate
EA     Environmental Assessment
EC     European Commission
EISSD  European InfluenzaSurveillance System
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
ERA    Emergency Recovery Assistance
ERL    Emergency Recovery Loan
EU     EuropeanUnion
FA0    Food andAgriculture Organization of the UnitedNations
FDP    Forestry Development Project
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GMP    Good ManufacturingPractice
GOR    Government of Romania
GPAI   Global Program for Avian Influenzaand HumanPandemic Preparednessand
       Response
GPN    General Procurement Notice
HPAI   Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IDAH   Institute for Diagnosis andAnimal Health
IFR    InterimFinancialReports
ISDS   Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
IVHPH  Institute for Veterinary Hygiene and Public Health
JPAM   Joint Procurement Assessment Mission

M&E      Monitoring andEvaluation
MAFRD    Ministry o fAgriculture, Forests andRuralDevelopment
MAKIS    Modernizing the Agricultural Knowledge and InformationSystems
MOPF     Ministry o fPublic Finance
MPH      Ministry o fPublic Health
MTR      Mid-Term Review
N C B    National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
N I C    National Influenza Center
NIL      National Influenza Laboratory (at the Cantacuzino Institute)
NPIAP    National Pandemic Influenza Action Plan
OIE       World Animal Health Organization
P C N    Project Concept Note
PHARE     Poland and Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
PIC       Public Information Center
PID       Project Information Document
PIM       Project Implementation Manual
PMU       Project Management Unit
PP        Procurement Plan
PSC       Project Steering Committee
QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
RDP       Rural Development Project
IWP       RuralFinance Project
RVP       Regional Vice President
S A R S   Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SPN       Special Procurement Notice
TOR       Terms o f Reference
UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program
UNICEF    UnitedNations Children's Fund
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WB        World Bank
WHO       World Health Organization




                           Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director:     h a n d K. Seth
                        Country Manager:        Owaise Saadat
                          Sector Manager:       Benoit Blare1
                       Task Team Leader:        Matthias Grueninger

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

.

                                                       ROMANIA
    Avian InfluenzaControl& HumanPandemicPreparedness& ResponseProject

                                                      CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                              Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                           .................................................................  1
 1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................               1
 2. Legal framework. policies. and contingency planning related to HPAI.............................                                            8
 3. Institutionalstructure for H P A I crisis management ...........................................................                            9
 4. Integrated national program andinternational support to fight Avian Influenza .............10
 5. Rationale for Bank involvement .......................................................................................                     11
 6. Country eligibility under GPAI ........................................................................................                    12
 7. Lessons learned and reflected inproject design ...............................................................                             12

B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                   .........................................................................    13
 1. Project development objective and key indicators............................................................                               13
 2. Financinginstrument and project components .................................................................                               14
 3. Project costs and financing...............................................................................................                 20

C. IMPLEMENTATION                ........................................................................................................      21
 1. Overall project coordination and management .................................................................                              21
 2. Institutionaland implementation arrangements ................................................................                              22
 3. Procurement and FinancialManagement..........................................................................                              23
 4. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults ................................................................                              23
 5.  Sustainability, critical risks and possible controversial aspects........................................                                 24
 6. Emergency needs, retroactive financing, andproject phasing..........................................                                       26
 7. Loan conditions and covenants .........................................................................................                    27

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                      .................................................................................................      27
 1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                     27
 2. Technical analysis .............................................................................................................           30
 3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................      33
 4. Environmental and social aspects, and safeguard policies ...............................................                                   34
 5. Policy exceptions and readiness........................................................................................                    36
 Appendix la: Country and Sector Background........................................................................                            37

Appendix 1b: National IntegratedFramework for the Enhancement o f HPAIPreparedness
(Prevention and Control Capacity) ...........................................................................................        41
Appendix 2: Results Framework and Monitoring ....................................................................                    46
Appendix 3: Detailed Project Description................................................................................             54
Appendix 4: Project Coordination and Implementation Arrangements ...................................                                 66
Appendix 5: Project Costs and Financing.................................................................................             68
Appendix 6: Procurement Arrangements .................................................................................               69
Appendix 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ...................................                                   74
Appendix 8: Environmental and Social Issues .........................................................................                80
Appendix 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis........................................................................                   82
Appendix 10: Project Preparation and Supervision..................................................................                   90
Appendix 11:Documents inthe Project File............................................................................                 92
Appendix 12: Statement o f Loans and Credits .........................................................................               94
Appendix 13: Country at a Glance ...........................................................................................         96
Appendix 14:Map .................................................................................................................... 99

                                         ROMANIA

AVIAN INFLUENZACONTROL & HUMANPANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS & RESPONSE
                                          PROJECT

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                              EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA

                                           ECSSD

Date: August 16, 2006                          Team Leader: Matthias Grueninger
Country Director: Anand K. Seth                 Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and
Sector ManagerIDirector: Benoit Paul Blare1     forestry sector (50%); Health (50%)
                                               Themes: Rural services and infi-astructure
                                               (P);Other communicable diseases (P);Rural
                                               policies and institutions (S);Health system
                                               performance (S);Participation and civic
                                                engagement (S)
Project ID: P100470                            Environmental screening category: Partial
                                               Assessment
LendingInstrument: Emergency Recovery
Loan
                                   Project FinancingData
[XI Loan    [ ] Credit  [ ] Grant   [ 3 Guarantee    [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 37.70
Pronosedterms: VSL

                 Source                        Local             Foreign            Total
BORROWER                                           4.82               5.18            10.00
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR                                                                37.70
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                13.23     I       24*47     I
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                            18.05             29.65             47.70

Borrower:
Republic o fRomania
Responsible Agency:
Ministry o fHealth
Str. MinisteruluiNr. 1-3
Bucharest, Romania
70109
Tel: +40 1314 1526 Fax: +40 4 312 4916
acarmen@ms.ro
National Agency for Sanitary, Veterinary andFood Safety (ANSVSA)
lB,Negustori St.
Bucharest, Romania
Tel: (+40-21) 315 78 75      Fax: (+40-21) 312 49 67

FY            2007       2008      2009         0          0        0           0         0        0
Annual         15.00     17.00       5.70      0.00       0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00    0.00
Cumulative     15.00     32.00     37.70      37.70     37.70     37.70       37.70     37.70    37.70
Project implementation period: Start November 10,2006 End: August 31,2009
Expected effectiveness date: November 6,2006
Expected closing date: March 31,2010
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?           [ ]Yes [XINo
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.5                                                                             [XIYes [ ] N o
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                                             [XIYes [ ] N o
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                             [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref:PAD C.5                                                                             [XIYes [ ] N o

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.5                                                                             [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.1,Annex 3
The project will support and constitutes an integral part o f a national program to increase
Romaniak avian and human influenza preparedness, i.e. the country's capacity to prevent and
control the spread o f influenza among animals and humans.Inthis context, the overall
development objective o f the project i s to reduce the threat posed to humans and the poultry
sector inRomania by HPAIand other zoonoses, and to support the preparation for, control of,
and response to influenza pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies inhumans. To
achieve this, the project will support activities inthe three areas o fprevention, preparedness and
contingency planning, response and containment under the three components: (i)          animal health;
(ii) health;and(iii) awareness,communicationsandimplementationsupport.
    human                    public

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B, Annex 3
COMPONENT 1: ANIMAL HEALTH

1.      Total component costs are estimated at EUR 14.30 million, with Bank financing inthe
amount o f EUR 9.15 million.

(A)     Strengtheningthe Institutional Framework

A1 - StrengtheningVeterinary Institutions (EUR 1.14million)

2.      Evaluation o fNational Veterinary Services. The organizational and functional review o f
the main governmental veterinary services undertaken by experts from EUmember countries
andinternational organizations, andthe rapidassessmentundertakenbythe Bank team, suggest
the need for an in-depthassessment o f the national veterinary services, followed by appropriate
reforms as may be warranted. To meet international standards set by the World Organization for
Animal Health (OIE), the EUrequirements, and the recommendations developed by FA0 and
EUexperts, the veterinary services needto develop and document appropriateprocedures and
standards for the implementation and management o f animal health measures and international
veterinary certification activities. As a basis for activities insupport o f institutional
enhancements (below), the project will provide technical assistance to support the self-evaluation
o f and by the national veterinary services based on OIE's "Performance, Vision and Strategy for
Veterinary Services'' evaluation guidelines'inorder to establish the current level o fperformance,
form a shared vision with service providers and clients inthe private sector, establish priorities,

andfacilitate strategic planning.

3.      StrengtheningVeterinary and Food Safety Institutions. Once the evaluation o f veterinary
andrelated services (above) has been completed, the project will provide technical support for
realigning institutional structures and resources with priority objectives, mandates, and tasks. In
collaboration with and complementary to ongoing and planned advisory activities fundedby
donors and international organizations, the project will provide technical assistance for
institutional and organizational restructuring at national and county levels as may be warranted;
training o f staff; equipment and materials. Inparticular, the project will support the
establishment o f animal disease control centers at the national and county levels.

A 2 - ImprovingHPAIPrevention and Control Planning (EUR 0.35 million)

4.       Contingency Plan Implementation Guidelines and Manuals. While governmental
authorities have developed individual contingency plans for animal and humanhealth, overall
national contingency planning and coordination still needs improvements. The Government has
established a National Disease (AI) Control Center that has started a comprehensive process o f
reviewing, integrating, and consolidating existingcontingency plans. The project will provide
technical assistance to support this process o f refining and finalizing the draft contingency
plan(s) and to develop the necessary detailed implementation guidelines and manuals for
relevant agencies and services.

(B)      StrengtheningDisease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity, and Research

B1- StrengtheningMonitoring and Surveillance Systems (EURO0.18 million)

5.       Surveillance Capacity o f Veterinary Services. The project will provide technical
assistance and training for staff o f veterinary service institutions at national and local levels,
focusing on the structured routine collection o f samples on a national scale, on intensive follow-
up sampling around outbreaks areas, as well as routine investigation o f deadwild birdsthat are
regularly collected for such purposes (support for serological testing under active surveillance
schemes i s provided under the diagnostic capacity component B 2 and support to local mobility i s
provided under the institutional strengtheningcomponent Al).

6.       Epidemiological Surveys. The second wave o f HPAIoutbreaks inRomania, starting on
May 11,2006, has shown that the lack o freliable epidemiological information, and the sound
analysis thereof, has hampered the development o f rational, targeted disease control measures
and slowed down the containment o fthe disease. The project will provide technical assistance
and training for epidemiological studies and surveillance programs to support decision makers in
continuously fine-tuning and improving disease control measures based on improved risk
assessment. InRomania where 70% o fpoultry i s produced inbackyard systems, small-scale and
semi-commercial poultry production systems are the major control target.

B 2 - StrengtheningDiagnostic Capacity (EUR 8.14 million)

7.       Diagnostic capacity inRomania's national reference laboratory (IDAH) and county
laboratories. Inorder to equip existing laboratories for the increased work loadunder active
surveillance schemes and to minimize the lengtho f the period between infection and control
action (i.e. the highrisk period being the time needed for detection, reporting, sampling, testing,
and decision-making for response), the project will finance priority laboratory equipment and
laboratory consumables including samplingkits, materials for transporting and conditioning o f
samples, reagents, as well as technical assistance and training, inorder to increase the capacity

for virology and serological tests, screening surveys for the confirmation o f the disease and the
preparation for the differentiation o f AI sub-types. The sub-component will also provide personal
protective and laboratory waste disposal equipment. Twinning arrangements with appropriate
institutions outside Romania will be explored inorder to facilitate sustained capacity
strengthening.

8.       Quality control o f veterinary medicinal products. This sub-component will provide
equipment, consumables, technical assistance and training for increasingthe capacity o fthe
Institute for Control o f Biological Products and Veterinary Drugsto fulfillits responsibility in
providing quality control for vaccines and other veterinary medicinal products for which formal
quality assurance has to be provided by the State.

B3 - Strengthening Animal Diseases Information Systems (EUR 2.23 million)

9.       This sub-component will support the development o f a comprehensive integrated national
animal disease information system which will enable Romania to participate inglobal disease
information sharing and comply with its obligations as a member o f OIE, contributing towards
progressively better global and regional control and eradication. The system will be linked with
rapid and standardized methods o f routine analysis o f surveillance data inorder to track
important changes inthe H5N1situation and promptly supply this information to field personnel.
The system supported under the project i s intended to enable an effective and efficient flow o f
information among relevant agencies and individuals (esp. field veterinarians, laboratory experts,
epidemiologists, etc.), providingthe necessary support to decision-makers charged with the
prevention and control o f animal diseases at local and national levels. The project will provide
technical assistance, priority equipment and supplies, and training, for the design, establishment
and use o f the system. The animal health information system also includes a geo-referenced
database for all poultry farms, confirming to the requirement ofmunicipalities to register all
backyard flocks under their authority.

B4 - StrengtheningApplied Veterinary Research Capacity (EUR 0.3 1million)

10.    Applied Veterinary Research Program. A Government Decision under preparation at the
time o f project appraisal i s to provide ANSVSA inthe near future with a new mandate on
establishing the Research Center for Cross border Diseases, Emergencies, Reemergence and
Zoonoses o f the Institute for Diagnosis and Animal Health, situated on premises at Tulcea. This
sub-component will be limited to the provision o f preparatory support to initiate applied research
on epidemiology, birdmigration and ecology, and other subjects related to HPAI(and other
zoonotic diseases) byproviding technical assistance for ANSVSA to assist with the design a
research program as well as to assist with the design, construction and refurbishment plans for
the physical facilities for the Research Center. Twinning arrangements with appropriate
institutions outside Romania will be explored inorder to facilitate sustained capacity
strengthening. Upon completion o f the design additional project funds may be made available
subject to a separate request and subsequent appraisal.

11.      Infectious disease research on live animals. Research with highlyinfectious agents (such
as HPAIvirus) on live animals - as may be required for the testing o f vaccines and the practicing
o f vaccination and post-vaccination sampling - requires a high-containment laboratory
environment. The project will finance goods, consumables, and civil works for minor
refurbishments inexistinglaboratory facilities for the installation and operation o f isolators at the
Institute for Control o f Biological Products and Veterinary Drugs.

(C)     StrengtheningHPAIControl Programs

C1 - Targeting Virus Eradication at the Source (EUR 1.47 million)

12.     Quarantine, Culling and Disposal. Although capable teams are inplace to effectively
control HPAIoutbreaks, the recent wave o f out outbreaks has overwhelmed authorities and
veterinary services. The wide distribution o f small flocks across a country where 70% o fpoultry
are produced inbackyard systems i s a particular challenge for the control o f the disease. The
project will contribute to the enhancement o f existing capacities for the control o f HPAI
outbreaks as requiredby existing national contingency plans. Weaknesses have been identified in
the areas o f quarantining (disinfection stations), culling o f infectedand at-risk poultry, and the
safe disposal of poultry carcasses and potentially infectious materials ina bio-secure and
environmentally acceptable manner. Disinfection practices will be improved with support from
other thanproject sources. The project will focus its assistance on the culling o fpoultry and on
the disposal o fcarcasses insmall-holder systems - which dominate Romania'spoultry sector.
The project will finance the purchase and operation o f containers where C 0 2 i s applied inan
animal welfare acceptable manner. The project will also finance the purchase and operation o f
mobileincineratorswith a combined daily capacity o f about 40,000 kg.

C2 - Supporting Poultry Vaccination Campaigns (EUR 0.10 million)

13.     Vaccination planning andimplementation. A policy on the use o f vaccination for the
containment o f HPAIoutbreaks has not yet been formulated. Insituations where other measures
failed to control the spread o f the disease and where the virus has become endemic, vaccination
mightinfuture become an option for the containment o fthe disease. The project will therefore
provide technical assistance and training to develop Romania's vaccination policy, contingency
plan and implementation manuals inthe context o f its near-future EUmembership,and train
officials, as a contingency planning exercise, inthe implementation o fpoultry vaccination
campaigns andpost-vaccination monitoring.

(D)     Improving Bio-security inpoultry production and trade (EUR 0.29 million)

14.     Bio-security on small-scale poultry farms. The level o f bio-security both on commercial
and on backyard farms is insufficient and represents a major risk for new waves o f infections.
The project will support enhancements o fbio-security on small-holder farms with the following
instruments:(i)   Bio-security on poultry farms is - primarily - the result o f managerial decisions
and behavior (such as restricted access to poultry production farms, quarantining of new
purchases, separation o f sick animals, separation of species, personal hygiene, etc). The project
will therefore support awareness campaigns andknowledge transfer activities - includingon-
farm demonstrations and training o f farmers, extension agents, and other rural services providers
- aimed at managerial and behavioral changes. (ii) project will also finance technical
                                                      The
assistance for a comprehensive poultry sector assessment which - together with improved
epidemiological evidence - will help shape state support to increased bio-security on small-
holder farms. This study will assess the structure o f the poultryproduction sector, assess bio-
security issues indifferent production systems, and formulate technical options for upgrading on-
farm bio-security, especially insmall-holdings. It will result inthe publication o f biosecurity
manuals for different stakeholders (iii)  Investment incentives (on a matching grant basis) for
infrastructure upgrades on small-holder farms incompliance with enhanced bio-security
requirements (such as fencing, compartmentalization, caging, and manure disposal.), based on
the results o f the poultry sector assessment and successful pilot activities, could be an option for
project follow-up activities and were endorsed by the appraisal mission but have not been

included inthe final project design.
COMPONENT 2: HUMANHEALTH

15.      The HumanHealth Component will comprise three subcomponents for a total estimated
cost o f EUR 19.80 million, with Bank financing inthe amount o f EUR 16.95 million:

(A)      Enhancing Public Health Program Planning and Coordination (EUR 0.16 million)

16.      Activities under the first subcomponent will aim at enhancing coordination and program
planning by providing financial and technical support for additional studies and research as well
as for conferences andworkshops, including the organization o f a regional coordination meeting
on preparations for a human influenza pandemic.

(B)      Strengthening o f National Public Health Surveillance Systems (EUR 1.26 million)

17.      The second subcomponent will help strengthen the national public surveillance system
by: (i) Upgrading o f the National Influenza Laboratory to BSL 3 through the financing o f minor
civil works (partitioning andcreation o f decontamination rooms), the supply and installation of
additional security devices, and the installation o f a system for maintaining negative pressure in
the rooms; and (ii)  Strengthening o f regional laboratoriesbyprovidingcritical equipment and
training o f staff.

(C)      StrengtheningHealth System Response Capacity (EUR 18.29 million)

18.      The third subcomponent will help strengthen the capacity o fthe healthcare system to
respond to the disease, through:

(i)      The strengtheningo fthe isolation and case management capacity inbothnational and
regionalhospitals. The project will finance equipment for the intensive oare units o f the two
Bucharest infectious diseases hospitals and the establishment o f isolation and intensive care units
inthe 7 regional centers for infectious diseases (Brasov, Craiova, Constanta, Cluj, Iasi,
Timisoara and Tg. Mures). According to the National Plan, during the inter-pandemic period, all
suspected cases shall be transported to and isolated at the Institute o f Infectious Diseases ProfDr
Matei Bals, where medical assistance can be providedby specialized dedicatedpersonnel. The
centralization o fpatient care is the only possible way at this point intime as there i s no medical
unit able to ensure highquality care to suspected or confirmed AIhumancases inthe rest o fthe
country. However, inthe future, patients would have to be hospitalized within their region o f
residence. Therefore, there is a need to develop isolation and intensive care capacities inthe
regional centers for infectious diseases.

(ii) TheupgradingoftheinfluenzavaccineproductionunitattheCantacuzinoInstitute
including the rehabilitation and equipment o f the influenzaproduction department, and the
completion and equipment o fthe filling and sealing unit. A significant part o f the vaccines
needed inRomania duringthe inter-pandemic and pandemic periods can be producedby the
Cantacuzino Institute. Makingthe Institute able to significantly increase up to 2.5 million doses
andits production infullcompliance with GMP standards requires the upgrading o fboththe
production unit and the filling and sealing station. This intervention will help both to increase the
production capacity and to ensure that the production i s at the required Good Manufacturing
Practice standards.

 COMPONENT 3:            PUBLIC AWARENESS, COMMUNICATION, AND
 IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT

 (A)     Public Awareness and Communication (EUR 1.64 million)

 19.     The Public Awareness and Communication Sub-component will support the GOR's
 efforts indesigning and implementing an integrated and comprehensive communications
 strategy and action plan. The component will be implemented by ANSVSA, and will comprise
 the following three sub-components:

 (i)     Strengthening institutional capacity for ANSVSA: the project will support assistance for
 and training o f communications staff, and additional equipment and operating costs for the
 communications teams inthe two agencies.

 (ii) Developmentofanintegratedcommunicationsstrategyandactionplanforbothhuman
 andanimal health based on qualitative and quantitative research: the project will build on the
 experience gained from the information campaigns of UNDP, UNICEF, USAID, as well as on
 the sectoral communications strategies o f WHO and UNICEF, and the communications needs
 assessment of ANSVSA. The strategy will define parameters o f specific audiences invarious
 generic target groups, the degree o f social acceptance o f proposed hygiene and bio-security
 measures, the associated messages which will need to be persuasive without creating panic, and
 the most efficient delivery tools andvehicles for a nation wide campaign.

 (iii) Deliveryofseveralinformationcampaigns:thesewillaimtoobtainthepublic'ssupport
 and participation inreporting andmonitoring; to promote and induce a set o f behavior changes
 which will diminishthe possibility of AI outbreaks and contamination; and to educate different
 key audiences (farmers, people living invillages, traders, local authorities, media, food
 inspectors, front line workers, consumers, other stakeholders). The campaigns, even iftargeted
 especially for HPAI, will leadto other important positive externalities. The proposedbio-
 security measures and associated campaigns will also affect the spreading and prevention o f
 other animal diseases such as Newcastle disease, Classical swine fever, or Rabies, and will
 provide support for other on-going ANSVSA programs such as animal welfare, identification
 and registration o f animals and traceability. Also, the campaigns will improvethe general
 hygiene and sanitation of the population. Inclose collaboration with and complementary to the
 animal health related and overall coordination activities supported under the project, human
 health related communications activities will be entirely financed through USAID support and
 from governmental budgetsunderMOPH.
1(B)     Implementation Support, Monitoring and Evaluation (EUR 1.82 million)

 20.     The project will be implemented by the MOPH and ANSVSA, buildingupon their
 experience with implementingother bank financed projects. Inorder to ensure effective
 implementation o f the project inaccordance with Bank fiduciary and procurement policies and
 guidelines, the project will finance: (i)
                                         Incremental support interms o f staff and operating costs
 to the existing project management unit within MPH and the project management unit to be
 established withinANSVSA; (ii)     Studies, technical services, manuals; and (iii) Surveys for
 monitoring and evaluation.
 Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.4,Annex 8

 21.     Activities financed under the proposedproject are not expected to generate any
 significant adverse environmental effect, as a large part of the project i s gearedto support
 prevention activities. Overall, the project will have positive environmental and social impacts.

IThe primary potential environmental risks canbe grouped into three categories:
 (i)     Inadvertent human exposure and spread o f the virus due to: improper culling and disposal
 o f dead birds (wildbirds, sick and dead birds fkom backyard and commercial poultries); lack of,
 or improper use o f personalprotection equipment (PPE); improper disposal o f farm waste (i.e.,
 bedding,manure, washings, etc. during and/or after an outbreak); and inadequate laboratory
 biosafety protocols.
 (ii)    Inadvertent release o f chemicals inthe environment from unsatisfactory decontamination
 procedures (for personnel, poultry sheds, and transport vehicles, etc.) and from vaccination
 manufacturing.
 (iii)   Release o f chemicals and infectious agents into the environment from inadequate
 laboratory, medical and vaccination facility waste management.

 22.     The project's investments infacilities, equipment, and training for laboratorieswill
 improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza handling and testing
 procedures by meetinginternational standards established by OIE. Upgrading for laboratories
 will include provision o f appropriate facilities and training for waste management and for bio-
 safety level 2 and 3 operations as well as high-containment isolators. Medical waste generated in
 health care facilities will be managed usingexisting guidelines inRomania, which have been
 found satisfactory under previous projects. The Project will also support updating these
 guidelines, training o f health care workers to manage medical waste following these guidelines,
 and, as appropriate, purchase o f equipment for the proper handling and disposal o f medical waste
 inparticipating facilities. As such, the project willmainstream environmental safeguards into
 protocols and procedures for the culling and disposal o f animals during an outbreak, inparticular
 by adopting OIE standards inthese areas, and improve bio-medical waste management systems
 inhealth facilities and laboratories.

 23.      Based on the project's planned activities which entail the environmental risks mentioned
 above, the project has been rated "B" and requires an environmental assessment and
 environmental management plan. An Environmental Assessment and an Environmental
 Management Plan are being prepared. The EMP - which will become a part o f the Project
 ImplementationManual - will describe the methods to be deployed for culling and the disposal
 o f culled poultry, laboratory and medical facility waste management and bio-safety, and vaccine
 production and handling.
  Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD C.7
 Board presentation:

 None.

  Loan effectiveness:
  Conditions o f Effectiveness:
  (1) Establishmento fthe Steering Committee ina manner satisfactory to the Bank.
  (2) Adoption o f the Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to the Bank. The PIM will
  specify, inter alia: (i)
                         procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial
  management, including adequate measures for procurement and forensic audits, and monitoring
  and evaluation arrangements; (ii)   the Procurement Plan, detailed cost tables, and the EMP; and
  (iii) formatsforProjectReportsandinterimun-auditedfinancialreports.
       sample
  (3) Establishment o f the ANSVSA PMUina manner satisfactory to the Bank and with sufficient
  and suitable human resources.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
Withdrawal Conditions:
Payments madebetween M a y 11,2006 and the date of loan signinginan amount not to exceed
EUR 7.0 million.
Eligibility o f items to be financed retroactively has been established.
EMP, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted bythe Borrower, through ANSVSA and the
MPH.


 A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

1.    Avian Influenza the global dimension. The continuing outbreaks o f highly pathogenic
                        -
avian influenza (HPAI), which begun in late 2003 in several Southeast Asian countries and have
now occurred in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, have been disastrous to the poultry
industryand have raised serious global public health concerns. As o f February 2006, nearly 200
million domestic poultry had either died or beenculled, and economic losses to the Asian poultry
sector alone are estimated at around $10 billion. Despite control measures, the disease continues
to spread, causing further economic losses and threatening the livelihoods o f hundreds o f
millions o f poor livestock farmers, jeopardizing smallholder entrepreneurship and commercial
poultry production, and seriously impeding regional and international trade and market
opportunities. The rural poor, who rely for a larger share o f their income and protein
consumption on poultry, have been particularly hard hit with income losses and negative
nutritional consequences. Between February and May, 2006, the first cases o f H5N1 (or H5)
infections in poultry or wild birds were reported from an unprecedented 34 countries, marking
the fastest and most extensive geographic spread of H P A I virus since the disease was first
described in 1978. As o f June 25, 2006, OIE had received official notification o f the presence o f
AI (H5) from 58 countries inAsia, Europe, Middle East, andAfrica.

2.    So far, worldwide and even in South and Central Asia where many outbreaks have been
observed, the H5N1 epizootic has only been associated with sporadic human cases. The available
scientific evidence shows that the H5N1 virus i s not well adapted to humans yet. However,
genetic accidents (mutation or recombination o f the H5N1 virus with the seasonal influenza
virus) could trigger a pandemic. As of June 20, 2006 228 people have been infected by the
disease in 10 countries, namely: Azerbaijan, Cambodia, China, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq,
Thailand, Turkey and Vietnam. Of the 228 people tested positive to H5N1, 130 died which
means a fatality rate o f 57%. Before June 2006, no cases o f human to humantransmission had
been formally confirmed. However, in June 2006 in Indonesia, an outbreak involved eight
members o f a single family, and seven o f them died. The presence o f the H5N1 virus was
confirmed in all eight. This i s the largest cluster o f human H5N1 ever reported. While the case is
under further investigation, evidence is increasing for human-to-human transmission. The nature
o f the virus and the recent increases in the number o f known cases o f avian influenza (AI)
transmission have raised concerns over the potential emergence o f a pandemic, which could have
devastating effects on human health and livelihoods.

3.    It is impossibleto anticipate when the next influenza pandemic may occur or how severe its
consequences may be. On average, three pandemics per century have been documented since the
16th century, occurring at intervals of 10-50 years. In the 20th century, pandemics occurred in
1918, 1957 and 1968. The pandemic o f 1918 is estimated to have killed up to 50 million people
in eighteen months, with peak mortality rates occurring in people aged 20-45 years. The
pandemics o f 1957 and 1968 were milder, but many countries nevertheless experienced major
strains on health care resources. Ifa major pandemic were to appear again, similar to the one in
1918, even with modern advances in medicine, an unparalleled toll o f illness and death could
result. Air travel might hasten the spread o f a new virus, and decrease the time available for



                                                 - 1 -

preparing interventions. Country health care systems could be rapidly overwhelmed, economies
strained, and social order disrupted.

4.   Incollaboration with national and internationalpartners, governments aroundthe world are
increasing their efforts to prepare and implement contingency plans and action programs inorder
to increase the general preparedness levels for the prevention and control o f avian influenza and
a potential human influenza pandemic. The proposedproject will support such efforts undertaken
by the Government of Romania, inclose collaboration with its international partners.

5.
World Animal Health Organization) and WHO - have developed and promulgated global
      International response. The leading international technical agencies - the FAO, OIE (the

strategies, guidelines and norms intendedto minimize the threat and risk o f H P A I inhumans and
domestic poultry through progressive control and eradication o f HPAI from terrestrial domestic
poultry. These global strategies are expected to be complemented by and implemented through
country-specific contingency plans and investment programs for prevention and control. Global
coordination o f the tracking o f and response to disease outbreaks, as well as the coordination o f
bilateral and international financial support, has taken form following a series of global meetings
since October 2005. Within this framework, the UnitedNations and World Bank have supported
national preparedness planning, resource mobilization efforts, and the design and implementation
o f national investmentprograms to enhance the countries' prevention and response capacities.

6.    Regional implications. Untilrecently, avian flu outbreaks were limited to Southeast Asia.
In July 2005, however, first outbreaks were registered in domestic poultry and fowl in seven
regions of Russia. Four months later, outbreaks o f highly pathogenic H5N1 in poultry were
reported in four regions o f Kazakhstan. Over the past eleven months, the avian influenza virus
spread fast across Asia and Europe with its first occurrence in Europe on October 1, 2005, on a
poultry farm in Turkey, and three days later inRomania on a backyard farm. On January 5,2006,
the first human cases in Europe were reported from Turkey. As o f June 25, 26 countries
(Albania, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, France, Georgia, Greece, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Kazakhstan, Poland,
Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom)
had reported outbreaks o f HPAI (H5) and 9 people had died o f avian influenza in Europe and
Central Asia. Except for Moldova, Romania i s surrounded by countries in which the avian
influenza virus has been detected. As o f M a y 31, 2006, AI outbreaks had been reported in
domestic poultry from Ukraine (22), Turkey (176), and Albania (2) (in parenthesis: number of
the reported outbreaks) and in wild birds from Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary,
Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia. While no new cases have appeared inRomania since June 6, the
spread o f the disease continues in neighboring countries. On June 4, another HPAI infection
(later confirmed as H5N1) was observed in domestic poultry (geese) in Hungary and further
suspected cases were reported on June 20. On June 11, HPAI was detected (on June 22, 2006,
confirmed as H5N1) on a poultry farm (chicken, ducks, geese) inthe Sumy region o fUkraine.

7.    Seasonal migration of birds has long been assumed as the major factor in the long-distance
transmission o f new strains between geographical regions and countries. However, it has become
increasingly clear that vectors related to the movement of goods and humans through local and
international trade can be equally responsible for the emergence o f the disease in a new location.



                                                - 2 -

Outbreaks have therefore prompted bans by the EU (and by other countries) on the import o f
poultry and poultry products from infected countries. In the case o f Romania, the EU banned
imports o f live birds, meat and poultry products in 2005 after the confirmation o f H5N1.At the
end of the first wave, inMay 2006, the EUagreed to limit import restrictions to affected counties
only. Similar import restrictions for Romanian poultry products were taken by Albania, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, and Kosovo. With the
re-occurrence and rapid spread of the disease in a second wave starting in M a y 2006, the EU
decided on June 2, 3006, to re-impose the import ban for poultry products from the entire
Romanian territory.

8.    HPAI outbreak situation in Romania. The H5N1virus was first detected inRomania on
a backyard farm in the Danube Delta (Tulcea County) on October 4, 2005, and confirmed and
reported to OIE on October 13, 2005. 52 more outbreaks in nine counties (48 villages and two
small towns) inthe Danube Delta and Black Sea area, all inbackyard poultry systems, followed
in this first wave of AI which lasted until April 21, 2006, when the last outbreak location was
officially declared closed. However, only three weeks later, on M a y 11, 2006 (date of first
suspicion, with confirmation by virus isolation on M a y 15, 2006), a second avian influenza wave
started inBrasov country, this time with an outbreak on a commercial farm and at a considerable
distance from the Danube Delta. On M a y 21, 2006, the presence o f HPAI was confirmed in
Bucharest, triggering the quarantining o f residential neighborhoods in three sectors o f the city.
As o f June 9,2006, this second wave had caused 121 confirmed outbreaks (6 more suspected) in
19 o f Romania's 42 counties, concentrated in but not limited to the center o f the country. After
the first wave o f AI outbreaks which i s believed to have been caused by wild birds inthe Danube
Delta region, this second wave revealed that inappropriate farm management and trade practices
can have equally dramatic effects on the spread o f the disease. Luckily, untiltoday, Romania has
not experienced any human cases. Of the 17 suspected human cases that have been hospitalized,
none tested positive. However, in the second wave o f outbreaks alone, about one million birds
had died or were culled; and the total cost of disease control and economic losses to the poultry
and related industries is estimated to exceed EUR 90 million. The low level o f bio-security and
hygieneinbackyardpoultry systems remains a major concern.

9.    Key issues:

    The agriculture sector in the Romanian economy. While Romania i s in a process o f major
    economic and sectoral transformations resulting ina natural decline of the agricultural sector,
    agriculture still plays a critical role in the Romanian economy, contributing 11.9% to GDP
    and harboring 35% o f the total labor force in 2003. About 62% o f Romania's total area i s
    agricultural (compared to the EU average o f 41%). Gross Agricultural Output has remained
    roughly constant since 1980: Duringthe first 10 years o f transition, agricultural gross value-
    added in agriculture declined less than industrial output. But since 2000 the industrial sector
    has enjoyed continuous growth, while the agricultural sector has experienced significant
    fluctuations due to its sensitivity to droughts.

    Role of poultry production in Romania's agriculture sector. In 2005, Romanian
    consumption o f purchased poultry meat increased by 19% compared to the previous year to a
    total o f around 375,000 tons, o f which 59% or 220,000 tons were produced domestically.



                                                 - 3 -

Compared to the year 2000, domestic production of poultry meat nearly doubled. Including
production for own consumption, Romania's total domestic output o f poultry is estimated at
around 360,000 tons. Romania's poultry production is largely based on small-holder
("backyard") systems inwhich 70% o f the country's poultry population (Le., 70 millionbirds)
i s kept. A typical small-holder farm in Romania keeps 20 chickens, 10 ducks, 5 turkeys, 3
geese, 3 swine, 10 sheep and goats, a cow and a horse living inimmediate proximity. Most o f
the backyard poultry i s producedfor own consumption or for sale at local (live bird) markets.
Romania's commercial poultry production i s highly concentrated. 15 large producers o f
poultry meat hold about 60% o f the total commercial production. The two waves o f AI
outbreaks in Romania have demonstrated the extreme susceptibility o f the sector to both
disease infections due to low bio-security in backyard farms and market collapse caused by
loss o f consumer confidence.

On-farm bio-security. Untilthe reoccurrence o f the HPAIinMay 2006, the commercial farm
bio-security was judged as generally acceptable. Yet, the risk o f thembeing hit by the AI was
not ruled out for at least two reasons: these farms were located in affected areas and they
were staffed by workers commuting to and from areas with extensive backyard poultry
holdings. The new series of outbreaks starting in M a y 2006 raised questions about the
observance o f bio-security principles even in the large-scale poultry holdings. DRAKOM
SILVA SRL is likely to have neglected these rules, and there is a possibility that the virus
was brought by workers from their backyard holdings. Bio-security is particularly weak in
backyard poultry systems. Most backyard holdings rarely separate different poultry species
from 'each other or from other animals - notably from pigs which are susceptible to both
avian and human influenza. Moreover, poultry roam and forage freely during the day and are
exposed to frequent contact with potentially infected domestic and/or wild birds and their
excreta

Risk for avian influenza infections and endemism in Romania. Given Romania's
endowment with waterfowl habitats (Danube Delta, UNESCO world heritage site) coupled
with the dominance ofbackyard poultrywith low bio-security, future AI outbreaks are likely.
The natural and farming system environment create a real possibility that the virus could
become endemic which would further increase the risk o f future outbreaks. Spreading o f the
H5N1 HPAI among backyard poultry in Romania will significantly affect Romania's
agriculture and economy in general; it poses a risk o f human infection and also presents a
danger o f spread o f the infection to poultry inother countries inthe region.

Strengths and weaknesses of the veterinary services.
     o Institutional framework ANSVSA is Romania's central food safety and animal
         health authority that acts with functional and decisional autonomy from the Ministry
         o f Agriculture, reporting directly to the Prime Minister's Office. ANSVSA employs
         about 3000 regular staff and some 400 area veterinarians in its 42 County Sanitary
         Veterinary and Food Safety Directorates (Bucharest included). At the local level
         ANSVSA has contractual arrangements with about 2800 private veterinarians. Three
         public institutions are affiliated to ANSVSA: (1) the Institute for Diagnosis and
         Animal Health (IDAH), (2) the Institute for the Control o f Biological Products and
         Veterinary Drugs, and (3) the Institute for Veterinary Hygiene and Public Health


                                             - 4 -

  (IVHPH). In addition, ANSVSA also controls the border inspection posts (BIPs).
  During the second wave of AI outbreaks, institutional weaknesses have become
  evident and the Government has started to restructure the public veterinary
  institutions. The government intends to establish national and county animal disease
  control centers.
o Monitoring, i.e. the continuous investigation of a given population to detect changes
  in the prevalence of the disease, is currently insufficient. According to an FA0
  recommendation, monitoring should be expanded beyond the risk areas and needs to
  cover the entire country.
o Surveillance. Romania's surveillance system is primarily passive, reacting to reports
  o f disease suspicions and testing dead or sick birds. Active surveillance would be
  needed to ensure that the disease i s detected early enough. The AI-related EU
  Directive [2005/94/EC] requires that a diagnostic manual for the sampling o f
  commercial farms be used. An active surveillance scheme would substantially
  increase the number o f samples tested and hence the amount o f testing inputs
  consumed.
o Diagnostic    capacity. Romania's      laboratory capacity has been substantially
  strengthened over the past years and i s equipped to diagnose all notifiable diseases,
  including HPAI, at the national reference laboratory which i s located at the Institute
  for Diagnosis and Animal Health (IDAH) affiliated to ANSVSA. The IDAH
  laboratory i s the only BSL-3 facility on the animal health side, and its capacity for
  virus isolation is now fully used. During the first wave o f outbreaks, in the period
  from October 20, 2005, to March 31, 2006, 15,610 samples were processed in the
  BSL-3-facility o f the national reference laboratory (IDAH). Positive samples from
  IDAHwere confirmed by the international reference laboratory inWeybridge. IDAH
  also has robotized equipment for the management o f large numbers o f serological
  samples. In addition, each county has a local laboratory which has the capacity to
  perform serological tests with ELISA. Nine of these county laboratories own RT-PCR
  equipment, four o f which are real-time RT-PCR - all in the south-east o f the country
  between Bucharest and the Delta. In order to comply with the recommended
  maximum period o f 24 hours between sampling and PCR results, and given that
  conventional PCR is too slow for rapid diagnosis in mass outbreaks, ANSVSA
  intends to equip more county laboratories with real-time RT-PCR, envisaged to be
  funded by EU's SAPARD program. Giventhe large number o f laboratories across the
  country and the abundance o f equipment, Romania's veterinary system would benefit
  from laboratory consolidation and more strategic location. However, moving from
  passive to active surveillance schemes will substantially increase the number o f
  samples to be tested for which the capacity not always exists, especially with respect
  to consumables such as reagents.
o Epidemiological Surveys. European Council Directive 2005/94/EC (dated December
  20, 2005) on Community measures for the control o f avian influenza requires EU
  Member States (MS) to "ensure that epidemiological inquiries are started on the basis
  o f questionnaires, established within the framework o f the contingency plans
  provided for in Article 62.'' These inquiries need to include, inter alia, the period o f
  infection on the premises, possible virus origin, identification o f contact holdings, and


                                     - 5 -

      movement o f poultry and poultry products, persons, vehicles and other material. The
       second wave o f outbreaks in Romania, starting on May 11, 2006, has shown that the
       lack o f reliable epidemiological information, and the sound analysis thereof, has
      hampered the development o f rational, targeted disease control measures and slowed
       down the containment o f the disease.
   o The Animal disease information system is currently based on emails and paper files;
       needs to be upgraded to a fully integrated national system which could include the
      registration o f poultry farms. A data base o f poultry holdings i s not available;
       however county offices hold registration o f commercial poultry farms. Mayors o f
       municipalities are obliged to register all backyard flocks within their authority. The
       current status o f these registers i s not clear.
   o Outbreak control: culling and disposal of carcasses. Culling is currently performed
       with plastic garbage containers filled with carbon dioxide. Additional and more
       appropriate containers for asphyxiation purposes in an animal welfare-acceptable
       manner are required for the culling operations. The safe disposal o f the carcasses i s
       not sufficiently solved. At present carcasses are burned in open trenches, and ashes
       are covered. While open burning o f potentially virus-loaded carcasses is acceptable
       and in compliance with EU directives if undertaken in response to an emergency, i s
       negatively affected by wind and precipitation which could create a risk o f virus
       spreading if carcasses are burned incompletely or too slowly. On the other hand,
       transportation o f carcasses to other locations for collective burningbears the risk o f
       contamination in transit. Mobile incineration units would represent an ideal means o f
       safe disposal o f carcasses ina country with 70% backyard poultry.

Strengths and weaknesses of thepublic health case system.
   o Institutional framework, planning and coordination. On October 13, 2005, the
       MinistryofPublic Health adopted anationalplanwhich presents the general strategy
       for the response to an influenza pandemic o f avian origin and the composition o f the
       National Committee on Avian Flu. Several other Ordinances complete the national
       plan by presenting the attributions and responsibilities o f the various Ministries
       involved inthe response, the methodology for the surveillance and management o f AI
       human cases and recommendations to the population and travelers. Overall the plan
       and various orders constitute a good strategic framework and provide good general
       guidance for action. The plan needs however to be further operationalized. This i s
       being done with the support o f an USAID Avian flu project which supports the MPH
       in the preparation and dissemination of technical instructions, guidelines and
       operational manuals. While the national plan and various orders do present well the
       infomation flows, the chain o f command i s still insufficiently defined. The roles o f
       the National Center for Disease and o f the Regional and Country Public Health
       Departments need to be clarified and individual responsibilities at all levels o f the
       system shall be defined. Additional work, studies and researches will also be needed
       especially with regards to the possible kinetics and impact o f a flu pandemic, and
       means and measures to reduce the spread o f the virus inthe Romanian context.
   o Epidemiological surveillance and control. In Romania, surveillance o f seasonal
       influenza has been in place for about 15 years, and the Romania National Influenza



                                              - 6 -

        Center is recognized by WHO and i s affiliated with the European Influenza
        Surveillance System (EISSD). The surveillance system i s deemed to function well.
        While the M P H Department o f Public Health has the overall responsibility for the
        prevention o f and fight against avian flu in humans, the 42 existing District Public
        Health Departments are directly responsible for the investigation o f AI outbreaks. N o
        major issues have been reported in the past months, and the last W H O K D C mission
        considered the investigation o f outbreaks satisfactory. However, the increasing
        number o f AI outbreaks reported in poultry and the risk o f human cases in remote
        areas o f the country makes it necessary to assess in depth the regional and local
        capacity to investigate and control outbreaks. Ifneeded, a plan to rapidly build up this
        capacity should be adopted. The National Influenza Reference laboratory (located at
        the Cantacuzino Institute) has recently been renovated, is well staffed and fully
        equipped. However, for safety reasons, in case the virus needs to be isolated, this
        laboratory should be rapidly upgraded to bio-safety level 3 (from its current bio-
        safety level 2+ level). The capacity o f regional and district laboratories to perform all
        major tests to international standards will need to be progressively upgraded.
    o Health care system response. According to the national plan, at this phase, all
        suspected cases shall be transported and isolated at the two Bucharest hospitals o f
        infectious diseases (Prof Matei Bals and Victor Babes Hospital). At this central level
        the capacity to effectively and safely isolate and treat patients infected with the H5N1
        virus is relatively good, even if the two infectious disease hospitals need additional
        equipment for their intensive care units. Would the virus continue to spread or a
        pandemic occur, patients would need to be hospitalized and treated in a timely and
        safe manner within or closer to their region o f residence. This requires the
        establishment of isolation and intensive care units in 7 o f the regional hospitals for
        infectious diseases. In line with the plan estimate that between 400,000 and 1million
        antiviral treatments should be stock piled in Romania, 500,000 treatments are
        currently available. In case of necessity, Romania can access the WHO international
        stockpile. Romania needs approximately 2.5 million doses o f seasonal flu trivalent
        vaccines annually. In case o f a pandemic, Romania would need about 5.5 million
        doses o f a mono-valent vaccine. A significant share o f the national needs could be
        produced in Romania by the Cantacuzino Institute, which has produced seasonal flu
        vaccines since 1971. The upgrading o f the existing vaccine production unit at the
        Cantacuzino Institute would help meet the needs in the pre-pandemic period and
        would be sufficient incase o f a medium-size pandemic.


Compensation scheme. Compensation for poultry culled in affected areas is paid at locally
determinedmarket prices and generally within less than a week after the culling. This speedy
payment o f compensation has substantially contributed to the acceptance o f culling activities
by the rural population. Compensation payments, in general, are subject to the provisions o f
the national "Compensation for Animal Deceases'' allocation inthe Ministry o f Agriculture
(MAFRD) budget. Initial budgetary allocations for payments compensating farmers for
culling/slaughtering in order to preventbight animal diseases (such as avian influenza, swine
fever, foot and mouth disease, etc.) amounted to about EUR 2.0 million in MAFRD's 2005
budget and EUR 5.5 million inthe 2006 budget. Since the first outbreak o f HPAIinRomania
in October 2005, total compensation payments for culled poultry have added up to EUR 3.9


                                            - 7 -

   million out of which EUR 3.2 million were paid in 2006. During the first AI (2005) wave,
   421,470 birds were culled in 16,166 households, while during the second (2006) wave, the
   number o f poultry culled went up to 210,470 (in 14,255 households) and to 764,865 (in
   commercial farms). Average compensation payments amounted to RON20 (EUR 5.7) per
   each hen culled (hens representing 80% o f the total poultry culled) to about RON60 (EUR
   17) per each turkey culled. While remaining within the initial budgetary allocations, a further
   increase in the number o f HPAI outbreaks might require further capitalization of the
   compensation fund during the mid-year budget rectification. The GOR has, however,
   signaled that a 2006 capitalization would be covered from own financial resources and that
   no support under the Project would be sought. Subject to EU accession in January 2007 and
   prior submission of an application acceptable to the EC, national expenses for
   preventive/emergency culling events would then be eligible for a 50% E C financial
   contribution towards the eligible costs o f measures taken.

   Communications issues related to AI. The government put an emphasis on communication
   with the public, as an integral measure for controlling the outbreak. Overall, there is a
   satisfactory level o f awareness, which needed some effort to reach the most remote rural
   areas o f Romania. Nevertheless, it i s difficult to change behaviors that have been established
   for ages, and the collaboration o f the population remains critical for controlling the spread o f
   the disease. Initially, people were concerned about the health risks, but as no human cases
   were reported, the perception o f risk was apparently reduced. This could also be partly
   attributed to a lack o f explanation regarding the public health measures that were
   implemented. Public health messages have focused on the protection o f health and the
   reduction o f the spread of the disease, while the clear understanding o f risks to health
   remains weak. The need for reporting i s perceived strongly when it deals with chickens, but
   not as much for health symptoms inpeople. The health messages are conveyed*mainlyafter
   the animal outbreak has started and i s controlled, and not before. In Romania AI outbreaks,
   the main challenge i s a decline o f trust in the authorities by the population, and the need to
   restore it. People have received messages that are not always consistent and clear from
   different sources, mainly on self-protective behaviors. Coordinated communication can help
   restore trust as the public would receive consistent information through common messages
   from different sources.

2. Legal framework, policies, and contingency planning related to HPAI

10. Veterinary activities in Romania are regulated by Government Ordinance No. 42/2004,
approved by Law no. 215/2004. It comprises general provisions with respect to animal health,
animal movement, and veterinary certification. It is complemented by a plethora o f specific
regulations. Romania fully transposed the Council directive 92/40/EC on measures for
prophylaxis, surveillance, and control o f avian influenza into national legislation. ANSVSA
Order No. 26/2005 is o f particular interest in the context o f avian influenza as it requires the
constant monitoring o f all commercial and non-commercial poultry farms, the control o f access
to poultry farms, compulsory prophylactic quarantine o f poultry before entering it into the
production chain, and other bio-security andpreventive measures.




                                                - 8 -

11. The Contingency Plan for AI, formulated by ANSVSA, articulates common objectives
across both the animal and human health sectors. The Plan includes information about the
disease (etiology, epidemiology, sources of infection, diagnosis, clinical findings, prophylaxis,
etc.), reference to applicable legal provisions, financial provisions, the chain o f command,
national compensation system, and public awareness. The Plan was reviewed and endorsed by a
WHO/CDC assessment mission carried out inFebruary2006. However, there i s a need for more
effectively integrated animal-human response teams at the local level and detailed instructions
and guidelines for the management of outbreaks.

12. In case o f an AI outbreak, Romania pursues a policy o f virus eradication through the
immediate destruction o f poultry within an epidemiological unit around infected farms, the
establishment o f surveillance zones, epidemiological surveys, the complete disinfection of
affected areas and the use o f sentinel birds before restocking, following relevant EUregulations.
Poultry holders whose animals are destroyed inthe course o f fighting an AI outbreak are entitled
to receive financial compensation within 60 days. Compensation payments are made from the
budget of the Ministry o f Agriculture and are based on the replacement value equaling the
market price o f the destroyed animals or by estimating the total losses incurred by the holder.
The reference date for the assessment of losses i s the date when control activities started.

13. A National Plan o f Intervention in case o f a (human) influenza pandemic was adopted by
the Ministry o f Public Health on October 13, 2005. Since then several Ministerial Orders have
been adopted, including a methodology for the surveillance o f cases o f AI inhumans. InJanuary
2006, the MPH concluded a protocol with the Ministry o f Transportation, Construction, and
Tourism, the Ministry o f Administration and the Interior, the National Customs Authority and
the ANSVSA to optimize public health protection through a more effective inter-institutional
collaboration. It also concluded a protocol with the Ministry o f Education and Research to
improve the implementation o f the measures related to the prevention o f appearance and
transmission of AI to humans. Overall the plan and various orders constitute a good strategic
framework and provide good general guidance for action. They closely follow the WHO
recommendations, address most o f the issues and broadly present the actions to be taken during
the 6 phases o f the pre-pandemic and pandemic periods. The last section o f the National Plan
provides estimates o f the costs o f the various planned interventions. Additional work, however,
i s requiredto make this plan more operational by providing details o f some key interventions and
measures.

3. Institutionalstructure for HPAI crisis management

14. With some 180 outbreaks o f avian influenza on backyard and commercial poultry farms
since October 2005, Romania has actually experienced a major AI crisis, putting to test her
emergency response procedures and institutional capacities. A permanent National Disease
Command Center (the "Central Anti-Epizootic Command Center") as well as local disease
command centers have been established through Order No. 146/2005. These centers are activated
individually and successively in times o f disease outbreaks, and as the disease spreads beyond
mandate areas. Together with the National Commission for Defense against Disasters, which i s
responsible for the definition o f the overall policy framework for disaster prevention and
response, the Anti-Epizootic Command Center manages animal disease control measures and i s



                                                - 9 -

responsible for the monitoring o f its implementation. According to Government Decision No.
1218/2005, the Central Anti-Epizootic Command Center i s headed by the Minister o f
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development and includes the head o f ANSVSA as vice-
president as well as representatives o f nine other ministries.On M a y 24, 2006, the leadership o f
the Anti-Epizootic Command Center was transferred to the Prime Minister who, on May 26,
2006, established a National Center for the Coordination o f the Fight against AI, chaired by the
president o f ANSVSA, comprising representatives o f 6 ministries and technical experts as
needed, and functioning as an advisory body to the Central Anti-Epizootic Command Center. In
addition, the Command Center i s assisted by a Crisis Cell which i s established upon suspicion o f
AI andremains operational untilthe quarantine is liftedand the poultry farms are repopulated.

15. The County Disease Command Centers and their corresponding Crisis Cells are made up o f
the deputy director o f the County Sanitary, Veterinary and Food Safety Unit and several AI
experts, and include a Fixed Command Post (located within the County Sanitary and Veterinary
Unit), Operational Command Posts (located where the outbreaks occur), and Information Cells
(located at the County Prefectures). Specific operational structures are then established at the
local level (the so-called "local expert groups"). They can gather under various configurations
and with very specific tasks: e.g. team o f epidemiologists, screening team, traceability team,
stamping-out and evaluation team, training team and information groups. Communication flows
follow the hierarchy above, circulating both ways, using e-mail, fixed and mobile telephones and
faxes.

16. A national and international notification system i s inplace. At the national level, in case o f
suspicion or confirmation o f AI, immediate reporting i s compulsory to the competent veterinary
authorities (Le. County Sanitary Veterinary and Food Safety Agency). After local confirmation
o f the disease, ANSVSA (central office) i s informed. ANSVSA i s the only authorized institution
to make international notifications o f animal diseases. It sends reports to (1) the sanitary and
phytosanitary agencies o f the European Commission and to the central veterinary agencies o f the
Member States, (2) the central office o f the OIE, and (3) the central veterinary agencies o f the
neighboring countries and, ifneeded, to the central veterinary agencies o f other trade partners.

17. The Ministry o f Public Health i s the key institution in charge o f disease surveillance in
humans and o f implementing preventive measures. It cooperates with the County Public Health
Departments, the "Cantacuzino" Institute, the Institute o f Infectious Diseases "Prof. Dr. Matei
Bals", and other sanitary organizations. The Ministry o f Transport, Construction and Tourism i s
responsible for setting up disinfection points on roads; and the Ministry o f Education and
Research participates in information and communication campaigns. InOctober 2005, a National
Committee and county committees for flu pandemic case intervention were established. The
Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development (MAFRD) is responsible for the
payment o f compensations to poultry holders.

4. Integratednationalprogramand internationalsupportto fight Avian Influenza

18. Romania has received and continues to have access to substantial donor support inits HPAI
response activities. EU support through Phare and SAPARD grants predominantly target the
upgrading o f diagnostic and institutional capacities. After the first confirmed outbreak,



                                                - 10-

immediate support was provided by U SAID, Sweden, the Netherlands, and Germany (through
FA0 TA). These donors have continued their support. Preparedness and response assessments
have been carried out by FAO, WHO, and CDC. Appendix lb summarizes current and planned
activities aimed at upgrading institutional capacities for the prevention and control o f HPAI and
other zoonoses inRomania.

5. Rationale for Bank involvement

19. The justification for the Bank involvement i s the Global Public Goods aspect o f the HPAI,
one o f many emerging and re-emerging zoonoses, and its strong link to poverty reduction. HPAI
control programs require a multi-disciplinary approach to integrate technical, social, economic,
political, policy, and regulatory issues in addressing a complex problem. The Bank i s well-placed
to build upon its knowledge o f multi-disciplinary approaches needed in the proposed Project,
which draws on evidence and lessons learned in the various regions regarding emergency
preparedness responses and multi-disciplinary approaches. The Bank's experience with multi-
sectoral emergency response and risk-mitigation projects gives it considerable qualifications in
bringing together the relevant ministries, government agencies, and the donor community, in
understanding and addressing the social and economic impact, and in assuring high level
political coordination.

20. Given the Bank's work with FAO, WHO, OIE, EU, USAID and other partners within
Romania and at the international level to address both preparedness and outbreaks and to assist
with institutional assessments, the Bank can assist Romania in leveraging additional resources
from other international and bilateral agencies. In addition to its financial role, the technical
assistance provided by the Bank has been important in similar global or regional emergency
situations such as SARS, Tsunami relief, and HIV/AIDS. The Bank's national and regional
support will be closely linked with the activities o f FAO, WHO, OIE, and the EU and the
proposedproject i s fully consistent with, and draws heavily on, the global strategies proposed by
FA0 andWHO.

21. The Bank is particularly well positioned to work with ANSVSA and MPH, based on its
previous and current involvement through the Modernizing Agricultural Knowledge and
Information Systems Project (MAKIS) and the Health Reform Project. As such, M A K I S
supported areas which are also relevant for the AHIP project, including: building ANSVSA
capacity in risk assessment, management and communication; establishing a communication
system between the center, regions and counties; training o f staff in EU requirements for food
safety standards, inspection, testing, enforcement and communications; modernization and
accreditation o f national reference laboratories and a few regional laboratories;             and
establishment o f border inspectionpoints.

22. To date the Bank has supported two investment operations in the health sector. The first
project, Health Services Rehabilitation (Loan size: US$ 150 million), completed in 1999,
supported, inter-alia, the upgrade of the vaccines production in the Cantacuzino Institute. This
almost tripled at that time the domestic production o f the main vaccines used by the MPH in the
mass immunization programs at reduced unit costs. The second project, Health Sector Reform -
APL Phase 1 - was completed inJune 2004 (Loan size: US$40 million). It covered the upgrade



                                                - 11-

o f essential hospital care, improvements in emergency medical services and support for primary
care in selected counties and the strengthening o f the planning capacity within the MPH and the
counties. The APL Phase 2 i s currently under implementation with a focus on the rehabilitation
o f the country's network o f maternities, further improvement o f the emergency services,
improved access to high quality primary health care services in the poor remote areas, and the
development o f national health accounts.

6. Country eligibility under GPAI

23. Romania is classified as a "newly infected country" with a recent outbreak o f avian
influenza among poultry but no human infections. Given the existence in Romania o f an
appropriate response program with effective detection and control measures in place, Romania
qualifies for participation in the Bank's GPAI and i s eligible to request assistance through an
Emergency Recovery Loan. In particular, the Government's commitment and the existence o f
appropriate structures and mechanisms for the fight against H P A I are evident, inter alia, in the
establishment o f a National Disease Command Center, chaired by the Prime Minister; the
existence o f effective control measures demonstrated during the first wave o f outbreaks in
October 2005 through April 2006; the rapid detection o f the second wave o f outbreaks and
efforts to detect the source o f infection; and the absence o f human infections to date.

7. Lessons learned and reflected inproject design

24. Relevant lessons for the design o f the proposed operation have been drawn from the
implementation o f projects inthe agricultural and health sectors inRomania and from the design
o f previous World Bank and FAO-supported emergency recovery projects. The Vietnam Avian
Influenza Emergency Recovery Project, approved in August 2004, was the Bank's first avian
influenza operation. By now, under the GPAI, six more projects have been approved (in
Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Nigeria, Turkey) and 14 more are under
preparation (in Afghanistan, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Cambodia, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Indonesia, Lao PDR, Nepal, Romania, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, West Bank/Gaza).

25. A performance audit o f some o f the emergency projects supported by the Bank in various
regions drew the following general lessons: (i)emergency projects should avoid policy
conditionality; (ii)project design must be simple and take into account a realistic assessment o f
the existing capacity of the Borrower and other stakeholders, e.g. NGOs; (iii) speedy appraisal
                                                                                   a
and approval are crucial to provide a prompt response and a substantial contribution to project
success; (iv) procurement arrangements should be finalized at an early stage but need to remain
flexible; (v) mitigation and prevention measures should be included in the design to minimize
impacts o f a possible recurrence o f the disaster; and (vi) realistic assessments should be made o f
the counterparts' absorptive capacity, as well as o f the effectiveness o f communications and
coordination mechanisms among all relevant stakeholders.

26. The Vietnam Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project has been effective since
November 9, 2004. The main recommendations arising from its implementation are:




                                                 - 12-

   0   Preparedness is a key factor. While Vietnam had a national strategy document to control
       avian influenza in the domestic poultry population, it was not clearly understood and
       shared by all relevant stakeholders and some aspects o f the response have lagged.

   0   A two-pronged strategy is recommended, including: (i) control o f HPAIat the source
                                                                 the
       in high-risk regions (through aggressive measures including culling and movement
       control); and (ii) simultaneously prepared short and medium-term measures to minimize
       the risks to humans and prepare for an eventual pandemic.
       For implementation arrangements, a coordination structure is needed which i s
       empowered with multi-sectoral responsibilities, for instance at the Prime Minister's
       Office level, and to have full time project coordinators to implement activities ina "crisis
       situation". Coordination should not only involve the Government, but include the donor
       community, the private sector and the civil society.

   0   A "compensation framework" is essential to obtain cooperation from affected farmers and
       to ensure the efficacy o f the surveillance and diagnosis mechanisms.

   0   Strengthening the technical, scientific and operational capacity o f relevant participating
       agencies i s important. The HPAI crisis highlighted several weaknesses in the existing
       animal health and public health services systems, including: poor surveillance at the local
       level, weak diagnostic capacity, lack o f epidemiological expertise and information
       system, and inadequate operating budget to bear the additional physical and human cost
       to contain the disease.

   0   An effective national response is imperative in case o f a human epidemic, including all
       technical ministries in charge of agriculture/animal health and human health, as well as
       other relevant sectors, at the national and sub-national level.
       Raising awareness inthe public and private sectors is important from the initial moments.
        Support should be given for the integration o f each country to a regional and global
       framework for the control o f HPAI, and more broadly o f all trans-boundary animal
       diseases and other emerging infectious diseases, to increase cost-effectiveness and ensure
       the harmonization o f activities and responses.

 B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators

27. The project will support and constitutes an integral part o f a national program to increase
Romania's avian and human influenza preparedness, i.e. the countryk capacity to prevent and
control the spread o f influenza among animals and humans. In this context, the overall
development objective o f the project is to reduce the threat posed to humans and the poultry
sector in Romania by HPAI and other zoonoses, and to support the preparation for, control of,
and response to influenza pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans. To
achieve this, the project will support activities inthe three areas o f prevention, preparedness and
contingency planning, response and containment under the three components: (i)         animal health;
(ii) health;and(iii) awareness,communicationsandimplementationsupport.
   human                    public




                                                - 13 -

28.   Key indicators include: (i)evidence o f institutional mechanisms for effective
implementation o f appropriate disease contingency plans; (ii)evidence o f an effective
surveillance system for both animals and humans for HPAI and other zoonoses; (iii)       evidence o f
enhanced outbreak control capacities and general awareness, reducing the probability of virus
transmission from animals to humans; (iv) evidence o f increased capacities to handle human
cases o f infectious diseases.

2. Financinginstrumentandprojectcomponents

29. The proposed project has been prepared within the framework o f the Global Program for
Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI), endorsed by
the Bank's Board o f Executive Directors on January 12, 2006. Under the GPAI - a global,
horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL)- individual countries can obtain separate loans (and
credits and grants, depending on the specific country case) to finance national programs. The
GPAI was endorsed with a comprehensive list o f eligible activities and set out the criteria for
participation in this global program. The Bank's emergency policy and business procedures,
OP/BP 8.50, apply. In this context the proposed project will be financed as a new and self-
standing operation through an Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL) o f EUR 29.6 million (US$ 37.7
million equivalent) on standard IBRD terms. With a government contribution o f EUR 7.9
million, the total project cost will amount to EUR 37.5 million. The project will be implemented
over a period o f three years.

COMPONENT 1: ANIMAL HEALTH

30. Total component costs are estimated at EUR 14.30 million, with Bank financing in the
amount of EUR9.15 million.

(A)Strengtheningthe InstitutionalFramework

A1  - StrengtheningVeterinary      Institutions(EUR 1.14 million)

31. Evaluation of National Veterinary Services. The organizational and functional review o f
the maingovernmental veterinary services undertakenby experts from EUmembercountries and
international organizations, and the rapid assessment undertaken by the Bank team, suggest the
need for an in-depth assessment o f the national veterinary services, followed by appropriate
reforms as may be warranted. To meet international standards set by the World Organization for
Animal Health (OIE), the EU requirements, and the recommendations developed by FA0 and
EU experts, the veterinary services need to develop and document appropriate procedures and
standards for the implementation and management of animal health measures and international
veterinary certification activities. As a basis for activities in support o f institutional
enhancements (below), the project will provide technical assistance to support the self-evaluation
o f and by the national veterinary services based on OIE's "Performance, Vision and Strategy for
Veterinary Services'' evaluation guidelines in order to establish the current level o f performance,
form a shared vision with service providers and clients in the private sector, establish priorities,
and facilitate strategic planning.




                                               - 14-

32. Strengthening Veterinary and Food Safety Institutions. Once the evaluation o f veterinary
and related services (above) has been completed, the project will provide technical support for
realigning institutional structures and resources with priority objectives, mandates, and tasks. In
collaboration with and complementary to ongoing and planned advisory activities funded by
donors and international organizations, the project will provide technical assistance for
institutional and organizational restructuring at national and county levels as may be warranted;
training o f staff; equipment and materials. In particular, the project will support the
establishment o f animal disease control centers at the national and county levels.

A2 ImprovingHPAI Preventionand ControlPlanning(EUR0.35 million)
    -

33. Contingency Plan Implementation Guidelines and Manuals. While governmental
authorities have developed individual contingency plans for animal and human health, overall
national contingency planning and coordination still needs improvements. The Government has
established a National Disease (AI) Control Center that has started a comprehensive process o f
reviewing, integrating, and consolidating existing contingency plans. The project will provide
technical assistance to support this process o f refining and finalizing the draft contingency
plan(s) and to develop the necessary detailed implementation guidelines and manuals for relevant
agencies and services.

(B)StrengtheningDiseaseSurveillance,DiagnosticCapacity,andResearch

B1 StrengtheningMonitoringandSurveillanceSystems (EUR 0.18 million)
    -

34. Surveillance Capacity of Veterinary Services. The project will provide technical assistance
and training for staff o f veterinary service institutions at national and local levels, focusing on the
structured routine collection o f samples on a national scale, on intensive follow-up sampling
around outbreaks areas, as well as routine investigation o f dead wild birds that are regularly
collected for such purposes (support for serological testing under active surveillance schemes i s
provided under the diagnostic capacity component B2 and support to local mobility i s provided
under the institutional strengthening component A1).

35. Epidemiological Surveys. The second wave o f HPAI outbreaks in Romania, starting on
M a y 11, 2006, has shown that the lack o f reliable epidemiological information, and the sound
analysis thereof, has hampered the development o f rational, targeted disease control measures
and slowed down the containment o f the disease. The project will provide technical assistance
and training for epidemiological studies and surveillance programs to support decision makers in
continuously fine-tuning and improving disease control measures based on improved risk
assessment. InRomania where 70% o f poultry i s produced inbackyard systems, small-scale and
semi-commercial poultry production systems are the major control target.

B2 StrengtheningDiagnosticCapacity (EUR 8.14 million)
    -

36. Diagnostic capacity in Romania's national reference laboratory (IDAH) and county
laboratories. In order to equip existing laboratories for the increased work load under active
surveillance schemes and to minimize the length o f the period between infection and control



                                                  - 1 5 -

action (Le. the highrisk period being the time needed for detection, reporting, sampling, testing,
and decision-making for response), the project will finance priority laboratory equipment and
laboratory consumables including sampling kits, materials for transporting and conditioning o f
samples, reagents, as well as technical assistance and training, in order to increase the capacity
for virology and serological tests, screening surveys for the confirmation o f the disease and the
preparation for the differentiation o f AI sub-types. The sub-component will also provide personal
protective and laboratory waste disposal equipment. Twinning arrangements with appropriate
institutions outside Romania will be explored in order to facilitate sustained capacity
strengthening.

37. Quality control of veterinary medicinal products. This sub-component will provide
equipment, consumables, technical assistance and training for increasing the capacity o f the
Institute for Control o f Biological Products and Veterinary Drugs to fulfill its responsibility in
providing quality control for vaccines and other veterinary medicinal products for which formal
quality assurance has to beprovided by the State.

B3 StrengtheningAnimalDiseases InformationSystems (EUR 2.23 million)
    -

38. This sub-component will support the development o f a comprehensive integrated national
animal disease information system which will enable Romania to participate in global disease
information sharing and comply with its obligations as a member o f OIE, contributing towards
progressively better global and regional control and eradication. The system will be linked with
rapid and standardized methods o f routine analysis o f surveillance data in order to track
important changes inthe H5N1 situation and promptly supply this information to field personnel.
The system supported under the project is intendedto enable an effective and efficient flow o f
information among relevant agencies and individuals (esp. field veterinarians, laboratory experts,
epidemiologists, etc.), providing the necessary support to decision-makers charged with the
prevention and control o f animal diseases at local and national levels. The project will provide
technical assistance, priority equipment and supplies, and training, for the design, establishment
and use o f the system. The animal health information system also includes a geo-referenced
database for all poultry farms, conforming to the requirement o f municipalities to register all
backyard flocks under their authority.

B4 StrengtheningAppliedVeterinaryResearchCapacity (EUR 0.31 million)
    -

39. Applied Veterirzary Research Program. A Government Decision under preparation at the
time o f project appraisal i s to provide ANSVSA in the near future with a new mandate on
establishing the Research Center for Cross border Diseases, Emergencies, Reemergence and
Zoonoses o f the Institute for Diagnosis and Animal Health, situated on premises at Tulcea. This
sub-component will be limited to the provision o f preparatory support to initiate applied research
on epidemiology, bird migration and ecology, and other subjects related to HPAI (and other
zoonotic diseases) by providing technical assistance for ANSVSA to assist with the design a
research program as well as to assist with the design, construction and refurbishment plans for
the physical facilities for the Research Center. Twinning arrangements with appropriate
institutions outside Romania will be explored in order to facilitate sustained capacity




                                                 - 16-

strengthening. Upon completion of the design additional project funds may be made available
subject to a separate request and subsequent appraisal.

40. Infectious disease research on live animals. Research with highly infectious agents (such
as HPAIvirus) on live animals - as may be required for the testing o f vaccines and the practicing
o f vaccination and post-vaccination sampling - requires a high-containment laboratory
environment. The project will finance goods, consumables, and civil works for minor
refurbishments inexisting laboratory facilities for the installation andoperation o f isolators at the
Institute for Control o f BiologicalProducts and Veterinary Drugs.

(C)StrengtheningHPAI ControlPrograms

C1  - TargetingVirus     Eradication at the Source(EUR 1.47 million)

41. Quarantine, Culling and Disposal. Although capable teams are in place to effectively
control HPAI outbreaks, the recent wave o f out outbreaks has overwhelmed authorities and
veterinary services. The wide distribution o f small flocks across a country where 70% o f poultry
are produced in backyard systems i s a particular challenge for the control o f the disease. The
project will contribute to the enhancement o f existing capacities for the control o f HPAI
outbreaks as requiredby existing national contingency plans. Weaknesses have beenidentified in
the areas o f quarantining (disinfection stations), culling o f infected and at-risk poultry, and the
safe disposal o f poultry carcasses and potentially infectious materials in a bio-secure and
environmentally acceptable manner. Disinfection practices will be improved with support from
other than project sources. The project will focus its assistance on the culling of poultry and on
the disposal o f carcasses in small-holder systems - which dominate Romania's poultry sector.
The project will finance the purchase and operation o f containers where C 0 2 is applied in an
animal welfare acceptable manner. The project will also finance the purchase and operation o f
mobile incinerators with a combined daily capacity o f about 40,000 kg.

C2 SupportingPoultryVaccinationCampaigns (EUR 0.10 million)
    -

42.   Vaccination planning and implementation. A policy on the use o f vaccination for the
containment o f H P A I outbreaks has not yet been formulated. In situations where other measures
failed to control the spread o f the disease and where the virus has become endemic, vaccination
might in future become an option for the containment o f the disease. The project will therefore
provide technical assistance and training to develop Romania's vaccination policy, contingency
plan and implementation manuals in the context o f its near-future EU membership, and train
officials, as a contingency planning exercise, in the implementation o f poultry vaccination
campaigns and post-vaccination monitoring.

(D)ImprovingBio-securityinpoultryproductionandtrade (EUR 0.29 million)

43. Bio-security on small-scale poultry farms. The level o f bio-security both on commercial
and on backyard farms i s insufficient and represents a major risk for new waves o f infections.
The project will support enhancements o f bio-security on small-holder farms with the following
instruments:(i)  Bio-security on poultry farms is - primarily - the result o f managerial decisions


                                               - 1.1-

and behavior (such as restricted access to poultry production farms, quarantining o f new
purchases, separation o f sick animals, separation o f species, personal hygiene, etc). The project
will therefore support awareness campaims and knowledge transfer activities - including on-
farm demonstrations and training o f farmers, extension agents, and other rural services providers
- aimed at managerial and behavioral changes. (ii) project will also finance technical
                                                          The
assistance for a comprehensive poultry sector assessment which - together with improved
epidemiological evidence - will help shape state support to increased bio-security on small-
holder farms. This study will assess the structure o f the poultry production sector, assess bio-
security issues indifferent production systems, and formulate technical options for upgrading on-
farm bio-security, especially in small-holdings. It will result in the publication o f biosecurity
manuals for different stakeholders (iii)  Investment incentives (on a matching grant basis) for
infrastructure upgrades on small-holder farms in compliance with enhanced bio-security
requirements (such as fencing, compartmentalization, caging, and manure disposal.), based on
the results o f the poultry sector assessment and successful pilot activities, could be an option for
project follow-up activities and were endorsed by the appraisal mission but have not been
included inthe final project design.

COMPONENT 2: HUMANHEALTH

44. The Human Health Component will comprise three subcomponents for a total estimated
cost o f EUR 19.80 million, with Bank financing inthe amount o f EUR 16.95 million.

(A)EnhancingPublicHealthProgramPlanningand Coordination(EUR 0.16 million)

45. Activities under the first subcomponent will aim at enhancing coordination and program
planning by providing financial and technical support for additional studies and research as well
as for conferences and workshops, including the organization o f a regional coordination meeting
on preparations for a human influenza pandemic.

(B)Strengtheningof NationalPublicHealthSurveillanceSystems (EUR 1.26 million)

46. The second subcomponent will help strengthen the national public surveillance system by:
(i)Upgrading o f the National Influenza Laboratory to B S L 3 through the financing o f minor civil
works (partitioning and creation o f decontamination rooms), the supply and installation o f
additional security devices, and the installation o f a system for maintaining negative pressure in
the rooms; and (ii)   Strengthening o f regional laboratories by providing critical equipment and
training o f staff.

(C)StrengtheningHealthSystemResponse Capacity (EUR 18.29 million)

47. The third subcomponent will help strengthen the capacity o f the health care system to
respondto the disease, through:

     (i)The      strengthening of the isolation and case management capacity in both national
          and regional hospitals. The project will finance equipment for the intensive care units
          o f the two Bucharest infectious diseases hospitals and the establishment o f isolation



                                               - 18 -

          and intensive care units in the 7 regional centers for infectious diseases (Brasov,
          Craiova, Constanta, Cluj, Iasi, Timisoara and Tg. Mures). According to the National
          Plan, during the inter-pandemic period, all suspected cases shall be transported to and
          isolated at the Institute o f Infectious Diseases Prof Dr Matei Bals, where medical
          assistance can be provided by specialized dedicated personnel. The centralization o f
          patient care i s the only possible way at this point in time as there i s no medical unit
          able to ensure high quality care to suspected or confirmed AI human cases in the rest
          o f the country. However, in the future, patients would have to be hospitalized within
          their region o f residence. Therefore, there is a need to develop isolation and intensive
          care capacities inthe regional centers for infectious diseases.

     (ii)Theupgradingof theinfluenza vaccineproduction unitattheCantacuzinoInstitute
          including the rehabilitation and equipment o f the influenza production department, and
          the completion and equipment o f the filling and sealing unit. A significant part o f the
          vaccines needed in Romania during the inter-pandemic and pandemic periods can be
          produced by the Cantacuzino Institute. Making the Institute able to significantly
          increase up to 2.5 million doses and its production in full compliance with GMP
          standards requires the upgrading o f both the production unit and the filling and sealing
          station. This intervention will help both to increase the production capacity and to
          ensure that the production i s at the required Good Manufacturing Practice standards.

COMPONENT 3: PUBLIC AWARENESS, COMMUNICATION, AND
                      IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT

(A)PublicAwareness and Communications(EUR 1.64 million)

48. The Public Awareness and Communication sub-component will support the GOR's efforts
in designing and implementing an integrated and comprehensive communications strategy and
action plan. The component will be implemented by ANSVSA, and will comprise the following
three sub-components:

      (i)for
           Strengthening institutional capacity for ANSVSA: the project will support assistance
                and training o f communications staff, and additional equipment and operating
           costs for the communications team inthe ANSVSA.

      (ii)Development of an integrated communications strategy and action plan for both
           human and animal health based on qualitative and quantitative research: the project
           will build on the experience gained from the information campaigns o f UNDP,
           UNICEF, USAID, as well as on the sectoral communications strategies o f WHO and
           UNICEF, and the communications needs assessment o f ANSVSA. The strategy will
           define parameters of specific audiences invarious generic target groups, the degree o f
           social acceptance o f proposed hygiene and bio-security measures, the associated
           messages which will need to be persuasive without creating panic, and the most
           efficient delivery tools and vehicles for a nation wide campaign.




                                                 - 19-

      (iii)Delivery of several information campaigns: these will aim to obtain the public's
           support and participation inreporting and monitoring; to promote and induce a set o f
           behavior changes which will diminish the possibility o f AI outbreaks and
           contamination; and to educate different key audiences (farmers, people living in
           villages, traders, local authorities, media, food inspectors, front line workers,
           consumers, other stakeholders). The campaigns, even iftargeted especially for HPAI,
           will leadto other important positive externalities. The proposedbio-security measures
           and associated campaigns will also affect the spreading and prevention o f other
           animal diseases such as Newcastle disease, Classical swine fever, or Rabies, and will
           provide support for other on-going ANSVSA programs such as animal welfare,
           identification and registration o f animals and traceability. Also, the campaigns will
           improve the general hygiene and sanitation o f the population. In close collaboration
           with and complementary to the animal health related and overall coordination
           activities supported under the project, human health related communications activities
           will be entirely financed through USAID support and from governmental budgets
           under MPH.

(B)ImplementationSupport,MonitoringandEvaluation(EUR 1.82 million)

49. The project will be implemented by the MPH and ANSVSA, building upon their experience
with implementing other bank financed projects. In order to ensure effective implementation o f
the project in accordance with Bank fiduciary and procurement policies and guidelines, the
project will finance: (i)Incremental support in terms o f staff and operating costs to the existing
project management unit within M P H and the project management unit to be established within
ANSVSA; (ii)Studies, technical services, manuals; and (iii)Surveys for monitoring and
evaluation.

3. Projectcosts andfinancing

50. Total project costs have been estimated at EUR 37.50 million o f which the IBRD loan will
finance EUR 29.60 million. In addition, the Borrower expressed its commitment to finance
project related rehabilitation, maintenance and operating costs for the entire duration o f the
Project.

51.   Governmental A I Program and donor support (parallel financing). Based on the
Government's "Strategy for improvement o f infrastructure o f veterinary control and control o f
food in the public sector", Romania requested under SAPARD Measure 1.2 on "Improving the
structures for quality, veterinary and plant health controls, for the quality o f foodstuffs and for
consumer protection", EU financing for upgrading 16 county laboratories in all o f Romania's
eight regions. In addition, EU's PHAFG project has allocated EUR 500,000 for consumables to
upgrade diagnostic capacity at the regional and national levels, as well as culling and disposal
equipment and disinfection points ("filters") on roads. Romania is also coordinating with the EU
with regard to HPAI contingency planning and epidemiology. International partners reacted
promptly to Romania's emergency AI situation, and several donor meetings were held for
coordination and knowledge sharing. Based on technical and scientific support o f WHO and
FAO, technical assistance, training and limited equipment were provided by USAID, the



                                               - 20 -

Netherlands, UNDP and UNICEF. A summary o f the support provided by various donors and its
integration into a national framework for the enhancement of HPAI preparedness (prevention
and control capacity) is provided inAppendix lb

52. Financing gapsfor which Bankflnancing is sought. The GOR has requestedWorld Bank
assistance for an emergency operation to fill specific gaps in some areas that are not being
fundedby state budgets, the EUor other donors. These are summarized inthe table below. More
detailed project costs are presentedinAppendix 5.

                         TotalProjectCost and Financing(EUR '000)

 ROMANIA
 AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMANPANDEMIC
 PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSEPROJECT
 Componentsby Financiers                                         IBRD        Government       TOTAL
 (EUR '000)

   A. Component 1 AnimalHealth
                     -
      1. Strengtheningthe Institutional Framework                    1,503                       1,503
      2. StrengtheningDisease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity,
      andResearch                                                    5,774         5,104        10,878
      3. StrengtheningHPAIControl Programs                           1,578                       1,578
      4. ImprovingBio-security inpoultry productionandtrade            293                         293
   SubtotalComponent 1 AnimalHealth
                           -                                         9,148         5,104        14,252
   B. Component 2   - HumanHealth
      1. EnhancingCoordinationand ProgramPlanning                      161                         161
      2. StrengtheningNationalPublic Health Surveillance System      1,267                       1,267
      3. Strengtheningthe HealthSystem Capacity                     15,518         2,779        18,297
   SubtotalComponent 2 HumanHealth
                           -                                        16,946         2,779        19,725
   C. Component 3   - PublicAwareness,    Communicationsand
   ImplementationSupport
      1.Public Awareness and Communications                          1,641                       1,641
      2. Implementationsupport, monitoring and evaluation            1,824                       1,824
   SubtotalComponent 3 PublicAwareness, Communications
                           -
   andImplementationSupport - -                                     3,465                       3,465
 TotalPROJECT COSTS                                                29,560          7,883        37,443


 C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Overallprojectcoordinationand management

53. The Government o f Romania has set up emergency response structures at the national and
local levels for the management o f HPAI control. The Anti-Epizootic Command Center at the
national level and the animal disease command centers at the county and municipality levels
form the backbone o f the HPAI emergency institutional structure, activated in times o f disease
outbreak. Together with the National Commission for Defense against Disasters, which i s
responsible for the definition o f the overall policy framework for disaster prevention and


                                               -21 -

response, the Anti-Epizootic Command Center manages animal disease control measures and is
responsible for the monitoring o f its implementation. The command centers are staffed with
veterinary specialists from ANSVSA and its County Sanitary Veterinary and Food Safety Units
and supplemented by officials from other ministries. On M a y 24, 2006, the leadership o f the
Anti-Epizootic Command Center - which includes representatives from ANSVSA and 10
ministries (Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development; European Integration; Public Finance;
Administration and Interior; National Defense; Foreign Affairs; Public Health; Transport,
Construction and Tourism; Communications and Information Technology; Environment and
Water Management) - was transferred from the Minister o f Agriculture to the Prime Minister.

54. Inline with this overall HPAIemergency structure, the project will be coordinatedby a task
force within the National Anti-Epizootic Command Center. This task force - operating as the
Project Steering Committee (PSC) - will consist o f representatives o f the Prime Minister's Office
as the Chair, the MOPF, ANSVSA, and MPH. Given that the task force will consist o f members
(or their delegates) o f the Anti-Epizootic Command Center, project activities will be fully
integrated into the overall strategy and national action program to control HPAI. The PSC will
coordinate and collaborate with other ministries (many o f which are represented in the Anti-
Epizootic Command Center) affiliated institutions, as well as donors and other international
partners as needed. While the Anti-Epizootic Command Center is only activated in crisis
situations, the PSC will meet more regularly. The PSC is responsible for the provision o f broad
guidance in project implementation and for ensuring that project activities conform to national
emergency response strategies and policies. The PSC will review work programs including
budget and procurement plans, and review and evaluate technical and financial monitoring
reports. Special attention will be paid to the coordination o f the communications activities
undertaken by MPH and ANSVSA with participation and inputs from the two Project
Coordinators (definition below). The PSC will report to the Prime Minister on a regular basis
about progress and impact o fproject implementation.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

55. The project will be implemented jointly by the National Sanitary, Veterinary and Food
Safety Authority (ANSVSA) and Ministry o f Public Health (MPH). Both implementing agencies
have designated senior officials as Component Coordinators who have guided project
preparation and who will be responsible for the implementation o f their respective components.
Inboth implementing agencies, Project Management Units (PMUs) will be responsible for the
day-to-day management o f the avian influenza project. However, the P M U at ANSVSA will
need to receive official status, which i s a condition o f effectiveness. While staff experienced in
the implementation o f Bank-financed projects exists inthese PMUs, additional human resources
and limited equipment and recurrent cost will be covered under the avian influenza project to
enable them to cope with the additional work load.

56. The Animal Health Component will be implemented by ANSVSA through a P M U to be
established before effectiveness. This new ANSVSA PMU will be strengthened with additional
staff (financial, procurement, technical experts) and given access to resources for additional
operating expenditures related to activities o f the avian influenza project. Overall coordination o f
the component will be assured by a senior veterinary official.



                                                 - 22 -

57. The Human Health Component will be implemented by MPH, through the PMU
established for the second phase o f the Health Sector Reform Project. The PMU i s well-
experienced in assuring that procurement and financial management i s carried out in accordance
with World Bank guidelines, however limited support for incremental staff and operating costs
will be provided. The activities o fthe P M Uunder this component will be under direct oversight
o f the component coordinator who i s the head o f the HSR Project. The beneficiary institutions
(Cantacuzino Institute, infectious disease hospitals) will play a leading role in the technical
design and bid evaluation.

58. The Public Awareness and Communications Component will be implemented by
ANSVSA. Inparticular, there will be a joint communications strategy and action plan, and the
information campaigns will be coordinated in terms o f timing, design, messages, distribution
channels and targeted audiences. Details of the institutional arrangements, coordination
mechanisms, and decision-making processes, as well as monitoring and evaluation, will be
described by the Borrower in a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) satisfactory to the Bank.
The PIM will include a description o f these structures and processes, as well as the procurement
plans, detailed cost tables, environmental management plan (EMP), forms for budgeting and
financial reporting, monitoring methodology and forms, terms o f reference for key positions o f
project management and technical assistance, and annotated outlines o f envisaged training
activities.

3. Procurementand FinancialManagement

59. Procurement. Procurement for the Animal Health Component will be carried out by
ANSVSA through a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be established before effectiveness, and
for the Human Health Component by MPH through the PMU for the Health APL 2 Project. The
Public Awareness and Communications Component will be implemented by ANSVSA. The
Bank has carried out procurement capacity assessments o f the two implementingagencies which
will be responsible for fiduciary tasks including procurement, financial management, and
disbursementsandhas found them to be acceptable. Additional procurement staffwill be hired to
support the additional work for both PMUs related to the implementation o f this project. Further
details on procurement arrangements are provided inAnnex 6.

60. FinancialManagement.Strengths and Weaknesses: The significant strengths that provide
a basis o f reliance on the project financial management system include the simple funds' flow
and project financial management teams experienced in the implementation o f other WB
financed projects. There are no significant weaknesses o f the project financial management
system. Implementing Entities: The existing project management unit within the Ministry o f
Public Health (MPH) in charge o f the implementation o f the Health APL 2 Project (P078971)
and the project management unit to be established within ANSVSA, will be responsible for the
financial management o f the Project.

4. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomesh-esults

61. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities related to the project will be the responsibility
o f both the ANSVSA andMPH. Depending on the specific situation ineach case, these activities


                                              - 23 -

could be carried out by the regular staff o f the agencies (with the support o f the respective
implementation units) or by contracting out these functions with specialized agencieshnstitutes
when appropriate. Monitoring project progress and the achievement o f objectives will entail
continuous and systematic review o f the various project implementation activities. The purpose
o f the M&E activities are to: (i)
                                 measure input, output and outcome indicators (see Appendix 2);
(ii) informationregularlyonprogresstowardachievingresultsandfacilitatingreporting
     provide
to the government and IBRD; (iii)alert government authorities and the Bank to actual or
potential problems in implementation so that adjustments can be made; (iv) determine whether
the relevant stakeholders are responding as expected and intendedby the project; and (v) provide
a process whereby the coordinating and executing agencies can reflect and improve on their
performance. The results o f relevant M&E activities will be reflected in the quarterly project
reports. These reports will cover the progress with the works, the institutional activities, training
and studies, performance indicators, and financial reports. Part o f the progress reports will be
devoted to issues identified during project implementation and the strategies and actions to be
taken to resolve such issues that affect progress. The individual ANSVSA and MPH reports will
be aggregated and consolidated at the level o f MPH, who will submit single joint project
progress reports to the government and to the Bank. Methodological details for monitoring o f
project progress and impact evaluation will be described inthe Project ImplementationManual.

5. Sustainability, critical risks and possible controversial aspects

62. Romania has demonstrated full commitment in fighting AI and has shown good practice
and efficiency in containing the disease and closing all outbreaks during both the first and the
second AI wave. The level of transparency was also outstanding, and the information to the
public was beneficial in avoiding any human case transmissions to date. The national level
institutional structures and command lines are established and Romania is now planning for
improved preparedness and response capacity. Given that Romania's geographic location, natural
environment and trade relationships make the country vulnerable to further AI outbreaks,
Romania cannot afford slow implementation o fmeasures designed to enhance the country's level
o f preparedness. Slow project implementation constitutes a major risk for achieving maximum
impact. The project will therefore work with existing and proven institutional structures, keep the
number o f additional entities (committees) to the bare minimum, seek ownership and
commitment at the highest political level while keeping the decision-making authority at the
lowest appropriate level.


63. In line with the EC's recent Comprehensive Monitoring Report, dated October 25, 2005,
which reveals that corruption in Romania remains a serious and widespread problem, the
corruption risk for this project i s considered significant and relates to procurement, also
considering the emergency nature o f the operation, and to the safeguarding o f the project assets.
The project will address the governance and implementation challenges they pose ina systematic
manner, actively promoting greater transparency, accountability and integrity through smart
project design and implementation arrangements. These mitigation actions can be summarized as
follows: (a) the project will establish a tight internal control framework, including appropriate
internal control over the management and safeguarding o f project assets, in particular the high
value goods, equipment and vaccines (see appendix 7); (b) the size o f procurement packages and
the frequency o f the Bank's prior review will be determinedina way that it allows an appropriate



                                               - L4-

level o f control while attempting to avoid unnecessary reviews which could cause delays; (c) the
project will increase its reliance on internal audit departments as these continue to develop, (d)
the project will also seek operational reviews by the Court of Accounts or independent auditors
on terms acceptable to the Bank; (e) enhanced disclosure and transparency o f project-related
information, including through a project website; and (f) an appropriate complaints handling
mechanism. All complaints from bidders, observers or other parties should b e promptly
forwarded to the Government and the Bank for consideration and follow-up action.

                  R I S K               RATING                MITIGATIONMEASURE
FromOutputsto Objective
Decline inpolitical commitment to         N       Continuing support for inter-country collaboration-
the threat o f AI and a global influenza          through information exchanges, dialogue, and
pandemic.                                         mobilization o f international commitment and
                                                  resources.
Project implementing agencies do not      M       Adequate implementation arrangements inplace;
have sufficient authority, leadership,            careful monitoring o f leadership and project
and capacity to take leadingrole inAI             management duringproject implementation;
prevention and control.                           technical assistance and training.
Further poultry outbreaks andor bird-      S      Project activities aim at short- and medium term
to-human transmission o f avian                   effects; effective cross-sectoral coordination will be
influenza occur despite project                   put inplace; effective communication campaigns
intervention.                                     create      and informpublic o f remaining   risk.
Inadequate or lack o f multi-sectoral     M       The Project Steering Committee and the National
participation                                     Disease-and Command Center will cooperate and
                                                  make transparent annual work programming and
                                                  budgeting exercises.
L o w local-level commitment means
                               ~~         N       Implementation mechanisms explicitly address
that strong central commitment does               local level coordinating bodies; communication
not translate into action on the                  strategies include decentralized authorities as
ground.                                           targets.
FromComponentsto Outputs
Controlling the spread o f the            M       Project will support advocacy and coalition
pandemic may expose the                           buildingto sensitize key groups including policy
government to criticism for the                   makers and the media. This will be complemented
curtailment o f civil rights due to the           by carefully designed mass communication
adoption o f quarantines and other                campaigns to buildsupport for the project among
related measures.                                 the wider population. A Social Distancing Plan
                                                  needs to be prepared.
Lack o f sufficient quantity o f drugs    M       MPHhas already a stockpile o f 500,000 antiviral
and other medical inputsrequired to               treatments. Ifneeded, Romania couldreceive
address the needs o f the general                 antiviral drugs from the WHO international
population duringa pandemic                       stockuile.
Inadequate supply o f eggs for vaccine    M       Capacity to produce eggs for vaccine under
production.                                       controlled conditions does exist inRomania.
                                                  Attention will be paid to better and advance
                                                  planning. Possibility to import eggs from
                                                  neighboring countries will be explored.
Inadequate post-production handling--     M       Adequate product labeling & tracking system
o f human vaccines.                               (foreseen in the Droiect). and batch release


                                               - 25 -

                                                    procedures; introduction of Good StoragePractice
                                                    inthe distribution system.
Lack of coordination between                M       Effective international and local coordination and
international development partners                  communication, established during project
creates parallel assistance efforts with            preparation, will be maintained andintensified.
inconsistentmessages and
recommendations.
Inadequateinstitutional capacity to         N       Existingproject implementation arrangementswill
manage project andperform                           be strengthenedto helpwith implementation, and
effectively                                         additional financing will be made available.
Financial resourcesnot accessibleina        M       Rapid disbursementprocedures and simplified
timely manner, weak procurement                     procurement inaccordancewith OP for emergency
management                                          operations.
Low priority given to public                        Publication of audit results and achievements;
accountability andtransparencyin                    transparencyindecisionsandresource allocation.
Drom-ammanagement
Inadequatecapacity for planned              M       Technical assistance will be provided. M&Eplan
surveillance, surveys and monitoring                will include information on instruments for data
andevaluation                                       collection, agencies responsibleand a detailedtime
                                                    table.
Overall RiskRating:                         M
RiskRating- H(HighRisk), S (Substantia iisk), M(M dest Risk),N(Negligibleor Low Risk)

6. Emergency needs, retroactive financing, and project phasing

64. Given the scope o f the second wave o f past AI outbreaks and the need to finance
immediately critical prevention and control activities for likely future outbreaks, Retroactive
Financing o f up to an amount o f EUR 7.0 million can be provided for eligible expenditures
incurred between October 7, 2005 and the date o f signing o f the Loan Agreement. Eligible
expenditures include technical assistance for the strengthening o f veterinary institutions and
contingency planning, equipment and consumables to enhance national and county laboratory
capacity, goods and consumables for the safe culling and disposal o f poultry carcasses and the
disinfection o f outbreak locations, and technical assistance for awareness campaigns and
knowledge transfer activities including on-farm demonstrations aimed at increasing the bio-
security level on backyard poultry farms.
    (i)WhileRomania-atappraisal-wasinthefinalstageofclosingtheoutbreaklocationsof
        the second wave (since May 11, 2006), it has reason to assume that new HPAIoutbreaks
         are imminent. Emergency needs, requiring immediate start o f procurement and possibly
        payments before loan signing, have been identified for the strengthening o f the laboratory
         diagnostic capacity (EUR 2.9 million) and for the appropriate and safe culling and
         disposal o f chicken carcasses (EUR 1.2 million), totaling EUR 4.1 million. Expenditures
         financed retroactively for goods and works under the Animal Health and Human Health
         components may be made only after adoption o f the EMP satisfactory to the Bank.
    (ii) addition, Retroactive Financing has beenrequested for the financing of activities
         In
         related to the control o f past AI outbreaks for which payments have already beenmade.
         Such items - ifpaid on or after October 7, 2005- could be considered if the nature o f the
         retroactively financed items falls within the scope o f the proposed project and contingent



                                                 - 26 -

        upon the establishment o f eligibility under Bank procurement guidelines. Since a list of
        items andrelated procurement and payment documentation was not available at appraisal,
        the establishment o f eligibility will be a condition o f disbursement for such items. The
        amount considered under (ii)   will depend on the number and cost o f items found eligible
65. .Eligibleitems under (i) (ii) be considered up to an overall total o f EUR 7.0 million.
                               and      can

7. Loanconditions and covenants

66. Financial terms: IBRDVariable Spread Single Currency Loan (VSL) on standard terms.

67. Conditions o f Effectiveness:
       (1) Establishment o f the Steering Committee ina manner satisfactory to the Bank.
       (2) Establishment o f the ANSVSA and MPH PMUs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
            andwith sufficient and suitable humanresources.
       (3)  The Borrower, through ANSVSA and MPH, has adopted the EMP satisfactory to the
            Bank.

68. Withdrawal Conditions:
      (1) Retroactive Financing for payments made since October 7, 2005, in an amount not to
           exceed EUR 7.0 million.
      (2) Eligibility o f itemsto be financed retroactively has been established.

69. Financial Management Covenants: The borrower will maintain a financial management
system acceptable to the Bank. The project's financial statements, withdrawal applications and
designated accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms
o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited financial statements and audit reports
will be providedto the Bank within six months o fthe end of each fiscal year.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

70. Fiscal and EconomicImpactAnalysis of Past Outbreaks. Since October 2005, Romania
experienced some 180 HPAI outbreaks in commercial and backyard poultry farms, requiring
massive control activities including culling, disinfection, quarantining, and compensation, as
well as preventive medication with anti-viral drugs. Between October 2005 and May 2006, the
GORincurredthe following expenditures (totaling about EUR 56.3 million):

            Outbreak operations (disinfection, culling, incineration o f poultry etc.): EUR5.7
            million;
            Compensations to poultry holders: EUR 3.9 million;
            Vaccination o f civil population and security forces: EUR 1.O million;
            Preventive medicationwith anti-viral drugs (Tamiflu): EUR 0.2 million;
            Sanitary and protection equipment, information materials related to human health:
            EUR0.3 million.
            Road and railway disinfection: EUR45.2 million


                                                - 27 -

71. However, the figures reported by the various public bodies do not cover entirely the public
financial effort required to fight AI. For instance, the cost o f the AI dedicated classes targeting
school children was not reported by the Ministry o f Education and Research on the grounds that
these classes were included into the regular civic education schedule. The Ministry o f
Administration and Interior reported only costs related to the protection o f the security forces
that entered the outbreak areas, without counting separately related staff expenditures.

72. In addition, several sectors suffered economic losses: The poultry sector suffered losses
amounting to around EUR 70 million from depressed prices (down by 41%), drop in demand
(down by 22%), extra-storage costs (up by 18%), lost export opportunities (down by 14%),
extra-disinfection costs (up by 14%), and delays in the production flows (down by 1%). The
Federation o f the Employers in the Romanian Tourism estimates that the sectoral losses caused
bythe AI go up to around EUR 50 million inthe period from October 2005 to March 2006 alone.
The actual loss to the economy can be assumed to be much higher. In addition, poultry holders
sufferedlosses from lost production during an average period o f 6 weeks after infection, culling,
and disinfection. These losses have been estimated at about EUR 1.5 million since October 2005.
Up- and downstream industries as well as the banking sector are affected by actual losses or
increased risks.

73. Conservative estimates would put the total economic losses due to HPAI since October
2005 at an amount o f EUR 192 million. Since this figure only includes those for which
quantitative estimates are available inthe form o f official statistics or formal reports and claims,
actual losses are likely to be much higher.

74. Economic Analysis of Future Project Activities. Economic benefits o f investments under
the project have been estimated through a costbenefit analysis comparing the incremental stream
o f estimated net benefits "with project" to those "without project". Recognizing that the project
supports investments that are targeted at two different scenarios that could only be combined
through the (rather arbitrary) assumption o f the probability o f the case o f a (human) influenza
pandemic, two separate models have been formulated: (i)       Avian Influenza as zoonosis, causing
widespread damage to the poultry industry but only very few (ifat all any) human infections and
deaths; and (ii)Pandemic phase with widespread human illness and death.

(i)AvianInfluenzaaszoonosis,causingwidespreaddamagetothepoultryindustrybut
    only very few (if at all any) human infections and deaths.

75. Economic benefits are estimated based on the project's objective to reduce economic cost
related to poultry deaths from HPAI due to the disease itself or through culling. The "without
project" scenario i s based on estimates derived from the economic losses experienced duringthe
actual outbreaks between October 2005 and July 2006 and a reference HPAI incidence rate o f
 1.4%. The successful implementation o f the project i s expected to contribute to the reduction o f
the incidence culling rates and hence reduction inthe costs to the economy. Inorder to achieve a
reference internal rate o f returno f 12% for the project's investments, an annual reduction in the
HPAI incidence rate by about 10% in the first two project years, and another 5% in year 3,
totaling about 30% at the end o f the project implementation period (i.e., after three years), would



                                                - 28 -

be required. That means, the project is worth to be undertaken if improvements in the
effectiveness o f the response of veterinary services (detection, containment, eradication) and
poultry producers (bio-security and early warning) to HPAI outbreaks lead to a reduction in the
number o f killed (by the disease) and/or culled birds from 1.41% o f the total number o f domestic
birds in Romania (actual, without project) to 0.98% with the project. These calculations have
been made using a time horizono f eight years. However, even ifHPAI disappears after a number
of years, investments supported under the project will increase in the long-term the capacity o f
veterinary and public health services to respond more effectively to other transboundary and
zoonotic diseases as well. Assumingthe standard time horizon for economic analysis o f 20 years,
a reduction inthe HPAIincidence rate by only 5% annually over the first three years (the project
implementation years) would be required, equivalent to a reduction in the culling rate from
1.41% without the project to 1.13% with the project.

(ii)Pandemicphasewithwidespreadhumanillnessanddeath.

76. Vaccination represents the single most cost-effective strategy to avert influenza-related
morbidity, mortality and economic consequences. The main drivers of the pharmacoeconomic
profile of influenza vaccination are the vaccine effectiveness in terms of prevention o f
hospitalization and mortality, the background incidence o f hospitalization and death in
unvaccinated individuals and the relative costing of the vaccine compared with the costs o f a
hospital in-patient day.

77. In a pandemic situation, the Romanian vaccination policy i s relying on its national
manufacturer (Institute Cantacuzino), for the manufacturing o f around 5,500,000 univalent
vaccine doses (3rd option o f the WHO pandemic plan), which can be done in the upgraded and
expanded facility proposed under the project. This would assure the coverage o f around 25% o f
the country population. The cost of vaccination within the inter-pandemic period i s
approximately EUR 2 per dose (one dose per patient), amounting to EUR 3 million in 2005. In
case o f a pandemic, the recommended vaccine coverage should reach 30 to 50% o f the
population (monovalent), which can be realized mainly through own production and less through
imports, because inthis case WHO recommends the vaccine supplies to be directed towards non-
manufacturing countries.

78. Assumptions on the regional (in-country) and international spread o f a pandemic, the speed
o f the intervention, the type o f intervention, and the type o f viral strain (growth potential for fast
vaccine production) are further complicating factors in modelling the economic and financial
benefits o f the proposed project. It is clear however, that increasing the capacity o f the national
producer produces the following advantages: a) increased immunization coverage resulting in
lower morbidity, b) reduced procurement costs, c) shorter response times (faster intervention by
which slowing down the spread o f the disease and reducing the morbidity, d) spare capacity in
case o f global shortage, e) better flexibility (response time, adjust to needs), f) improved access
and availability o f vaccines to district authorities, and g) immediate switch to monovalent
vaccine form and immunization ifneeded.

79. The price o f the nationally produced influenza vaccine (seasonal) i s approximately 30%
below the prices o f multinational companies inRomania, where price levels o f influenza vaccine



                                                  - 29 -

are approximately half o f those in western EU countries. In the case o f a pandemic (or even
widespread endemic) price levels o f multinational products in Romania will very quickly adjust
to international price levels and vaccines might become unaffordable for the Romanian
population. The intended investments in the national vaccine production result (even without a
pandemic) in a government (or insurance fund) budget saving o f EUR 1.3 million annually (at
price and coverage level 2005). Inthe case o f a pandemic, the cost savings by far outweigh the
investment(EUR 12millionsaved through an investment o f about EUR 5 million).

80. The economic benefits however are larger, mainly achieved by the possibility o f a faster
response, less relying on imports (in a time o f shortage), and a better adjustment to local needs
(contain the pandemic). Whether these economic benefits materialize i s largely depending on the
organizational response o f the authorities. These elements are hard to factor into an economic
impact model. The following table estimates the economic impact:

                       SeasonalInfluenza Pandemic Influenza            Healthcare impact
                       (medium               (25%)
                       epidemic)
                       Annual                Case base
Direct costs
.   Budget savings     EUR 1.3 million       EUR 12millionper case
                       per year
Improvedimmunization
.   Highercoverage     Reduction of                                    Annually:
    (+20%) of          morbidity by 10%                                Morbidity:     -78,000
    seasonal                                                           Hospitalizations: -4,000
    vaccination                                                        Deaths:            -380
    program
                                             Reduction of morbidity    Morbidity:    -560,000
                                             by 10% inducedby better Hospitalizations: -40,000
.                                            immunization              Deaths:          -2,700

    Fasterresponse     -                     Reductionof morbidity     Morbidity:     -78,000
                                             at least 10% depending    Hospitalizations: -4,000
                                             on spread of virus        Deaths:            -380

2. Technical analysis

81. The Bank's appraisal mission, in collaboration with the AI technical lead agencies FAO,
OIE and WHO, have found the technical design of the proposed project to be appropriate,
addressing critical needs in the country's preparedness for influenza and other infectious
diseases, and to be consistent with the GPAI program including its list o f eligible activities. The
main issues are:

82. Animal Health:

      (i)Institutional   framework and contingency planning. In response to weaknesses
           identified during the first two waves o f AI outbreaks, the government has started to


                                              - 30 -

     restructure its key veterinary institutions and to enhance their capacity. In
     collaboration with local and international partners, the proposed project will support
     the institutional capacity enhancement in critical areas such as evaluation and
     restructuring o f institutions, establishment o f animal disease control centers, and
     contingency plan implementation guidelines and manuals.
(ii)Monitoringandsurveillance. ThesecondwaveofHPAIoutbreaksinRomaniahas
      shown that the lack o f reliable epidemiological information, and the sound analysis
     thereof, has hampered the development o f rational, targeted disease control measures
     and slowed down the containment o f the disease. Veterinary capacity for monitoring,
      surveillance and epidemiological analyses is a critical factor in every AI control and
     eradication strategy. The proposed project will therefore enhance the capacity o f
     veterinary services in collecting and analyzing epidemiological data and performing
     risk assessments.
(iii)Diagnostic capacity in national and regional laboratories. Romania'slaboratories
      are comparatively well equipped for standard analytical procedures, but exceptional
     work loads and highly specialized analyses cannot be performed at the requiredspeed
      or quality level due to the lack o f specialized equipment, reagents and other
      consumables. Speed is a critical factor in the control o f highly contagious diseases
      such as HPAI. The project will increase the diagnostic capacity o f national and
     regional laboratories with small goods and consumables, technical assistance and
     training, for which no other funding sources exist.
(iv) Applied veterinary research. A Government Decision under preparation at the time
      o f project appraisal is to provide ANSVSA inthe near future with a new mandate for
     transboundary and zoonotic diseases research under the administration o f the Institute
      for Diagnosis and Animal Health, to be located at existing premises at Tulcea.
      Thematic focus, structural designs, and programs for the new applied veterinary
     research did not exist at the time o f appraisal.

(v) Quality control for veterinary medicinal products and infectious disease research.
     Romania does not currently have the capacity to fulfill its responsibilities inproviding
      sufficient quality control for vaccine imports and other veterinary medicinal products
     which includes the test o f vaccines in live animals. Experiments with highly
      contagious pathogens require a high-containment laboratory environment that does
     not presently exist.
(vi) Animal disease information system. Outbreak information and epidemiological data
     is being reported through individual e-mail or fax communication, but there is no
      systematic filing and distribution o f this critical information. The project will support
     the establishment o f a country-wide information system, connecting local and
     national levels and relevant agencies and individuals, allowing real-time access to
     critical information for disease control.


(vii) Quarantine, culling, and disposal. Romania's large number o f small-holder poultry
      farms with sometimes as few as a dozen chicken per household (average: 20)
     dispersed across a large country pose a particular challenge for disease control



                                          - 3 1 -

            activities that involve culling and disposal. Culling o f backyard chicken currently
            involves non-specialized equipment. In order to increase the acceptability o f the
            measure, the project will finance the purchase and operation o f animal welfare
            acceptable COz containers. Appropriate disposal facilities don't exist at the village
            level, and the transport o f (potentially) virus-infected carcasses represents a particular
            risk o f spreading the disease even further. In this situation and for the purpose o f
            highly infectious poultry diseases, mobile incinerators have been found to be more
            appropriate than large rending plants. The project will establish appropriate disposal
            capacity at the local level in conformity with environmental, animal welfare, and
            human health standards and requirements.
      (viii)On-farm bio-security. Bio-security on commercial and backyard poultry farms is a
            critical factor in the prevention o f the spread o f infectious diseases. Especially the
            second outbreak wave has shown that bio-security i s particularly weak on Romanian
            poultry farms, given its large %age o f backyard and even urban poultry raising
            practices. Without improved on-farm bio-security, Romania will not be able to avoid
            future outbreaks o f AI or other infectious animal diseases. Recognizing that bio-
            security on poultry farms i s - primarily - the result o f managerial decisions and
            behavior, the project will support awareness campaigns and knowledge transfer
            activities, but also technical on-farm pilot projects for enhanced bio-security.

83. Human Health. Romania i s still in phase 2 o f the inter-pandemic period and, to date no
human cases have been confirmed. However, the risk o f sporadic human infections (isolated
cases or localized outbreaks) and therefore entering into the phase 3 o f the inter-pandemic period
is highinRomania.

      (i)Planning       and coordination. The national plan o f intervention adopted in October
            does constitute a good strategic framework and considerable attention has been paid
            to the coordination between the MPH and key stakeholders. However, the plan will
            need to be regularly updated and further operationalized taking into account the
            evolution o f the situation and lessons learned from the field. In collaboration with
            other partners ( notably USAID), the project will finance studies and research to
            provide the information neededfor these revisions and will help further strengthen the
            coordination bothwithin the health.sector and with other sectors.
      (ii)Monitoring andsurveillance. An influenza surveillance system is inplace and
            functions satisfactorily. While they have to play a central role in the surveillance o f
            communicable diseases, some o f the district health authorities do not have all the
            required capacity to investigate and control outbreaks. With the support o f the
            USAID,the MPHhas started training activities to enhance their capacity.
      (iii) Diagnostic capacity. While laboratories at the central level are well equipped and
            staffed and can performed even sophisticated analyses, the regional laboratories can
            only performed standard procedures, in some cases not at international standards and
            laboratory safety needs to be improved to allow for the manipulation o f highly
            pathogenic viruses. The project will therefore help bring up to bio-safety level 3 the
            national influenza lab and will further equip 3 regional laboratories so they can




                                                 - 32 -

           perform AI tests. Training inAI diagnostic, bio-safety and quality control will also be
           provided.
      (iv) Isolation and case management. Romania is comparatively well preparedto respond
           to limited outbreaks and isolate and treat a limited number o f patients. The
           centralization o f patient care in Bucharest hospitals i s part o f the MPH strategy to
           ensure high quality care to suspected or confirmed AI human cases. However, would
           the virus continue to spread and be present in all parts (including remote ones) o f the
           country and/or a pandemic occur, patients would need to be hospitalized and treated
           within or closer to their regions o f residence. The project will therefore support a) the
           further equipment o f the two Bucharest infectious diseases hospitals; and b) the
           establishment o f isolation and intensive care units in 7 o f the regional hospitals for
           infectious diseases (Brasov, Craiova, Constanta, Cluj, Iasi, Timisoara and Tg. Mures).

      (v) Antiviral and other drugs. The MPH has already establish a stockpile o f antivirals
           and ifneed be could access to drugs from the WHO international stock pile. Would a
           major outbreak occur, project funds would be reallocated to help finance the purchase
           o f antivirals, antibiotics and other drugs.

      (vi) Vaccines. Vaccine production is seen by Romania as a matter o f national interest. A
           significant part (80%) o f the 2.5 and 5.5 million doses o f influenza vaccines needed in
           Romania during the inter-pandemic and pandemic periods, respectively, could be
           produced locally by the Cantacuzino Institute. However, this requires the
           strengthening o f the existing vaccine production unit. The project will therefore
           support the upgrading o f both the influenza vaccine production unit and the filling
           and sealing station and will help ensure that the production remains in compliance
           with Good Manufacturing Practices.

3. Fiduciary

84. Financial Management. The financial management arrangements o f the project are
acceptable to the Bank. The project will rely to the extent possible on several elements of
financial management country systems, as follows:

           Implementing entities - the project will be implementedby existing structures;
           Staffing - the project staff will be employees o f by the MPH and ANSVSA;

           Internal control  -  the project will use the existing internal control framework within
           MPHand ANSVSA with additional procedures developed for the project;
           Flow o f funds - the project will use fully the Treasury for the Government
           contribution and partially, to the extent possible, for the loan funds;
           Internal audit - as the internal audit departments within MPH and ANSVSA continue
           to develop, the project will rely to the extent possible on this for the internal audit o f
           the project;
           External audit - the Romanian Supreme Audit Institution, Court o f Accounts will
           perform an operational review o f the project;



                                                 - 33 -

        0   Accounting and reporting system   -  the project will rely on the existing systems.

85. As o f the date o f this report, the Borrower i s in compliance with its audit covenants o f
existing Bank-financed projects. Formats o f the interim financial reports (IFRs) and o f the audit
terms o f reference are being developed and will be agreed upon and attached to the minutes o f
negotiations. The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania was
finalized in December 2003 and concluded that the overall fiduciary risk associated with the
public financial management and financial accountability arrangements o f the Romanian
government administration i s considered to be moderate, with the systems for accounting,
financial reporting and internal control representing the areas with the higher risks and
budgeting, cash management and external audit and Parliamentary oversight representing the
lower risks.

86. The implications o fthe CFAA for the project have been addressed by the following actions:
            A detailedreview o fthe systems was performed for the implementing entities;
        0   The implementing entities will set up distinct project-specific accounting ledgers;
        0   Project accounting staff appointedby the implementing entities;
        0   The format o f the IFRs and audit TORSagreed with the implementing entities;
            Project financial statements audited by an independent auditor annually.

87. Procurement. The Joint Procurement Assessment Mission (JPAM) o f June 2005
concluded that the public procurement risk inRomania i s high. The capacity o f the PMUs which
will conduct procurement under Bank guidelines has been assessed in the preparation o f the
MAKIS and APL 2 Health Project and has been found satisfactory. Both PMUs will be
strengthened by hiring an additional procurement specialist for each o f the PMUs to assist them
with the additional procurement work stemming from the additional project. Appointment o f
procurement staff satisfactory to the Bank in the new ANSVSA PMU i s a condition o f
effectiveness.

4. Environmentaland social aspects, and safeguardpolicies

Environmentalassessment           EnvironmentalCategory         B

88. Activities financed under the proposed project are not expected to generate any significant
adverse environmental effect, as a large part o f the project i s geared to support prevention
activities. Overall, the project will have positive environmental and social impacts. The primary
potential environmental risks can be grouped into three categories:

       (9   Inadvertent human exposure and spread o f the virus due to: improper culling and
            disposal o f dead birds (wildbirds, sick and dead birds from backyard and commercial
            poultries); lack of, or improper use o f personal protection equipment (PPE); improper
            disposal o f farm waste (i.e., bedding, manure, washings, etc. during and/or after an
            outbreak); and inadequate laboratory biosafety protocols.
       (ii)Inadvertent release of chemicals in the environment from unsatisfactory
            decontamination procedures (for personnel, poultry sheds, and transport vehicles,
            etc.) and from vaccination manufacturing.



                                                - 34 -

        (iii)Release ofchemicals and infectious agents intothe environment from inadequate
              laboratory, medical and vaccination facility waste management.

89. The project's investments in facilities, equipment, and training for laboratories will improve
the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza handling and testing procedures by
meeting international standards established by OIE. Upgrading for laboratories will include
provision o f appropriate facilities and training for waste management and for bio-safety level 2
and 3 operations as well as high-containment isolators. Medical waste generated in health care
facilities will be managed using existing guidelines in Romania, which have been found
satisfactory under previous projects. The Project will also support updating these guidelines,
training o f health care workers to manage medical waste following these guidelines, and, as
appropriate, purchase o f equipment for the proper handling and disposal of medical waste in
participating facilities. As such, the project will mainstream environmental safeguards into
protocols and procedures for the culling and disposal o f animals during an outbreak, inparticular
by adopting OIE standards inthese areas, and improve bio-medical waste management systems
inhealth facilities and laboratories.

90. Based on the project's planned activities which entail the environmental risks mentioned
above, the project has been rated "B" and requires an environmental assessment and
environmental management plan. An Environmental Assessment and an Environmental
Management Plan are being prepared. The EMP - which will become a part o f the Project
Implementation Manual - will describe the methods to be deployed for culling and the disposal
o f culled poultry, laboratory and medical facility waste management and bio-safety, and vaccine
production and handling.

  SafeguardPoliciesTriggered by the Project                                              Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                [XI                     [ I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [I                     [XI
  Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                                [I                     [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                  [ I                    [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                   [ I                    [XI
  IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                    [I                     [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                    [ I                    [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [ I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               [ I                    [XI
  Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [I                     [XI




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                           - 35 -

5. Policy exceptions and readiness

91. A waiver for the requirement to prepare an environmental assessment prior to appraisal as
per para. 12 o f OP4.01 has been requested and approved. Work on the ENEMP had already
started. Adoption o f the EMP satisfactory to the Bank i s a condition for effectiveness under the
Animal and Human Health components o f the project. In addition, retroactive financing in the
12-month period prior to Loan signing, o f up to EUR 7 million has been approved to cover
eligible expenditures incurred as of October 7, 2005, the date o f the first outbreak o f HSNI in
Romania, i.e.. There are no further policy exceptions for the Project. The project meets the
regional criteria for readiness for implementation.




                                              - 36 -

                        Appendix la: Country and Sector Background
 ROMANIA:Avian InfluenzaControlandHumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                              Project

Macro-economicFramework

1.   Romania i s a middle income country with a population o f 22 millionpeople and per capita
income o f US$ 2,950 in 2004. Until 2000, the country was one o f the poorest performing
economies in the Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), with a decline in gross domestic product
(GDP), and an average inflationo f 54% per year.

2.   EU accession aspirations have enhanced macroeconomic stability and spurred renewed
commitmentto reforms inrecent years. During2000-2004 the economy grew robustly at 4 to 5%
per year, with inflation declining from above 40% in 2000 to 8.6% in 2005, the lowest level
since the start o f transition.   Structural and institutional reform accelerated during the same
period - private sector share o f GDP has moved closer to EU-8 levels, more than 90% o f
banking assets are now held by the private sector, energy reform has resulted in a substantial
reduction o f quasi-fiscal deficits, and independence o f the judiciary has been strengthened. The
Accession Treaty was signed on April 25, 2005 and entry i s expected to take place on January 1,
2007. Romania faces the challenge o f convergence with EU countries in terms o f both incomes
and living standards - its per capita GDP in 2004 i s about one-third o f EU-15 and it lags in
several social indicators. About 19% of the population still lives below the povertyline.

3.   According to the OIE (the World Animal Health Organization) statistics, Romanian ranks
among the first ten countries which have reported the presence o f the highly pathogenic avian
influenza (HPAI), subtype H5N1 in poultry. Romania first reported a suspected case o f AI on
October 7, 2005 in a backyard farm of Ceamurlia-de-Jos inthe Danube Delta region. On October
13, 2005 tests performed by the Romanian National Reference Laboratory (RNRL) confirmed
that the virus found was o f the H5N1 strain. From October 7, 2005 to April 24, 2006, 53
outbreaks were confirmed in52 localities from 9 counties inthe Danube Delta and the Black Sea
area: Tulcea, Braila, Buzau, Calarasi, Constanta, Dambovita, Dolj, Ialomita and Ilfov counties.
On April 21, 2006, the last outbreak o f avian influenza in Romania ended (Deleni
village/Constanta county). All outbreaks occurred in small backyard premises and no
commercial farms were affected. From October 2005 to April 2006, Romania adopted two
different control measures in order to control the disease: stamping out (46 outbreaks) and
zoning (7 outbreaks). During this period, 421,470 birds from 16,166 backyard premises were
destroyed. In early M a y 2006, the disease reoccurred and the presence o f the HPAI was
confirmed on M a y 14, 2006. The first outbreaks were detected in Codlea, Fagaras (Brasov
county) in a commercial farm, SC DRAKOM SILVA SRL. This farm had more than 105,000
broiler chickens. On June 7, 2006, the total number o f outbreaks went up to 127. The outbreaks
spread across 18 counties and also reached Bucharest. From M a y 2006, 210,470 birds from
backyard premises and 764,865 birds from the commercial farms in Codlea (Brasov county)
were killed.




                                                - 37 -

APriculture and Poultry Sector

4.    Agriculture plays a key role inRomania's economy, its share inGDP being around 11-14%.
In addition, agriculture continues to be the largest employer in Romania, accounting for more
than 30% o f the labor force, most o f which are in subsistence agriculture. Poultry production i s
widespread across the country, with the backyard holdings accounting for 70% o f Romania's
total poultry production. The particular structural challenge lies inthe low bio-security standards
o f smallholder poultry operations inherent in their fragmented structure and traditional poultry
and livestock management practices. Typical household in Romania comprises chickens, ducks,
turkeys, geese, swine, sheep and goats, cows and horses living in an immediate proximity.
Keeping o f domestic animals, and especially poultry, i s extremely extensive in Romanian
villages, which means that poultry, andparticularly ducks and geese, freely graze during the day.
Poultry production inRomanian villages i s essential for the owners who, at the time, do not have
any other alternative for keeping and housing their poultry. The poultry owners use the poultry
for their own consumption, but there is also a live poultrytrade at the localmarkets.

5.    As regards the commercial poultry production, this appears to be highly concentrated.
According to the Romanian Poultry Producers Association, there are 15 large producers of
poultry meat who hold about 60% o f the total domestic production. They rely on integrated
establishments that autonomously produce broiler chickens and poultry feed, and have their own
slaughterhouses. There are also 20 middle and 43 small producers, yielding 30% and lo%,
respectively, o f the domestic commercial poultry output.

6.    In2005 the total Romanianconsumption ofpoultry (self-consumption excluded) went upto
around 375,000 tons, reflecting an increase by 19% as compared to the previous year. The
consumers favored poultry to other meat, given its lower prices. Out o f the total poultry
consumption, 220,000 tons were provided by the domestic producers (59%), with the domestic
output o f poultry practically doubling from 2000. If production for self-consumption was also
considered, the total domestic output o fpoultry could be estimated around 360,000 tons.

7.    Overall, 2005 was considered as exceptional for the poultry industry, in spite o f the
downward trends recorded towards the end o f the year, due to the HPAI. The poultry producers
invested heavily in their production capacities in order both to meet consumers' demands and to
comply with the new legal requirements. Yet, starting with the last trimester o f 2005, the
Romanian poultry industry was marked by the effects o f the AI. According to the Romanian
Poultry Producers Association, the losses caused by the disease totaled EUR 70 million. They
were due to sales price drop, delays inpopulating farms and storage costs. The stocks o f poultry
meat increased massively from about 5,000 tons in October 2005 to 20,000 tons at the end o f the
year. Nevertheless, they dropped a couple o f months later, reaching 10,000 tons in February
2006. In spite o f these signs o f recovery, the M a y episode o f the AI brought about a very sharp
decrease o f poultry meat consumption (by 50-80% duringthe first days o f outbreaks).

8.    Responsibility for the ongoing surveillance and monitoring for the HPAI in poultry and
migratory fowl and for response in case o f an outbreak rests with the National Sanitary,
Veterinary and Food Safety Authority (ANSVSA). ANSVSA was established in 2004 as the
main body in charge with the food safety and animal health, subordinated to the Romanian



                                                - 38 -

Government and under the coordination o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, Forests and Rural
Development (MAFRD). The Authority currently functions according to the provisions o f the
Government Decision no. 130/2006. The Romanian Parliament authorized ANSVSA to be the
contact structure with the European Food Safety Authority and to act on functional and
decisional autonomy, according to the commitments made by Romania in its international
relations. The ANSVSA services extend over 90,000 producers, processors and marketing units,
to which approximately 2,200,000 individual holdings add. The human resources the Agency
relies on include own staff, but also contracted veterinarians.

9.    The Romanian veterinary services are provided both on a public and on a private basis. The
public veterinary services are organized as a top-down system, covering the central, county and
local levels. There are several bodies subordinated to the ANSVSA, who i s the central
institution. On one hand, there are the 42 County Sanitary Veterinary and Food Safety Agencies
(Bucharest included), which also incorporate the regional sanitary and veterinary units, and the
local sanitary, veterinary and food safety units. On the other hand, there are three public
institutions, acting in the veterinary field: (1) the Institute for Diagnosis and Animal Health
(IDAH), (2) the Institute for the Control of Biological Products and Veterinary Drugs, and (3)
the Institute for Veterinary Hygiene and Public Health (IVHPH). In addition to these, the
organizational structure o f the ANSVSA comprises the border inspection posts (BIPs).

10. In response to the threat o f HPAI outbreak, the Romanian Government has established
emergency-specific institutional structures for coordination and control measures, both at the
central and the local levels. Through Order no. 146/2005, the ANSVSA established a National
Disease Command Center as well as Local Disease Command Centers, as components o f its
organizational structure. They can be converted into disease-specific command centers,
according to needs. According to the Contingency (Emergency) Plan for AI o f Romania, these
bodies operate as emergency-specific structures. Ifthe animal disease spreads beyond the control
o f these specific structures, they will ask for the activation o f the general structures (i.e. the
Central and Local Anti-Epizootic Command Centers).

11. According to the Government Decision no. 1218/2005, the Central Anti-Epizootic
Command Center i s headed by the Minister o f Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development. Its
vice-president i s the head o f the ANSVSA, while its members are the representatives o f nine
other ministries. However, on 24 M a y 2006 the leadership o f the Anti-Epizootic Command
Center was taken over by the Prime Minister. On 26 M a y 2006 the latter decided to also set up a
National Center for the Coordination o f Fight against the AI, whose role will be to provide
qualified advice to the Central Anti-Epizootic Command Center. The newly born center i s
chaired by the president o f the ANSVSA and comprises representatives o f 6 ministries. Its
meetings are open for the participation o f various other experts, invited according to needs.

12. Romania has received and continues to have access to substantial donor support in its
HPAI-response activities. EU support through Phare and SAPARD grants predominantly target
the upgrading o f diagnostic and institutional capacities. After the first confirmed outbreak,
immediate support was provided by USAID, Sweden, the Netherlands, and Germany (through
FA0 TA). These donors continue their support to date. Preparedness and response assessments
have been carried out by FAO, WHO, and CDC. In addition to the proposed project, Bank



                                                - 39 -

assistance to the agriculture sector includes the ongoing Modernizing the Agricultural
Knowledge and Information System (MAKIS), Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP),
Rural Finance Project (RFP), Forestry Development Project (FDP), Rural Development Project
(RDP), Iri-igation Rehabilitation Project, Hazard Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness
Project

Health Sector

13. In Romania, the Ministry o f Public Health (MPH) i s the main responsible authority for
ensuring public health against the HPAI. There are 42 County Public Health Departments
(Bucharest included), under its subordination, that represent the public health authority at the
local level and implementthe strategy o f the MPH.

14. Health services are provided both on a public and a private basis. The public system
comprises various types o f health units (hospitals, polyclinics, diagnosis and treatment centers,
surgeries etc.) subordinated directly to the MPH or to the County Public Health Departments.
Their funding comes either from the state budget (subsidies) or from own resources (contracts
with the public health insurance fund). The private system covers mainly smaller and more
specialized health care units (e.g. surgeries and specialized surgeries, medical centers). While
there i s an increasing share o f polyclinics with major private ownership, the number o f private
hospitals remains very low.

15. The national research infrastructure for human health i s either subordinated to or
coordinated by the MPH. Inaddition to hospitals and universities, public bodies subordinated to
the MPH include several municipal Institutes and Centers for Public Health (e.g. the Institute for
Public Health o f Bucharest) and ensure the scientific grounds for the health policy and for the
strategies inthe area o f prevention, promoting and preserving health. They develop public health
studies, elaborate norms and methodologies, produce reports and coordinate some of the public
health programs. The public bodies coordinated by the MPH comprise (1) the "Cantacuzino"
National Institute for Research and Development in Microbiology and Immunology, (2) the
"Victor Babes" National Institute for Research and Development in Pathology and Biomedical
Sciences, and (3) National Institute for Research and Development in Health. Of these three
institutions, the Cantacuzino Institute has developed, with its own budgetary resources, a
reference laboratory designated for seasonal avianhuman influenza diagnostics.

16. Currently, inRomania there i s one World Bank project under implementation inthe health
sector, namely the second phase o f the Health Sector Reform Project (APL).




                                                - 40 -


       x
c-'
cd




            2
            2
            89B
            L"




            E
            M

            Y
            "
            e,
            c1
            2
            0
            Y
            78
            cd

            D

       5




x
4xz
s

d
z
2
n
c!

0
0
0-
0
-3

m
P
?




  -2c5
   e,




    cd
   0
   .3
   Y
   e
   0

   PI
    cd
   41
   0

   .e
   0c
   Y
  28cd


  3
   0
   0


                             Appendix 2: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControl andHumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                                          Project

                                                  ResultsFramework

                PDO                                     Project Outcome Indicators                         Use o f Project Outcome
                                                                                                                  Information
To minimize the threat posedto        Evidenceof improvedeffectiveness of animal andpublic health
humans by HPAI and other              services in preparingfor and respondingto HPAI outbreaks           To determine whether or not

zoonoses in domestic poultry and      and/or an influenzapandemic:                                       the project objectiveshave

prepare for the control andresponse                                                                      beenachieved.
                                           Appropriate contingencyplansprepared and effective
to an influenzapandemic and other     capacityto implementcontingencyplansbuilt.
infectiousdisease emergenciesin            HPAI outbreaks in poultry effectively contained.
humans.                                    Risk of human infectionsreduced and treatment improved.
       Intermediate Results                      Results Indicators for Each Component                    Use of ResultsMonitoring
ComDonent 1 Animal Health
                 -
A - Strengthening the Institutional Framework
Al: VeterinaryInstitutional          I     Evaluationof veterinary services completedaccordingto-       1TOreviewprogressand adjust
framework for effectivedisease             OIE guidelines.                                               approachifnecessary.
control strengthened.                      Enhancedeffectivenessof disease control at county level.
A.2: HPAIpreventionand control        0    Contingencyplans revisedand consolidated,and                  To review progress.
planning improvedand coordinated           implementationguidelinesandmanuals available.
across sectors.
B StrengtheningDiseaseSurveillar e, Diagnostic Capacityand Research
  -
B.l: Monitoring and surveillance           Veterinary staff at centraland country levels have improved   To review progress, to adjust
systems strengthened.                      knowledge and skills to design and perform                    approachifnecessary, and to
                                           epidemiologicalsurveys, andto analyze animal disease          verify satisfactory
                                                                                                         implementation.
B.2: Diagnostic capacity at national       County laboratoriesprovidetimely (accordingto EC              To review progress, to adjust
and regionallevelsand veterinary           legislation and OIE guidelines)disease diagnoses.             approachifnecessary, and to
medicinalproductquality control            National referencelaboratoryprovidestimely confirmation       verify satisfactory
strengthened.                              ofthe local diagnoses.                                        implementation.
                                           National Institutefor Control ofBiological Products and
                                           VeterinaryDrugs effectively applies molecular-biological
                                           methods for quality control of veterinary medicinal
                                           products.
B.3: Integratednationalanimal              Efficient animal diseaseinformation systemoperational in      To review progress and verify
disease information system                 compliancewith EC legislationand OIE guidelines.              satisfactoryimplementation.
established.
8.4: .Applied 1ererinary research          ANSVSA has appropriate designs for appliedveterinary          To review progressand verify
programdefinedand isolators                researchprogramand instituteto fulfill its new mandate.       satisfactoryimplementation.
operational.                               The National Institute for Control of Biological Products
                                           and VeterinaryDrugs can operate facilities for
                                           administeringhighly infectiouspathogenson live animals.
C StrengtheningHPAZ controlpri
  -
C.1: Virus eradicationat the source        Quarantine, culling and disposal measures are improved, in    TOreview progress, to adjust
improvedthroughmore effective              accordancewith environmentaland animal welfare                approachifnecessary, and to
outbreak control.                          guidelines.                                                   verify satisfactory
                                                                                                         implementation.
C.2: Vaccinationpolicy and                 Poultry vaccinationpolicy, contingencyplan, and               To review progress and verify
implementationmanuals developed.           implementationmanual developed.                               satisfactoryimplementation.
D Bio-Security in small-scale
   -                                       Evidenceof behavioralandmanagerialchanges towards             To review progress, to adjust
poultry production improved.               higher bio-securityinsmall-holderpoultry systems,             approachif necessary, andto
                                           following the successful implementationof awareness           verify satisfactory
                                           campaigns andknowledgetransfer activities.                    implementation.
                                           Optionsfor bio-securityinvestments developed andknown
                                           to poultry producers, andbio-securitymanualsavailable.



                                                            - 46 -

Component2
A Enhancing Public Health
  -               -  HumanHealth
                                              Procedures and standards upgraded and staff trained    To verify satisfactory and
Program Planning and                          in their use                                           timely progress and adjust
Coordination- effective regulatory            Technical guidelines and manuals updated               approach if necessary.
framework for National Pandemic         1     Social distancing plan prepared
InfluenzaAction Plan (NPIAF') as         9    Clean out plans for hospitals prepared
well as contingency plans that detail
required activities on all levels
including implementationguidelines
and manuals for all relevant
agencies and services
B Strengthening of National
  -                                      .    Increased surveillance and outbreak investigation      To verify satisfactory and
Public Health SurveillanceSystem              capacity;                                              timely progressand adjust
                                              NILat biosafetylevel 3                                 approach ifnecessary.
                                              Regional laboratory capacity strengthened (with at

C StrengtheningHealthcare Syster response Capacity
  -                                           least 2-3 labs able to adequatelyperformedA I tests)

C.1: Strengtheningisolation and       a  Infectiousdisease hospitals at the central level fully      To verify satisfactory and
                                                                                                     timely progress and adjust
hospitals - Critical medical care
case management capacity of              equipped
                                      .
                                      a  Isolation and intensive care units in 7 regional hospitals  approach ifnecessary.
networks strengthened and readied        established
to cope with increased demand for        Healthprofessionals and support personnel trained for
services, and to prevent the spread      active surveillance, case finding, and proper diagnosis,
of infection amonghigh-risk              treatment and care.
                                         Case fatality rate below the international average level
                                         during both ore-euidemic and oan-endemic Dhases :
                                      .
                                      .
populations and health care workers

C.2: Upgradingthe influenza              Vaccine production facility at "Cantacuzino Institute"      To verify satisfactory and
vaccine production unit                  strengthened upgraded.                                      timely progressand adjust
                                         Capacity to produce up to 2.5 million doses of trivalent    approach ifnecessary.
                                         vaccines and 5 million doses of monovalentvaccine
                                         established
Component3        -  PublicAwareni s and Communication
Coordinated communications               Political and civic leadership organized around a national
                                                                      ~-                             To verify satisfactory and
process involvingANSVSA and              strategic risk communication plan;                          timely progress.
MPH, addressing information              Research-basedrisk communication strategies and products    Review at MTR and after
/communication needs of priority         developed, responding to the needs of priority audiences;   outbreaks to adjust approach
audiences, during pre-pandemic and       Awareness-raising and behavior change interventions with    ifnecessary.
pandemic A-I phases;                     population at risk using appropriate communications
                                         channels consistent;
Informedat-risk communities              Communications strategies and products developed and
adopting safe health practices,          used highlighting the actions and investments of
reporting, and contributing to           participatingministries and the mobilization of group
outbreak control actions;                resourcesto contain the epidemic, generating social trust
                                         and credibility;
Educatedcitizenry, aware of the          Evidence existent of consistent communicationand
impact and social containment            information technologies, to promote reporting of
measuresneededif AI escalates            outbreaks, fast response and an unintempted social
across pandemicphases.                   dialogue;
                                         Informational products developed and disseminatedthat
                                         educate priority audiences about possible scenarios and
                                         mitigation and-controlactions to be undertaken.




                                                          - 47 -

*
0

g
a
2
I
g
0
a,


-b
x
5
3




      -0
      5

I
0
v,
I

             ,
             3
             v,
             ,




      .-s




I-

x B

I
rl
10
I

                            Appendix3: DetailedProjectDescription
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControland HumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                              Project


Component 1-ANIMAL HEALTH

1.    Total component costs are estimated at EUR 14.30 million, with Bank financing in the
amount o f EUR 9.15 million.

(A)Strengtheningthe InstitutionalFramework

A1  - StrengtheningVeterinary      Institutions

2.    Evaluation of National Veterinary Services. The organizational and functional review o f
the main governmental veterinary services undertaken by experts from EUmember countries and
international organizations, and the rapid assessment undertaken by the Bank team, suggest the
need for an in-depth assessment o f the national veterinary services, followed by appropriate
reforms as may be warranted. To meet international standards set by the World Organization for
Animal Health (OIE), the EU requirements, and the recommendations developed by FA0 and
EU experts, the veterinary services need to develop and document appropriate procedures and
standards for the implementation and management o f animal health measures and international
veterinary certification activities. As a basis for activities in support o f institutional
enhancements (below), the project will provide technical assistance to support the self-evaluation
o f and by the national veterinary services based on OIE's "Performance, Vision and Strategy for
Veterinary Services" evaluation guidelines in order to establish the current level o f performance,
form a shared vision with service providers and clients in the private sector, establish priorities,
and facilitate strategic planning.

3.    Strengthening Veterinary and Food Safety Institutions. Once the evaluation o f veterinary
and related services (above) has been completed, the project will provide technical support for
realigning institutional structures and resources with priority objectives, mandates, and tasks. In
collaboration with and complementary to ongoing and planned advisory activities funded by
donors and international organizations, the project will provide technical assistance for
institutional and organizational restructuring at national and county levels as may be warranted;
training o f staff; equipment and materials, and upgrading o f priority infrastructure (limited works
for refurbishments) including support at the county level to enhance institutional arrangements,
such as the recruitment and payment procedures for additional culling personnel, for the control
o f animal disease outbreaks. In particular, the project will support the establishment o f animal
disease control centers at the national and county levels.

A2 ImprovingHPAI Preventionand ControlPlanning
    -

4.    Contingency Plan Implementation Guidelines and Manuals. European Council Directive
2005/94/EC obliges every EU Member Country to draw up a national contingency plan
specifying the national measures to be implementedin the event o f an outbreak. Romania as an


                                               - 54 -

EUcandidate country therefore needs to design a national plan in accordance with the Directive
provisions. Inthis plan and related manuals, detailed information must be given, inter alia, about
the staff involved in control measures, their skills and responsibilities, as well as detailed
instructions for staff with respect to reporting duties, field measures such as quarantining, culling
and disinfection, location o f and access to equipment and materials, and personal protection
against the potential risk o f infection. While governmental authorities have developed individual
contingency plans for animal and human health, overall national contingency planning and
coordination still needs improvements. The Government has established a National Disease (AI)
Control Center that has started a comprehensive process o f reviewing, integrating, and
consolidating existing contingency plans. The project will provide technical assistance to support
this process o f refining and finalizing the draft contingency plan(s) and to develop the necessary
detailed implementation guidelines and manuals for all relevant agencies and services. Support
will also be provided for the participation o f veterinary experts and project staff inregional and
international information exchanges on avian influenza as well as for working visits to other
countries implementing similar activities.

(B)StrengtheningDisease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity, and Research

B1- StrengtheningMonitoring and Surveillance Systems

5.   Surveillance Capacity of Veterinary Services. Surveillance programs entail structured
sampling approaches to search for evidence o f disease in animal populations. Examples include
regular routine repeat serum sampling inregional or national populations or in sentinel flocks or
in surveillance zones inan outbreak situation, and also continuous collection o f dead waterfowl
to be examined for evidence of HPAI. The project will provide technical assistance and training
for staff o f veterinary service institutions at national and county levels, focusing on the design
and implementation o f HPAI surveillance programs, collecting and analyzing epidemiological
data and performing risk assessments (support for serological testing under active surveillance
schemes i s provided under the diagnostic capacity component B2). The project will also support
transportation facilities and arrangements for surveillance field work as needed.

6.   Epidemiological Surveys. European Council Directive 2005/94/EC (dated December 20,
2005) on Community measures for the control o f avian influenza and repealing Directive
92/40/EEC requires EU Member States (MS) to "ensure that epidemiological inquiries are
started on the basis of questionnaires, established within theframework of the contingency plans
providedfor in Article 62." These inquiries need to include, inter alia, the period o f infection on
the premises, possible virus origin, identification o f contact holdings, and movement o f poultry
and poultry products, persons, vehicles and other material. EU MS have the duty to inform the
E C and other MS if the results o f the epidemiological inquiries suggest transboundary
transmission of the virus. The second wave o f outbreaks in Romania, starting on M a y 11, 2006,
has shown that the lack o f reliable epidemiological information, and the sound analysis thereof,
has hampered the development o f rational, targeted disease control measures and slowed down
the containment o f the disease. The project will provide technical assistance and training for
epidemiological studies and surveillance programs to support continuously adapted and
improved disease control measures. In Romania where 70% o f poultry i s produced in backyard




                                                 - 55 -

systems, small-scale and semi-commercial poultry production systems are the major control
target.

B2 Strengthening Diagnostic Capacity
    -

7.   Diagnostic capacity in Romania's national reference laboratory (IDAH) and county
laboratories. Romania's veterinary diagnostic service is organized in the National Reference
Laboratory (IDAH) and 41 regional laboratories. During the first outbreak o f H5N1 HPAI in
Romania, diagnosis o f AI was performed by classical methods, i.e. virus isolation in chicken
embryos, as well as detection o f specific antibodies through hemagglutination inhibition (HI) and
imunodiffusion tests. IDAH recently adopted molecular diagnostic techniques that could speed
up diagnostic procedure and process a large number o f samples on a daily basis. Currently, there
are two Real-Time PCR machines, but the capacity should be further strengthened to process the
required number o f samples that could arise if the virus spreads further. Eight regional
laboratories adopted conventional PCR techniques. PCR techniques require specific and
expensive reagents. Pathogenicity o f the isolated viruses i s currently determined in IDAH by
genetic sequencing. The existing device i s a single capillary sequencer in which only a limited
number o f samples can be processed daily. Purchasing a four capillary sequencer will increase
IDAH's capacity for the determination o f pathogenicity o f isolated AI strains. Results obtained
by this method may also be used for future applied veterinary research. Testing by ELISA o f
serum samples collected on a large scale in surveillance programs will strengthen the diagnostics
o f AI based on the detection o f specific antibodies. This method allows processing o f a large
number o f samples within one day, but also requires specific and expensive diagnostic kits.
IDAHandmost o fthe regionallaboratoriesare equippedto use ELISA. Methods that are already
in use in Romania's veterinary diagnostic laboratories and those that will be adopted require
basic protection equipment and training activities in order to prevent possible infection o f the
laboratory staff with H5N1 HPAI. The equipment and activities should be in compliance with
the respective appropriate biosafety standards.

8.    The project will finance:

       (i)Laboratoryequipment,reagents,andcomponentsformoleculardiagnostictechniques
            and serology (HItest and ELISA).
       (ii)Laminarflowchambers, autoclaves, equipmentforcollectionanddisposalofwaste
            as well as personal protective equipment and related facilities in order to increase
            staff safety.

9.    Quality control of veterinary medicinal products. This sub-component will provide
equipment, consumables, technical assistance and training for increasing the capacity o f the
Institute for Control o f Biological Products and Veterinary Drugs to fulfill its responsibility in
providing quality control for vaccines and other veterinary medicinal products for which formal
quality assurance has to be provided by the State. The project will also provide high-level
containment facilities available to work with live animals (see component B4).




                                                - 56 -

B3 StrengtheningAnimalDiseases InformationSystems
     -

10. This sub-component will support the further development o f a comprehensive national
animal disease information system at ANSVSA. The project's contribution to the development o f
this integrated geo-referenced information system i s incremental to the already initiated
investment in a veterinary laboratory network being developed by ANSVSA with financial
support made available through E C SAPARD. Other information networks dealing with animal
health related aspects (e.g. trade in livestock and products o f animal origin, livestock
identification and movement control, border inspection post operations, etc.) are hosted by
different entities within and . outside ANSVSA. Notwithstanding the present hosting
arrangements, the information available through links and networks is fully accessible through
the project supported ANSVSA integrated animal health information system. The system will
enable Romania to participate in global disease information sharing and comply with its
obligations as a member o f OIE, contributing towards progressively better global and regional
control and eradication. The system will be linked with rapid and standardized methods of
routine analysis o f surveillance data in order to track important changes in the H5N1 situation
and promptly supply this information to field personnel. The system supported under the project
i s intended to enable an effective and efficient flow o f information among relevant agencies and
individuals (esp. field veterinarians, laboratory experts, epidemiologists, etc.), providing the
necessary support to decision-makers charged with the prevention and control o f animal diseases
at local and national levels. The project supported integrated animal disease information system
i s owned by ANSVSA and will be operated and maintained under ANSVSA's responsibility.
Specialized service providers will to be contracted for such maintenance work. The project will
provide technical assistance, priority equipment and supplies, and training, for the design,
establishment and use o f the system. The animal health information system also includes a geo-
referenced database for all poultry farms, in line with the requirement that municipalities register
all backyard flocks under their authority.

B4 StrengtheningAppliedVeterinary ResearchCapacity
     -

 11. Applied Veterinary Research Program. It is widely believed that infection with H5N1
HPAIvirus was introduced into Romaniabywild migratory birds and spread to domestic poultry
inthe Danube delta in early October 2005. However, it remains unclear if and how wild birds
have passed the virus on to domestic poultry. It is also not clear to which extent the virus has
become endemic in Romania's wild bird or domestic poultry populations. Furthermore, it is not
clear whether wild migratory birds still play an important role in spreading of the virus. The role
o f wild birds and virus transmission mechanisms may need further investigation through applied
veterinary research. A Government Decision i s being prepared for early implementation to
establish the Research Center for Cross border Diseases, Emergencies, Reemergence and
Zoonoses as part o f the Institute for Diagnosis and Animal Health, providing ANSVSA with the
mandate to undertake applied veterinary research. A skeleton building has been reportedly
identified in Tulcea to house the new Center. The project will finance technical assistance to
assist with the design o f ANSVSA's applied research program related to HPAI. Twinning
arrangements with appropriate institutions outside Romania may be explored inorder to facilitate
sustained capacity strengthening. Inaddition technical assistance will be made available through




                                                - 57 -

the project to design the overall reconstruction and refurbishing o f the building reportedly
allocated to house the Center.

12. Infectious disease research on live animals. Research with highly infectious agents (such
as HPAI virus) on live animals - as may be requiredfor the testing o f vaccines and the practicing
o f vaccination and post-vaccination sampling - requires a high-containment laboratory
environment. The project will finance goods, consumables, and civil works for minor
refurbishments in existing laboratory facilities for the installation and operation o f isolators at the
Institute for Control o f BiologicalProducts and Veterinary Drugs.

(C)StrengtheningHPAI Control Programs

C1  - TargetingVirus     Eradicationat the Source

13. Quarantine, Culling and Disposal. Although capable teams are in place to effectively
control H P A I outbreaks, the recent wave o f out outbreaks has overwhelmed authorities and
veterinary services. The wide distribution o f small flocks across a country where 70% o f poultry
are produced in backyard systems is a particular challenge for the control o f the disease. The
project will contribute to the enhancement o f existing capacities for the control o f HPAI
outbreaks as requiredby existing national contingency plans. Weaknesses have been identified in
the areas o f quarantining (disinfection stations), culling o f infected and at-risk poultry, and the
safe disposal o f poultry carcasses and potentially infectious materials in a bio-secure and
environmentally acceptable manner. Disinfection practices will be improved with support from
other than project sources. The project will focus its assistance on the culling o f poultry and on
the disposal o f carcasses in small-holder systems - which dominate Romania's poultry sector.
The project will finance the purchase and operation o f containers where C 0 2 i s applied in an
animal welfare acceptable manner. The project will also finance the purchase and operation o f
mobile incinerators with a combined daily capacity o f about 40,000 kg. These incinerators will
be located at a central location in each o f 4 regions: Cluj, Iasi, Bucharest, Timisoara. The
incinerators will be maintained by the local veterinary authorities who will also undergo training
for handling and managing the equipment.

C2 - SupportingVaccination Campaigns

14. Vaccination planning and implementation. Vaccination o f poultry against HPAI is a
controversial issue but continues to be discussed as an option to contain HPAI outbreaks. The
controversy stems from the possibility that vaccinated poultry may become infected without
showing clinical signs and may consequently continue to excrete the virus into the environment.
Moreover, infected domestic waterfowls seem to carry the virus without showing any clinical
signs and therefore pose a major risk o f spreading the virus to other domestic poultry as masked
carriers. Continuous infections and endemism could be the result. On the other hand, vaccination
does increase the threshold for the infection, and if vaccinated birds become infected, they will
excrete the virus ina significantly lower amount and during a shorter period o f time. Vaccination
can be an effective tool in situations where other measures failed to control the infection and
where the disease became endemic. However, to reduce the risk o f negative effects, vaccination




                                                - 58 -

campaigns need to use vaccines that allow the distinction between infected and vaccinated
animals and need to be accompaniedby appropriate surveillance schemes and restrictions.

15. Effectiveness o f vaccination in controlling H P A I in Italy i s well documented and recent
experiences regarding vaccination in controlling H5N1 HPAI in Vietnam and China are also
encouraging. Therefore, although vaccination against H P A I is generally prohibited inthe EU, the
recent Council Directive 2005/94/EC considers that "Vaccination against avian influenza can be
an effective tool to supplement disease control measures and to avoid massive killing and
destruction o f poultry or other captive birds. Current knowledge suggests that vaccination may
be useful not only as a short-term measure in emergencies but also as a long-term measure to
prevent disease in situations o f higher risk of introduction of avian influenza viruses from wild
life or other sources." The same Directive offers the option o f Emergency vaccination: "A
Member state may introduce emergency vaccination in poultry or other captive birds as a short
term measure to contain an outbreak when a risk assessment indicates there i s a significant and
immediate threat o f avian influenza spreading within or into the Member State concerned in
accordance with this Section where there is one or more o f the following: (a) an outbreak within
that Member State; (b) an outbreak in a nearby Member State; or (c) where avian influenza has
been confirmed inpoultry or other captive birds in a nearby third country" as well as Preventive
vaccination: "Member States may introduce preventive vaccination in poultry or other captive
birds as a long term measure in accordance with this Section where they deem that on the basis
o f a risk assessment certain areas o f their territory, type o f poultry husbandry or certain
categories of poultry or other captive birds or the poultry or other captive birds compartments are
exposed to the risk o f avian influenza." Romania, as a candidate country, has a legal option for
using vaccination against HPAI as an additional tool for controlling H5N1 in poultry. A policy
on the use o f vaccination for the containment o f HPAIoutbreaks has not yet been formulated nor
has a contingency plan for the practical the implementation o f a potential vaccination campaign
been drafted.

16. The project will therefore provide technical assistance and training including orientation
visits to other countries, to develop Romania's vaccination policy and action plan in the form o f
detailed operational manual for vaccinations against HPAI, and train officials in the
implementation o f vaccination campaigns and post-vaccinationmonitoring.

(D)ImprovingBio-securityinpoultryproductionandtrade

17. Bio-security on small-scalepoultry farms. After the first wave o f AI outbreaks inRomania
which is believed to have been caused by wild birds inthe Danube Delta region, the second wave
revealed that inappropriate farm management and trade practices can have equally dramatic
effects on the spread o f the disease. However, most o f Romania's H5N1 HPAI outbreaks
occurred inbackyard poultry systems where 70% o f the country's poultry are kept, revealing that
bio-security on backyard farms is insufficient and represents a major risk for new waves o f
infections. On these farms, a farm household typically keeps 20 chickens, 10 ducks, 5 turkeys, 3
geese, 3 swine, 10 sheep and goats, a cow and a horse living inimmediate proximity, sometimes
roaming freely around the farm, adding to the risk o f both (i) mixing o f wild and domestic birds,
and (i)  species-to-species transmission and mutation or even recombination o f the virus. In
addition, live poultry trade at the local markets is common, which can significantly contribute to



                                                - 59 -

the spread o f H5N1 between villages. For Romania in particular it has become decisive to
upgrade the level o f bio-security on its farms inorder to reduce the chances o f virus transmission
(i) between wild and domestic birds, (ii)    between animals (species) on farms, and (iii)  between
farms. Bio-security i s as much a behavioral issue as i t is a technical one and i s the result o f
managerial decisions (such as restricted access to poultry production farms, quarantining o f new
purchases, separation o f sick animals, separation o f species, personal hygiene, etc). Support
activities for Bio-security enhancements will therefore have to include awareness campaigns and
knowledge transfer activities for producers, rural families, and other local stakeholders, Small
investments may be neededon some farms, depending on the characteristics o f the local farming
system. These systems can vary considerable. The project will therefore also support a
comprehensive poultry sector assessment, based on which technical options and communication
approaches will be defined to deal with aspects o f biosecurity, resulting in the publication o f
biosecurity manuals for different stakeholders. In parallel, some technical options should be
tested and demonstrated to poultry producers in selected areas. Such technical options could
involve fencing, compartmentalization, caging (at least temporarily), and manure disposal, and
other technical and managerial innovations.        Investment costs, knowledge and management
skills, labor for husbandry including feeding, fodder costs, and the emotional impact o f changing
the look and feel o f animal production systems are critical factors in the evaluation o f the
feasibility and social acceptance o f bio-security improvements. Ultimate scaling up o f on-farm
bio-security investments on individual farms (not initially included inthe project) would need to
present several options and assist farmers inmaking an informed choice.

18. The project will finance:

       (i)Knowledge      transfer activities - including on-farm demonstrations and training o f
            farmers, extension agents, and other rural services providers - aimed at managerial
            and behavioral changes. These also deal with training o f staff and workers involved in
            the culling and disposal operations inthe face o f outbreaks.
       (ii)Technical assistancefor acomprehensivepoultry sector assessment,leadingtothe
            review o f options and subsequently to the publication o fbiosecurity manuals.

Component2 -HUMANHEALTH

 19. The Human Health Component will comprise three subcomponents for a total estimated
cost o f EUR 19.80 million, with Bank financing inthe amount o f EUR 16.95 million.

(A)EnhancingPublicHealthProgramPlanningandCoordination

20. The National Plan o f intervention in a flu pandemic situation, which was approved on
 October 13, 2005 by the Ministry o f Public Health (Order N o 1094), presents the general
 strategy for the preparation for and response to an influenza pandemic o f avian origin. The M P H
 Order N o 31 adopted on January 12, 2006 completes the national plan by presenting the
methodology for the surveillance and management o f AI human cases. Several other MPH orders
have been adopted and published on the MPH website in both Romanian and English language
 (See ww.ms.ro).




                                                 - 60 -

21. The National Plan defines the composition o f both the National Committee and the County
Committees for flu pandemic, while Order No 31 defines the circuit for information and
identifies the institutions responsible for the laboratory investigations and the clinical
management o f cases. The Directia de Sanatate Publica (DSP- Direction o f Public Health) holds
the overall responsibility for the surveillance and control o f Avian Influenza in Human. All
suspected human cases have to be transported to and hospitalized at the Institute o f Infectious
Diseases Dr Matei Bals in Bucharest. The Cantocuzino Institute i s responsible for laboratory
testing and confirmations. All suspected cases should be reported to the County Public Health
Departments, which shall recommend measures to be taken (hospitalization, home isolation,
treatments o f contact persons...) and shall report all events to both the National Center for
Communicable Disease control andthe Cantacuzino Institute the Institute Matei Bals.

22. Overall the plan and various orders constitute a good strategic framework and provide good
general guidance for action. They closely follow the WHO recommendations, address most o f
the issues and broadly present the actions to be taken during the 6 phases o f the pre-pandemic
and pandemic periods.

23. Romania i s already benefiting from a US$ 1.3 million USAlD project which i s providing
technical assistance for the development o f the national emergency preparedness plan and
training on planning as well as the preparation of technical guidelines and manuals.

24. The project will finance additional work to further operationalize the national plan and
enhance coordination with both other sectors and neighboring countries. More specifically the
project will a) finance additional studies and researches, including a study on the kinetics and
impact o f a pandemic and, b) the organization o f conferences, workshops and consensus
meetings.

(B)Strengthening Surveillance and the national laboratory capacity

25. In Romania, the surveillance o f the seasonal influenza i s in place since about 15 years, is
well organized and functions well. The Romania National Influenza Center is recognized by
WHO and is affiliated with the WHO FLUNET and the EuropeanInfluenza Surveillance System
(EISS). The NIL i s in contact with the London and U S Atlanta-CDC international reference
laboratories and centers. The N I C participates inthe national surveillance of Avian Fluand in all
preparedness activities for an influenza pandemic. At this point in time and based on the
information available, there i s no need to further strengthen the existing sentinel surveillance
system and no action i s required inthe short term.

26. At the central level, the M P H (DSP) Public Health Department has the overall
responsibility for the prevention and fight against avian flu in humans while the 42 existing
District Public Health Departments are directly responsible for the investigation o f AI outbreaks.
N o major issues have been reported in the past months and the last W H O K D C mission
considered as globally satisfactory the investigation o f outbreaks. However, the increasing
number o f AI outbreaks reported inpoultry and the increasing risk to have to face human cases
requires the strengthening o f existing capacity to investigate and control outbreak. Support
towards this is providedby USAID.


                                                - 61 -

27. The Romania National Influenza Reference Laboratory-NIL is located at the Cantacuzino
Institute. The Laboratory has been recently renovated (with the support o f the EU-Phare
Program), i s well equipped (RT-PCR, sequencer) and at bio-safety level 2. This laboratory i s
recognized by W.H.O. The Professor Dr Matei Bals Institute o f Infectious Diseases inBucharest
has also a well staffed and fully equipped laboratory at bio-safety level 2. All districts have
laboratories able to perform main microbiological tests, though only some o f them at
international standards. While overall the laboratory capacity appears appropriate and at the
requiredlevel, there is a need to further strengthen the NILand regional national laboratories.

28. The project will finance:

        (a) The upgrading o f the NIL to BSL 3 through the financing o f minor civil works
            (partitioning and creation o f decontamination rooms), the supply and installation o f
             additional security devices and the installation o f system for maintaining negative
            pressure inthe rooms.
        (b) The strengthening o f at least 3 regional laboratories through the supply o f critical
            equipment and the training o f staff.

(C)StrengtheningHealthSystemResponse Capacity

29. The health care system appears relatively well prepared to respond to isolated cases and
limited outbreaks. However, additional efforts are needed to ensure that the system can
adequately respond to a pandemic situation.

30. According to the National Plan, during the inter-pandemic period, all suspected cases shall
be transported to and isolated at the Institute o f Infectious Diseases Prof Dr Matei Bals and- if
need be- at the Bucharest Victor Babes hospital, where medical assistance shall be provided by
specialized dedicated personnel. The Prof Matei Bals Institute for Infectious Diseases has about
360 beds including a special isolation unit (established during the SARS epidemic) and a 50 bed
Intensive Care Unit-ICU and about 650 staff, including 78 physicians and 265 nurses. The
hospital has a fully equipped radiological department (including a CT-Scanner) and a fully
equippedlaboratory which can perform all necessary tests (including RT-PCR and sequencing o f
virus). While the ICU is well organized, it needs additional equipment, more specifically
intensive care beds and mechanical ventilators. The centralization o f patient care is part o f the
MPH strategy to ensure high quality care to suspected or confirmed AI human cases. While this
strategy i s appropriate in a pre-pandemic period, the MPH needs to start establishing a capacity
to isolate and treat HPAI patients at the regional level to both reduce the risks linked to the
transportation o f patients and make sure that all patients can be properly isolated and treated
within their regions ofresidence.

3 1. The National Plan states that a) at least 50% o f the population with an increased risk should
be vaccinated with the trivalent seasonal influenza vaccine during the inter-pandemic period,
which requires the supply o f about 2.5 million vaccine doses and, b) in case o f a pandemic, at
least 25% o f the total population shall be vaccinated with a univalent vaccine (when available)
which would implies the supply o f about 5.5 million doses. Inthe past, the Cantacuzino Institute



                                                - 62 -

has produced an average o f 550,000 vaccine doses per year. To be in a position to increase its
production up to 2.5 million doses while remaining in compliance with good manufacturing
practice standards, the Cantacuzino Institute needs to upgrade the existing unit and its filling and
sealing station. A relocation and extension o f the production unit would be needed if the
production hadto be brought up to 5 million doses or more.

32. The National plan includes provisions regarding the use o f anti-viral drugs for
chemoprophylaxis and treatment and the stockpiling o f these drugs. The plan indicates that there
i s a need to stockpile 400,000 and 1million treatment respectively during the inter-pandemic and
pandemic periods. According to information provided by the MPH, Romania has a currently
stock pile o f 500,000 oseltamivir (Tamiflu')  treatments.

33. The project will finance:

        (a) The strengthening o f the isolation and case management capacity through (i)the
             equipment o f the two Bucharest infectious diseases hospitals and, (ii)the
             establishment o f isolation and intensive care units in 7 o f the regional hospitals for
             infectious diseases (Brasov, Craiova, Constanta, Cluj, Iasi, Timisoara and Tg. Mures).

        (b) The upgrading and capacity increase o f the influenza vaccine production unit at the
             Cantacuzino Lnstitute including (i)the rehabilitation and equipment of the influenza
            production department and, (ii)the completion and equipment o f the filling and
             sealing unit. This intervention will help both increase the production capacity and
             ensure that the production i s at the required Good Manufacturing Practice-GMP
             standards.

Component3 - PUBLIC AWARENESS, COMMUNICATIONS, and
                     IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT

(A)PublicAwareness and Communications

34.    The Public Awareness and Communications Sub-component will support the GOR's
efforts indesigning and implementingan integrated and comprehensive communications strategy
and action plan. The component will be implemented by ANSVSA, and will comprise the
following three sub-components:

       (i)forStrengthening institutional capacity for ANSVSA: the project will support assistance
                 and training of communications staff, and additional equipment and operating
             costs.
        (ii)Development of an integrated strategy and action planbased on qualitative and
             quantitative research: the project will build on the experience gained from the
             information campaigns o f UNDP, UNICEF, USAID, as well as on the sectorial
             communications strategies o f WHO and UNICEF, and the communications needs
             assessment o f ANSVSA. The strategy will define parameters o f specific audiences in
             various generic target groups, the degree o f social acceptance of proposed hygiene
             and bio-security measures, the associated messages which will need to be persuasive


                                                 - 63 -

             without creating panic, and the most efficient delivery tools and vehicles for a nation
             wide campaign.
       (iii)Delivery of several information campaigns: these will aim to obtain the public's
             support and participation inreporting and monitoring; to promote and induce a set o f
             behavior changes which will diminish the possibility o f AI outbreaks and
             contamination; and to educate different key audiences (farmers, people living in
             villages, traders, local authorities, media, food inspectors, front line workers,
             consumers, other stakeholders).

35. Project support under this sub-component will focus on information and communication
activities to increase the attention and commitment o f government, private sector, and civil
society organizations, and to raise awareness, knowledge and understanding among the general
population about the risk and potential impact o f the pandemic. It will provide communications
support to the Avian Influenza response operations across different sectors, at different
administrative levels, and along different pandemic phases.

36. Advocacy interventions will be needed to maintain and/or create the high-level political
engagement; a multi-sectorial approach; a credible and trusted public sector response; a
professional media reporting accurately the AI agenda; and an informed base o f decision-makers,
supportive o fpolicy implementation and safety-net programs.

37. In addition to the advocacy role, communication programs will bring the public's attention
to a wide range o f actions stemming from the national response (investments in infrastructure,
rapid-training for service delivery, allocation o f special financial instruments to compensate and
mitigate the impact, etc.) This information, together with the activities o f the civic and private
sectors, will create an "enabling environment," that reduces uncertainty, and builds social-
support, trust, and understanding of the possible scenarios.

38. To carry out these communication activities, communication specialists and operational
resources will be assigned to implementation team in ANSVSA to subcontract rapid-research
around knowledge, attitude and practices o f vulnerable and at-risk populations; to design and
produce awareness-raising and prevention campaigns; and promote fast reporting through
innovative technologies. The mobilization o f group resources i s an important element that needs
to be considered, particularly inpreparation for possible pandemic. Fostering community support
i s crucial to facilitate transparency in the allocation o f financial incentives, responsiveness in the
containment and mitigation actions, and adoption o f policies and ordinances that might be
enforced (culling and banning backyard farming, for example).                    A two-way flow of
communications, and not only a top-down approach, has to be established, where local interests
and cultural context are accounted.

39. The communications sub-component will finance technical assistance, training, as well as
goods and services.




                                                  - 64 -

(B)ImplementationSupport, Monitoringand Evaluation

40. This sub-component will provide for project coordination and administration, procurement,
financial management, reporting, monitoring and evaluation activities for all components. The
project will be implemented by the MPH and ANSVSA, and will build upon the already existing
Project Management Units in the two agencies. In order to ensure effective implementation o f
the project in accordance with Bank fiduciary and procurement policies and guidelines, the
project will finance: (i)Incremental support to the two PMUs in terms o f staff and operating
costs; (ii)
          Studies, technical services, manuals; and (iii)  Surveys for monitoring and evaluation.
The incremental staff will include, for each o f the agencies, one procurement staff, one financial
management staff and one technical specialist. Funds will also be provided for hiring short-term
individual consultants and consulting companies for services and surveys on a need basis. The
project will also provide for purchase o f some additional office equipment and a vehicle,
together with salaries and operating costs for three years.




                                                - 65 -

            Appendix4: ProjectCoordinationand ImplementationArrangements
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControland HumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                               Project

1.    Inline with this overall HPAIemergency structure, the project will becoordinatedby atask
force within the National Anti-Epizootic Command Center. This task force - operating as the
Project Steering Committee (PSC) - will consist of representatives o f the Prime Minister's Office
as the Chair, the MOPF, ANSVSA, and MPH. Given that the task force will consist o f members
(or their delegates) o f the Anti-Epizootic Command Center, project activities will be fully
integrated into the overall strategy and national action program to control HPAI. The PSC will
coordinate and collaborate with other ministries (many o f which are represented in the Anti-
Epizootic Command Center) affiliated institutions, as well as donors and other international
partners as needed. Givenits inclusion inthe Anti-Epizootic Command Center, the PSC does not
need to be formally established. It will, however, meet more regularly, given that the Anti-
Epizootic Command Center i s only activated in crisis situations. The PSC i s responsible for the
provision o f broad guidance in project implementation and for ensuring that project activities
conform to national emergency response strategies and policies. The PSC will review work
programs including budget and procurement plans, and review and evaluate technical and
financial monitoring reports. Special attention will be paid to the coordination of the
communications activities undertaken by MPH and ANSVSA where the representative of the
Prime Minister will take the lead, with participation and inputs from the two Project
Coordinators (definition below). The PSC will report to the Prime Minister on a regular basis
about progress andimpact of project implementation.

2.    The project has selected hybrid implementation arrangements whereby implementation o f
project activities will be shared betweenvarious national ministries / agencies / institutes as well
as by two Project Management Units. The project will be implemented jointly by National
Sanitary, Veterinary and Food Safety Authority (ANSVSA) and Ministry of Public Health
(MPH). ANSVSA will designate a senior veterinary official as the coordinator for the Animal
Health Component and M P H will designate a State Secretary to be in charge o f the Human
Health Component. Both component coordinators will be responsible for the implementation o f
their respective components and will jointly share the responsibility o f implementingthe Public
Awareness and Information Component. The two coordinators will work under the guidance and
leadership o f the Steering Committee comprised o f representatives o f MPH, ANSVSA, MOPF
and the Prime Minister's office. The Project Steering Committee and the National Disease and
Command Center will cooperate and make transparent annual work programming and budgeting
exercises.

3.    Animal Health Component. This component will be implemented by the ANSVSA, through
a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be established before effectiveness. Overall coordination
o f the component will be assured by a senior veterinary official. The Institute for Diagnosis and
Animal Health and the Institute for Drugs Control will provide technical expertise /
specifications for their respective activities and will be responsible for smooth implementation o f
their parts, while overall procurement, financial management and coordination will be done by
ANSVSA through the PMU.



                                                 - 66 -

4.    Human Health Component. The implementing agency for this component will be MPH,
through the Project Management Unit (PMU) established to implement the second phase of the
Health Sector Reform Project. The PMU is well-experienced in assuring that procurement and
financial management i s carried out in accordance with World Bank guidelines, however
incremental support in terms o f staff and operating costs will be provided. The activities o f the
PMU under this component will be under direct oversight o f the component coordinator. The
"Cantacuzino" Institute and the "Matei Bals" Institute will provide the technical expertise and
will ensure the technical oversight o f their parts, while overall procurement, financial
management and coordination will e done by the MPH, through the PMU.

5.    Public Awareness and Communications Component. This component will be implemented
jointly by ANSVSA. Inparticular, there will be ajoint communications strategy and action plan,
and the information campaigns will be coordinated in terms o f timing, design, messages,
distribution channels and targeted audiences.

6.    A Project Implementation Manual will be developed prior to effectiveness, which will
describe in greater details roles and responsibilities, chain o f command and decision making
process, procurement plan andTerms of Reference for the first year, etc.

7.    Details o f the institutional arrangements, coordination mechanisms, and decision-making
processes, as well as monitoring and evaluation, will be described by the Borrower in a Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) satisfactory to the Bank. The PIM will include a description o f
these structures and processes, as well as the procurement plans, detailed cost tables,
environmental management plan (EMP), forms for budgetingand financial reporting, monitoring
methodology and forms, terms o f reference for key positions o f project management and
technical assistance, and annotated outlines o f envisaged training activities.




                                                - 67 -

                           Appendix 5: ProjectCosts and Financing
ROMANIA: Avian Influenza ControlandHumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                              Project

ProjectCost by Componentand Sub-Component(EUR '000)

ROMANIA
AVIAN INFLUENZACONTROL AND HUMANPANDEMIC
PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE PROJECT
Summary of ProjectCost Estimates
(EUR '000)
                                                                  Foreign Local   Total
  A. Component 1 AnimalHealth
                    -
     1. Strengthening the Institutional Framework                     278  1,170   1,448
     2. Strengthening Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity,
     and Research                                                   7,519  2,985  10,504
     3. Strengthening HPAI Control Programs                         1,124    416   1,540
    4. ImprovingBio-security inpoultry production and trade           180    100     280
  SubtotalComponent 1 AnimalHealth
                   - HumanHealth
                           -                                        9,101  4,67 1 13,772
  B. Component2
     1. EnhancingCoordination and ProgramPlanning                            150     150
     2. Strengthening National Public Health Surveillance System    1,079    162   1,240
     3. Strengthening the Health System Capacity                   12,572  5,301  17,873
  SubtotalComponent 2 HumanHealth
                           -                                       13,650  5,613  19,263
  C. Component3     - PublicAwareness,     Communicationsand
  ImplementationSupport
     1. Public Awareness and Communications                            60  1,430   1,490
     2. Implementation support, monitoring and evaluation                  1,657   1,657
  Subtotal Component 3 PublicAwareness, Communications
                           -
  andImplementationSupport                                             60  3,087   3,147
TotalBASELINE COSTS                                                22,811 13,371  36,182
     Physical Contingencies
     Price Contingencies                                              547    714   1,261
TotalPROJECT COSTS                                                 23.358 14.085  37.443




                                                - 68 -

                           Appendix 6: ProcurementArrangements
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControlandHumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                             Project



Preamble

1.    As described in OP 8.50 for Emergency Recovery Assistance (ERA), in addition to
emergency assistance, the Bank may support operations for prevention and mitigation in
countries prone to specific types o f emergencies. Such operations could assist in: (a) developing
a national strategy, (b) establishing an adequate institutional and regulatory framework, (c)
carrying out studies o f vulnerability and risk assessment, (d) reinforcing vulnerable structures,
and (e) acquiring hazard-reduction technology.

A. General

2.    Procurement under the Project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004, and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y
2004, and with the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. Agreements covering
procurement methods, thresholds, and other conditionality will be consistent with ERA
assistance guidelines and determined for the Project according to capacity and experience o f
implementing agencies in procurement and taking into account the emergency nature o f the
operation.

3.    The activities covered under the Project will be implemented on the basis o f annual work
plans to allow for needed flexibility in adjusting activities to account for in-country experience
and the lessons from implementation by other countries participating inthe multi-country Global
Program for Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response GPAI.
Accordingly, the following approach to procurement will be adopted.

B. Procurementarrangements

4.    Procurement Capacity Assessment. Procurement activities for Animal Health Component
will be carried out by the National Authority for Sanitary, Veterinary and Food Safety
(ANSVSA), through the PMU o f the M A K I S Project, and for Human Health Components the
Health APL2 Project PMU under the Ministry o f Public Health. Procurement under the Public
Awareness and Communications Component will be conducted by both PMUs in close
coordination. The Bank has carried out. procurement capacity assessments o f the two
implementing agencies which will be responsible for fiduciary tasks including procurement,
financial management, and disbursements and has found them to be satisfactory. Staff
knowledgeable o f applicable Bank procedures and guidelines i s already available in both
institutions but need reinforcement in order to cope with the incremental work load from this
additional project. Given the emergency nature o f the operation it i s crucial that fiduciary tasks,
including procurement, are entrusted to experienced staff who require minimal familiarization
with applicable policies and procedures. To achieve this, and taking into account that both the


                                               - 69 -

M A K I S Project and the Health APL2 Project are currently at the initial phase o f implementation,
the following measures have been agreed:


    0   Experienced short-term consultants will be recruited, financed from the respective
        projects, to start the preparation o f the required procurement documents for the first year
        o f implementation o f the avian influenza project;

    0   The two project implementing agencies will recruit one experienced procurement staff
        each to assist the PMUs with the incremental procurement work load stemmingfrom this
        additional project.

        The necessary level o f authority should be delegated to the implementation teams to
        ensure streamlined procedures related to contract preparation and implementation. This
        may include delegation o f required authority to sign the contracts based on the annual
        plans approvedby the respective Romanian authority and the Bank.

        The implementation o f the project will be intensively and closely supervised with the
        ratio o f one out o f five contracts to be post reviewed.

        All complaints bybidders will be diligently addressed and monitored inconsultation with
        the Bank

        All tender notices and information on contract awards will be published as per Bank
        Procurement Guidelines


5.   Taking into account the current uncertainties about the scope and implementation
arrangements, given the country conditions, the Project has been classified in category highrisk.
The annual Procurement Plan (PP) will define thresholds for prior review appropriate to this
category; these thresholds will be reviewed during supervision mission and adjusted to minimize
prior review as appropriate to the level o f risk.

6.   Procurement Methods and Thresholds. The Loan Agreement and the Procurement Plan
define the appropriate methods and thresholds for International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
National Competitive Bidding (NCB),             or Shopping in accordance with ERA guidelines.
Thresholds for project procurement methods and prior review requirements have been indicated
on the basis o f the Bank's latest assessment o f the capacity o f the implementingentities involved
which will be responsible for procurement, the estimated risks specific to the country, and the
country's capacity o f construction, manufacturing and consulting.




                                                   - 70 -

Table 1: Procurementmethods andthresholds

Procurement Method          Threshold                      Comments
ICB Works                   Above Euro 4,000,000
N C B Works                 Below Euro 4,000,000
ICB: Goods                  Above Euro 800,000
LIB Goods                   As defined inthe               For specialized equipment
                            procurementplan
NCB: Goods                  Below Euro 800,000             Ifgoods available competitively fromwithinthe
                                                           country and the bidding documents shall contain
                                                           draft contract and conditions o f contract
                                                           acceptable to the Bank. The Bank's sample
                                                           form may be used.
Shopping: Goods             <Euro 180,000                 All contracts estimated to cost more than
                                                          Euro100,OOO will be subject to prior review
Direct Contracting                                         Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet
                                                          the requirements o f the Procurement Guidelines.
                                                          Prior review o f all contracts with the following
                                                           exceptions:

                                                          ConfirmedAI outbreak

                                                          For the emergency situations (Le. a confirmed
                                                          AI outbreak situation) contracts below 25,000
                                                          Euro equivalents each may not require prior
                                                          review provided necessaryrecords are kept in
                                                           files, and eligible items and potential suppliers
                                                          have beenapproved by the Bank.
                                                          Promptly after conclusion o f a direct contract or
                                                          contracts, the Bank will be informed o f the
                                                          description o f the contract, its value, and
                                                          justification for direct contracting.

Shopping (Works)            Below Euro 180,000            All emergency packages

Quality and Cost Based      >us$200,000
Selection (QCBS) for        (International shortlist)
Consultant Services         <us$200,000
                            (National shortlist)
Least Cost Selection                                      Firstcontract and as agreed inthe procurement
                                                          d a n
FixedBudget Selection                                     Firstcontract and as agreed inthe procurement
                                                          plan
Selection Based on          <Euro 160,000
Consultants' Qualifications
Individual Consultants                                    Services for assignments that meet the
                                                          requirements set forth inthe first sentence o f
                                                          para. 5.1 o f the Consultant Guidelines.
Single-Source Selection                                   Services for tasks incircumstances which meet
                                                          the requirements o fpara. 3.10 o f the Consultant
                                                          Guidelines. with the Bank's Drior ameement.



                                                   - 71 -

7.   Prior Review by the Bank. The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall
be subject to the Bank's prior review process. All other contract shall be subject to post review.

8.   Procurement Plan. A Procurement Plan (PP) covering the initial 18 month period of
Project implementation has been developed and will be published on the Bank's external
website. The PP will be updated at least once a year and the updatedPP for each subsequentyear
will be submittedto the Bank for approval before the end o fthe previous year andwill use a pre-
defined standard format which will, as a minimum, list: (i)each procurement action distributed
by type o f contract (goods, works, consulting services) to be carried out during the following
calendar year, (ii)  their estimated value; (iii) method o f procurement; and (iv) the timetable
                                                the
for carrying out the procurement.


9.   Advertisement. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) shall be published in the on-line
edition o f Development Business in August 2006. Special Procurement Notices (SPN) for all
I C B goods contracts and Requests for Expression o f Interest for consulting assignments with
firms exceeding the value o f Euro 80,000 equivalent shall be published in a local newspaper o f a
wide circulation and the on-line edition o f the UNDB.

10. ANSVSA and the MPH will allocate a part o f their respective websites for posting
information on contract awards, including the name o f each bidder who submitted a bid, bid
prices as read out at public bid opening, name and evaluated prices o f each bid that was
evaluated, name o f bidders who were rejected and the reasons for rejection, the name o f the
winning bidder and the price it offered. All contracts awarded through direct contracting and
single source selection (irrespective o f the amount) shall be listed on the websites. Information
on the contracts awarded as a result o f an ICB and results of selection of consultant firms will
also be posted on the UNDBweb-site.

11. UNAgencies as Procurement Agents. For several years, a number o f specialized UNand
bilateral agencies operating in the Region have supported various country agencies in the
procurement of drugs, vaccines, specialized test equipment and supplies, and other materials.
Using this type o f assistance will be part o f the Project's procurement arrangements. In
accordance with the Procurement Guidelines Section 3.9, the Project will include the use o f
Specialized Agencies o f the United Nations (WHO, FA0 and UNICEF) as suppliers o f goods
(mainly for drugs and vaccines and some medical supplies such as reagents), following their own
procedures ofprocurement.

12. Procurement under Emergency Assistance Provisions. Following ERA procedures, the
Project i s likely to include financing for items included on a positive list of imports identified as
necessary under a well-defined preparedness and response program to be prepared as part o f
project implementation. In case o f a declared global influenza pandemic, which will trigger
disbursement conditions for critical imports, support will be provided under the Project for the
procurement o f a positive list o f critical imports. These may be procured under Modified
International Competitive Bidding (MICB), according to paragraphs 2.66 and 2.67 o f the
Procurement Guidelines. Also, commonly traded commodities may be procured through



                                                 - 72 -

organized international commodity markets or other channels o f competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, inaccordance with the provision.

13. The positive list o f critical inputs to be prepared by the Romanian Government or to be
purchased by the Borrower from the private sector, based on historical imports during national
emergencies, will include:
           Pharmaceuticals and vaccines
           Medical and veterinary supplies and equipment
       0   Communication equipments, supplies, and public awareness campaigns
           Food and water containers
       0   Protective clothing and gear




                                               - 73 -

           Appendix 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControland HumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                             Project


FinancialManagement

1. Summary

1.   Country Issues. The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for
Romania was finalized in December 2003 and concluded that the overall fiduciary risk
associated with the public financial management and financial accountability arrangements o f
the Romanian government administration i s considered to be moderate, with the systems for
accounting, financial reporting and internal control representing the areas with the higher risks
and budgeting, cash management and external audit and Parliamentary oversight representingthe
lower risks. The implications o f the CFAA for the project have been addressed by the following
actions:
       o A detailedreview o f the systems was performed for the implementingentities;
       o The implementing entities will set up distinct project-specific accounting ledgers;
       o   Project accounting staff appointed by the implementing entities;
       o   The format o f the IFRs and audit TORSagreed with the implementingentities;
       o   Project financial statements audited by an independent auditor annually.

2.   In line with the EC's recent Comprehensive Monitoring Report, dated October 25, 2005,
which reveals that corruption in Romania remains a serious and widespread problem, the
corruption risk for this project i s considered significant and relates to procurement, also
considering the emergency nature o f the operation, and to the safeguarding o f the project assets.
The project will address the governance and implementation challenges they pose in a systematic
manner, actively promoting greater transparency, accountability and integrity through smart
project design and implementation arrangements. These mitigation actions can be summarized as
follows: (a) the project will establish a tight internal control framework, including appropriate
internal control over the management and safeguarding o f project assets, in particular the high
value goods, equipment and vaccines; (b) the size o f procurement packages and the frequency o f
the Bank's prior review will be determined in a way that it allows an appropriate level o f control
while attempting to avoid unnecessary reviews which could cause delays; (c) the project will
increase its reliance on internal audit departments as these continue to develop, (d) the project
will also seek operational reviews by the Court o f Accounts or independent auditors on terms
acceptable to the Bank; (e) enhanced disclosure and transparency o f project-related information,
including through a project website; and (f) an appropriate complaints handling mechanism. All
complaints from bidders, observers or other parties should be promptly forwarded to the
Government and the Bank for consideration and follow-up action.




                                               - 74 -

3.    Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures. The overall financial management risk for the
project is moderate, and adequate mitigation measures are inplace to ensure that the residual risk
i s acceptable. The table below summarizes the financial management assessment and risk
ratings.




  6. Auditing               M         Project financial statements audited yearly by auditors and on
                                      audit TOR acceptable to the WB.
  Overall Control Risk      M

4.    Strengths and Weaknesses. The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the
project financial management system include the simple funds' flow and project financial
management teams experienced in the implementation o f other WB financed projects. There are
no significant weaknesses o f the project financial management system.

5.    Implementing Entities. The project management units, one existing within the Ministry o f
Public Health (MPH) - in charge of the implementation o f the Health APL 2 Project (P078971)
and the other one to be established within the ANSVSA - in charge of the implementation o f the
relevant components o f the M A K I S Project (P086949) will be responsible for the financial
management aspects o f the new Project.

6.    Funds Flow. Project funds will flow in respect o f each o f the sources o f project financing
as follows:

       (i)MPH
            The Bank loan, by direct payments or via the Designated Accounts (DAs), one for
                   and one for ANSVSA, which will be replenished on transactional methods
            usingStatements o fExpenditure; and
       (ii)Governmentcounterpartcontribution,viadedicatedTreasuryprojectaccounts.

 7.   Two designated accounts will be opened at commercial banks on terms and conditions
acceptable to the WB. Foreign currency amounts will be exchanged as needed in local currency
(RON), to cover eligible expenditures payments in local currency to suppliers, from the



                                                - 75 -

designated accounts into local currency transfer accounts that will be opened at commercial
banks on terms and conditions acceptable to the WB.

8.    Government counterpart contribution payments will be made from separate Treasury
project accounts, which will be used specifically for the counterpart contributions to the project.
These contributions will be receivedmonthly inaccordance with standard budgetprocedures.

9.    Staffing. The project management unit within MPH includes a finance team comprising a
financial coordinator and an accountant. The unit within ANSVSA includes a financial officer.
The project finance teams will work closely with the existing MPH's and ANSVSA's economic,
finance and accounting departments. The project financial staff will be employees o f M P H and
ANSVSA, respectively. The project financial management functions may be supplemented with
additional experts as needed duringimplementation.

10. Accounting Policies and Procedures. The project's accounting books and records will be
maintained on an accrual basis and denominated in Romanian Lei (RON) with the exception o f
the books and records in the DAs which will be maintained in the currency o f the Bank loan.
The project units will build upon the existing accounting procedures and internal control
framework to ensure that all project procedures and controls are adequately documented,
contract monitoring and invoice payment procedures are consistently adhered to and
documented. Before signing the contracts (especially for the acquisition o f higher risk items,
such as drugs, vaccines, etc), the project units will verify and compare unit prices obtained with
those available on the local and international market, usingthe Internet or similar. Then, for each
contract, a monitoring sheet will be opened, filled in and updated by each implementing entity,
as follows: (i)  date o f the contract; (ii)
                                           number o f the contract; (iii) o f the contractor; (iv)
                                                                          name
contract start date; (v) contract end date; (vi) name o f the assigned resident inspector for works
or recipient for goods or services, where relevant; (vii) name o f the assigned contract monitoring
staff within the project team; (viii) contract value; (ix) list o f invoices received for the contract;
(x) amounts paid in respect o f the contract; (xi) date o f the last inspection, where relevant; and
(xii) record o fprocurement complaints.

11. For each payment, the following standard checklist will be filled inprior to the payment o f
any invoice to ensure that all appropriate contract monitoring procedures have beencarried out,
confirming: (i)that the invoice was accompanied by an appropriate certified completion
certificate by the assigned resident inspector or other goods received note or acknowledgement
o f receipt o f the goods or services; (ii)the mathematical accuracy o f the invoice; (iii) the
                                                                                              that
invoice agrees to the terms o f payment as specified in the contract; (iv) that the works described
in the invoice and resident inspector's report are those contracted for; (v) the approval by the
relevant staff member; (vi) the approval by the project manager; (vii) the date o f payment o f the
invoice; and (viii) that the contract monitoring sheet has been updated.

12. The other procedures that will be performed include:

       o   Close monthly project accounting books no later than the 15th o f the following month;

       o   Close yearly project accounting books no later than January 31st o fthe following year;
       o Check the mathematical accuracy o fthe IFRs inputswith the accounting records;



                                                - 76 -

       o  Check the opening figures o f the IFRswith the closing figures o f the previousquarter;

       o  Check the IFRs figures for consistency between the various reports (Statement o f
          Sources and Uses o f Funds, Uses o f Funds by Project Activities, Designated Account
          Statements,    Physical    Progress  Reports,   Procurement, Reports      and Contract
          Monitoring);
       o Monthly bank accounts statements reconciliation with project accounting records;

       o  MonthlyBank disbursement recordsreconciliation with project accountingbooks; and

       o  Inventory and fixed assets stock taking at least once per year and more often, if
          needed.

13. Additional internal control measures for the project will be developed to ensure the
appropriate management and safeguarding of high value goods, equipment drugs, vaccines, etc.
Currently, only very few assets, goods and equipment are covered by adequate insurance
policies. The project - financing high value goods, equipment and vaccines - will have adequate
insurance coverage against theft and damage. The vaccines will be stored and transported in safe
conditions including refrigeration where needed, proper security, monitoring o f the shelf life, etc.
Regular deliveries o f goods will be received at the warehouses used under the project, inorder to
ensure the needed level o f supply. The contracts with the suppliers will stipulate the schedule o f
deliveries on a monthly basis, considering the needs o f usage and the storage capacity o f the
warehouses. Deliveries will have purchase orders that are matched to the goods inwards notes,
certified by the warehouse officers and verified by the project management unit representatives.
Goods delivery notes signed by an authorized recipient will be matched to supply orders by the
project units. The warehouses will communicate monthly the inventory status to the project units
and the project units will often perform on the spot checks.

14. Other additional internal controls will be developed for the following areas:
       (i)Authorization    and proper accounting for the movement o f higher risk items, such as
            drugs, between warehouses, decentralized locations (hospitals, municipalities or
            centers) and final users; and
       (ii)Decentralizedlocations(hospitals, municipalitiesorcenters) consideredwillneedto
            have proper control procedures, including cool storing facilities where needed,
            accounting for the receipts and uses o f the drugs, and safeguarding procedures,
            including authorization for movements and uses.

15. The existing arrangements in place for vaccine management and storage within the
proposed entities inBucharest and the seven regional satisfy the minimum financial management
requirements and include restricted access control to the storage areas, computerized inventory
management systems and controls over the movements and uses. The MoH county health
departments will be responsible for ensuring the transportation o f vaccines between the locations
in proper conditions, having been previously equipped, through another WB financed project,
with appropriate transportation means, including refrigeration, etc. Additional internal controls
will include strengthening security arrangements for storage facilities within the proposed
entities, as well as during the transportation to the regional centers and increase o f adequate
storage capacity for the proposed regional centers, as needed. These measures will be developed


                                               - 77 -

as part o f crisis action plan. The additional procedures mentioned above will ensure that the
project establishes a tight internal control framework, including appropriate internal controls
over the management o f vaccines.

16. The Project Implementation Manual will include the full accounting and internal control
procedures.

2. Audit Arrangements

17. Internal Audit. Both MPH and ANSVSA include in their structure an internal audit
department.    It is anticipated that these internal audit departments will review the project's
financial management arrangements, including higher risk items such as drugs, vaccines, etc -
checking internal controls and inventories. The internal audit departments will include in their
annual work program the Project, as part o f MPH's and ANSVSA's overall activities. As the
internal audit departments continue to develop, the project will rely to the extent possible on it
for the project internal audit.

18. External Audit. As o f the date o f this report, the M P H and ANSVSA are in compliance
with the audit covenants o f existingBank-financedprojects.

19. The Project will be audited annually both by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The terms o f reference for the audit will be
agreed upon and attached to the minutes o f negotiations. The audit scope will include the
project's books and records as maintained by the implementing entities, all withdrawal
applications, and the designated accounts. The audited project financial statements together with
the auditor's opinion thereon will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end o f the
reporting period, being the fiscal year. The project management unit within MPHwill coordinate
the auditing arrangements and will sign the contracts with the auditors for the entire project.

20. In addition, the Romanian Court o f Accounts (CoA), the country's supreme audit
institution, will continue to perform ad hoc external audits o f the implementing entities,
including o f this project. The CoA will perform an operational review o f the project to look at
the specific issues related to governance, efficiency and performance. Currently the CoA
performs the audit field work at the ANSVSA and MPH in respect o f the year ended December
31, 2005 and will issue the report by October 31, 2006. The following chart identifies the audit
reports that will be required to be submitted by the project implementation agencies together
with the due date for submission.

                 Audit Report                                    Due Date
Entity                                         NIA
Project Financial Statements, including Within six months o f the end o f each fiscal
SOEs and Designated Accounts                   year and also at the closing o f the project
Other - Operational review by the CoA          To be agreed with the Court o f Accounts




                                               - 78 -

  3. DisbursementArrangements

  21. Bank funds will be disbursed either as direct payments, or to the two Designated Accounts
  (DAs) which will be replenished under the transactional disbursement procedures. Withdrawal
  applications for the replenishments o f the DAs will be sent to the Bank monthly, or when about a
  third o f the initial deposit in the DAs has been utilized, whichever comes first. All
  replenishments for transactions above the prior-review threshold will be fully documented.
  Supporting documentation for all transactions, including completion reports, goods received
  notes and acceptance certificates, will be retained by the implementing entities and made
  available to the Bank during project supervision. There i s no plan to move to forecast report-
  based periodic disbursements.

  4. ReportingandMonitoring

  22. Project management-oriented Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) will be used for project
  monitoring and supervision. The PMUwithin MPH will aggregate the project's IFRs on a semi-
  annual basis with inputs received from ANSVSA's PMU, and the reports will be submitted to the
  Bank within 45 days after the semester end. The format for IFRs has been developed and was
  agreed upon and attached to the minutes o f negotiations.

  5. InformationSystems

  23. Both MPH and ANSVSA project units have in place existing financial management,
  accounting and reporting software systems. Project specific ledgers will be created within the
  systems to allow the project units to record distinctly the operations o f the new project using the

' existing chart o f accounts.

  6. ActionPlan(Agreedwith Borrower)

  24. None.

  7. SupervisionPlan

  25. Duringproject implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management
  arrangements in two main ways: (i)     review the project's quarterly interim financial reports as
  well as the project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)
  during the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's financial management and
  disbursement arrangements (including a review o f a sample o f withdrawal applications and
  movements on the designated accounts) to ensure compliance with the Bank's financial
  management requirements.




                                                  - 79 -

                          Appendix 8: Environmentaland Social Issues
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControlandHumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                               Project


1.    The Romanian Avian Influenza Project has been assigned World Bank environmental
category B, since it involves moderate environmental impacts that can be mitigated during
implementation o f the project. Although project activities supporting AI prevention,
preparedness and planning, response and containment are not expected to generate significant
adverse environmental effects, they do present a moderate environmental risk from inadvertent
spread o f the AI virus and waste management. Overall the AI prevention and response-focused
activities are expected to have a positive environmental impact, as the investments in facilities,
equipment, and training for veterinary and public health service staff and laboratories will
improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza handling and testing
procedures by meeting international standards established by OIE and WHO. This will be
reinforced by the mainstreaming o f environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures for
the culling and disposal o f animals during AI outbreaks and for laboratory and medical facility
waste management and bio-safety, andvaccine production.

2.    This environmental management plan (EMP) will address the moderate adverse
environmental effects o f the Animal and Human Health Components. For the Animal
component, the EMP will address zoonotic disease containment and waste management as it
pertains to disposal o f special waste, emissions and materials at laboratories, and training for
veterinary services workers, to include procedures for safe handling o f AI materials, safe culling
o f infected and at-risk poultry and disposal o f carcasses. For the Human Health component, the
EMP will focus on equipment, refurbishing and training for laboratories and medical facilities to
include key environmental issues in zoonotic disease containment and waste management. The
Human Health component will also finance the expansion o f vaccine production capacity at the
Cantacuzino Institute in Bucharest, from an average o f 550,000 vaccine doses per year to 2.5
million doses. The EMPwill provide mitigation plans and monitoring plans to ensure appropriate
attention to environmental issues, and tracking progress or problems in their management. A
delay in the completion and disclosure o f the Environmental Assessment from the normal
appraisal stage has been approved, instead making this a condition o f disbursement for goods
and works under Component 1- Animal Health, and Component 2 - Human Health.

3.     The main areas o f environmental risk from project activities are the inadvertent spread o f
the AI virus during culling, transport and disposal o f carcasses, animal waste, litter, and used
protective gear; contamination o f surface and groundwater from use o f disinfectants; laboratory
bio-safety and waste management; and pharmaceutical manufacturing waste management. In
addition, minor environmental disturbances may occur during renovation o f laboratories.

4.     Animal Health: Equipment, refurbishing and training for regional laboratories and border
inspection to include key environmental issues in zoonotic disease containment and waste
management as pertain to special waste, emissions and materials; training for veterinary services
and poultry sector workers to include procedures for safe handling o f AI materials; safe culling
o f infected and at-risk poultry and disposal o f carcasses.


                                                  - 80 -

5.   HumanHealth: Equipment,upgrading, refurbishing andtraining for national reference and
regional diagnostic laboratories to include key environmental issues in zoonotic disease
containment and waste management. Waste management for expanded vaccine production
capacity at the Cantacuzino Institute.

6.   Public Awareness and Communication: No environmental issues, but an important
component for design and delivery o f communications tools for good hygiene, safe culling and
disposal o f animal carcasses, animal waste management.




                                              - 81 -

                         Appendix 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControland HumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                               Project


7.    Since October 2005, Romania experienced some 180 HPAI outbreaks in commercial and
backyard poultry farms, requiring massive control activities including culling, disinfection,
quarantining, and compensation, as well as preventivemedication with anti-viral drugs. The cost
o f controlling the disease in addition to the economic losses experienced by farmers and up- and
downstream producers and related industries including tourism have been estimated to exceed
E m 9 0 million. Given that Romania actually experienced HPAI outbreaks, the economic
analysis will begin with a presentation of actual costs and economic losses that occurred during
the first two waves o f HPAIoutbreaks (Part I). on this analysis o f actual costs, Part I1will
                                                   Based
put the expenditures under the proposed project into perspective and estimate economic benefits
from future project activities.

PartI- Fiscal andEconomicImpactAnalysis of Past Outbreaks

Public administration:

8.    Since October 2005, Romanian authorities engaged in massive control activities to contain
and eradicate the HPAI virus. The following key institutions were involved: (1) National
Sanitary, Veterinary and Food Safety Authority management o f the AI outbreaks in animals,
                                                    -
using both its regulatory and enforcement powers; (2) Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Rural Development - payment o f compensations to poultry holders; (3) Ministry o f Public
Health - implementation of preventive measures and surveillance o f people; (4) Ministry o f
Transport, Construction and Tourism - set up o f disinfection points on the roads; (5) Ministry o f
Education and Research - participation in information and communication campaigns; and (6)
Ministryo fAdministration andInterior-display oftask forces inthe AIoutbreaks.

9.    Between October 2005 and June 2006, the National Sanitary Veterinary and Food Safety
Authority spent EUR 5.7 million (around 2.5% of its total expenditure) on disinfectants, culling
and incineration o f poultry, specialized equipment etc. 51% o f the total expenditure was made in
the last trimester o f 2005, while the rest inthe first half o f 2006. Inthe same period o f time, the
MinistryofAgriculture, Forestry and Rural Development spent EUR3.9 million (less than 0.5%
o f its total expenditure) on the compensations to poultry holders. Only 18% o f its total AI
expenditure occurred in 2005, while most o f the compensations were paid in2006. The Ministry
o f Transport, Construction and Tourism spent EUR 45.2 million (with the proportion o f its total
expenditure increasing from 0.2 in 2005 to 2.75 in 2006) on road and railway disinfection. The
Ministryo fPublicHealthspent EUR 1.3 million (less than 0.2% o fits total expenditure) both on
vaccination (80% o f the total AI expenditure) and on sanitary and protection equipment, printed
information materials etc. This expenditure does not include the costs related to family doctors,
whose activity was supported by the National Health Insurance House. About EUR 0.2 million
were spent on preventive medication with anti-viral drugs (Tamiflu"). The Ministry o f
Administration and Interior stated only marginal expenses related to AI in the amount o f EUR
15,700. This money was spent for vaccinating against seasonal influenza the security forces that


                                                 - 82 -

entered the outbreak areas. The Ministry o f Education and Research stated no specific
expenditure related to AI, as no extra activities were caused by the bird disease (the AI was
imposed as a compulsory topic for the regular civic education classes).

Domesticpoultry consumption:

10. The Romanian domestic consumers o f poultry meat responded quickly and dramatically to
the AI crisis. The second wave o f influenza was accompanied by an unprecedented reduction in
demand, o f about 8O%, as opposed to a drop o f about 40% inthe last quarter o f 2005. However,
the duration o f the low poultry consumption rates that followed the re-eruption o f the AI i s
difficult to estimate.

Domesticpoultryproduction:

11. Duringthe first AI wave, 421,470 birds were destroyed in 16,166 households, while during
the second AI wave, the number of poultry culled went up to 210,470 (in 14,255 households) and
to 764,865 (incommercial farms).

12. Commercial farms. According to the Romanian Association o f Poultry Producers, the
sectoral losses incurred because o f the AI went up to about EUR 70 million from October 2005
to the end o f M a y 2006. They were equally distributedbetween the last quarter o f 2005 and the
first half o f 2006, while about EUR 20 million of the current year's loss relate to the second
wave o f the bird disease (May 2006). Several factors lie behind the damages claimed: (i)
depressed prices, (ii) ban, (iii) o f one-day chickens whose sales were prohibited,
                       export          culling
(iv) delays in the production flows caused by shortages inthe storage places for meat and eggs,
(v) inventory increases, (vi) difficulties in selling hatching eggs but also (vii) additional
disinfection costs.

 13. Backyard farms. There are no estimates o f the losses suffered by the backyard poultry
producers. However, the compensations promptly paid by the Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry
and Rural Development were largely judged as having covered the economic value o f the poultry
slaughtered. However, for both types o f poultry producers (commercial and backyard) there are
additional costs associated with the opportunities lost because o f interrupting production untilthe
outbreak area was formerly closed. An approximation relying on the average poultry meat and
egg output for the six weeks when the outbreak i s under surveillance would lead to losses o f
about EUR 1.5 million incurred by the poultry producers between October 2005 and M a y 2006.

Foreigntrade:

 14.    In2005, Romania imported 158,000 tons o fpoultry meat, the equivalent o f about 0.70 of
the domestic commercial production. However, in the first half o f 2006 the import/domestic
production ratio worsened for Romania, reaching 0.86, while imports totaled 53,000 tons. Import
protection was consequently granted to the Romanian poultry producers, as a temporary increase
intariff (from 45% to 70%) for two tariff lines corresponding to about 70% of the total poultry
meat imports. Overall, given the very small share o f the poultry meat exports in the total
domestic production (less than 2% in 2005), the restrictions on the Romanian poultry products



                                               - 83 -

caused relatively little sectoral losses when compared to other factors. For instance, according to
the GAIN Report - R06004, the export bans, in conjunction with slaughter delays and slaughter
disinfection, generated 22% of the total loss suffered by the Romanian poultry sector in the last
trimester o f 2005.

Pricesinthe poultryindustry:

15. According to the National Institute o f Statistics, the prices in the poultry industry dropped
inMay 2006 as compared to the previous month: by 10.4 percentage points for eggs and by 1.1
percentage points for poultry meat. This monthly development continues the downward trend
that was already recorded inthe poultry industry during 2005 (a fall by 11.7 percentage points in
the poultry meat prices, according to the National Bank o f Romania). However, apart from the
reduction in the domestic demand caused by the eruption o f AI, there i s also pressure on the
domestic poultry producers stemming from ever cheaper imports. Between 2000 and 2005,
poultry import prices fell from 1,000-1,200 USD/ton to 550-600 USD/ton. Moreover the
Romanian producers complain about unfair competition from U S and Brazilian suppliers, who
are not obliged to observe the EUstandards for selling their products on the Romanianmarket.

Relatedindustries:

16. The full utilization o f the poultry meat storage capacities leads to the blockage o f the
slaughter-houses and o f the entire upstream industry. According to the Romanian Association o f
Poultry Producers, the extra storage costs caused by the AI contributed by about 18% to the total
poultry industry loss during the last quarter o f 2005 (i.e. EUR 35 million). Moreover, the
financial difficulties that affect the poultry producers may impact also on the suppliers o f both
animal feed and disinfectants. However, in an initial phase, there was an increased demand for
disinfectants, going up to about EUR4.6 millionbetween October and December 2005.

17. Substitute industries. The reduction in the poultry meat consumption caused by the AI has
lead to rather limited gains in the other meat industries. According to the Romanian Meat
Association, there was an insignificant increase inthe red meat sales (2%) starting May 2006, far
below the drop inthe poultry sector.

18. Banking system. According to the National Bank o f Romania, 63 poultry producers
contracted bank loans going up to almost EUR 81 million (14% o f the net banking profits in
2005). Banks are consequently exposed to the risk o f non-payment ifthe poultry sector continues
to face difficulties inrecovering.

19. Tourism. The Federation o f the Employers in the Romanian Tourism estimates that the
sectoral losses caused by the AI i s inthe amount o f about EUR 50 million from October 2005 to
March 2006 alone (according to the statistics available in the industry). These losses cover only
accommodation and meals and do not include any other expenses that could have been made by
the tourists. The general perspective i s that tourism will be affected throughout 2006, even if the
AIis eradicated.




                                                 - 84 -

Summary of fiscal impact and economic losses:




Cost items                                                                  Fiscal costs         Economic losses
                                                                                                (financial prices)




Tourism                                                                                               50,000
Total                                                                         56,322                  193,119
     Note: Certain items o f public expenditure that were relatedto the control o fAI were not reported, e.g. some
     expenditures by security forces deployed by the Ministry of Administration and Interior to the outbreaks areas,
     or the dedicated education classes required by the Ministry o f Education and Research). The table therefore
     presents very conservative estimates, the actual costs are likely to be much higher.



Part I1 Economic Analysis of Future Project Activities
          -

20. From October 2005 to May 2006, two waves o f AI have lead to the culling o f about 1.4%
o f the total 2005 poultry population in Romania and to significant economic losses reaching an
estimated amount o f at least EUR 193 million (according to a conservative estimate, see table 2
above). Economic benefits of investments under the project have been estimated through a
costbenefit analysis comparing the incremental stream o f estimated net benefits "with project" to
those "without project". Recognizing that the project supports investments that are targeted at
two different scenarios that could only be combined through the (rather arbitrary) assumption o f
the probability o f the case of a (human) influenza pandemic, two separate models have been
formulated: (i) Influenza as zoonosis, causing widespread damage to the poultry industry
                   Avian



                                                         - 85 -

but only very few (if at all any) human infections and deaths; (ii)           Pandemic phase with
widespread human illness and death.

(i) Avian Influenza as zoonosis, causingwidespreaddamageto the poultryindustrybut
    only very few (if at all any) human infectionsand deaths.

21. Economic benefits are estimated based on the project's objective to reduce economic cost
related to poultry deaths from H P A I due to the disease itself or through culling. The "without
project" scenario i s based on estimates derived from the economic losses experienced during the
actual outbreaks between October 2005 and July 2006 and a reference HPAI incidence rate o f
1.4%. The successful implementation o f the project is expected to contribute to the reduction o f
the incidence inculling rates and hence reduction inthe costs to the economy. Inorder to achieve
a reference internal rate o f return o f 12% for the project's investments, a reduction in the H P A I
incidence rate by about 10% in the first two project years, and another 5% annually in year 3,
totaling about 30% at the end o f the project implementation period (Le., after three years), would
be required. That means, the project is worth to be undertaken if improvements in the
effectiveness o f the response o f veterinary services (detection, containment, eradication) and
poultry producers (bio-security and early warning) to HPAI outbreaks lead to a reduction in the
number o fkilled (by the disease) and/or culled birds from 1.41% o fthe total number o f domestic
birds in Romania (actual, without project) to 0.98% with the project. These calculations have
beenmade usinga time horizon o f eight years. However, even ifHPAIdisappears after a number
o f years, investments supported under the project will increase the capacity o f veterinary and
public health services to respond more effectively to other transboundary and zoonotic diseases
as well. Assuming the standard time horizon for economic analysis o f 20 years, a reduction inthe
HPAIincidence rate by only 5% annually over the first three years (the project implementation
years) would be required, equivalent to a reduction in the culling rate from 1.41% without the
project to 1.13% with the project.

(ii) Pandemicphasewith widespreadhumanillnessand death

22. Regarding a possible pandemic situation some modeling has been done, although the results
o f such modeling are to be read with a great level o f uncertainty. Since many characteristics of a
next pandemic viral strain remain unknown, modeling methods and parameter estimates mostly
underestimate intervention-related benefits, thus yielding minimum estimates o f the true cost-
benefit ratios. Literature on pandemic modeling shows however that even under the most
unfavorable assumptions, pre-pandemic stockpiling remains cost-saving as long as the estimated
probability o f a pandemic remained >1 every 80 years. The advantage to either therapeutic or
short-term prophylactic use o f antiviral drugs appears to be limited.

23. Vaccination represents the single most cost-effective strategy to avert influenza-related
morbidity, mortality and economic consequences. The main drivers o f the pharmacoeconomic
profile o f elderly influenza vaccination are the vaccine effectiveness in terms o f prevention o f
hospitalization and mortality, the background incidence o f hospitalization and death in
unvaccinated individuals and the relative costing o f the vaccine compared with the costs o f a
hospital in-patient day. The variation in outcomes between different studies can partly be
explained by differences in these main drivers. This review demonstrates that the



                                                - 86 -

pharmacoeconomic profile o f elderly influenza vaccination i s highly favorable. From the studies
it appears that financial benefits o f elderly influenza vaccination surpass the costs and that, when
this is not the case, cost-effectiveness interms o fnet costs per life-year gained is acceptable.

24. InRomania the MPHmade an estimate o f the endemic and pandemic cases:

                                Morbidity
                                    rate          Morbidity Hospitalizations       Deaths
             EPIDEMIC
                 Low                1-2%              337,500          16,863        1,629
                 Medium            3-4%               785,750          43,823        3,796
                 Severe            5 7 %             1,347,000         67,350        6,507
             PANDEMIC
                 Low                10%             2,245,000         157,150       10,845
                 Medium             25%             5,612,500         392,875       27,113
                 Severe             50%            11,225,000         673,500       54,227

25. The vaccination policy in Romania in view o f the pandemic threat i s under discussion.
Currently, in Romania 66 doses/1,000 inhabitants and coverage o f around 13% o f the persons
with an increased risk is realized. Within the inter-pandemic periods the country wants to reach
the optimal flu control coverage level o f 150 doses/1,000 inhabitants, covering at least 50% o f
the population with an increased risk, i.e. around 2,500,000 doses. A significant increase could
be realized through the vaccine compensation by the National House o f the Health Insurances
(CNAS) for the persons with an increased risk (elderly, chronic patients etc.), as it i s practised in
most European countries. Due to budgetary constraints the Romanian M S can purchase only
limited flu vaccine quantities (in2003 1.1milliondoses, growingto 1.5 million doses in2005).

26. In a pandemic situation, the Romanian vaccination policy is relying on its national
manufacturer (Institute Cantacuzino), for the manufacturing o f around 5,500,000 univalent
vaccine doses (3rd option o f the WHO pandemic plan), which can be done in the upgraded and
expanded facility proposed under the project. This would assure the coverage o f around 25% o f
the country population. Priority groups are identified in accordance with WHO: medical-sanitary
personnel, personnel within communitarian strategic and essential services, officials in social
and/or pathological areas, and persons that present a high risk o f flu infection (elderly, chronic
patients, pregnant women, babies, etc.). The cost of vaccination within the inter-pandemic period
i s approximately EUR 2 per dose (one dose per patient), amounting to EUR 3 million in2005. In
case o f a pandemic, the recommended vaccine coverage should reach 30 to 50% o f the
population (monovalent), which can be realized mainly through its own production and less
through imports, because in this case WHO recommends the vaccine supplies be directed
towards non-manufacturing countries. The production capacity o f monovalent vaccines o f the
sole national producer Cantacuzino i s around 5,500,000 doses within a period o f 60 days from
receiving the viral strains from WHO. The 5,500,000 doses represent 25% coverage and the
approximated cost would be around EUR 12 million (to be allotted through a governmental
decision).




                                                   - 87 -

27. Assumptions on the regional (in-country) and international spread of a pandemic, the speed
o f the intervention, the type o f intervention, and the type o f viral strain (growth potential for fast
vaccine production) are further complicating factors in modelling the economic and financial
benefits o f the proposed project. It i s clear however, that increasing the capacity o f the national
producer produces the following advantages: a) increased immunization coverage resulting in
lower morbidity, b) reduced procurement costs, c) shorter response times (faster intervention by
which slowing down the spread o f the disease and reducing the morbidity, d) spare capacity in
case o f global shortage, e) better flexibility (response time, adjust to needs), f) improved access
and availability o f vaccines to district authorities, and g) immediate switch to monovalent
vaccine form and immunization ifneeded.

28. The price o f the nationally produced influenza vaccine (seasonal) is approximately 30%
below the prices o f multinational companies inRomania, where price levels o f influenza vaccine
are approximately half o f those in western EU countries. In the case o f a pandemic (or even
widespread endemic) price levels o f multinational products in Romania will very quickly adjust
to international price levels and vaccines might become unaffordable for the Romanian
population. The estimated budget requirements are presented inthe following table.

        EURmillion                                        At Romanian price levels       EUlevel
                                                          Domestic      Multinational
       Seasonal vaccination program
       Budget(2005)                                                 3              4.3             8
       Savings                                                    1.3

       Pandemic (25%) monovalent vaccination
       program
       Budget (estimate)                                           12              24             24
       Savings                                                     12




                                                  - 88 -

29. The intended investments in the national vaccine production result (even without a
pandemic) in a government (or insurance fund) budget saving o f EUR 1.3 million annually (at
price and coverage level 2005). This implies a return o f the investment in maximum 3 years. In
the case o f a pandemic, the cost savings by far outweigh the investment (EUR 12 million saved
through an investment o f app. EUR 5 million). The economic benefits however are larger,
mainly achieved by the possibility o f a faster response, less relying on imports (in a time o f
shortage), and a better adjustment to local needs (contain the pandemic). Whether these
economic benefits materialize i s largely depending on the organizational response o f the
authorities. These elements are hard to factor into an economic impact model. The following
table estimates the economic impact:

                        SeasonalInfluenza PandemicInfluenza          Healthcare impact
                        (medium             (25%)
                        epidemic)
                        Annual              Case base
Directcosts
.   Budget savings      EUR 1.3 million     EUR 12millionper case
                        Der vear
Improvedimmunization
    Higher coverage     Reduction of                                 Annually:
    (+20%) of           morbidity by 10%                             Morbidity:     -78,000
    seasonal                                                         Hospitalizations: -4,000
    vaccination                                                      Deaths:            -380
    program
                                            Reduction of morbidity   Morbidity:    -560,000
                                            by 10%inducedby better Hospitalizations: -40,000
.                                           immunization             Deaths:          -2,700

    Fasterresponse      -                   Reduction of morbidity   Morbidity:     -78,000
                                            at least 10%depending    Hospitalizations: -4,000
                                            on spreadof virus        Deaths:            -3 80




                                              - 89 -

                        Appendix 10: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControland HumanPandemicPreparednessandResponse
                                            Project


                                                   Planned                       Actual
PCNreview
Initial PID to PIC                              June 26,2006                 July 7,2006
Initial ISDS to PIC                             June 26,2006                 June 27,2006
Appraisa1                                        July 6,2006                 July 5,2006
Negotiations                                    July 13, 2006               August 8,2006
RVP approval                                   August 4,2006                August 16,2006
Planned date of effectiveness                November 6,2006
Planned date of mid-termreview                 September 2008
Planned closing date                           March 31. 2010

Key institutions responsible for the preparation of the project (in the order o f components):
National Sanitary Veterinary and Food Safety Authority (ANSVSA), Institute for Diagnosis and
Animal Health (IDAH), Ministry o f Public Health (MPH), "Ion Cantacuzino" Institute, "Matei
Bals" Institute, Prime Minister's Office, Ministry o f Public Finances (MOPF). The Ministry o f
Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development (MAFRD) was intensively consulted and involved
inthe identification of the project, even though the project ultimately did not include activities
within the mandate area o f MAFRD. Representatives from the European Union, WHO, FAO,
UNICEF, andUSAID, played an important advisory role.




                                              - 90 -

Bankstaff, consultantsand internationalpartnerswho worked on the projectincluded:

Name                       Title                                    Unit
Matthias Grueninger        Senior Agricultural Economist and TTL    ECSSD
Vladimir Savic             Veterinary Specialist (poultry diseases  ECSSD (Consultant)
                           and laboratories)
Andriy Rozstalnyy          Veterinary Specialist (AI Coordinator)   FA0 (Budapest)
Rob de Rooij               Veterinary Specialist (institutions)     ECSSD (Consultant)
Francois Decaillet         Lead Public Health Specialist            ECSHD
Victor Olsavszky           Public Health Specialist                 WHO (Bucharest)
Frans Stobbelaar           Vaccine Production and Pharmaceutical    ECSHD (Consultant)
                           Management Specialist
Richard Florescu           Senior Operations Officer                ECSHD
Doina Petrescu             Senior Operations Officer                ECSHD
Nadia Badea                Operations Analyst                       ECSSD
Codruta Hedesiu            Communication Officer                    UNICEF (Bucharest)
Holger Kray                Senior Sector Economist                  ECSSD
Goetz Schreiber            Lead Economist                           ECSSD
Irina Ramniceanu           Economist                                ECSSD (Consultant)
StefanNicolau              Project Costing / Monitoring &           ECSSD (Consultant)
                           Evaluation Specialist
Bogdan Constantinescu      Senior Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS
Vladislav Krasikov         Senior Procurement Specialist            ECSPS
Violeta Visan              EIA Specialist / EnvironmentalAuditor    ECSSD (Consultant)
Amy Evans                  Senior Environmental Specialist          ECSSD (Consultant)
Radhika Srinivasan         Senior Social Scientist                  ECSSD
Nicholay Chistyakov        Senior Finance Officer                   LOAG1
Jean-Charles de Daruvar    Senior Counsel                           LEGEC
Ruxandra Costache          Legal Associate                          LEGEC (Consultant)
Hans-Juergen Gruss         Chief Counsel                            LEGEC
Ana Maria Ihora            ProgramAssistant                         ECCRO
Irene Bomani               Senior Program Assistant                 ECSSD

Bankfunds expended to date onproject preparation:
    1. Bank resources:     US$ 66,000
    2. Trust funds:
    3. Total:              US$66,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval:         US$45,000
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost:   US$ 100,000




                                             - 91 -

                          Appendix 11:Documentsin the Project File
 ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControland HumanPandemicPreparednessand Response
                                             Project


1.   The proposed project has been prepared within the framework o f the Global Program for
Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI), endorsedby
the Bank's Board o f Executive Directors on January 12, 2006. The GPAI document presents an
extensive list (pp. 129-132) o f Bank reports, publications, and other references, from which the
task team selected relevant documents for the preparation o f the proposed project. Inaddition to
the GPAI list o f filed documents, the following references specific to the proposed project are
available inthe project file:

CountryBackgroundand AI SituationAnalysis

0   Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI)      -  Situation Analysis and Rapid Assessment of
    Country Preparedness(Prevention and Control Capacity), Draft o f June 14, 2006.
0   WB Aide-Memoire: Romania - Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project;
    Assessment and Scoping Mission, March 21-3 1,2006.
0   WB Aide-Memoire: Romania          -   Proposed Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic
    Preparedness and ResponseProject; Preparation Support Mission, May 30 - June 14,2006.
0   Regular briefings and mission reports during the second AI outbreak wave, multiple EMS
    sent by WHO and FAO, May 22-31,2006.
0   CDC/WHO: Mission Report: Joint CDC/WHO Mission to Romania, 13-17 February 2006.

Animal Health

0   ANSVSA: Contingency (Emergency) Planfor Avian InfluenzaofRomania.
0   FA0 Mission Report, Dr. Vladimir SaviC; Avian Influenza Rapid Assessment Mission for
    Republic ofRomania, 21. -28. March2006, Bucharest and surroundings.
0   Project proposals, various versions, preparedbyANSVSA and IDAH
0   FAO/OIE/WHO; Mission Report; Mission to Romania to give international assistance inthe
    eradication o f Avian Influenza; May 28 - June 10, 2006; Dr Andriy Rozstalnyy and Dr Frits
    Pluimers; June 10,2006.

HumanHealth

0   WHO avian influenza support mission; Mission Report; Romania, May 24-31, 2006; Peter
    BenEmbarek & Cristiana Salvi; June 15,2006.
0   Project proposals, various versions, preparedby Cantacuzino Institute, Matei Bals Institute,
    andMPH.




                                               - 92 -

Communicationsand InformationManagement

0 WHO: Draft Plan on Communication for the Joint Anti-Epizootic National Committee
  during the AI Outbreak inRomania; Draft o f June 8,2006.
0 ANSVSA: Communication Needs Assessment of the National Sanitary Veterinary andFood
  Safety Authority; June 12,2006.
0 UNICEF: Draft Communication Strategy and Plan for Prevention o f Avian and Human
  Influenza; July 2006.




                                          - 93 -

                                Appendix 12: Statementof Loans and Credits


          ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControl& HumanPandemicPreparedness& Response
                                                          Project

                                                                                                             Difference between
                                                                                                             expected and actual
                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                             IBRD        IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO93096    2006 SOC INCL PROG (CRL)                   58.50      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    59.72    0.00        0.00
PO90309    2006 JUDICIAL REFORM                     130.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  140.90    11 42        0.00
PO88165    2006 KNOW ECON                             60.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    58.38   -1.62        0.00
PO78971    2005 HEALTH SEC REF 2 (APL #2) (CRL)       80.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    83.62   20.40        0.00
PO83620    2005 TRANSPORT RESTRUCTURING             225.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  222.57    67.98        0.00
PO86694    2005 ECSEEAPL #1 (CRL)                     84.30      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    83.60    5.80        0.00
PO86949    2005 MOD AGR KNOWLEDGE & INFORM            50.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    50.99    6.39        0.00
                SYST (MAKIS)
PO87807    2005 MINE CLOSURE, ENV & SOCIO-ECO       120.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  119.63     8.30        0.00
                REG (CRL)
PO81950    2004 HAZARD MITIGATION(GEF)                 0.00      0.00      0.00       7.00   0.00     6.44    1.88        0.00
PO43881    2004 IRRIG REHAB                           80.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    78.28   17.69       -0.01
PO75163    2004 HA2 MITIG                           150.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  146.49    11.49        0.00
PO81406    2003 ELEC MARKET                           82.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    50.83   20.94        0.00
PO73967    2003 RURALEDUC                             60.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    40.40    8.77       10.56
PO69679    2003 PPIBL                                 18.60      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    14.53   14.53        0.00
PO68062    2003 ENERGY EFF (GEF)                       0.00      0.00      0.00      10.00   0.00     4.78    9.87        0.00
PO67367    2003 FOREST DEVT                           25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    23.21    8.61        0.00
PO68808    2002 SDF 2 (APL #2)                        20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     1.73    1.23        1.31
PO66065    2002 AG POLLUTION CONTROL (GEF)             0.00      0.00      0.00      5.15    0.00     0.79    0.23        0.00
PO57960    2002 RURALDEV (APL #1)                     40.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    18.05   12.47        0.00
PO08783    2001 SOC SECT DEV (SSD)                    50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    31.49   31.49        0.00
PO56891    2001 RURALFIN (APL #1)                     80.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    20.13   20.13       -8.12
PO56337    2000 MINE CLOSURE                          44.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00      5.04    5.51        0.84
PO44176    1999 BIODIV CONSV MGMT                      0.00      0.00      0.00      5.50   0.00      0.70    0.83        0.83
PO34213    1998 GEN'L CADASTRE                        25.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00      7.28    7.28        7.28
PO39250    1997 ROADS 2                             150.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00      3.10    6.10        0.00
                                             Total: 1,633.40     0.00      0.00     27.65   0.00   1,272.68 297.72       12.69




                                                            - 94 -

                                                       ROMANIA
                                               STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                           Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                              InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                        Committed                              Disbursed

                                                       IFC                                   IFC

FY Approval Company                       Loan        Equity     Quasi    Partic. Loan       Equity     Quasi   Partic.
1999        Ambro                         0.74          0.00       0.00    0.00      0.74     0.00       0.00    0.00
2003        Arctic                        9.80          0.00       0.00    0.00       9.80    0.00       0.00    0.00
2002        Banc Post                     0.00          8.00       0.00    0.00      0.00     8.00       0.00    0.00
2006        Banc Post                     0.00          6.75       0.00    0.00       0.00    6.75       0.00    0.00
2003        Banca Comerciala              66.45         0.00       0.00    0.00      66.45    0.00       0.00    0.00
2004        Banca Comerciala              0.00        111.00       0.00    0.00       0.00   111.00      0.00    0.00
2006        Banca Comerciala              0.00          0.00      93.07    0.00       0.00    0.00      93.07    0.00
2005        Banca Tiriac                  26.33         0.00       0.00    0.00      26.33    0.00       0.00    0.00
2001        ICME                          6.83          0.00       0.00    0.00       6.83    0.00       0.00    0.00
2004        Mindbank                      0.00          0.00       7.00    0.00       0.00    0.00       7.00    0.00
2005        Petrotel-Lukoil               35.00         0.00       0.00   47.00      35.00    0.00       0.00   47.00
2002        ProcreditRomania              0.00          1.56       0.00    0.00       0.00    1.56       0.00    0.00
2003        ProcreditRomania              0.00          0.41       0.00    0.00      0.00     0.41       0.00    0.00
2004        ProcreditRomania              5.00          0.00       0.00    0.00       5.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
2005        RGH                           0.00         47.23       0.00    0.00      0.00    36.24       0.00    0.00
2004        RZBRomania                    10.00         0.00       0.00   30.00      10.00    0.00       0.00   30.00
2003        Ro-Fin                        4.79          0.00       0.00    0.00      4.73     0.00       0.00    0.00
2004        Romanian-Amer...              3.00          0.00       0.00    0.00      3.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
2001        Romlease                      0.89          0.00       0.00    0.00      0.89     0.00       0.00    0.00
2006        TTS SA                        17.37         0.00       0.00    0.00      17.37    0.00       0.00    0.00
2004        Transilvaniabank              24.97         0.00       0.00    0.00     24.97     0.00       0.00    0.00
2005        Transilvaniabank              24.82         0.00      20.00    0.00      12.41    0.00      20.00    0.00
2005        Unicredito                    9.31          0.00       0.00    0.00       9.31    0.00       0.00    0.00
                        Total portfolio:   245.30     174.95     120.07   77.00     232.83   163.96     120.07  77.00




                                                                     Approvals PendingCommitment

             F Y Approval    Company                             Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.

             2005            Banat                            0.05         0.00         0.02      0.04
             2005            Dobrogea                         0.05         0.00         0.01      0.05
             2005            Banvit Romania                   0.02         0.00         0.00      0.00
             2003            Ro-Fin Mortgage                  0.00         0.00         0.00      0.00

                                   Total pending commitment:      0.12     0.00         0.03      0.09




                                                            - 95 -

                                                   Appendix 13: Country at a Glance


     ROMANIA: Avian InfluenzaControl& HumanPandemicPreparedness& Response
                                                                       Project


                                                             Europe 8   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-
                                                     Romanla     Asla  Income        Development diamond'

2004
Population.mid-year (millions)                           219      472     2,430
GNipercapita (Atlasmethod,US$)                          2,940    3,290     1580                    Life expectancy

GNI(AfIasmethod, US$ billions)                           64 3    1.553    3.847                           -

Average annual growth, 1998-04

Population (%)                                           -0 5      -0 1      10
Laborforce(%)                                            -0 3     -0 5      07       GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                     per                             - primary
M os1 recent estimate (latest year available, 1998.04)                               capita                            enrollment
Poverty(% of populationbelownationalpo ven'yiine)
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                      55       64      49
Life expectancyat birth (pars)                            70        68      70
Infant mortality(per 1,OOOlive births)                     ?3       29       33
Child malnutntion (%of children under5)                     3                 11            Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedmtersource(%ofpopulation)             57       91       81
Literacy(%ofpopuiation age 159                             97       97      90
Gross primary enroliment (%of school-age popuiation)       99       01      114       ---Romania
  Male                                                    0 0      u 3      115     ,          Lower-mrddie-incomegroup
  Female                                                                                 ~
                                                           98       01      It2

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                1984    1994    2003      2004                                    .
                                                                                     Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                       30 1     57 0     73 2
Gross capitalformationiGDP                               24.8     24 6     217
Exports of goods and sewicesiGDP                         24 9     363      34 5                         Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                               22.7      168     212
Gross national savingsiGDP                               23 2      182     219

Current account balanceiGDP                               -14     -5 8     -5 3
Interest paymentsiGDP                                      12      2 0       14      Domestic      ~-                 Capital

Total debtiGDP                                           28 1     42 6     29 7      savings                          formation

Total debt serviceiexports                        14.6   62.4     26 3     20 8                            I
Present value of debtiGDP                                         38 0
Present value of debtiexports                                    u 2 8
                                                                                                    Indebtedness
                                      1984-94 1994-04  2003     2004 2004-08
(average annual groMh)
GDP                                       -3.8      11    4.9      83       4 0           ---Romania
GDP percapita                             -3.8     16     5.2      7 7      4 1                 Lo wer-middle-income ginup
Exports of goods and services                                                              ~
                                                  0 5     7 1      162      0 3




                                                                        - 96 -

STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1984       1994     2003         2004
(%of GDP)                                                                                     Growth o f capital and GDP (X)

Agnculture                                                   215       t30                    30 -

Industry                                                     46 3     37 9
 Manufactunng                                                311                             1
                                                                       315                    15 T


Services                                                     32 2      49 1

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                       63 5     70 8        67 4
Genera gov't final consumption expenditure                   8 8       P 4          114
Imports of goods and services                                27 0      44 1                            -GCF            -GDP



                                             1984-94 1994-04         2003        2004
(average annualgmwih)                                                                         Growth o f exports and imports ( O h )

Agnculture                                          13       -05        3 0        8 7
Industry                                           -51         13       46           6 2
 Manufactunng
Services                                                       17       5 2          6 0

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                        3 4       7 3          9 8
Genera gov't final consumption expenditure                   -0 2       4 6          4 3
Gross capitalformation                                        2 5       92           7 2
Imports of goods and services                                 Q l      t36        20 2               -Exports        -Inports


Note 2004 data arepreliminaryestimates
This tablewas producedfrom theDevelopment Economics LDB database
'The diamonds showfour key indicators in the country(in bold)compared wth its income-groupaverage If data are missing,the diamondwll
  be incomolete




                                                                                                                              Romania

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                1984       1994      2003        2004
Domestic prices
(%change)                                                                                    80 -

Consumer prices                                             t36 7       153        125
Implicit GDP deflator                              0 3      138 9       8 2        6 6
Government finance
(%of GDP,includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                              311       299        27 1                88     00    01     02   03     01
Current budget balance                                        3 5        12         0 4
Overall surplusldeficit                                      -2 2      -2 3       -2 4      ~         -GDPdeflator        -CPI


TRADE                                                                                                                                   I
                                                1984       1994      2003        2004
(US$ millions)                                                                                Export and import levels (US5 mill.)

Totalexpofls (fob)                              P.646        6,151    17.6B     20,983       30 000 T
 Basic metals and articles                                  1.065     2,282
 Mineral products                                            711      1482
  Manufactures                                   6,543     3,754     P,534       15,232
Total imports (cif)                             'D,334      7,a9    23,983       27,931
  Food                                                       661      1,737
  Fuel and energy                                           1,906     2,615
                                                                                                                                        I
 Capitalgoods                                    1,540      1.782     7,017      7,728

Export pnce index(2000=D0)                                               99          99              88   88    00   01   02   03   04

Import pnce index(2000=1)0)                                              98         'DO                 mExports       clnports
Terms of trade (2000-ao)                                                'DO          99




                                                                               - 97 -

B A L A N C E of P A Y M E N T S
                                             1984     1994      2003      2004
(US$ millions)                                                                     ICurrent account balance to GDP (X)

Exports of goods and services                t3,486   7.85      20,646   24,563
Imports ofgoodsandservices                    ll,08   7,777      25,1?3  29,224
Resourcebalance                               2,378    -582     -4,467    -4,660

Net income                                     -659     -P9        -705    -999
Net current transfers                             0     283        1.86t   18D

Current account balance                        1.719   -428       -3,311  -3,849

Financingitems (net)                          -1,591  1,046      4,445     5.481
Changes in net reserves                        -P8      -6$3      -It34   -1633     -8 -
M e m o .
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                 1,598     9,364    D.878
Conversion rate (DEC,locai/US$j                       1,655 1  33,200 1 32,636 6


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             1984     1994      2003      2004
(US$ miliions)                                                                       Composition o f 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed          6,983   8,454     24267     21739
  IBRD                                        1836     1,009     2,370     2,265
  IDA                                              0      0           0        0                G 1.361     A 2265

Total debt service                             1,981  4,565      5,530     5.20
  IBRD                                          365      63         317      321
  IDA                                              0      0           0        0

Composition of net resourceflovrs
  Official grants                                  0     0 4          0
  Official creditors                              t3    745          173     -27
  Pnvate creditors                             -352     306      -1,973   -2,325
  Foreigndirect investment (net infiow)            0    263           0
  Portfolio equity(net inflows)                    0       0          0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                      0    475           0        0
  Disbursements                                                                      A . IBRD                     E- Biiaterd
                                                   9    228          74       I31    B IDA
                                                                                       -      D Other mrltilate-d
                                                                                               -                  F - Private
  Pnncipal repayments                           200       0         226      236     C-IMF                        0 -Short-terr
  Net flows                                    -192     228        -152     -D6
  Interest paynents                              164     63          91       85
  Net transfers                                -356      155       -243      -191


Note This tablewas producedfrorn the Development Economics LDB database                                                8/25/05




                                                                        - 98 -

                                                                             22E                                                          24E                                                             26E                                                                        28E
                                                                                                                                                    UKRAINEUKRAINE                                                                                                                                                    ROMANIA
                                                                                          To
                                                                                          To
                                                                                        Uzhhorod
                                                                                        Uzhhorod                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                Ivano-Frankivs'k
                                                                                                                                                                Ivano-Frankivs'k                                                                                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COUNTY (JUDET) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                               ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                Balti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Balti             48N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BOTOSANIBOTOSANI                                                                                    RIVERS

                                                                                                  Satu Mare
                                                                                                  Satu Mare                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                             MARAMURESMARAMURES                                                                   SiretSiret    Botosani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Botosani
                                                                                      SATU MARE
                                                                                      SATU MARE                                                                             SUCEAVASUCEA                                                                                                                                RAILROADS
                                                                                                                            Baia Mare
                                                                                                                            Baia Mare                                                   C                         Suceava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Suceava                     M
                                                                                                                  Somes                                                                  a                                                             o           PrutPrut                                             COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                               BISTRITA-
                                                                                                                                               BISTRITA-                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                              p                                                          l                             Chisinau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Chisinau                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                      a                             I A S Id
             To
             To                                                                                                                                NASAUD
                                                                                                                                               NASAUD                                                                                                             a          Iasi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Iasi
          Budapest
          Budapest                                                          Oradea
                                                                            Oradea                             ZalauZalau           DejDej                   Bistrita
                                                                                                                                                             Bistrita                       BistritaBistrita th                                                    v
                                                                                                         SALAJSALAJ                                                                                              i   Piatra-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Piatra-                                        i                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To                30E
           HUNGARYHUNGAR                                                                                                                                                                                          a Neamt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Neamt                                                                                              Chisinau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chisinau
                                                                                                                            C L U J                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n            RomanRoman
            To
            To                                                              B I H O R
          Budapest
          Budapest                                                                                                                                                   Mures                                                                                                                                      MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                       Cluj-
                                                                                                                       Cluj-                                     MURESMURES                                 NEAMTNEAMTM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Vaslui slui
                                                                                                                  Napoca
                                                                                                                  Napoca                                                                     GheorgheniGheorgheni
                                                                                                                                                 Trgu
                                                                                                                                                 Trgu                                                                        t                                                                   HusiHusi
                                                                                                                                                Mures
                                                                                                                                                Mures                         HARGHITAHARGHIT                                  s .Bacau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bacau
                                                                       Crisul                                              Turda
                                                                                                                            urda
                                                                             Alb                                                                                               Miercurea-
                                                                                                                                                                               Miercurea-                                        B A C A U                                 V A S L U I
                                                                                                                                                                                        Cuic
                                                                                                                                                                                        Cuic                                  GheorgheGheorghe
                                                                                                         A L B A                                                                                                             Gheorghiu-DejGheorghiu-Dej SiretSiret
                                                         Arad
                                                         Arad       A R A D
              To
              To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BirladBirlad
           Subotica
           Subotica                                                                              BradBrad            Alba
                                                                                                                     Alba
                                                                    Mures                                              Lulia
                                                                                                                       Lulia                       MediasMedias                                                                                                                                                                                  46N
                                                                                                                                                                                            COVASNACOVASNA
                                                                                                   DevaDeva                                   S I B I U                                                                                                                                                                         UKRAINEUKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sfntu
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sfntu           VRANCEAVRANCEA
                                        B          Timisoara
                                                      misoara                                                                                                        BRASOV
                                                                                                                                                                     BRASOV
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gheorghe
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gheorghe                                                          Tecuci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ecuci
                                                                           LugojLugoj       Hunedoara
                                                                                            Hunedoara                                          Sibiu
                                                                                                                                               Sibiu                                                                                                                         GALATIGALATI
                                          a        T I M I S                 Timis          HUNEDOARAHUNEDOARA                                                      MoldoveanuMoldoveanu                                               Focsani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Focsani
                                                                                                                                                                    (2,544 m )
                                                                                                                                                                    (2,544                    Brasov
                                                                                                                                                                                              Brasov
            SERBIASERBIA                       n                                                                  PetrosaniPetrosani                                                                                                                                                    Galati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Galati
                                                                                                                                                    i        a    n
                                                    a                                                                               l     v  a n
                                                                                                                       s                                     ARGESARGES         A        l  p               s                 BUZAUBUZAU                                    BuzauBuzau Braila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Braila
            To
            To                                              t         Resita
                                                                      Resita                                               y
                                                                                                                n                          VLCEA
                                                                                                                                           VLCEA
          Novi Sad
          Novi Sad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tulcea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ulcea
                                                                                              T  r  a
                                                              CARAS -
                                                              CARAS                                                                                                                                                                           Buzau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Buzau
                                                                                                    G O R J                                         Rimnicu
                                                                                                                                                    Rimnicu
                                                                                                                                                    Vilcealcea                                 PRAHOVAPRAHOV
                                                              SEVERINSEVERIN                    Targu Jiu
                                                                                                 argu Jiu                                                                                                                                                                    BRAILABRAILA
                                                                                                                                                                                Targoviste
                                                                                                                                                                                argoviste                       Ploiesti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ploiesti                                                                                           T U L C E A
                                                                                                                                                                       Pitesti
                                                                                                                                                                       Pitesti
                                                                                                               Jiu                                                             DMBOVITADMBOVIT                                                                                                                       a
                                                                 Danube      Orsova
                                                                             Orsova       Drobeta-
                                                                                          Drobeta-                                                                                                                                                                                                                    j
                                                                                          Turmu Sererin
                                                                                              mu Sererin                    W a l a c h i a                                                                                           IALOMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IALOMITA                                 IalomitaIalomita
                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUCURESTIBUCURESTI                                                                                    u                  Black
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Slobozia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Slobozia
                                                                                                                                                 Slatina
                                                                                                                                                 Slatina                                    ArgesArges
                                                                                         MEHEDINTIMEHEDINTI                                                                                                       BUCHARESTBUCHAREST                                                              FetestiFetesti   r
                                      To
                                      To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sea
                                     Nis
                                     Nis                                                                               Craiova
                                                                                                                       Craiova                     O L T                                                                                                                                                         b      Navodari
                                                                                                                                                    OltOlt                                                                     CALARASICALARASI                     Calarasi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Calarasi
                                                                                                                                                                    TELEORMANTELEORMAN                                                                                                             MedgidiaMedgidia
                   0         25        50        75        100 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                              Danube                                                                   o        Constanta
           44N                                                                                                           D O L J                                                               GIURGIUGIURGIU                                                                         CONSTANTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONSTANT
                                                                                                                                               CaracalCaracal                                                                                                                                             D                                      44N

                   0                25             50                75 Miles                    CalafatCalafat                                                        Alexandria
                                                                                                                                                                       Alexandria           Giurgiu
                                                                                                                                                                                            Giurgiu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mangalia                      IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                    Turnu Magurele
                                                                                                                                                                       nu Magurele
            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
JUL         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               33469R
   Y        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
    2006    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                             To
                                                                                                         To                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                           BULGARIA
                                                                                                                                                    BULGARIA
                                                                                                    Sofiya
                                                                                                    Sofiya                                24E                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             To                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To                                       Shumen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Shumen                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                               Veliko Turnovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                      liko  novo                    Shumen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shumen                                                         Va
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Varna                                         30E

