Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4839 RO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness  
and Response Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 5, 2006  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4839 RO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 5, 2006, between ROMANIA (
“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of Euro twenty nine million six 
hundred thousand (EUR 29,600,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-
end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project which is 
part of the Bank
’s Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human 
Pandemic Preparedness and Response designed to help countries in prevention, 
containment, control and eradication of avian influenza. To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out Part I of the Project through ANSVSA, Part II of the 
Project through the MPH, and Part III of the Project through ANSVSA and the 
MPH, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Borrower has established the Steering Committee in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
The ANSVSA and MPH have established PMUs in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank and have provided them with sufficient and suitable human 
resources. 
(c) 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and MPH, has adopted the EMP 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Public Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
11239 
  4021 
312 
6792 
  
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By: /s/ Sebastian Vladescu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Benoit P. Blarel 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in reducing the threat posed 
to humans and the poultry sector by HPAI and other zoonoses, and preparing for, 
controlling and responding to influenza pandemics and other infectious disease 
emergencies in humans. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part I
:
Animal Health
1.  
Strengthening the Institutional Framework 
Support for: (i) the carrying out of an evaluation of the national veterinary 
services, and, following such evaluation, strengthening the capacities of veterinary and 
food safety institutions and establishing animal disease control centers at national and 
county levels; and (ii) refining and finalizing the national contingency plan, and 
developing detailed implementation guidelines and manuals for relevant agencies and 
services regarding HPAI prevention and control planning. 
2. 
Strengthening Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity and Research 
(a) 
Provision of support to veterinary service institutions at national and 
county levels to: (i) strengthen collection and analysis of epidemiological data, 
performance of risks assessments and surveillance field work; and (ii) carry out 
epidemiological surveys.  
 
(b) 
Support to laboratories at national and county levels to strengthen their 
HPAI diagnostic capacities through the provision of laboratory equipment, reagents and 
components for molecular diagnostic techniques and serology. 
(c) 
Improving the quality control of veterinary medical products through the 
provision of equipment, consumables, technical assistance and training for molecular 
laboratory work.  
(d) 
Support to the development of a comprehensive national animal disease 
information system.  
(e) 
Support to strengthen applied veterinary research capacity through: (i) 
the provision of technical assistance for the development of the ANSVSA
’s new research 
program; and (ii) the provision of works, equipment, technical assistance and training for 
the upgrading of an existing laboratory to work with HPAI infected live animals. 
Page  6
-
5
-
3. 
Strengthening HPAI Control Programs 
 
(a) 
Support to target virus eradication at the source through the provision of 
special containers designed for the culling of birds, mobile incinerators, related operation 
and maintenance and training. 
(b) 
Support to the carrying out of vaccination campaigns through the 
provision of technical assistance and training to develop a poultry vaccination policy and 
action plan, and training for the implementation of vaccination campaigns and post-
vaccination monitoring. 
4. 
Improving Bio-security in Poultry Production and Trade 
Support for the carrying out of: (i) knowledge transfer activities for poultry 
producers, rural families and other local stakeholders, including on-farm demonstrations 
and training of farmers, extension agents, and other rural services providers, aimed at 
managerial and behavioral changes; and (ii) a comprehensive poultry sector assessment, 
including the development of bio-security manuals. 
Part II
:
Human Health
1. 
Enhancing Public Health Program Planning and Coordination 
Support to the implementation of the National Plan of Intervention in a Flu 
Pandemic Situation and enhancement of the coordination with other sectors and 
neighboring countries through: (i) the carrying out of additional studies and researches, 
including a study on the kinetics and impact of a pandemic; and (ii) the carrying out of 
conferences and workshops. 
2. 
Strengthening Public Health Surveillance Systems 
(a) 
Support to NIL through the provision of works, equipment and additional 
security devices aimed at upgrading its bio-safety level to level three (3) and training.  
(b) 
 Provision of equipment and training to selected regional laboratories.  
(c) 
Provision of key equipment to regional and district public health teams. 
3. 
Strengthening Health System Response Capacity 
(a) 
Strengthening the isolation and case management capacity through: (i) 
the provision of equipment for the two (2) infectious diseases hospitals in Bucharest; (ii) 
the establishment of isolation and intensive care units in seven (7) regional hospitals for 
infectious diseases; and (iii) training. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Upgrading the influenza vaccine production department at the 
Cantacuzino Institute through the provision of works and equipment to the influenza 
production department and the filling and sealing unit and training. 
Part III
:
Public Awareness, Communications and Implementation Support
1.  
Strengthening the institutional capacity of ANSVSA for communications and 
public awareness activities, through the provision of training, technical assistance and 
equipment;  development of an integrated communications strategy and action plan based 
on qualitative and quantitative research; delivery of several information campaigns aimed 
to obtain the public's support and participation in reporting and monitoring, to promote 
and induce a set of behavior changes which will diminish the possibility of avian 
influenza outbreaks and contamination, and to educate different key audiences. 
2.  
Support to ANSVSA and MPH in connection with Project implementation, 
monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment.  
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee, throughout the 
implementation of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, which shall provide 
oversight and policy guidance as well as overall coordination for Project implementation. 
The Steering Committee shall comprise Secretary of State of MPF, ANSVSA, MPH and 
the Project Component Coordinators and shall be chaired by a permanent representative 
of the Prime Minister’s Office.  
2.  
The ANSVSA PMU and the MPH PMU shall have overall responsibility for day 
to day implementation and management of Part I of the Project and Part II of the Project, 
respectively, and jointly, of Part III of the Project.  To that end, the Borrower, through 
ANSVSA and the MPH, shall maintain the ANSVSA PMU and the MPH PMU 
throughout the implementation of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and 
with sufficient and suitable human, financial and technical resources.  
3. 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall maintain the Project 
Component Coordinators throughout the implementation of the Project in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.  The Project Component Coordinators shall be responsible for, 
in particular: (i) managing implementation of their relevant agency’s or Ministry’s 
activities under the Project through the ANSVSA PMU and the MPH PMU; (ii) 
coordinating with relevant Ministries to provide guidance and monitor Project 
implementation at the central level; and (iii) preparing annual work programs, budgets 
and reports. 
4. 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall ensure that the Project 
shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Manual.  The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall maintain the Project 
Implementation Manual in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, shall duly perform 
all its obligations under the Project Implementation Manual and shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Project Implementation Manual without the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
5. 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall take all measures 
necessary to carry out the EMP in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information 
on the implementation of the said measures is suitably included in the Project Reports 
referred to in paragraph A of Section II of this Schedule 2. 
Page  9
-
8
-
6.  
Midterm Review
 
(a)  
About twenty four months (24) after the Effective Date, the Borrower, 
through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall carry out, jointly with the Bank, a midterm review 
of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm 
Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
(i)  
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and 
(ii) 
 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall, prepare, and at 
least (4) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the Bank, a separate report 
describing the status of the implementation of each component of the Project and a 
summary report of the Project implementation generally. 
(c) 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall, not later than four 
(4) weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare and submit to the Bank an action program, 
acceptable to the Bank, for further implementation of the Project having regard to the 
findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action program. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through ANSVSA and the MPH, shall have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Page  10
-
9
-
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) 
fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Limited International Bidding 
(b) 
National Competitive Bidding: contracts for works estimated to cost  less than 
EUR4,000,000 per contract and goods estimated to cost less than EUR800,000 
per contract may be procured under the Borrower’s national laws and 
regulations to the extent they are previously found to be acceptable to the 
Bank. 
(c) Shopping 
(d)   
Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Selection under a Fixed-Budget
 
(b)  
Least Cost Selection
 
(c)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  
Single-source Selection 
(e)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
 (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Goods, Works, Consultants’ 
Services and Training under 
Part I of the Project 
 
9,150,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Goods, Works, Consultants’ 
Services and Training under 
Part II of the Project  
 
16,950,000 
 
86% 
(3)  Goods, Works,  Consultants’ 
Services (including audits), 
Training and Incremental 
Operating Costs under Part 
III of the Project: 
 
a) for ANSVSA 
 
b) for MPH 
 
2,600,000 
 
900,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
29,600,000
Page  13
-
12
-
3.  
For the purpose of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Training” means expenses incurred by ANSVSA and the MPH 
in connection with carrying out training activities, study tours and workshops under the 
Project, including  transport and accommodation costs and per diem for trainees, trainers 
and workshop attendees, trainer fees, rental of facilities and equipment, training materials 
and related supplies; and 
(b) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating 
costs incurred by ANSVSA and the MPH on account of Project implementation, 
comprising; staff and consultant costs; communication (including postage and internet); 
procurement related advertising costs; translation costs; local transportation; fuel; 
operating, maintenance and insurance costs for vehicles; rent of the office 
accommodation; refurbishment and rehabilitation of offices including equipment;  office 
supplies, maintenance and insurance of the office equipment; Project related travel and 
per diem allowances including accommodation and local transportation; and banking 
charges. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; and 
 
(b) 
  for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed Euro seven million 
(EUR7,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after 
October 7, 2005 for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) through (3).  
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the of the Loan 
Payable 
(Expressed in Euros
*
)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2012
through July 15, 2021 
1,480,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Euros to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“ANSVSA” means the National Sanitary, Veterinary and Food Safety Authority 
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
2. 
“ANSVSA PMU” means the Project management unit within ANSVSA. 
3. 
“Cantacuzino Institute” means the National Institute of Research and 
Development for Microbiology and Immunology “Cantacuzino” established 
pursuant to Governmental Decision No. 352/2002, as amended, or any successor 
thereto. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
6. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan describing methods and 
procedures for the culling and safe management and disposal of animal carcasses, 
laboratory and medical facility waste management and bio-safety, and vaccine 
production and handling under Parts I and II of the Project, and to be adopted by 
the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
8. 
“HPAI” means Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza. 
9. 
“MPF” means the Ministry of Public Finance of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto. 
10. 
“MPH” means the Ministry of Public Health of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto. 
11. 
“MPH PMU” means the Project management unit within the MPH of the 
Borrower, established and operating under the Bank financed Health Sector 
Reform Project (Loan Agreement No. 4568 RO dated July 7, 2000). 
12. 
“National Plan of Intervention in a Flu Pandemic Situation” means the plan 
setting out the strategy for the preparation for, and response to, an influenza 
pandemic of avian origin, adopted by MPH pursuant to Order No. 1094 dated 
October 2005.  
Page  16
-
15
-
13. 
“NIL” means the National Influenza Laboratory at the Cantacuzino Institute
,
or
any successor there
to. 
14. 
“PMUs” means the ANSVSA PMU and MPH PMU. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated August 8, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
17. 
“Project Component Coordinators” means the two (2) Project component 
coordinators to be appointed by 
ANSVSA
,
and the MPH, respectively. 
18. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual describing procedures for 
implementation of the Project and including, 
inter alia
:
(i) procedures governing 
administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, including 
adequate measures for procurement and forensic audits
,
and monitoring and 
evaluation arrangements; (ii) the Procurement Plan, detailed cost tables, and the 
EMP; and (iii) sample formats for Project Reports and interim un-audited 
financial reports. 
19. 
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be established by the Borrower in 
a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
