Dowmn Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reput NA. P-3930-ILD
REPOPT AND RECOHMEND&TION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTI^T AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOEED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt131 HELLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SNALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROIECT
January 30, 1985
This demeet has a resuied dilbus and my be  _i by iepeats may in Om pie-f of
thi aflei dutes Its cmutm.ay ut e__rwie be dimd widbu W.d Buh authwdi s.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEITS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
USS1.OO        -   Rp 1,000
Rp 1 million       US$1,000
GOVERNMENT OF InDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRIYCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPENAS      -  National Development Planning Agency
BI            -  Bank Indonesia
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CDC           -  Commoncxealth Development Corporation
DGE           -  Directorate General of Estates
FAO           -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations
GOI           -  Government of Inaonesia
HOF           - 1ttnistry of Finance
NES           -  Nucleus Estate and Simallholder Project
PIR           -  Perkebunan Inti Rakyat; GOI-financed Nucleus Estate
and Smallholder Project
PMU           -  Project Management Unit
REPEIITA      -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III,
1979-84; Repelita IV, 1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94)
SRDPU         -  Smallholder Rubber Development Project Unit
Team Khusus  -  Special Team for Bank-assisted Estate Crop Projects



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DTDONESIA
SMALLHOLDRR RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Loen and Project Summary
Borrrower:              Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiaries:         About 100,000 smallholdcr families through Bank Rakyat
*                                 Indonesia (BRI).
Amount:                 US$131 million.
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 years, including fi-.ve years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending:              Mart of the proceeds of the :3RD loan (about US$84
million) would be -elent by the Govemnment to ERI for
20 years, vith a grace period of seven years, at the
IBRD interest rate prevailing at the time of negot-a-
tions (9.92). The Covernment would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Su.-loans to the smallholders would be
for 20 years, with a grace period of seven years, at an
interest rate of 12Z.
Project Description:   Under the prorosed project, selected project management
units (PMUs) in three main provinces would be grads lly
absorbed into a successful Bank Group-assisted
Smallholder Rubber Development Program (SRDP) supported
under Cr. 984-IND. The groundwork would also be laid
for eventually extending SRDP management and financial
control to all rubber-producing provinces. To increase
rubber production, the proposed project would establish
about 76,000 ha of rubber, provide planting materials
for an additional 19,500 ha to be established by par-
tially-assisted farmers, and maintain about 57,000 ha
of previously established rubber. To promote institu-
tion building, the project would emphasize manpower
training and help to develop the inst~itutional and
financial arrangements required for successful PMi
rubber establishment. There are no significant agri-
cultural risks. Hovz er, the project faces some man-
agerial constraints and the risk that fuXnding problems
recently encountered under SRDP I might recur. These
limitations have been considered in the project design.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipicnts only in the performance  I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: /a
Local       Foreign    Total
t (US$ MillioU)      -
Rubber Establishmeut and Maintenance
South Sumatra and Singkut                        28.9        19.9       48.8
Riau                                             27.2        18.9       46.1
West Kalimantan                                  27.2        19.0       46.2
Subtotal                                   83.3         57.8     141.1
Program Support
Training and headquarters support                 2.7         0.7        3.4
Technical assistance and studies                  1.0         3.5        4.5
Applied research                                  0.3         0.1        0.4
Start-up funds for SRDP III                       3.7         1.5        5.2
Subtotal                                    7.7          5.8      13.5
Total Baseline Costs                       91.0         63.6     154.6
Physical contingencies                               5.6         6.2       11.8
Price contingencies                                 34.0        20.6       54.6
Total Project Cost and Financing
Kequired                                130.6         90.4     221.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                       65.0         66.0     131.0
CDC                                         2.0         18.0      20.0
GOI                                        63.6          6.4      70.0
Total                                      130.6        90.4     221.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                       1986    1987   1988    1989   1990   1991
- (US$ million)      -
Annual                          5.2    15.9   26.0   29.7   31.6    22.6
Cumulative                      5.2    21.1   47.1   76.8  108.4   131.0
Economic Rate of Return:    13% (based on new rubber plantings accounting for
75% of project costs).
Staff Appraisal Report:      No. 5059a-IND, dated January 30, 1985.
IBRD Nos. 17777-17779.
/a     Net of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$131 million to help
finance a Second Smallholder Rubber Developmant Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.  Part of the proceeds of the loan (US$84 million) would be on-
lent by the Government to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for 20 years, with a
grace period of seven years, at 9.9Z. Loans to the smallholders would be for
20 years, with a grace period of seven years, at an interest rate of 122. GOI
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY!'
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and econo-
mic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Upland
Agriculture and Conservation Project (No. P-3884-IND), circulated under
cover of R84-281, dated October 11, 1984, and approved by the Executive
Directors on October 30, 1984.



- 2 -
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4X p.a.  The 1982 estimate of GNP X r capita is
USS580, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
Nacroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to USS10.6 billion in
1980181, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
vices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the past decade,
and movement towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from
a very low base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a baAis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was -aid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a)  a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b)  a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c)  successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



(d) a far-reaching financial reform. including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) approval of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at increasing
government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplifying the
structure of rates and improving administration.
6.        These measures, aided by mDre favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4%
during 1933 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, the current account deficit was reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4% of
GNP) in 1982183 to about US$4.2 billion (6.0 of GNP) in 1983/84. The major
*        factors responsible for this improvement are import cuts, resulting from the
Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand, and higher export earnings ftom
non-oil products, due to recovery in the industrial countries and the
Government's policies to promote non-oil exports. The Government's restraint
is also evident in the budget, where real expenditures have risen on average
by orly 2% p.a. over the past two years. Routine expenditure has been held in
check by a freeze on civil service salaries (a 15% increase is budgeted for
1984/85) and reduced subsidies on food, fertilizer and petroleum products.
This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about
12% in 1983/84, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        A sustained rate of growth of at least 5% p.a. is probably necessary
to have a significant impact on employment creation and poverty alleviation
over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth rate, without
generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of the major
challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the economy
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy environ-
ment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years..  At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives.  It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government announced in August 1983 that there would be a major



- 4 -
overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objec-
tive of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationaUze the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustainid,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, ladonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise prodact quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic ani export markets. A compreher lve program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustmert assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping l-gislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy.
10.      The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investmeat and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways co reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bana supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-



- 5 -
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable Lhe benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 162 of the natu-
ral increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those
of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of which one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget.  Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of Laxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas.  The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The 1979-81 bumper
rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and incomes in Java,
while agricultural incomes in parts of the Otaer Islands dependent on export
crops declined. This situation may have been reversed following the 1983 de-
valuation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared t3 the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on agri-
cultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at econo-
mic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural year
(e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to encou-
rage agricultural development on the Other Islands. It is also important that
public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as social
programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease the bur-
den of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government needs
to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary



- 6 -
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term econ3mic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.6 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development assi-
stance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was estimated at
US$22.1 billion, with an additional US$13.5 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 49% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 22%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at
14 years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudent-
ly. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts in 1983, the
ratio rose to 23% in that year.  With the projected levels and composition of
borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service ratio, agaia
based on net exports, would rise to about 28% in 1985 and then gradually de-
cline to about 23% by the end of the decade.  With private MLT debt included,
the total debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross
exports, would rise from 19% in 1983 to around 22% during 1985-88 and decline
to 20% in 1990. While debt management will require careful attention in the
coming years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by inter-
national standards.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
17.       As of September 30, 1984, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$938.48 million (less cancellations), and 90 Bank loans amounting
to US$6,972.2 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$162.2
million. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed)
external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1%, and the share of debt
service, 10.3% compared with 13.3Z and 7.9%, respectively, in 1981. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
*         September 30, 1984.  From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made
through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the
commodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
subsequent lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA
lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP
was well below the IDA cutoff level. Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued In FY80. Given the critical impor-
tance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security
and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in this
sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban
development, water supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial develop-
ment financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications,
population and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objective. of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed
for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-84),
published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing
financial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified
economy, and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate
poverty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and
recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the
achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has



- 8 -
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the
financial system, and public resource management. In the lending program,
agriculture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is
broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on industrial development and
education. Less emphasis is being given to power and energy, where the Bank
is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation the Bank is focussing
on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improving the
national network of highways and rural roads.  In urban development, water
supply and population, lending is being directed more and more to developing
innovative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening
local institutions, in order to minimize demands on the Government budget and
decentralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the
Bank's lending prograw. is intended to contribute about 20% of Indonesia's
capital requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an
important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking
also to widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well
as complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other
donors. This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban
development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There hag,been a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio-/ from a low of 13% in FY80 to 192 in FY84. The poor FY80
ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures. The severe shortage of managerial
and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A number of steps
have been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint
review procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work
out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in
Jakarta in September 1979, November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, the Government has taken measures to streamline some
of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implemen-
tation. The Bank is helping the Government in a special effort to identify
problems in the constructian industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
3/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
problems in Indonesia. In order to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improve-
ments are taking place. In addition, in order to ease the Government's
resource constraints and maintain the pace of project implementation in
priority areas, steps were taken under the Special Assistance Program to
accelerate disbursements in 17 ongoing projects in the treecrops and irri-
gation sectors and one project each in the energy and transport sectors. The
combined effects of all of these activities are reflected in the increase in
disbursements from US$206 million in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is
nevertheless important that the Bank and the Goveroment maintain their
efforts.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector
21.       Although agriculture contributed only 26Z of GDP in 1983, the agri-
cultural sector is of overwhelming importance to the majority of Indone-
sians. Nearly 80Z of the population live in rural areas, and agriculture is
the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural households. The
GOI's major objectives for the sector are to create productive employmeat,
increase domestic food supply, expand exports (particularly of snallholder
tree crops) and ensure productive, sustainable use of natural resources. To
meet these objectives, agricultural investment has concentrated on irrigation,
tree crop development, transmigration and agricultural support services.
The Subsector
22.       Estate Crops.  Tree crops and industrial crops (such as sugar and
cotton) occupy about 8.8 million ha in Indonesia, and support for these crops
is provided by the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) within the Ministry of
Agriculture. Of these crops, about 85% are owned and cultivated by small-
holders while 15% are under public and private estates. During the last
decad., production on smallholdings increased by about 2-4% p.a.; this
relatively slow growth rate in comparison with that of the general economy is
attributed to past neglect, low prices, the long immature period of recently
planted tree crops, and weak institutional support.
23.       Recognizing the importance of tree crops and industrial crops for
increasing smallholder incomes and non-oil exports, the GOI set ambitious tar-
gets for Repelita III, the third five-year development plan (1979-1984). A
total of 1.5 million ha were to be planted or replanted and of this, about
900,000 ha were to be in rubber and coconut. Although implementation has
fallen short of projected targets, over one million ha have been planted
including about 435,000 ha of rubber and coconut, the two most important
smallholder crops. The Repelita IV program proposes a target of more than two
million ha of which nearly one million ha are rubber and coconut. While land
and labor are available, managerial and financial resources are limited, and
these targets will be difficult to attain.



- 10 -
24.       Rubber Production.  Indonesia is the world's second largest rubber
producer (after Malaysia) and the crop is a major contributor to the
economy. In 1980, the peak year for export earnings, rubber earned US$1.1
billion, 512 of total estate crop exports, and was surpassed only by oil and
timber iLa foreign exchange earnings. Indonesian rubber production climbed
from 682,000 tons in 1961 to 980,000 tons in 1980, but fell to about 860,000
tons in 1982 due, in part, to smallholder reluctanice to tap at a time of low
commodity prices. Productit x in 1983 has been est-imated at 1-1.2 million
tons, due in part to an increase in the world rubber price. In spite of gene-
ral growth in the subsector, Indonesia's share of the Southeast Asian rubber
market fell from 432 in 1961 to 32Z in 1980, due mainly to the success of
programs in Malaysia and Thailand which provided strong incentives to replant.
25.       Indonesia has an estimated 2.5 million ha of rubber trees. Most of
these are of low produccivity, having been established from unselected seed-
lings planted after shifting cultivation. In many instances, these areas have
deteriorated to self-regenerating rubber jungle. Yields from such smalIholder
areas seldom exceed 400-500 kgJha, and as rural incomes rise, some low-yield-
ing areas are becoming uneconomical to tap. This is of concern to the GOI as
further improvement in rural wages could reduce rubber production ever. if the
world market for rubber expands. Therefore, to ensure growing foreign
exchange earnings and reasonable suallholder incomes, Government and the Bank
agree that large-scale rubber planting and replanting with reasonable yield
prospects is urgently required.
26.       Rubber Marketing.  Because of their low vields, most farmers give
little attention to rubber quality. Therefore, high dirt and water content in
the "'slab" rubber increases transport costs, necessitates further drying and
cleaning by the millers, and res'ilts in a poor finis.ed product. Prices are
set by the factories, in accordance with world market (Singapore) prices
transmitted daily by radio.  The middlemen usually take fixed margins.  At
appraisal, the average farmgate price for "sheet" rubber was about Rp 500/kg,
or about 50Z of the FOB price (Rp 1,000); however, the farmgate price varies
widely and smallholders in remote, low-yielding areas may receive as little as
3OZ of the FOB price while farmers in GC.-sponsored projects can receive as
much as 682. With improvements in infr structure, smallholder knowledge of
markets and higher production in given areas, transaction costs should drop
and the percentage of FOB price should increase to about 68Z in 1995. The
impact of higher farmgate prices, as well as farmer training provided under
GOI projects, should also lead to a higher-quality product, further improving
returns to the farmer. Some group marketing organizations have also been
formed in North Sumatra which invite middlemen to weekly auctions. Though
still in its infancy, the system has increased prices and bypassed the lowest
iayer (subcollector) in the marketing chain because the higher volume on offer
attracts larger dealers.
Smallholder Tree Crop Development
27.       GOI assistance to tree crop smallholders began in 1959 with the
creation of a cess fund to support the establishment of rubber and coconuts.
' rough Repolita I (1969-74), DGE activities were confined to a "partial
approach" consisting mainly of the free distribution of planting materials.



- 11 -
This proved unsatisfactory as extension was weak, transport and fertiLizer
were unavailable, and farmers found it difficult to replant old trees or main-
tain new ones without compensation for foregone income. With poor main-
tenance, yields were not significantly increased.
28.       Since Repelita I, two approaches have been developed to foster
smallholder tree crop development. The first approach involves the formation
of geographically concentrated Project Management Units (PMUs) within the
Directorate General of Estates. PMUs assist local landowners to plant,
replant or rehabilitate their holdings by supplying extension, planting
material and fertilizer, and incentive payments for labor. The second
approach involves the use of publicly-owned estates to establish tree crops
for smallholders using estate labor and equipment. The estates transfer the
land to smallbolders when trees are mature and the farmers become responsible
for maintenance and exploitation. The estates also run the processing facili-
ties and assist with cost recovery. Bank-assisted Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder (NES) projects and GOI-financed Perkebunan Inti Rakyat (PIR)
projects are examples of this approach.
Bank Group Assistance to the Tree Crop Subsector
29.       Bank-assisted NES Projects.  Due to the stronger management and
absorptive capacity of the estates, Bank-assistance to the tree crop subsector
has focused mainly on estate-assisted projects. Since 1977 the Bank has com
mitted US$655 million to seven NES tree crop projects benefiting about 82,000
smallholder Lamilies. About two-thirds of all tree crops established by
estates in that period were planted in Bank-assisted projects. Due to the
scale of the program, a special team (Team Khusus) was formed in 1979 to help
prepare and supervise NES projects. The projects have generally achieved
their targets and established high-quality trees, and standards from Bank-
assisted NES projects have been adopted for the GOI-financed PIR program.
However, the size of the total program, low commodity prices, and Government
resource constraints have strained the managerial and financial capacity of
the estates and implementation in NES projects has slowed. To help alleviate
these problems, an action program was developed to address procedural and
policy constraints. These steps, plus recent upturns in commodity prices,
have impro-red the situation, but several estates remain in a weak financial
position. Attention is still required for physical and financial planning and
for establishing clear lines of authority within the subsector. A Tree Crop
Sector Review, which is now being finalized, will examine these issues and
provide a basis for detailed discussions with Government (see paragraph 32).
30.       Bank-assisted PMU Projects.  The first Bank Group-assisted PHU
project, the North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project (NSSDP, Cr. 358-
IND) was appraised in 1973 and completed in 1981. This project successfully
planted 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm and provided a model for PMU develop-
ment. An OED audit on this project in 1982 (PPAR No. 3958, SecM82-558, dated
June 21, 1982) suggested that the main shortcoming of the project was its
failure to build a permanent and efficient institution to assist smallholder
development. In 1979 the Bank appraised a second PMU-style project, the
Smallholder Rubber Development Project (SRDP I, Cr. 984-IND), which provided
financial assistance to establish 38,500 ha of rubber under three additional



- 12 -
PMUs. In the first four years of the project, physical progress was good. Of
the 28,000 ha targeted, about 26,500 ha were established and the quality of
plantings was high. PNU managers and staff were trained, RfU officials
maintained tight control over the project and staff morale was good. In
FY83/84, however, the cumulative effects of Government budgetary constraints
and complex fund release procedures resulted in a 50Z reduction in the
planting program. Procedures to correct these problems have been included in
the proposed project (see paragraphs 52-53). The project unit has now
received adequate funds to resume its planting program. About 31,600 ha of
the appraisal target of 38,500 have now been planted. The remaining 6,900 ha
should be planted successfully before the end of the 1985/86 season.
31.       The Bank also appraised the first Smallholder Coconut Development
Project (SCDP I, Loan 1898-IND) in 1979. SCDP I provided financial assistance
for planting about 38,000 ha of hybrid and tall coconuts and for rehabili-
tating 42,000 additional ha in six provinces. This project has faced two
major problems. First, dispersed PHUs have made logistical support and
supervision difficult; and second, the establishment of a new management
system on a large scale has led to manpower and administrative difficulties.
The slow release of funds has also troubled SCDP I and together these problems
have led to shortfalls in targets and slow disbursement. To resolve these
problems, coconut PMUs have recently been consolidated into 14 management
units and other administrative changes are under consideration.
32.       Tree Crop Sector Review. Concerned with constraints on financing
and implementation, the Government initiated a Tree Crop Sector Review in
October 1983 with FAO and Bank assistance.  The first stage, a review of the
DGE's draft Repelita IV (1984-89) program, has been completed by FAO. This
report recommends rapid expansion of all major tree crops (rubber, oil palm
and coconuts) and a doubling of Indonesian rubber production to 2.3 million
tons per year by the year 2000. It also suggests that the major limitation to
program expansion will be institutional rather than marketing constraints. To
improve implementation in all sectors it urges a consolidation and rational-
ization of planting programs coupled with intensive training. The second
stage report, which is being prepared by the Bank, has incorporated this
material and analyzed manpower development, institutional and policy issues,
financing and cost recovery. Recommendations in this project are consistent
with the Bank report.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
33.       The proposed project was based on a feasibility study prepared by
GOI consultants with the assistance of Government officials and Bank staff,
and was appraised in November 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from
January 7 to January 11, 1985. The Indonesian delegation was led by Dr.
Rachmat Soebiapradja, Director General of Estates in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5059a-IND) is benag distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Scope
34.       The objective of the proposed project is to expand and improve the
effectiveness of the GOI's smallholder rubber development program, in order to
increase foreign exchange earnings, create employment, improve the income of
rubber smallholders, promote regional development and increase the productiv-
ity of underutilized land.
35.       Under the project, selected project management units (PKUs) in three
main provinces would be gradually absorbed into a Bank-assisted Smallholder
Rubber Development Program (SRDP) and the groundwork would be laid for eventu-
ally extending SRDP management and financial control to all rubber-producing
provinces. The project would expand rubber production, emphasize manpower
training and help to develop the insti tutional and financial arrangements
required for successful PMU rubber establishment.
36.       The project would include:
(a) Tree Crop Establishment and Maintenance
(i) planting and maintenance of about 76,000 ha of rubber trees;
(ii)  provision of rubber planting materials for about 19,500 ha to
be planted by partially-assisted farmers;
Ciii) maintenance of about 57,000 ha of rubber trees previously
planted in project provinces;
.iv)  construction of about 1,930 km of plantation roads and 320 km
of access roads, upgrading of 380 km of existing village
roads, and provision of road maintenance machinery; and
(v) construction of facilities and staff quarters for project
PMUs .
(b) Program Development
Mi) provision of training for about 4,500 farmer group leaders and
2,800 staff;
(ii)  provision of about 540 man-months of consultant services for
technical support and studies;
(iii) provision of funds to facilitate monitoring and applied
research on farmers fields; and
(iv)  start-up activities for SRDP III.



- 14 -
Tree Crop Establishment and Maintenance
37. *     Rubber Establishment.  The project would generally follow the
technical standards and administrative arrangements of SRDP I. The PMU would
receive applications from farmer groups and work with village heads to screen
farmers for eligibility. Priority would be given to farmer groups with land
in blocks of 20 ha or more, and farmers would redistribute the land among
themselves into holdings of 1 or 2 ha. To permit low-income farmers to
participate, and yet ensure timely work, the PHU would provide an incentive
payment for major tasks equivalent to about 50Z of the rural unskilled labor
rate. This would become part of the farmer's credit package. Land use sur-
veys would be undertaken by the Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs in the
first field year and cadastral surveys would be undertaken in year three. The
PMU would train the farmers to tap their trees and to produce various forms of
rubber in the sixth field year, or after the project is completed. Rubber
would be marketed and processed in the private sector and credit repayment
would be in cash.
38.       Partially-Assisted Farmers.  To improve the yields of farmers who
have scattered or isolated fields or who have sufficient cash to replant with-
out credit, PMUs would prepare and sell planting materials for up to 19,500 ha
and they would distribute extension literature indicating appropriate planting
technology. Extension workers would determine the demand for planting
material and ensure that the program was not encouraging shifting cultivation
or planting in forest reserves. They would also provide technical advice and
information on the procurement of supplies. Fertilizer would be available for
cash in the market. The yields of partially-assisted farmers would be care-
fully monitored under the project to permit future decisions on the cost and
efficiency of this extensive approach to smallholder development.
39.       Existing PHU Farmers Assisted by the Project.  All PMUs to be
brought into SRDP II include a number of rubber smallholders who established
field plantings under Bank-assisted or GOI-financed programs. All farmers
actively maintaining their fields would be absorbed into the project and
provided with guidance and credit to bring their areas to maturity and-some
would receive credit for a second hectare of rubber under SRDP II.
40.       Roads and Facilities.  The project would construct plantation roads
for input supply, supervision and eventual tapping and improve existing
village roads. The project would also provide office buildings, storage
facilities, workshops and living quarters for about 190 senior project staff
and field supervisors, and a minimum fleet of road maintenance equipment, for
the SRDPU (paragraph 45).
Program Support
41.       Training and Manpower Development.  The project would provide
training for approximately 1,000 extension level staff, 500 managerial and
1,300 administrative and supporting staff. On-the-job training would be
emphasized. To supplement the skills of SRDP officials, technical assistance
would be provided in the areas of rubber management, processing and marketing,
training, and finance. Provision has also been made to engage domestic



- 15 -
consultants as accountants. To improve smallholder skills, about 4,500 farmer
group leaders would receive practical training in one-week courses.
42.       Institutional Development.  To strengthen and expand the SRz,r
program, a study would be undertaken on the performance of all GOI-financed
rubber planting PMUs. Based on this study, a plan would be developed for the
gradual absorption of all PMUs with reasonable potential into the S5DP
program. PMUs in unsuitable or inaccessible areas would be phased out. Under
the project, the provincial offices would be expanded and strengthened, and
would gradually assume many of the management and monitoring functions now
carried out in Jakarta.
43.       Development of Appropriate Technologies for Smallholders.  Several
project components would improve the agro-economic aspects of smallholder
rubber development. First, links between the project and the new smallholder
rubber research institute at Sembawa would be strengthened. Second, a moni-
toring and evaluation system would be established with units in Jakarta and
the provinces, and monitoring staff would be designated in each PMiU. These
units would monitor physical progress and variations in agricultural results
in relation to the type of planting material, spacing, intercropping
practices, maintenance standards, a;Ld the results of the partial approach.
44.       Future Projects.  Funds would be provided for a feasibility study on
future project areas, as well as nursery development and initial staff train-
ing for new provinces to be absorbed into the SRDP program during the 1989-94
period.
Project Implementation
45.       The project would be implemented by the Smallholder Rubber Develop-
ment Project Unit (SRDPU), responsible to the Director General of Estates in
the Ministry of Agriculture. The SRDPU was formed under SRDP I to handle
Bank-assisted PMU rubber development projects. Under SRDP II, this unit would
be strengthened, with a view to its assuming gradual control over all PMU
rubber development. In order to transfer PMUs to SRDP authority, detailed
audits and inventories of assets (including plantings) are required. This
process involves several agencies, and is cumbersome and time-consuming. To
make certain that these procedures do not lead to implementation delays, the
Government would ensure that the formal transfer of PHUs to SRDP authority was
completed, before land clearing for tree crops began for a particular PMU; the
preparation of nursery materials and the recruitment of smallholders by SRDPU
would continue even though the formal transfer had not taken place (Section 3.10
of the draft Loan Agreement). As under SRDP I, the Unit would be adequately
staffed with suitably qualified and experienced personnel (Section 3.02(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       To ensure that the Unit is not overtaxed, and to take account of
uncertainties in the program, SRDPU would only carry out the agreed planting
program and related activities under the project, unless the Bank otherwise
agreed (Section 3.11(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would
also complete a review of the project, in consultation with the Bank, BRI and



- 16 -
DGE, by June 30, 1988, and would adjust the implementation schedule, if
necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.11(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
ProJect Costs and Financing Plan
47.       The total estimated project cost would be US$221.0 million of which
US$90.4 million (41X) would be in foreign exchange. Base costs are expressed
in end-1984 prices and because of the tax-exempt status of implementing agen-
cies do not include national, provincial or local taxes.
48.       Quantities and costs are based on a feasibility study revised and
updated in October 1983 and adjusted to end-1984 values. The costs for tree
crop establishment and maintenance, physical facilities, and training are
based on actual expenditures under SRDP I, modified where appropriate. Road
costs are based on Provincial Public Works experience for similar items under
contract. Cost estimates include physical contingencies estimated at 15% for
roads, and 5% for physical facilities and tree crop establishment. Total
physical contingencies are estimated at US$11.8 million, about 8% of project
costs. Relatively low physical contingencies are assumed because required
inputs are well known from experience under SRDP I. Domestic price contingen-
cies are based on projected local inflation rates of 12% in 1983 and 1984, 10Z
in 1985-87, 9Z in 1988, 7.5% in '989 and 6% thereafter.  Price changes on
foreign exchange costs were assumed to be -3.2% in 1983, 3.5% in 1984, 8% in
1985, 9% in 1986-88, 7.5% in 1989 and 6% thereafter. Price contingencies are
equal to 33% of the base cost plus physical contingencies.
49.       The proposed Bank loan of US$131 million would cover 60% of project
costs (less the cost of vehicles purchased under reserved procurement),
including 73Z of the foreign exchange costs (US$66 million) and 50% of local
costs (US$65 million). The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) would
provide about US$20 million equivalent, including 20% of the foreign exchange
costs. The Government of Indonesia would finance the remaining US$70 million,
or 32%, of project costs.
On-Lending Arrangements
50.       BRI.  GOI would on-lend about two-thirds of the Bank loan (or about
US$84 million) to Bank Rakyat Indonesia, which is the largest rural lending
institution in the country and is acting as the main financial intermediary
under SRDP I. The IBRD loan would be on-lent to BRI at 9.9% for a period of
20 years, including 7 years grace. GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
51.       Smallholders.  Smallholders would enter into credit agreements with
BRI for about US$3,100, or three-quarters of the per-family establishment cost
(US$4,000). The remaining one-quarter includes infrastructure, overheads, and
routine expenditures not charged directly to the farmer. The smallholder
interest rate would be 12% over 20 years, with a grace period of seven
years. Interest would be waived for the first three years, but compound
interest would accrue in years 4-7 and be capitalized at the end of the grace
period. This is equivalent to an effective interest rate of about 11%. This
would be positive in real terms in all years of the project. These terms are



- 17 -
consistent with GOI-financed programs in the subsector and with the GOI's
objective of meeting target incomes and keeping debt repayments below 20-25%
of gross rubber income.
Flow of Funds
52.       SRDPU would prepare an annual budget request in October to be
reviewed by DGE, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and BAPPENAS. MOF would then
issue a formal approval of the budget before the start of the fiscal year,
April 1. To avoid difficulties encountered under SRDP I, each fiscal year the
Ministry of Finance would automatically release funds to the SRDPU for the
first two quarters without the formal accounting and auditing of the use of
budget releases during the preceding period. However, third and fourth
quarter releases from the MOF would still depend on the submission of full
expenditure reports for the first and second quarters respectively. Similar
arrangements would be made by BRI with respect to funds which it would
administer.
53.       These arrangements would be summarized in a Financing Agreement
between GOI and BRI, and a Sub-Financing Agreement between BRI and DGE
(Section 3.03 and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). The execution of
such agreements, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Sub-Financing Agreement between BRI and DGE would contain the
terms and conditions applicable to the smallholders.
Procurement
54.       Equipment and Supplies.  Agrochemicals, vehicles, farm machinery and
about 40% of fertilizer requirements (US$47.5 million) would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the CIF price of imported goods or
the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to domestic
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Locally advertised competitive
bidding (LCB) following procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used for
cover crop seeds (US$2.5 million) in which Indonesia is competitive, because
it is essential that these be purchased in a timely fashion; and for agro-
inputs, minor agricultural implements, office supplies and extension litera-
ture (US$7.0 million) to be purchased in small lots unattractive to interna-
tional bidders. Purchases of minor agricultural equipment and supplies other
than urea, triple superphosphate, muriate of potash and ammonia sulfate which
are under US$50,000 (estimated at US$1.2 million) could be obtained through
prudent shopping with three price quotations. Direct purchase would be
permitted for the four specific fertilizers mentioned above (US$13.3 million),
which would be obtained from P.T. PUSRI, the state-owned fertilizer monopoly,
at C01- determined prices which are uniform natiorwide. Rubber seeds (US$3.3
million) would be obtained from qualified estates or from SRDP fields selected
by the DGE, at negotiated prices.
55.       Civil Works.  About 20 separate works contracts would be awarded
through LCB for roads (US$25.2 million) and project facilities (US$8.3 mil-
lion). As these works are scattered over 50 locations in three provinces and



- 18 -
would be implemented over five years, it would be difficult to combine them
into larger contracts suirable for ICB. Some of this work would be done by
force account; however, this would not account for more than 20% of total road
works, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank (Schedule 4, paragraph C.1 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Services.  Technical assistance in rubber production, financial
services and training (US$5.6 million) would be awarded in accordance with
Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. Training (US$5.4 million) would be
carried out by selected PMU staff and contractors acc 'ing to a training
program reviewed and agreed by the Bank. Land surveys and land titling
(US$3.7 million) would be provided by the Directorate General of Agraria on
contract to the SRDPU. Planting material (US$17.7 million) would be produced
by the PDUs. Land clearing, tree crop establishment, maintenance, and fencing
(US$52.0 million) would be undertaken by the smallholders and compensation
would be provided according to agreed rates from the SRDP account. Project
expenditures by procurement category are summarized in the table on page 19.
Disbursement
57.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of total
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100l of total expenditures for planting
materials, seeds, fertilizers and agro-chemicals; (c) 100% of foreign
expenditures, 95% of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 65% of other local
expenditures for small agricultural implements and supplies; (d) 10OZ of total
expenditures for training, applied research and consultants; and (e) 25% of
total expenditures for incentive payments to participating smallholders. CDC
funds would be disbursed against the full foreign cost of imported vehicles
and equipment, and the full cost of locally assembled four-wheel drive
vehicles and motorcycles; sprinklers, workshop and communication equipment;
furniture; and office equipment.
58.       For most components, disbursement would be made on the basis of
standard documentation. Disbursement would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOEs) for the production of planting material, the training and
research components, labor incentive payments and road construction by force
account. Detailed documentation for SOEs would be retained in Indonesia and
available to the Bank for inspection. Because the project is limited to a
five-year tranche of the DGE program and because SRDP I has met implementation
targets on time when funds were available, project disbursements are expected
to be completed in six years, two years less than the average in regional or
Bank-wide tree crop projects, which were not time-slice projects. The project
closing date would be June 30, 1991.
Accounts and Audits
59.       To ensure adequate accounting under SRDP II, qualified accountants
would be provided in each project province. Separate accounts would be main-
tained for the project. These accounts, including related SOEs, and the
accounts of BRI related to the project would be audited annually by indepen-
dent auditors or firms acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts and the
audit report would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of
each GOI fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
PROJECT EXPENDITIRE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Not        Total cost
Appli-     including
ICB     LCB     Other a/   cable /b   contingencies
Agro-inputs                     30.6     9.1      17.8       17.7           75.2
(30.6)   (9.1)   (16.6)      (16.6)         (72.9)
Civil works                      -      28.3       0.2        5.0           33.5
-    (28.3)    (0.0)       (5.0)         (33.3)
Vehicles and Equipment          15.1     2.3       2.9         -            20.3
(-)    (0.4)      C-)         -            (0.4)
Smallholder Labor                -        -        -         52.0           52.0
-       _         -       (13.0)         (13.0)
Services                        5.6       -        4.1        5.4           15.1
(5.6)     -       (0.4)      (5.4)         (11.4)
Overheads and Administration    -         -         -        24.9           24.9
=-                          (-)           (-)
Total                      51.3    39.7      25.0       105.0          221.0
(36.2)  (37.8)   (17.0)      (40.0)        (131.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.
/a   Includes direct purchase, prudent shopping and reserved procurement.
/b   Includes production of planting materials, force account, training and
incentive payments to farmers.
Cost Recovery
60.       As a guide to improving cost recovery in the tree crops sector, the
Ministry of Finance is undertaking a study of taxation policy, and the draft
Tree Crop Sector Review (see paragraph 32 above) considers a combination of
tax and credit mechanisms. The proposed project concentrates on recovering
costs through the credit system by increasing the amount to be repaid and
introducing mechanisms to improve the ability of smallholders to repay.
Smallholder interest rates would be raised from 6% (under SRDP I) to 12%, and
interest would be compounded and capitalized after three years rather than
after seven. Smallholders would pay monthly, and payments would be determined
according to a model of what the farmer can afford.



- 20 -
61.       The bulk of cost recovery would come from smallholder debt service
payments. BRI would be responsible for administering smallholder accounts and
collecting repayments. For an individual smallholder who met his repayment
obligations, and taking the debt service payments and land taxes together, the
proposed project would recover 146% of total investment costs in real terms.
If the inflation-adjusted inflows and outflows are further discounted by 13%,
which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Indonesia, the cost
recovery index would be 48%. This result is consistent with other
agricultural projects in Indonesia and East Asia. There is, however, a case
for incraasing the level of cost recovery from the sector, in view of the
Government's ambitious replanting program and Government budgetary
constraints. Additional forms of cost recovery, such as a possible reintro-
duction of a modest cess or export tax, are under discussion with Government,
and could be used to supplement direct cost recovery, especially if commodity
prices rise. This subject will be pursued following completion of the Tree
Crop Sector Review.
Project Benefits
62.       Increased foreign exchange earnings over the life of the rubber
trees established under this project would be US$3 billioa (1984 dollars), an
average of US$100 million per year. The project would also promote
development in areas of Indonesia with few economic alternatives. About
45,000-65,000 families would benefit from rubber planting (depending on the
number of hectares planted per family) and another 50,000 families would
receive help with maintenance. These project beneficiaries are subsistence
and near-subsistence farmers whose average income under this project would
increase from US$600 to US$1,500-2,000 at full development. In addition, the
project would create 1,500 jobs in nurseries and administrative work, and
smallholder labor demand would increase an incremental 60,000 man-years
annually at full development.
63.       Nutrition in the project areas would improve due to higher incomes
enabling better food purchasing decisions and to a lesser extent from inter-
cropping of rice. Other nonquantified benefits would include increased access
by smallholders to commercial markets and the credit system, and the ripple
effects to other economic sectors stimulated by roads built under the pro-
ject. The project would also assist in the regional development of areas of
Sumatra and Kalimantan, and the research and technical assistance components
provided under this project would lead to long-term improvements in the rubber
industry throughout Indonesia. The emphasis on institutional development
would also permit these benefits to be extended over a wider area in subse-
quent SRDP projects.
64.       The ERR.  The economic rate of return for this project would be 13%,
which is considered reasonable for a tree crop project in Indonesia intended
to help poor smallholders in remote areas. The projected ERR was tested
against various adverse assumptions. As is usually the case with tree crop
projects where benefits are stretched over many years, the ERR is relatively
insensitive to change in either costs or benefits. Costs could rise 20% or
yields or prices decrease 20% and the ERR would remain at 10% or higher.
Although commodity prices are volatile, this is considered a reasonable range
of expected commodity price fluctuations over the long term.



- 21 -
Project Risks
65.       Agricultural.  The technical packages are derived from those used
successfully under SRDP I and they are not subject to significant agricultural
risks. The risk of widespread disease outbreaks is being reduced by broadening
the genetic base of rubber planting material and tree densities are being
increased and spacings made more equidistant as a means of ensuring an
adequate stand of windfast trees during the tapping period. The inclusion of
appropriate applied rubber research urLder the project will help pinpoint
unidentified project risks and allow their minimization during the project
period and thereafter. The risk of poor tapping would be reduced by providing
intensive training to the smallholders before trees are brought into
production.
66.       Managerial.  Under the proposed Repelita IV program, SRDP would
plant a total of about 76,000 ha of rubber and it would produce planting
materials for an additional 19,500 ha. By the end of the project, SRDP would
include 16 large-scale P!Us and plant or assist in planting about 26,000 ha of
rubber per year, about 50% of Government's anticipated PHU rubber planting
program. This is a relatively large program in relation to SRDP's previous
experience and it is possible that a program on this scale could strain
implementation capacity and reduce the quality of rubber planted. The
implementation schedule would be kept under review and adjusted as necessary
during the project (paragraph 46).
67.       Financial.  There is uncertainty about cost recovery through credit,
and problems are accentuated by the recent decision to recover smallholder
loans in cash rather than in kind. To address this problem, the Government
has improved repayment schedules and increased incentives for BRI to undertake
effective collection. Further steps to increase cost recovery are being
explored (paragraph 61). Slow release of funds has also been a problem under
SRDP I and has caused the 1984/85 planning program to be reduced. Revised
financing procedures for SRDP II, which would also be adopted for SRDP I, are
expected to improve the flow of funds, and this matter will continue to be
monitored carefully by the Bank.
Environmental Effects
68.       The project would establish food crops and tree crops in areas now
used for shifting cultivation and associated rubber production. Approximately
35% of the area is in grassland (alang-alang) of otherwise low economic and
environmental value, 25% is in brush and 38% is in mixture of rubber jungle
and secondary forest. This land is accessible and periodically cut for food
crop production. There is a small amount of primary forest in Singkut (2Z)
but this area has already been logged and divided into 5 ha blocks and is
currently being brought into production by the smallholders. To prevent soil
erosion, land would be cleared by nanual and chemical methods and terracing
would be carried out in all areas exceeding 8% slope. Establishment of
leguminous cover crops would also reduce erosion and increase soil fer-
tility. The small quantities of chemicals used to control areas, pests and
diseases would not have any significant adverse environmental effects.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(ili) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan that a satisfactory Financing Agreement had been signed between
BI and SRI and that a satisfactory Sub-Financing Agreement had been signed
between BRI and DGE (para. 53). Other special conditions of the project are
listed in Section 'II of Annex III.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 30, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                    AMl I
Page 1 of 5 pges
_oinS1A               - SO_L _ =12MIS M  '
logo1msiA                                      OUIPosr  AWr   9 13 wi  I-
306                    (306?     T WSTIAU) lb
190(b      137gfE at               uMXIz  mic             mumiz 1col
u5rD6j7.b    ASIA a Pam=              LA?. ANcA1     C w
AW CnM  w                                                                     -
TOMAL                             3919.3      1919.3   2913.3
AGICCLTOtAL                        2965        3071    317.3
C. '     I    (IOS)                   50.0      t15.0   _90.0              1031.2                   2103.6
m            m  am Jr
CKMOGRO3 OF OrL 3q011A1262)         38.0       96.0    191.0              5673           n55
-OM  im Wm  SmTz6?z3
PlOML47J03.110-WAR   S    )SAin  94630.0   116D1.0  523.0                     .
nR3*8 FOIULA?1 (20O TOMAL)          144         Z7.1     22.3              347                       .
10901.4710 2101.39CIO
1OU.ATn   ri nu 200o z                ,.
S5A?1M8  P090XAT0 CHIL)                               370.1
1001420   CT                                            1_9._
133L sq. IN-                      49.3        60.5     77.9             261.9                    35.7
PER SQ- 1l. AI. LA               319.3       373-     471.0            1735.1                    92_6
A1TXl AE SMCT  C(:)
0-14 1=                          4O.7        44.0     39.5              39.0                    39.9
S5-   s                           56.2        53.-     57.3              57_6                    56.0
65 AND AME                         3_1         Z.5      3.1               3.3                     4.1
OrIATZ   mO    RA  C--)
TOMAL                              2.1         2.0      2.3               2.3                     2.6
ORB"                               3.7         3.6      4.5               4.3                     3.6
3CBE ax3r3  am  mm Tom)             44,         41.0     33.6              30.1                    31.3
C          0 A*8 3t                 22. 9       t7.6     13.0               9.5                     8.t
OSS REPrC106 ROM                     2.7         2.7      2.2               20                      2.0
A:TO3S. A,L (2l301)                 .       181.1   3051.0 _
2 0Z OF 93t3  -)                    --         .-      53-0 le          S.7                     40.3
NMS ANFD 112C11
rmM OF. FO  P. FM  CAP=A
C 969-71-100)                       93.0      102.0    117.0              130                     114.3
PM0 CAPITA 501HZ or
CALORF CZ :_s Z3UZS)              86.0        96.0    10O               114.4                   110.6
.3-231S (GRAM PM  DAY)            3l.0        4.0      49.0              57-0                    67.3
OF W= ABU AND FtllSE             6.0         6.0      7.0 Id           14.1                    34.1
CH11D CICES 1-4) WAXII MAE          22-9       16.9      13.0               7.2                     5.7
LIXI EuPECcr. Ar arm  13 C3E)        1.2       47.0      53.3              60.4                    64.7
tIFAr  ,T  3m (PER TO)             149.9      120-9    102.0               66.3                    60-6
YSS T0 SAFE mm  (3009)
TOTEL                               ,,         3.0     23.0              37.0                    65.4
33U                                 ,,        10.0     *1.0              54.6                    73.1
AMAL.                              .,          1.0      8-.0             26.4                    4&2
ACCS TO EZC3A DISPOSAL
(C OF IOPULATIOU)
TOTAL                                         MO 15.0  23.0              41.3                    52.9
ORB"                                 ,        19.0     20.0              47.4                    67.0
RUIRA.                              __        14.0     26.0              33.3                    24.5
9DP0LAT11t     PER PyIC57        44730.o    26510.0  11530.01t           7749.4                  1317.7
90. P13 I3II1  PERSOW             4510-0 If  7680.0   2300.0 7-          2460.4                   615.6
P0P`- PER 35AL SWD
TOTAL                            1360.0     1650.0   1720.0 .          104 6.2                  367.2
03RB"                            250.0         __    700.0 7            651.2                   411.5
..        ,_   3160.0             2Z94.6                   2636.3
AMCISi  MR H0SPSTAL BCD               .. _       ,       22.4 /            27.0                    27.3
CERAGE SX12 OF HOUSEHLD
TOTAL                              4.4                   --'
URs=                               4.9         5.3
Rum                                4.3         4.7
AVRGE NO. OF MSOuS/60(
TOTAL                               ,,         1.5
03.31,*. .. 1..
Rum~,                                1,5        -                 ''
Ams TO ELECT. (Z OF 3811260)
TOTAL                               ' *'
Drn                                 ..          ..       .                  ..
RU.A                                ..          .....



- 24 -                                      AM= I
Page 2 of S pages
MauMO &- SOCIAL IOUUCA?S VA8
MKNO&Wh                                                      AUUJ .1
z r~~~~~~~~~~~~~ms osST                                               zm
ZUsMaxx        AMI & DACVI            La?. AENOCAS CMa
ADJ MSU LLSIONT RtO
PRDIANT:  TOTAL                   nfo         77.0    100.0             1o0.l                    105.4
HALZ                    86.0        63.0    106.0             105.3                    106.3
FENALM         o         950       n7.eo 0      0              9.2           W10.5
SECQ%DAZY: 701K                    6.0        15.0     30.0              "8.0                     63.2
KALE                    10.0       '0.0      36.0              48.7                     43.3
FELE                     3.0        .0.0     24.0              43.1                    ".5
VOCXZIOAL CZOF SECONDAK!)           20.4        22.1     13.4              17.5                     33.6
PZL-ZEACIER RATIO
PRXMRI                            39-0        29.0     32.0              31.8                     30.1
e ESDAz!                          14.0        13.0     16.0              23.5                     16.8
AUlT L71!UCY RATE CZ)               39-.t       56.6     62.0              7.9                      7.5
PAssE3sR CARSIttSOSO POP             1.1        2.1       4.4              10.1                     66.0
RADIt    T Ers/ION  POP              -.Z        Z1.9     42.4             113.6                    22S.6
TlV                  Pop             O.i         0.8      9.6              50.1                    107.2
SP  CYD= CMMAL
MNKES-) C LAMS
PER IISOUSASO 0140                11.0          ..     17.7 A1           53.9                     63.5
CD    A           /A C               2.8          ..      0. Sif           3.4                      2.6
TSOM lABO M PORA tJOIS)           34791.0    41090.0  54669.0
FEIVIZ (PZCE)                      7.6        30.9     29.1              33.5                     23.2
AiCULOE  CIURCOKE)                75.0        66.0     56.0              53.2                     31.5
ID SrTI CPtRC)                     6.0        10.0     12.0              1).3                     23.9
PARTICIPSIOR RAZE (P6CEI)
-TL                               35.7        35.4     35.               36.7                     322
BILE                              54.2        *9.5     51.1              50.9                     49.3
WELE                               ZC.O       21.6     20.7               6.6                     15.2
ECMllC DEPuNDE= RATIO                1.Z         1.3      1.2               ;.1                      1.4
,u1r OF PRIAZZ ZcBM
RECEIVED Mr
HIGEST   OF aUSMaS                  *.          ..     23.5               2.2
:I1S  2  - SOU5UOLDS                ..          ..       9.-S.
-OMET 203 tf: 3    1S               ..          ..      6.6  j            6.4
ES? 402 7 USEOS                      ..         ..     14.4  j..
-OD    T-.I.TM WACo
ZSTXM    ABSOLUTE 10935? XuCug
LZV  CSS 921CAPTA
03345                               *-       125_5 1  124.0 /I         18.6                     26.2
RaL                                           106.0 7r  106.0 7r       15Z.0                    164.0
ESTIMD WAT10  POVER 
LE    (O5S P2 CAPT)
..                                             ..    119.0 /t          177.9                    322.8
UL                                  ..          ..     96.0 7r          164.6                    372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BEL  ASOLTE
POn INCUS LDmL (2)
uuua                                ..        51.0 i/  26.0 /2 Z3.4
RUARL                               ..        59.0 I  ".0 71             37.7
NOT! A %1LALE.
NOT APPLICABLE
VOTES
la  The group aver30e for eac4 Idicato am re plpatIoo-1hced arltmetlc _ma. Coverge of cosmtrlS an_ the
Indicators dep-de on aveolability of data an Is not valfors.
lb  Dulsa otherufa  noted. -Mta for 1960 refer to asy year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dta for 1970' betveen 1969 and
1971; and daa for Hoet Peceng Zsetlte- between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1983; Id 1977; /a 1979; /f 1962; LL 1976: /l 1975;  t 1980 prlee.
a-M. 194



25-                                                               ANNEXI
-                                           ~~~~~Page 3 of 5 pages
-a4,    1... 12  aa  -*.  .-. ..ea  r..33  3.4=44    a e3,4n            e   1..0..41a             34      ala4 t     14.  n         t  t.       24t4
~ el12.4. *e    aS 14   .fl 4     .1      4=24,  nf        z-lll CD      &.               , al -.    4.4 ..    r   an   e   4          v    a     -e
4..ft   .11    4.3I            a    ....C aaa              .    nt.        -v=." In49*54.   =4.4  ts                       tn..hl..-t.-                 t-1
Z41.t.t    .1.lt1a.21.4.1tt4442                          Utn4264aItI.nZ~-                                              -      :          .t   1Ct           ta    e
44-n244444a141t14*4.2 4L.      t.41    4         ""L.4     Z       t. 44*            -1    4at3t                        t.4321            t.-
4. -2rt.  .-...a.3  .tt.. ..c~.?t   an a   .   :.  ..L  a  t Ia--1..            ldle..a .tt                  14  n.
~a.t   3.11.aafl.3 -  L.fia   .at      .-       -    .te.
.1 -.aI.aa...  -.. .e. p.4,..  *-4 -  .tmaa.....4&4                 s..a.aa.  meat. E!        .   neia.   -a4aIaiat
41t  -e4..t2 1.34.4I. 2          - . ft..L  I. -       taI 1=4
C_    lIll,lL                 __ - 41.        4dm .LlLalll1   4.t2                       *ta324.4  a.l.                ,2         TV. 44.aa          ef        612
a.. t. 21.,- 4   cat.                                                                         I. "C  -M.             V-2.44   r4bi            41.        ..nle         4
'L   la- llll,' "l'lllL  .en.  .   tI.3a.tIt. laplta                                                                 .e.ana       tits4
Sm...-nm-In .9  c17   - m.ai .         -.nn .    a.t.-W aS tfaa44.1al1                                      awn..1                     aa       e      
e1 'll    .t.  lE.   .I  ae   14   .e.                     cet.   21                       aal*14.4lna    Ca   TCC 372...w                                e
P.9-  tv"Wt. &Or..                                  4t.  12.44 4  -          ..4=
.enun-  -  .ren tn1t.rtl1 ~ ~ ~      ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~        ~         f~  
.3 ..'.It                                                                              t       .e.5 a                       tta. .S          12
mlt.l      t       a         W - ta.    a a..       w          4=         a                      .              etll    a          -a          .               n
afl tsen    -  - - - a4              tIt          nl  t                              et.   4144               ala   .I            p t e--a
121..    t4Cttf   taf  321 ltC tt e., 14=aD          P-t4                          ata S.
r. l.a..0a -  - -ft. atle0  -a.  -..re4   4                      .~St                         t    ll  vL-tn.. . ...  ft                6.fa?    tl- -
L-1. %-Win      16            * an 3.4.. .4. .t.CIttfi.-1fa.       t.a-C.*4..22-ee.                                                                         aa
e2~~-.at      -tta            2..   4.                                    nna4aJa~   44t4a    .e.t.342=  tCa.                               aa
ealeattm  ttI.  1   . aI*in   32 .444 -*   . t.- .t -air.atWC4...   aag    _- tte   4.cm.
C=     clill I-) 440-                   al..a3a.a   .                    1                             .   lt     ata             nael                      - .
lean P    s       .4    at4e             .n.*a  a .1a.                    nam ..f..e  ..                                          a  4   tItf  1410
4=1.a t4  I*a.It. I.t.ettiea      14.....at   4 44...              f.t..J"M .42 -   ...a  nI.           *. -C     C.               :t      n
en a- e.g.-   .~It- .   anaflaa. 14- ~- .4.31-an  z....  ...en*    . a. -  .4=  far        .e    .~4   flqv  tall
-  .1    -4-a.74 .a.3at.. as  a.                                      e..1-..              ..m            ..t...   a.l  
.244   4..4  14   aL.-t.               tat                t..z   4                              .a4t  S1                      l    :etai 
I..  71.114. .1 1aea.4.a  11*  1     a.1..         lIla                               .t.aa
- - alm - ma *1aM411i  a- ---  a   ti                   'Allt,..aa..,2 .  ae..                                 ..i-m.l                  .flC
att... t.taad  31.43-Ia    2.Sa1. I.II         1.*P-4                      a.a     ttt.4          1 . 9                   i    t.
4...t. 14t2 tl.l raw....n.   .14   1t*a2'~.C                                           l~..2c.a               .              .aa...1.tl
mE    4,44.                                                                .4...a.11.-   t1                     .1.4.      4eJ..2.W.lIa 
a  Ilw t*41-.t-9          24tn4. .-                  tla                          -1.a           ...
- 13  24.34    44a.ta4-...3    lt.                                                              ....-      3a...-...  .a.              e.    -ci. 



AM=K I
-26 -                                      Page 4 of 5 pais
130351 - 1Cf C nDICAMS
tXUn
Cuillion US at                        SAnnual *rwt rat. CX() la
curant prcs)                           Acta                          Estad  rod
Indicator                        1962        1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1960  1981  1982  1963  196   1985
AMRA ACO
Cras doe.stic pr    lct /b     90.216       5.0   6.9   8.9   7.7   6.3   9.9   7.9  -0.1   4.5   5.5   4.7
Agritslture                  23,703       0.0   4.7   1.3   5.2   3.9   5.2   4.9   1.8   3.0   3.5   2.0
Indautry                     34.638       5.6  11.1  14.2    SJ7  7.1  12.5   8.5  -6.9   5.6  8L1   5.3
Services                     31.875      10.1   5.9  12.5   9.2   7.7  11.8   9.8   5.5   4.3   4.2   4.6
Cousesptioe                    73.377       6.4   7.9   5.6   6.9  13.6  13.1  IS.8   3.2   0.5   3.9   3.0
cro  invest  nt                20373       14.6   6.0  16.0  15.0   4.4  17.7  11.1  13_0  -5_.   4.0   4.0
Ezports of GUFS                20.189      -2.4  17.0   9.5   1.0  -0.1  -5.7  -2.4 -12.0  13.9   6.    4.8
I porta of GUNS                23,723      11.7  16.6   4.4  12.7  22.S  16.9  27.1   2.9  -7.4          -  -i.3
Creee natir al savins          13.877     -16.3  14.2  30.2 -17.S  62.5  33.2 -20.0 -22.6  14.6   9.6   5.0
CDP deflator (1973 - 100)                   166   190   214   238   315   407   46   504   565   644   695
Ixcb*"ge rate                               4L5   415   415    42   623   627   632   661   910
Share of CDP at muaret prLecs tZ)
Cat current prices)                     Average aum3al Increase CZ) /a
1960  1970  1975  1980  1965  1990        1960-70  197G-75  1975-80  1980-65  19S5-90
Gross domestic product       100   100   100   0OO   100   100           3.9      8.4      7.4       4.4      *.9
Agriltur                    54    47    32    25    25    23           2.7      4.1      3.3       3.4      3.7
Industry                    14    18    34    43    39    40           5.2     12.0      9.8       3.7      5.2
Services                    32    35    35    32    36    37          4.8       9.7      9.5       5.9      5.5
Consumtion                  91    89    79    71    74    73          4.1       8.4      9.2       4.7      4.8
Gross iveat                  8    14    20    21    22    22           4.8     18.3      12.2      6.4      5.4
EZport of GUFS              13    13    23    31    27    26           3.6      9.2      2.9       1.8      4.4
Zaorts of GQFS             -13   -16   -22   -22   -22   -21           3.2     22.1      14.0      3.3      4.1
Gross national savng         8     9    17    26    22    23           6.1     23.1     14.2       1.5      5.8
As Z of GDP
1960             1970            1975             1980             1982
PUBLIC FINACE
current r                                11.7             10.1             17.4             22.5             20.8
Current expendItures                     14.0              8.4              9.9             12.8             13.1
surplus (+) or deficit C-)               -2.3             +1.6             +7.5             +9.7             +7.7
Capital expenditure                       n.s.             5.0             11.3             13.0              8.0
Foreig  financing                         0.2              3.5              3.7              3.3              0.3
1960-70        1970-75        1975-80        1980-85        1985-90
OTURK INDICATORS
Annua GNP growth rate (Z)                       4.5            7.6            7.1           4.5            5.0
Annual CUP per capita growth rate (S)           2.4            5.1            4.7           2.4            2.8
Annual energy consmption growth rate (C)        2.2           11.2           11.0           1.S/d          4.9
ICOR                                            2.2            2.2            3.3           5.3            4.4
Marginal savings rate                           0.30           0.68           0.28          0.28/e         0.301e
import elasticity                               1.2            2.8            0.84          0.75           0.84
/a At costant 1973 pricas for 197-81, and 1981 prIees for 1982-85.
7; At sarket prices.
7T  Central Covernment only. on an April-to-*arch fiscal yar basis.
7d 1981-85.
7T  For the last year of the period.
East Asia an Pacific Region
Apri 26, 1984



Polut1o      : 152.6 millo  (014-2)9-   -
CP per Capita: UIS50 (196m2 mto                                   - 27
ii0e S of 5 paWi
rAM3         - UALSAN  OF PASEIS A  3tZAL CAPrTAL -D 03r
-(LUllnna USS at current prices)
Ace1                                      ad Proiected
1977    1976    1979    1960    1g96       162   1963    196         1963    1990
3*LAUZ 01Pnr  Prs015
1. TApocts                         10.861   11.353   16.510  22,685   27.94  1S637  19.730  21.236  22.696  ".32
(a) O0i and SC (ross)           7_354    7.374   12.360   17.297   13I321  14.743  14560   15,422   15.942  31023
tb)  1ni                        3.507    3.97S    6.171    5.587   4.170   3.W   5.170    5.816   6.756   130
2.  raports (including net MIS)    -10.696  -11.493 -13.205 -17,51  -22,72  -22,11 -19973  -20.669 -21.957 -39.114
(a) Oil mecmr                  -2.90    -3.364   -2.940  -4,050  -5,407  -4,32 -4,730  -4,876  -4.301   -9.035
Cb)  Nodil lmpor?.             -7.241  -7.543  -9,02B -11,.27 -14,561 -15.324 -13,363  -14.3"  -15,S65  -26,520
Cc) mP (nec)                     -536    -5S6  -1.237  -1.702  -2.606  -1J715 -1.0    -1.409  -1.21   -1.559
3- Sesource balance                   175    -140   5.305   5.296        422  -3.703   -243        569     741   6.718
4.  Factor services                  -66S  -1.015  -3.106  -3.165  -3.442   -..705  4.00    4_360    4.623  -4.40B
(a) Interest public debt         -441      485    -635    -724    -977  -1.t61  -1.179   -1.432  -1.66   -2,396
Cb) Otber (net)                  -'424    -530  -2.471  -2.441   -2.465  -2.56   -2.901  -2,921   -3.159  -6.010
5. Cmptirl grFnt                       66       44       52      76       67      105      95      100     110      150
o. SOeIme oc rre t accon             -626  -1.109    2,251   2.207  -2.953  -7.303  -4.223  -3.691   -3.972  -2,540
7. Direcc foreign 5nvest  .t          265      271      217      140     1'2      311    234       400     50        0DO
8. public X 4 LT l1an
Ca) Disburesent                  1,956    1.638    1,939   2,864   2,566   4.250  4,991    5,10B   5.166   6,120
(b)  5orrizat1on                 -625     0977  -1.335    -97  -1,001  -1.148  -1,541   -1937  -2.231  -4.234
Cc)  Set diabuseent              1.131     660      604    1.877   1.565   3,102   3.450    3.171    2.955   1.BB6
9. ocher capital (net)               -140      ass  -1,382   -1,48       258      540  2.23       -49      636      521
10_  Qmuge In reserves C- increal )   -651    -706  -1.690  -2,736        938   3.350 -1.679        71    -121    -667
11_ met offtic    reserves           2.208    Z.916   4.606    7.312   6.354   3.004  4.633   4.612   4.733   5.640
Reserve In anoths of unnall
Imports + on                    3.4      4.3      5.4      6.5     4.4      2.1    3.7       3.5     3.3      2.3
.-oran    Ite
Net foreign assets of the banking
eystemlb                             -        -   6.906   10.787   11.154   6.321   5,355   8,284   8.405   9,312
Total reserves in months of annail
Imports + NFS                      3.4      4.3      8.1      9.6     7.6      4.3    6.6      6.3      5.9      3.7
ENAL CAPITAL A30D DEUrIe
Cres Dishursements                  1 956    2.20S    I.S65    2_536   2,66   4.251
concessionia Loas                    442       84      433      659     792      669
Biltera                          381      448      399      611     716i    387
IDA                               49       29       30       42      69       78
Otber                             12        6        5        6       5        4
Nsoncnseeaiu  Loans                 1,514    17721    1.432   1_.8   1jL77'   3,582
Official export creditS            218      271       61       4       165     485
IBiD                               191      168      1"       331     314      505
Other muaitlateral                     16      12       46       52      85      126
?rvteource                          1,089    I.270    1.126   1.49    1.210   2.46
Ezternal Debt
Debt nutacandin and disbareed/d  11.658  13.107   13.234   14,682   15,737  18.426
Off e_lalsnurce                 7,077    3.390   8,434   9.400   10.112  11,129
Private-source                  4,583  4*717   4,7"    5.482   5.623   7.297
Und5sbsrued debt                4*475   5.839   7,932   9,454  11,354  12,435
Debt Seryfre
Total service payments            1.262   Z.06 2   2.100    1.772    1,977   2.306
Interest                         441      514      771     819      977    1,160
Payments as? of export-e          11.6    18.2    11.3       7.7     8.6    12.4
Averae Interest Rate on 1ew Lnans
C:,                                6.3      7.6      6.6      8.2     8.6      9,4
Official,source                    5.6      4_6      5.0      5.5     7_9      9.0
Private_urce                       86      10.2      8.6    12.3      9.2      9.7
Average  Meturlty of New An
(Years)                           20.5    18.8    18.6    18.6    15.2    15.0
OffIcial-mource                   23.8    30.1    24.8    24.4    20.8    20.6
Private-_wrce                      9.1      8.7    11.0       9.9    10.6    10.8
SeturItY structure of debt outstanding                                            Am  of debt ouetnndlz e        of 1582
Isturitles due within 5 yeas                                                                      40
Haturities due within 10 yers                                                                     69
Intereet structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within firset yr                                                                     5.7
/A On an April-to-'arch fiscal yer basin.
7T   Icluels foreign anets of deposit None banks Ln addition to official reserve.
7r  Excludes private nooguaranteed Inan.
7;i At end of period.
7; Oil exports teated on grosa bai.                                               East Asas and Pacific Regin
Apri 26. 1984



ANNEX II
- 28 -                    Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEKENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1984) /a
Loanl                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-two Loans and thirty-eight Credits fully
disbursed                                                 974.32   568.48         -
1100    1975   Sixth Irrigation                             65.00      -          1.20
1237    1976   Fourth Education                             37.00      -          1.85
1365    1977   Sixth Power                                 116.00      -         17.54
1433    1977   Teacher Training                             19.00      -          2.25
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                            63.00      -         10.76
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                             35.00      -          0.64
1472    1977   Second Population                            20.70      -          0.86
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                         15.00      -          0.17
1499    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I            65.00      -         10.71
1513    1978   Seventh Power                                94.00      -         20.93
785    1978   Small Enterprise Development                   -      40.00        4.94
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                            140.00      -         73.00
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                          31.00      -          6.80
827    1978   Rural Credit                                   -      30.00        1.71
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II           65.00      -         30.76
869    1979   Polytechnic                                    -      49.00       13.63
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                           77.00      -         27.66
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                      54.00      -         16.02
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                     -      10.00        5.63
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control            50.00      -          9.49
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                 42.00      -          9.28
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                               123.20      -         43.09
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                               50.00      -          2.33
919    1979   Transmigration II                              -      67.00        3.46
1707    1979   Transmigration II                            90.00      -         87.77
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                175.00      -         46.56
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNEt II
- 29 -                  Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                          35.50      -         11.62
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                   -      12.00        7.42
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Suallholders III          99.00      -         35.35
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                 -      45.00       28.41
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                           -      45.00       17.98
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II              -      42.00       30.10
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                       116.00      -         62.12
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV           42.00      -         30.35
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research               35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                 -      30.00       10.27
1869    1980   Third Population                             35.00      -         21.57
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                 253.00      -        104.78
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development              46.00      -         33.64
1904    1981   University Development                       45.00      -         39.78
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                 250.00      -         43.48
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                            22.00      -         14.32
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                     43.00      -         27.83
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V           161.00      -        116.65
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development         106.00      -          8.98
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                     85.00      -         78.56
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                              170.00      -        107.05
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.00      -         14.04
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                185.00      -        107.63
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                     100.00      -         67.21
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      80.00      -         79.31
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00      -         24.96
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00      -         23.10
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java            70.00      -         55.05
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00      -         50.57
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           68.10      -         62.37
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00      -         21.25
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50      -          4.47
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                               300.00      -        267.32
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII         154.60      -        152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00      -         26.32
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation              22.40      -         22.19



- 30-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number  year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00      -         78.53
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.00      -         29.78
Project
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                       30.60      -         28.71
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90      -        179.49
2283    1983   Transmigration IV                           63.50      -         62.56
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40      -        107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00      -        265.39
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30      -         63.14
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar         79.20      -         66.46
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00      -         42.89
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00      -         89.00
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00      -        239.40
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development /a                   39.65      -         39.25
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development /a       204.70      -        204.65
2431    1984   Second Swaup Reclamation                     65.00      -         64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00      -        210.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits         6,979.12   938.48
Of which has been repaid                  -352.16   -14.85
Total now outstanding                    6,626.96   923.63
Amount sold to third party        28.24
AMount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b        6,626.96   923.63
Total undisbursed                        3,940.08   123.55   4,063.63
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



-31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTNENTS (as of September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           -  - (US$ million)
L     1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               9.8      1.6       11.4
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan           Electronics          0.9       -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.      -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4       -         0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9       -         0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0      1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1       0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia              Construction
Material        48.0       5.0      53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market        4.0      0.3       4.3
1984   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement             25.0        -       25.0
Total gross commitments                       142.6      19.6     162.2
Less:  sold or repaid ind cancelled           107.0       7.4     114.4
Total held by IFC                              35.6      12.2      47.8
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)14.0                  14.0



- 32 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SHALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:       2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:                     DGE
(c)  First presented to the Bank:             January 1983
(d) Departure of the appraisal mission:    October 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations:              January 1985
gf)  Planned date of effectiveness:           July 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementaion Actions
.Jone.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
Ca)  ensure that the formal transfer of MPUs to SRDP authority was
completed before land clearing for tree crops began for a particular
PMU; however, the preparation of nursery materials and the recruit-
ment of smallholders by SRDP would continue prior to such transfer
(paragraph 45); and
(b)  ensure tha SRDPU would carry out only the agreed planting program,
unless the Bank otherwise agreed; a mid-term review of the program
would be completed by June 30, 1988 (paragraph 46).



l   1 t:x2             E                ~~~~~~~~~~~To uaobr                        k-  164
I?   \                              -       __        >       ~~~~~~~~~TANJtJNGJABUNG
MUARABUNGO- 8                                                               A -  U
Muarabungo             MurateboX J  A  M   B  /-   'AMBI
20.
INSarad                                                                 MUSI BANY UASIN
5lY -EA TR A                                                     A T TA
*                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Keluangtaniahabang
\ ~ ~    ~     ~~~~                            ~~~      Keia Murte-b rSc pa t
must                   G                                                              Pankalan Balai
RAWAS                                                                                                  P ALj  \   
Lubu ibeiIIR   GAN  e                                                                            -   '
i    rgtiMggi                                  0 B
S r/~: T t{///Z////il  \ AtA*        -a
Ueninjatan B
k   >   rf X U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~auaraeia  Jo
for BiecomerENceULU   Cthe         Man       BENGKULL/ SELA rAN    (
iVemwal use of The World Bank                                                                                                    TAc
and roe kti ernaf j1 Fkce
Cor"tin. hednomnvabons
used~~~~~~~~~ an th b                                           Y r       [           Baturaja  t            (A
on Ets nwp do not wVV a g
r of The Word B ar and gm                                                                                                    Kotabumi
ThrVmatno a w oepredbe                           /'orax                                            Kotabat
any pxtmeml an) the legal sialls
aofNy ten'itoey or anysw
endrsened or accePtwace of
and boandaros.
102                                                                                       104 \I
used 8ad FK ries  hmn                   \                 ,               [,                /  I   



IBRD 17777
-b.o -ui OD       " --- '                                P BrUM;   hiippIms  APRIL 1984
Malaysia   r.1
i..~    .94 Cllpor'.\.           P r'ic -cbe,,
. .            I _  ~, C  - :  - rlAN IAYA
Arm of Map-
JAWA
*           ~~~~~BALI    -
ungalliat
MentkOIC               PudinsbesarA2
Petaling   Pankalpinang
:_ -.                                                       1 KILOMETERS
0    20   40    60    80   100
-                     1>    \                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10  211  30  40  50
N             ,       >       V                                                       MILES
-iT  /njungpandan,                                                                                    '-I
1MBAN-
IV
Ingkalan Lamdam
INDONESIA
OGAN KOMERING ILIR                            SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMATERA SELATAN AND JAMBI
(SOUTH SUMATRA AND JAMBI)
PROPOSED PROJECT
-]       J             >                             3y{3PROJECT AREA                                             40
!  P   ;  PMU HEADQUARTERS
*\...\               A.G0.1. FINANCED RUBBER PMUs TO BE AGGREGATED AND
REDEVELOPED UNDER SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
.I                DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PREVIOUS PROJECT
Menggala                                             PROJECT AREA       CREDIT 984 IND
A v   PMU HEADQUARTERS
I \   )  >  -      NATIONAL ROADS
4 4 fII          I X                            _     _ U  PROVINCIAL ROADS
-----'---- RAILWAYS
LAMPUNG TENGAH                                   RIVERS
/ I~~~Terbanggibesar
Terbanggibesar                          -     _  DISTRICT(KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
* (                                                     -.. --  PROVINCIAL(PROPINSI) BOUNDARIES
>t \ -    -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
To Taniw,gfcwar,g             1060                                                                  1080



IBRD  17778
1100  i1t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   . ~~~~~APRIL WIM
MALAYWSIA     BRuES   -.          PHILIPPINES
, *.4 -   114
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~J* .                                     ,_ I ,  .1-.      |
~~~AIRA                 .~~~~IIN A
, NRI
M  ALAY5IAl
L
GKAWANG                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PITUSSSB U
C:"~~~~~~                                                                                                              ~               ~~~~ 4  -2 
k~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                                 2'sKBl*t  - -~         
tr  >          f    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J~~~sr
PONTIANAK                                                                         N D N 
KA IMA N TJ,A N   B  A R A                                                                     J/   KAIAIMANTAN
TEIVGA H
,~~~~~S.h -           -
J'I NT DONE [ IA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
I-. ,                           ~       KALIMANTAN BARAT (WEST KALIMANTAN)
J                 ;         o.                                                 PROPOSED PROJECT
KETAPANy(                                                                                    P PROJECT AREA
,     P,WU FEALMUARTFRS
t.O  FINANCED RUEBER PMU. TO BF AGGRFGATED
AND REDEVELOPFD UNDER THt SECOND
i   a                                                           SUAILMOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
W  !  ()                                        PREVIOUS PROJEC1
i                                                                             PRUJEC  CT AREA
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-   --CRDIFIT 1184 IND
PVU  FADOUARTFRS I
-        MNAI ROADS
-  OTHFR ROADS
RIVERS
DISTRICT IKABUPATENII HOUNDARtES
-   -    PROVINCIAL IPROPINSTI BOUNDARIES
IN- FRNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Pbs o~ -. bpS. _crrvdPH I'S                        W...                                      KD aLEp2D   40 6a c w  -I
-VW 1S4O. I. ftwr m                                                                          KILOFIETE RS1  . E ,         *       
E  o -0      20  30  e8  s0o
55 AS 5SI5 SEINt Snp R iPHSI' - SI'..451  5MPH  1' 1,2 IR.SAR          KILOMETERS.



IBRD 17779
, .         l        e4' APRIL 1B4
-              ', -            s                                                               .  ;  1.'1@41  .IDI INDONESIA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
C"   !                                              ~^^^ eDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.. ,- .,            .         ...... . - %11 PROPOSED PROJECT
.T7.''''.-' PROJECT AREA
,     PAU HEADOUARTERS
A     G.O.I. FINANCED RUBBER PiM Is TO BE.AGGREGATED AND
REDEVELOPED UNDER THE SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
__ _. ___ ___ nw __  ___                                                        PREVIOUS PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
_IV~~~                  __, _A - __d __ '-   PMU HEADQUARTERS f CREDIT 9B4 IND
MAIN ROADS
X                                  ~~~~~~~~~~M  A L A Y S I A              ItII  OD
MALAYSIA          ____  ~OTS4E ROADS
RAILWAYS
_     RIVERS
D OISTRICTIKABJPATAN I BOUNDARIES
PROVINCIAL(PROPINSII BOUNDARIES
. ;   ,- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    2
,OA nShnk    A                                                                            KILOMETERS
hI -V / 1.! AiAat                                               6 -N            r
Sun.I Paknk,g0                                                  SINGAPORE
t.Kb_                                                                                              _w,~.l;          i 
{ wFr^?s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'%'                                                  - ,  U' . /  ' 
> *. : ) Sii                                                                                           N            RIAU KFPUtLAUAN
A   U~~~~~~ 
B                _RSki i,                   i         unrgv<> 
'TombifthwrR'
_f  T E R A                                                          8    / SRA/ATE.A
Bw*o                            5F~SLATAN
Buk-ninBis  \  .Xrl; { ffi S " ,> .                                                 joel'svG:rit;



