Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5059a-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
T DONESIA
SMALLwOLDER RUBIBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
January 30, 1985
Agriculture 4 Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       = Rupiah (Rp) 1,000
Rp 1 million = US$1,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)   =  2.2 pounds
1 ton             -  2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
INDONESIAN FIVE-YEAR PLANS
Repelita I    -  First Five-year Plan, 1969-74
Repelita II   -  Second Five-year Plan, 1974-79
Repelita III  -  Third Five-year Plan, 1979-84
Repelita IV   - Fourth Five-year Plan, 1984-89
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD         -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAPPENAS     -  Badan Pembangunan Nasional; National Development Planning
Agency
BI           -  Bank Indonesia
BRI          -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CDC          -  Commonwealth Development Corpcration
Cwc          -  Coconut Working Center
DGA          -  Directorate General of Agraria
DGE          -  Directorate General of Estates
DPD          -  Dinas Perkebunan Daerah; Provincial Estate Crops Service
DPW          -  District Public Works
drc          -  dry rubber content
DTE          -  Dana Tanaman Ekspor; Export Commodity Fund
FAO-CP       -  Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
GCC          -  Group Coagulating Center
GOI          -  Government of Indonesia
LPP          -  Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan; Estates Training Institute
MOA          -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF          - Ministry of Finance
MOP          - Muriate of Potash
NES          -  Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Project
PIR          -  Perkebunan Inti Rakyat; GOI-financed Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder Project
PLPT         -  Penyuluh Lapangan Pertanian Terpadu; Tree crop extension
workers
PMU          -  Project Management Unit
PPW          -  Provincial Public Works
SCDP         -  Smallholder Coconut Development Project
SOE          -  Statement of Expenditure
SRDPU        -  Smallholder Rubber Development Project Unit
Team Khusus -  Special Team for Bank-assisted Estate Crop Projects
TSP          -  Triple Superphosphate



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPNENT II PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......... .......................*    iv
I.  BACKGROUND ...............****............*** **********.. .....         1
The Agricultural Sector ........I..         ..........................*  1
The Subsector ...............................       *..............    1
Smallholder Tree Crop Development                 ....                  2
Bank Group Assistance to the Tree Crop Subsector  .............    3
Repelita IV Program ..............      ..................**            5
II.  PROJECT AREA CHARACTERISTICS AND PROJECT RATIONALE .... .......    5
Project Area Characteristics * . ............0... ............. ....    5
Project Formulation ........                             ............    5
Alternatives Considered   6..................**     .................    6
Issues in Project Formulation .7..*..*..** **         ............***    7
The Role of the Bank ......................        ...................  8
III.  THE PROJECT ............................*9
Project Objectives **..00       ***.. ....                              9
Project Components ............                                         9
Tree Crop Establishment and Maintenance ..........10
Program Support 1........*.*.00-0-.....*.....                          11
Implementation Schedule  ................ ....................   13
Status of Preparation  ..... .     ......13
Cost Estimates .......13
Financing Plan         .............    15
On-lending Terms and Conditions                               .....    15
Flow of Funds                                                  o       16
Procurement s        ...........................    17
Disbursement             ......................as...........    20
Accounts and Audits .....................    21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in October 1983. The mission consisted of Ms. G. Davis, Messrs. C.
Shearing, M. Cackler, A. Mhan (Bank), P. Hall and T. Travers (Commonwealth
Development Corporation), P. Bagshaw (Consultant). The report was reviewed by
Mr. T. Sinha.
Thidocment haks a restied distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of 
thoffici  duties. Its untents may not otherwist be disced without World Bank authorizatio.



- ii -
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ......................   21
General Organizational Structure          .............................   21
Organization and Staffing of PMUs         ..........................   22
Field Development ............eeeseueee.seeuessoseso.eese*eee   24
Civil Works .....*.********.*********..*e*c***...*****...*..   26
Credit Admiuistration ........................... 26
Manpower Development  - ....... ...****.......***....***........   27
Monitoring and Evaluation  *       ..............................   28
Rubber Research  .....e.***C..*****...*......**.*****......   28
Vo PROJECT ANALYSIS    .............................................   28
Agricultural Yields and Production          ...........................   28
Market Prospects ......   ......................................   29
Marketing and Processing in the Project Area    .................   29
Farm Incomes ..........  ......................................   30
Cost Recovery ..........                                             30
Project Benefits .................   31
Economic Rate of Return ..        .....................              32
Sensitivity Analysis               ................    32
Project Risks ............                               ....    33
Environmental Effects .      ..........  . ........                  34
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................    35
LIST OF TABLES AND FIGURES IN THE MAIN REPORT
3.1  Implementation Schedule ****.....  .....  .......S  ....        12
3.2  Project Cost Summary ..........q..........................   14
3.3  Estimated Price Increases ...............................   15
3.4  Procurement  ... v....    ...... . ....................   18
4.1 Proposed SRDP Organization ...... ........       ..........   23
5.1  Sensitivity Analysis ...................................   33
ANNEXES TO THE MAIN REPORT
Annex 1 - Project Tables
Table 1 Cost Table by Summary Account and Time
Table 2  Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 3  Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursement
Table 4  Breakdown of Areas to be Planted and Maintained
Table 5  Technical Assistance Tables



- iii -
Annex 2 - Project Analysis
Table 1   Financial and Economic Prices for Urea and TSP
Table 2  Financial and Economic Prices for Rubber
Table 3  Estimated Rubber Production
Table 4   Estimated Rice Production
Table 5   Typical Farm Budget
Table 6   Calculation of ERR
Table 7   Calculation of Cost Recovery Index
Annex 3 - Financing Arrangements
Annex 4 - Statements of Expenditure
Annex 5 - Project Area Characteristics
Annex 6 - Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD Map 17777: Indonesia - South Sumatra and Singkut
IBRD Map 17778: Indonesia - West Kalimantan
IBRD Map 17779: Indonesia - Riau



- iv -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:          About 100,000 smallholder families through Bank Rakyat
Indonesia.
Amount:                 US$131 million
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 I-ars, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending:              Part of the proceeds of the IBRD loan (US$84 million)
would be relent by Government to Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI) for 20 years, with a grace period of seven
years, at the IBRD interest rate prevailing at the
time of the invitation to negotiations (9.9%). The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Subloans to the smallholders would be for 20 years
with a grace period of seven years at an interest rate
of 12%.
Project Description:    Under the proposed project, selected project manage-
ment units (PMUs) in three main provinces would be
gradually absorbed into a successful Bank-assisted
Smallholder Rubber Development Program (SRDP) suppor-
ted under Cr. 984-IND. The groundwork would also be
laid for eventually extending SRDP management and
financial control to all rubber producing provinces.
To increase rubber production, the proposed project
would establish about 76,000 ha of rubber, provide
planting materials for an additional 19,500 ha to be
established by partially-assisted farmers, and main-
tain about 57,000 ha of previously established
rubber. To promote institution building, the project
would emphasize manpower training and help to develop
the institutional and financial arrangements required
for successful PMU rubber establishment. There are no
significant agricultural risks. However, the project
faces some managerial constraints and the risk that
funding problems recently encountered under SRDP I
might recur. These limitations have been considered
in the project design.



Estimated Cost a/
Local       Foreign    Total
(US$ million)-
Rubber Establishment and Maintenance
South Sumatra and Singkut                         28.9         19.9      48.8
Riau                                              27.2         18.9      46.1
West Kalimantan                                   27,2         19.n      46.2
Subtotal                                    83.3         57.8      141.1
Program Support
Training and headquarters support                  2.7          0.7       3.4
Technical assistance and studies                   1.0          3.5       4.5
Applied research                                   0.3          0.1       0.4
Start-up funds for SRDP III                        3.7          1.5       5.2
Subtotal                                     7.7          5.8       13.5
Total Baseline Costs                        91.0         63.6      154.6
Physical contingencies                                5.6          6.2       11.8
Price contingencies                                  34.0         20.6       54.6
Total Project Cost and
Financing Required                          130.6        90.4      221.0
Financing Plan
IBRD                                              65.0         66.0     131.0
CDC                                                2.0         18.0      20.0
GOI                                               63.6          6.4      70.0
Total                                       130.6        90.4      221.0
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY                          1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
-   (US$ million) -
Annual                            4.9   15.9    26.0  29.7   31.6   22.6
Cumulative                        5.2   21.1    47.1  76.8  108.4  131.0
Economic Rate of Return:  13% (based on new rubber plantings accounting for
75% of project costs).
Maps:  IBRD Nos. 17777 - 17779
a/Net of taxes and duties.



INDONESTA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
1.01      General. Although agriculture contributed only 26% of GDP in 1983,
the agricultural sector is of overwhelming importance to the majority of
Indonesians. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas, and agricul-
ture is the major source of income for about two thirds of rural households.
The GOI's major objectives for the sector are to create productive employment,
increase domestic food supply, expand exports (particularly of smallholder
tree crops) and ensure productive, sustainable use of natural resources. To
meet these objectives agricultural investment has concentrated on irrigation,
tree crop development, transmigration and agricultural support services.
The Subsector
1.02      Estate Crops.  Tree crops and industrial crops (such as sugar and
cotton) occupy about 8.8 million ha in Indonesia, and support for these crops
is provided by the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA). Of these crops, about 85% are owned and cultivated by
smallholders while 15% are under public and private estates. During the last
decade production on smallholdings increased by about 2-4% p.a. and this
relatively slow growth rate in comparison with the general economy is attribu-
ted to past neglect, low prices, the long immature period of recently planted
tree crops, and weak institutional support.
1.03      Recognizing the importance of tree crops and industrial crops for
increasing smallholder incomes and non-oil exports, the GOI set ambitious tar-
gets for Repelita III, the Third Five-year Development Plan (1979-84). A
total of 1.5 million ha were to be planted or replanted and of this, about
900,000 ha were to be in rubber and coconut. Although implementation has
fallen short of projected targets, over 1.0 milli'- ha have been planted
including about 435,000 ha of rubber and coconut, che two most important
smallholder crops. The draft Repelita IV program proposes targets of more
than 2.0 million ha of which nearly 1.0 million ha are rubber and coconut.
While land and labor are available, managerial and financial resources are
limited, and these targets will be difficult to attain.
1.04      Rubber.  Indonesia is the world's second largest rubber producer
(after Malaysia) and the crop is a major contributor to the economy. In 1980,
the peak year for export earnings, rubber earned US$1.1 billion, 51% of total
estate crop exports, and was surpassed only by oil and timber in foreign
exchange earnings. Indonesian rubber production climbed from 682,000 tons in
1961 to 980,000 tons in 1980, but fell to about 860,000 tons in 1982 due, in
part, to smallholders reluctance to tap at a time of low commodity prices.
Production in 1983 has been estimated at 1-1.2 million tons due, in part, to



- 2 -
an increase in the world rubber price. In spite of general growth in the
subsector, Indonesia's share of the Southeast Asian rubber market fell from
43% in 1961 to 32% in 1980, due mainly to the success of programs in dalaysia
and Thailand which provided strong incentives to replant.
1.05      Indonesia has an estimated 2.5 million ha of rubber trees.  Most of
these are of low productivity, having been established from unselected seed-
lings planted after shifting cultivation. In many instances these areas have
deteriorated to self-regenerating rubber jungle. Yields from such smallholder
areas seldom exceed 400-500 kg/ha, and as rural incomes rise some low yielding
areas are becoming uneconomical to tap. This is of concern to the GOI as fur-
ther improvement in rural wages could reduce rubber production even if the
world market for rubber expands. Therefore, to ensure growing fcreign
exchange earnings and reasonable smallholder incomes, Government and the Bank
agree that large-scale rubber planting and replanting with reasonable yield
prospects are urgently required.
Smallholder Tree Crop Development
1.06      Early Programs   GOI assistance to tree crop smallholders began in
1959 with the creation of a cess fund to support the establishment of rubber
and coconuts. Through Repelita I, the First Five-year Development Plan (1969-
74), DGE activities were confined to a "partial approach" consisting mainly of
the free distribution of planting materials. This proved unsatisfactory as
extension was weak, transport and fertilizer were unavailable, and farmers
found it difficult to replant old trees or maintain new ones without compensa-
tion for foregone income. With poor maintenance, yields were not significant-
ly increased. Therefore, during Repelita II (1974-79), the DGE gradually
shifted to concentrated and integrated forms of management.
1.07      Since Repelita I, two approaches have been developed to foster
smallholder tree crop development. The first approach involves the formation
of geographically concentrated PMUs within the Directorate General of
Estates. PMUs assist local landowners to plant, replant or rehabilitate their
holdings by supplying extension, planting material and fertilizer, and incen-
tive payments for labor. These services were initially provided on a grant
basis and partly financed from cess funds. The second approach involves the
use of publicly-owned estates to establish tree crops for smallholders using
estate labor and equipment. The estates transfer the land to smallholders
when trees are mature and the farmers become responsible for maintenance and
exploitation. The estates also run the processing facilities and assist with
cost recovery. Bank-assisted Nucleus Estate and Smallholder (NES) projects
and GOI-financed Perkebunan Inti Rakyat (PIR) projects are examples of this
approach. PKU and NES approaches are compared in para. 2.03.
1.08      Development of the PMU Approach.  During Repelita II (1974-79) the
DGE formed eight rubber replanting PMUs, one in each of the major rubber pro-
ducing provinces, and it established about thirty rubber Group Coagulating
Centers (GCC) and 250 Coconut Working Centers (CWC) for joint processing and
marketing.  In Repelita III (1979-84) these GCCs and CWCs became project man-
agement units (PMUs) with major replanting functions. Faced with very high
replanting targets, the DGE expanded the number of PMUs from about 280 in 1979



-3-
to 870 in 1983. About half of these PHUs are for rubber and coconut develop-
ment and the others are for minor tree crops such as cashews, coffee and
cloves, and industrial crops like cotton. These PMUs are centrally financed
but supervised by the provincial estate crops office. All GOI-financed PMUs
are organized and staffed along similar lines, and because of the rapid expan-
sion of the program virtually all of these PMUs face similar and serious man-
agerial and technical problems, regardless of the crop planted. Constraints
to PHU performance include limited staff training, inadequate transport, and
managerial problems leading to poor site selection, shortages of planting
material and poor quality control. About 70Z of all smallholder tree crops
planted in Repelita III were to be established by PMUs and about 30% by
estates, but due to manpower and managerial limitations in the PMU program,
estates established about 50% of major tree crops.
1.09      GOI-financed PHUs established about 79,500 ha of rubber and
135,000 ha of coconut during Repelita III, and recent inventories suggest that
although about 75% of rubber trees and 65% of coconuts are satisfactory,
rehabilitation is needed on 10% of rubber and 20% of coconuts, and about 15%
of rubber and coconuts have failed. If these inventories provide an accurate
indication of performance, improved management and technical control in the
GOI-financed program could potentially increase PMU effectiveness by 20-25%
with little additional funding.
Bank Group Assistance to the Tree Crop Subsector
1.10      Bank-assisted NES Projects.  Due to the stronger management and
absorptive capacity of the estates, Bank-assistance to the tree crop subsector
has focused mainly on estate-assisted projects. Since 1977 the Bank has comr
mitted US$655 million to seven NES tree crop projects benefiting about 82,000
smallholder families. About two thirds of all tree crops established by
estates in that period were planted in Bank-assisted projects. Due to the
scale of the program, a special team (Team Khusus) was formed in 1979 to help
prepare and supervise NES projects. The projects have generally achieved
their targets and established high quality trees, and standards from Bank-
assisted NES projects have been adopted for the GOI-financed PIR program.
However, the size of the total program, low commodity prices, and Government
resource constraints have strained the managerial and financial capacity of
the estates, and implementation in NES projects bas slowed. To help alleviate
these problems, a Special Assistance Program (SAP) was developed to address
procedural and policy constraints, and to accelerate disbursements in selected
NES projects. These steps plus recent upturns in commodity prices have
improved the situation, but some estates remain in a weak financial position
and attention is still required for physical and financial planning and for
establishing clear lines of authority within the subsector. A Tree Crop
Sector Review (para. 1.15) which is now being finalized by the Bank will
examine implementation and financing issues and provide the basis for
discussions with Government.
1.11      Bank-assisted PHU Projects.  The first PMU project in Indonesia was
the Bank-assisted North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project (NSSDP, Cr.
358-IND). This project was appraised in 1973 and completed in 1981, and it
successfully planted 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm and provided a model for



-4-
further PMU development.  The major shortfall of the project, according to an
OED audit in 1982 (Report 3958), was the project's failure to build a
permanent and efficient institution to expand smallholder development.
1.12      SRDP I.  In 1977, the FAO-CP identified a second Bank-assisted PMU
style project called the National Rubber Replanting Project. As originally
proposed, this project would have established a National Smallholder Rubber
Replanting Organization, absorbed all rubber PMUs and financed the replanting
program through a cess on rubber production. Following Bank appraisal in
1978, the Government decided that direct expenditures would be covered by a
credit package extended to smallholders through the Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI), and in light of this change the project was reappraised in 1979.
1.13      The revised project, the Smallholder Rubber Development Project
(SRDP I, Cr. 984-IND), provided financial assistance to establish 38,500 ha of
rubber under three PMUs, and to establish a project unit (the SRDPU) outside
the regular DGE structure. In the first four years of the project, physical
progress was good. Of the 28,000 ha targeted, about 26,500 ha were estab-
lished, and the quality of plantings was high.  PMU managers and staff were
trained, PMU officials maintained tight control over the project and staff
morale was good. In 1983-84, however, the cumulative effects of Government
budgetary constraints and complex fund release procedures resulted in a 50%
reduction in the planting program. Procedures to correct these problems have
been included in the proposed project. Although financial problems reduced
the amount of new planting, the quality of field work has remained high.
1.14      SCDP I.  In 1979 the World Bank also appraised the first Smallholder
Coconut Development Project (SCDP I, Loan 1898-IND) using credit arrangements
similar to those in SRDP I. SCDP I provides financial assistance for planting
about 38,000 ha of hybrid and tall coconuts and for rehabilitating another
42,000 ha. However, while SRDP I included 3 PMUs, one each in three provin-
ces, SCDP I included 70 CWCs in six provinces. As a result, this project has
faced two major problems. First, dispersed areas have made logistical support
and supervision difficult; and second, the establishment of a new management
system on a large scale has led to manpower and administrative difficulties.
The slow release of funds has also troubled SCDP I, and together these prob-
lems have led to shortfalls in targets and slow disbursement. To reduce these
problems PMUs have recently been consolidated into 14 management units and
other managerial changes are currently being discussed.
1.15      Tree Crop Sector Review.  Concerned with constraints on financing
and implementation, Government initiated a Tree Crop Sector Review Iv October
1983 with FAO and Bank assistance. The first stage, a review of the DGE's
draft Repelita IV program, has been completed by the FAO-CP. The FAO-CP
report recommends rapid expansion of all major tree crops (rubber, oil palm
and coconuts) and a doubling of Indonesian rubber production to 2.3 million
tons of rubber per annum by the year 2000. It also suggests that the major
limitation to program expansion will be institutional rather than marketing
constraints. To meet the domestic need for edible oils, the report recommends
that the GOI give priority to palm oil production, and because of the need for
associated processing and marketing facilities it proposes that estate capa-
city be concentrated on the establishment of oil palm. It recommends, in



-5-
turn, that the main responsibility for rubber and coconut development, the
predominant smallholder crops, be shifted to the PMUs. To improve implementa-
tion in all sectors, it urges a consolidation and rationalization of planting
programs coupled with intensive training. The second stage report, which is
being finalized by the Bank, has incorporated this material and analyzed man-
power development, institutional and policy issues, financing and cost recov-
ery. Recommendations in this project are consistent with the Sector Review.
Repelita IV Program
1.16      The Repelita IV plan (1984-89) indicates very high targets, includ-
ing about 650,000 ha of rubber and 350,000 ha of coconut. About 50% of rubber
and 90% of all coconut are to be established by PMUs. Government is aware of
the challenge entailed in improving institutional capacity while expanding
these programs, and it has requested Bank technical and financial assistance
to eventually bring all smallholder rubber and coconut development under the
management and financial control of SRDP and SCDP programs, respectively,
regardless of the source of financing for tree crop establishment.
II. PROJECT AREA CHARACTERISTICS AND PROJECT RATIONALE
Project Area Characteristics
2.01      The project is concentrated in three provinces:  South Sumatra, Riau
and West Kalimantan. In addition, one PMU is located in Jambi Province near
the South Sumatra border. The locations of rubber production PMUs are shown
on maps attached to this report. The characteristics of project areas covered
under SRDP I are given in the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2721-IND) for
Cr. 984-IND; and areas under large-scale PMUs to be absorbed into SRDP II are
described in Annex 5. Detailed studies of the areas under small-scale PMUs to
be absorbed into the program in years 2, 3, and 4 of the project will be
carried out in the first project year. In general, the climate, soils and
topography of all proposed areas are suitable for rubber development. Areas
eliminated from the project include alluvial flats subject to inundation and
soils deemed suitable for other crops. All PMUs are located in existing
rubber areas where the population consists primarily of indigenous smallhold-
ers who are tapping overaged trees. These farmers are familiar with the
benefits of rubber and eager to plant high yielding material, and the number
of applicants in all project areas exceeds the number of people who can be
accepted into the program.  The Jambi PMU is located in Singkut, a former
transmigration area.
Project Formulation
2.02      SRDP I has planted high quality rubber in three PMUs but has had a
limited impact on the GOI-financed program of rubber development, while
SCDP I, which involves 70 PMUs in 6 provinces, has had a number of start-up
problems related to its ambitious program. Mindful of these experiences, the
proposed SRDP II project would be concentrated in the three SRDP I provinces -
South Sumatra, Riau and West Kalimantan - and it would gradually bring all PHF



-6-
rubber development in these provinces under SRDP control. The proposed proj-
ect would use the successful SRDP I PfMUs to provide training and technical
support to new PHU staff; it would strengthen the provincial offices of SRDP,
improve the monitoring capacity of the SRDPU, and lay the groundwork for
extending SRDP management to all rubber producing provinces during
Repelita V. The project would also help develop the technical standards,
training procedures and financing mechanisms needed for a large-scale program
of rubber development. To ensure that each PMU plants to capacity but manage-
ment is not unduly strained, annual targets would be based on performance and
a mid-term review would be held to evaluate progress.
Alternatives Considered
2.03      Estates vs. PMUs.  Both estates and PHUs have a role in smallholder
tree crop development. Estates are effective in opening large blocks of new
land, establishing high quality trees, providing settlement infrastructure and
assisting farmers in consolidated areas under estate control. Estates are
less effective where farmers own their own land, where holdings are small and
scattered or where farmers must fit tree crops into farming systems with
competing priorities. Under these circumstances, PMUs with their reliance on
farmer initiative and good extension can generally work more effectively. At
a time of resource constraints, there are also financial arguments for PMU
development. Capital outlay per family in PHU projects is about half of that
in NES projects due to limited infrastructure costs, a payment for farmer
labor equal to 50% of the market wage rate, and lower administrative over-
heads, while the economic rate of return in PHU projects is about the same as
in NES projects.
2.04      Comprehensive vs. Partial Approach.  Within the PMU framework
several development options are available. A partial approach was used during
Repelita I with limited success (para. 1.06) and recent GOI-financed and Bank-
assisted projects (including NSSDP, SRDP I and SCDP I) have been based on a
more comprehensive approach. Under this approach, PMUs provide intensive
training and supervision, planting materials, fertilizers and herbicides, and
an incentive payment equivalent to all or part of the cost of farmer labor. A
small component to test the partial approach was included in SRDP I, but this
component was not implemented because of funding problems and because
officials wished to provide financial incentives for good maintenance. Given
current resource constraints, however, DGE officials intend to plant 19,500 ha
under SDRP II using the partial approach. If successfully adopted by
smallholders this approach would be expanded in future projects.
2.05      Complete reliance on the partial approach was rejected for SRDP II
because experience in Repel!ta I and II suggests that yields and incomes would
be lower than in the comp:ehensive approach and participation limited to weal-
thier farmers who could afford improved technologies without credit. In
contrast, the more comprehensive approach used in SRDP I has proven success-
ful, smallholder acceptance of new technologies is good, and trees established
by SRDP I PMUs are in some cases superior to those on adjacent estates. An
economic analysis in the Tree Crop Sector Review also indicates that while the
economic rate of return of the more comprehensive approach is somewhat better
than the partial approach at 14% vs. 12%, the net present value at a 10%



opportunity cost of capital is about US$1,600 per family in the case of the
SRDP model, over three times the US$500 per family estimated for the partial
approach. This is what would be expected with a higher input/higher output
model.
2.06      Cost Effectiveness.  Although the more comprehensive approach is
supported in SRDP II, the SRDP model was reviewed to see whether costs could
be reduced. Bank technical specialists judged that agro-inputs could not be
cut without seric-lsi reductions in yields. They also concluded that the
success of SRDP 1 was largely due to good extension and close supervision of
farmers and tnat managerial inputs should not be reduced.  Since the full cost
of labor is about 60% of the cost of tree crop establishment, the option of
eliminating payments for farmer labor was also considered.  This option was
rejected as it failed to provide adequate incentives for good maintenance. On
the other hand, a recommendation in the feasibility study to increase the
incentive payment from 50% of the prevailing wage rate for rural unskilled
labor under SRDP I to 100% under SRDP II was also rejected since the success
of SRDP I indicates that good results can be achieved with partial wage pay-
ment. Therefore, under the proposed project, cost effectiveness would be
increased primarily by bringing the remaining rubber establishment PfUs in
three provinces under the strict technical and financial control of the SRDPU
and by developing the institutions needed to improve productivity in all
rubber producing provinces.
Issues in Project For lation
2.07      Processing.  The feasibility study for SRDP II recommended that new
processing facilities be constructed in SRDP I areas and in all other PMU
areas with mature rubber trees. However, at appraisal, Government and the
Bank agreed that new facilities were not advisable since (a) SRDP did not have
the management capacity to run such facilities, estates were not interested,
and contract management was costly; (b) Government preferred not to invest in
new facilities at a time of resource constraints; and (c) private processors
had excess processing capacity in all project provinces and marketing channels
in all project areas. Some private processors indicated a willingness to
assist in cost recovery, but it was judged that significant deductions by
participating processors would lead farmers to seek alternative marketing
channels.
2.08      Cost Recovery.  There are several potential methods of cost recovery
in the tree crop sector. A cess or export tax is common as it is relatively
easy to administer and it taxes smallholders in relation to production. In
1980, the GOI rejected the cess as the main mechanism of cost recovery because
of past difficulties in controlling funds, because many smallholder crops
(e.g., coconuts) would not be exported, ard because .he GOI wished to intro-
duce smallholders to formal credit channels and recover costs from direct
beneficiaries. Due to the low productivity of trees in Indonesia, a high cess
might also reduce exports by driving marginal smallholders out of production,
and recent Bank sector work indicates that cess financing may create undesir-
able economic distortions. Cost recovery through credit also has complica-
tions: it is expensive and time consuming to administer, and since small-
holder yields vary widely, credit packages with relatively low debt service



- 8 -
limits, which permit the maximum number of producers to repay, do not maximize
cost recovery from superior farmers.
2.09      Recognizing the limitations of each form of cost recovery, the
Ministry of Finance has initiated a study of taxation policy and the draft
Tree Crop Sector Review considers a combination of tax and credit mechanisms
which would both permit repayment on the part of the majority of beneficiaries
and ensure sufficient capital for re-investment. The Bank will discuss these
issues with the GOI when the reports are available. In the meantime, since
the use of credit has objectives which transcend cost recovery and since the
Government is firmly committed to credit, the proposed project concentrates on
steps to improve cost recovery under the credit system by increasing the
amount to be repaid and introducing mechanisms to impro7e the ability of
smallholders to repay. In SRDP II, interest rates would be raised from 6%
(under SRDP I) to 122, and interest would be compounded and capitalized after
three years rather than after seven. Smallholders would pay monthly, and
payments would be determined according to a model of what the farmer can
afford, particularly in early years when yields are low (Annex 3).
2.10      Project Finance.  In SRDP I, non-credit items (about one fourth of
the total) are financed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) through the develop-
ment budget. The non-World Bank share of the credit package comes 80% from
Bank Indonesia (BI), the central bank, and 20X from Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI). BRI is an autonomous state owned bank specializing in rural finance
and intended to operate on a commercial basis. BRI administers the BI/BRI
pool of money as an "executing bank," releasing it in the form of a loan to
the project implementing agency (DGE) as project works are undertaken and
converting the loan to DGE to individual smallholder loans after three years.
2.11      In general, the World Bank favors using BRI as an executing bank
whenever appropriate to develop the banking system and mobilize capital for
development purposes. However, for various reasons, at appraisal, BRI was two
years late in releasing funds for SRDP I from the BI/BRI pool to the DGE, and
it had not converted smallholder loans on schedule for plantings which were
already completed. To avoid these problems, the SRDP II appraisal mission
originally recommended that the MOF provide funds for the credit package
through the budget and use BRI only as a collection agent or a "channeling
bank." In subsequent discussions, Government affirmed its intention to use
BRI as an executing bank and proposed a number of steps to circumvent the
problems encountered in SRDP I. These steps, described in paras. 3.19-3.21,
have improved fund flows under SRDP I and should permit BRI to function
adequately as an executing bank under SRDP II.
The Role of the Bank
2.12      The GOI wishes to increase the use of PMUs in smallholder rubber
development in order to reach smallholders with few other income opportunities
and to keep rubber development costs low (para. 2.03) and it wishes to do so
by expanding the Bank-assisted SRDP model which has benefited from a focus on
good training and supervision. Bank financial assistance has been requested
because of the scale of the proposed program and because of the success of
SRDP I. In addition, the Bank's large investment in Indonesian tree crops



-9-
(about US$830 million) gives the Bank itself a strong interest in improving
administrative capacity in the sector and reducing Implementation con-
straints. The concern in this project with financing and cost recovery is, in
part, a function of macroeconomic work highlighting financing issues at a time
of resource limitations.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01      The objective of the proposed project is to expand and improve the
effectiveness of the GOI's smallholder rubber development program in order to
increase foreign exchange earnings, create employment and improve the incomes
of rubber smallholders, promote regional development and increase the
productivity of underutilized land.
Project Components
3.02      The project would include:
(a)  Tree Crop Establishment and Maintenance
Ci) planning and maintenance of about 76,000 ha of rubber trees;
(ii) provision of rubber planting materials for about 19,500 ha to
be planted under the partial approach;
(iii) maintenance of about 57,000 ha of previously planted rubber
trees in project provinces;
(iv)  construction of about 1,930 km of plantation roads and 320 km
of access roads, upgrading of 380 km of existing village roads
and provision of road maintenance machinery; and
(v) construction of facilities and staff quarters in project PMUs.
(b) Program Development
Mi) provision of training for about 4,500 farmer group leaders and
2,800 staff;
(ii)  provision of about 540 man-months of consultant services for
technical support and studies;
(iii) provision of funds to facilitate monitoring and applied
research on farmers fields; and
(iv)  start-up activities for SRDP III.



- 10 -
Tree Crop Establishment and Maintenance
3.03      Rubber Establishment.  Generally, SRDP II would follow the technical
standards and administrative arrangements of SRDP I. The PMU would inform
villagers about the program, receive applications from farmer groups and work
with village heads to screen farmers for eligibility. For ease of supervi-
sion, priority would be given to farmer groups with land in blocks of 20 ha or
more, and farmers would redistribute the land among themselves into holdings
of 1 or 2 ha. Extension workers (PLPT) would be provided at a ratio of 1:150
families during planting and 1:250 families during the maintenance period.
Extension would be based on the training and visit system. To permit low in-
come farmers to participate and yet ensure timely work, the PMU would provide
an incentive payment for major tasks equivalent to about 50% of the current
wage rate. This would become part of the farmer's credit package. After
farmers clear their land, the PMU would supply planting material and ferti-
lizer. Intercropping would be permitted for two years except in areas of
sheet alang-alang or on steep slopes. After the first year, fertilizers and
agrochemicals would be supplied by the PDU and farmers would receive their
incentive payment for satisfactory maintenance. Land use surveys would be
undertaken by the Directorate General of Agraria (DGA) in the first field year
and cadastral surveys would be undertaken in year three. The PMfU would train
the farmers to tap their trees and to produce air dried sheet, thin clean
slab, or cup lump in the sixth field year, or after the project is com-
pleted. Rubber would be marketed and processed in the private sector and
credit repayment would be in cash. Detailed features of project
implementation are included in Chapter 4.
3.04      Partially-Assisted Farmers.  To improve the yields of farmers who
have scattered or isolated fields or who have sufficient cash to replant with-
out credit, PMUs would prepare and sell planting materials for up to 19,500 ha
and they would distribute extension literature indicating appropriate planting
technology and encouraging the use of fertilizers, leguminous cover crops and
weed control. To assist this program, one extension worker (PLPT) would be
provided for every 500 families. These extension workers would determine the
demand for planting material and ensure that the program was not encouraging
shifting cultivation or planting in forest reserves. They would also provide
technical advice and information on the procurement of supplies. Fertilizer
would be available for cash in the market. The yields of partially-assisted
farmers would be carefully monitored under the project to permit future deci-
sions on the cost and efficiency of this extensive approach to smallholder
development.
3.05      Existing PMU Farmers Assisted by the Project.  All PMUs brought into
SRDP II include a number of rubber smallholders who established field plant-
ings under Bank-assisted or GOI-financed programs. All farmers actively main-
taining their fields would be absorbed into the project and provided with
guidance and credit to bring their areas to maturity. Farmers absorbed from
previous programs would follow routines identical to fully-participating
farmers and some would receive credit for a second ha of rubber under SRDP II.
3.06      Roads and Facilities.  The project would construct plantation roads
within rubber development blocks to provide access for input supply,



- 11 -
supervision and, later, for tapping. Existing village roads with reasonably
satisfactory alignment would be improved and access roads would be provided to
villages which do not have links to district roads or nearby plantation
areas.  A minimum fleet of road maintenance equipment woulld be procured by the
SRDFU for the maintenance of plantation roads (para. 4.16). The project would
also undertake land leveling for project facilities and provide office build-
ings, storage equipment, sheds, workshops and about 190 quarters for senior
project staff and field supervisors.
Program Support
3.07      Training and Manp"wer Development.  One of the aims of the proposed
project is to develop SRDP managerial capacity in order to improve and expand
the SRDP program. To do so, the project would provide training for approxi-
mately 1,000 extension level staff, 500 managerial and 1,300 administrative
and supporting staff. On-the-job training would be emphasized. To supplement
the skills of SRDP officials, technical assistance would be provided in the
areas of rubber management, processing and marketing, training, and finance.
Provision has also been made to engage domestic consultants as accountants
(para. 4.05). To improve smallholder skills, about 4,500 farmer group leaders
would receive practical training in one-week courses, and one mobile training
unit would be provided for use on an experimental basis. Implementation of
the training and visit system would be augmented by extension publications and
visual aids.
3.08      Institutional Development.  To provide the basis for strengthening
and expanding the SRDP program, a study would be undertaken in the first year
of the project on the location and performance of all GOI-financed rubber
planting PMUs. The studv would take into account areas where PMUs are
required either for local smallholders or transmigrants and it would assess
whether existing coffee and cacao PMUs should be converted to rubber develop-
ment or other crops. Based on this study, a plan would be developed to gradu-
ally absorb PMUs with reasonable potential into the SRDP program. PfUs in
unsuitable or inaccessible areas would be phased out. Under the project the
provincial offices would be expanded and strengthened and they would gradually
assume many of the management and monitoring functions now carried out in
Jakarta.
3.09      Development of Appropriate Technologies for Smallholders.  Several
project components would help improve the agro-economic aspects of smallholder
rubber development. First, the linkage between Sembawa, the new smallholder
rubber research institute, and SRDP would be strengthened. The rubber tech-
nology course requirements for SRDP staff would be determined by officials
from SRDP and Sembawa; and applied research proposed by SRDP and Sembawa,
would be carried out on or adjacent to the fields of project farmers. Second,
a monitoring and evaluation system would be established with units in Jakarta
and the provinces, and monitoring staff would be designated in each 1MU.
These units would monitor physical progress and variations in growth and yield
in relation to (a) the type of planting material (GTI and other clones); (b)
spacing; (c) intercropping practices; (d) maintenance standards; and (e) the
results of the partial approach.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Hectares Planted and Maintalned In Each of Three Provinces
Planting      SRDP I       YEAR 11      SINGKUT       YEAR 2        YEAR 3       YEAR 4        T  otal      SRoP     |  Planfng
Yeor    |3 PMUs          3 PMUs        I PMU        3 PMUs        3 PMUs        3 PMUs                   Plantling/    Materal
1979/80      SRDP                                                                                                       M
1980/81       4,066        1,500
1981/82       5,698        4,000    1                 2,100
1982/83       8,867        2.400          260    !   1.700          1.150
1983/84       7.800          450          340           -            _
1984/85       6,000          -            -                                                                  6,00
SRDPII                       _,_,,,,,,_,,__,_________
1985/86       8,250         Nursery Development         -            -                                       8,250
1986/87       8,500        6,750         1,500        1,920         1,440        1,280        16,750        16.750        1,500
1987/88       7,500        7,00          2,500        3,000         2,320        2,160        20,500        20.500        3,000
1988/89       4.000        6,000         2,500        4,500         3,000        2,400        20,000        20,250        6.000
1889/90        -           5,250          -           6,000         4.500        3.000        18,750          -          9.000
TOTAL SRDP II  20.000       25.500        6            13500         7,500         3,000        76,000       71,750       19.500
/a Year of nurser" devekpennt
New lantings Included In SrIDP land 1I
- - - - SRDP l rintains all areas below the doHed line for oneVear   r more.                                           Wortddow* -25811



-13-
3.10      Start-up Funds.  The project would provide funds for a feasibility
study on areas to be included in a future Bank-assisted project and for nur-
sery development and initial staff training in the new provinces to be
absorbed into the SRDP program in Repelita V.
Implementation Schedule
3.11      All tree crop establishment and maintenance to be carried out by
SRDP during the project period is indicated in Table 3.1. In FY85/86 four
PMUs would be absorbed into the SRDP program (including Singkut), nurseries
would be established and staff would be trained. A study would also be under-
taken on all other existing rubber PMUs, and a plan would be drawn up for
absorbing these PMUs into the SRDP program. In the second year (FY86/87),
field development would begin and SRDP I PMUs would be brought into the SRDP
II planting program. Thereafter, three new PMUs would be absorbed into the
program annually, and their staff would be evaluated and trained. In the
final year of the project, training would be expanded to cover at least three
additional provinces, and nurseries would be established in these provinces
using start-up funds. The sale of planting materials to partially-assisted
farmers would begin in 1986/87. To avoid over-commitment, a mid-term review
would be held in the third project year to make any adjustments which might be
required in the scope of work.
Status of Preparation
3.12      All PMUs included within the proposed project have existing facili-
ties and personnel. Since the areas to be planted are selected annually,
precise locations cannot be determined in advance, but there is no shortage of
either suitable land or applicants under the present program. As in SRDP I
engineering design for roads and earthworks would be undertaken on an annual
basis by the Provincial Public Works after tree crop establishment areas are
chosen (paras. 4.15-4.16). Terms of reference are available in the working
papers both for technical assistance and for studies to commence in year 1.
Training proposals have been prepared which are satisfactory to the Bank and
research proposals are under review.
Cost Estimates
3.13      The total estimated project cost is US$221.0 million of which
US$90.4 million (41%) is foreign exchange (Table 3.2). Base costs are
expressed in end-1984 prices and because of the tax exempt status of implemen-
ting agencies do not include local, national or provincial taxes. Project
costs by year of expenditure are provided in Annex 1, Table 1. Detailed cost
tables are included in the working papers.
3.14      Quantities and costs are based on a feasibility study revised and
updated in October 1983 and adjusted to end-1984 values. The costs for tree
crop establishment and maintenance, physical facilities, and training are
based on actual expenditures under SRDP I, modified where appropriate. Road
costs are based on Provincial Public Works experience for similar items under
contract. Cost estimates include physical contingencies estimated at 15% for
roads, and 5% for physical facilities and tree crop establishment. Total



- 14 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
Foreign     Total
Local Foreign Total exchange base costs
- (US$ m/Rp) -               (X)
Rubber Establishment and
Maintenance
South Sumatra and Singkut           28.9   19.9      48.8     41          32
Riau                                27.2   18.9      46.1     41          30
West Kalimantan                     27.2   19.0      46.2     41          30
Subtotal                        83.3   57.8    141.1       41         91
Program Support
Training and headquarters
support                            2.7    0.7       3.4     20           2
Technical assistance and
studies                            1.0    3.5      4.5      78           3
Applied research                     0.3    0.1       0.4     19           0
Start-up funds for SRDP III          3.7    1.5       5.2     30           3
Subtotal                         7.7    5.8      13.5      43          9
Total Base Costs                91.0   63.6    154.6       41        100
Physical contingencies               5.6    6.2      11.8     53           8
Price contingencies                 34.0   20.6      54.6     38          35
Total Project Costs             130.6   90.4    221.0      41        143
/a Rp 1,000 - US$1.00.
Notes: Total physical contingencies are 8% of base costs. Local price
contingencies are 35% and foreign price contingencies 30% of the
respective base costs plus physical contingencies.



- 15 -
physical contingencies are estimated at US$11.8 million, about 8% of project
costs. Relatively low physical contingencies are assumed because the actual
inputs required under SRDP I are known. Expected price increases are indica-
ted in Table 3.3 and equal 33% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
Table 3.3:  EXPECTED PRICE INCREASES
Calendar        1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990+
year
Local         12.0    12.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    9.0        7.5       6
Foreign       -3.2      3.5     8.0    9.0      9.0     9.0      7.5       6
Financing Plan
3.15      The proposed Bank loan of US$131 million would cover 60% of project
costs less the cost of vehicles purchased under reserve procurement
(US$221 million minus US$2.9 million). The Bank loan would finance 73Z of the
project's foreign costs and 50% of local costs. Provision of 602 of total
project costs is consistent with regional guidelines for Indonesia. The Com-
monwealth Development Corporation (CDC) would provide US$20 million and
domestic financing would be required for Rp 70 billion (US$70 million) or 32%
of project costs. Project costs far fully participating farmers are divided
into a credit component and a non-credit component. The credit component,
about three fourths of establishment costs, covers those on-farm expenses to
be repaid by the farmer, including planting material, agro-inputs and
incentive labor payments.  The non-credit component, which accounts for the
remaining quarter of establishment costs, covers infrastructure, administra-
tive overheads, and routine expenditures not charged directly to the farmer.
The domestically financed share of the credit component would come 80% from BI
and 20% from BRI, and the domestically financed share of the non-credit com-
ponent would come from MOF. Pre-financing for the production of planting
material for sale to partially-assisted farmers would come from MOF, and
revenues from such sales would be returned to MOF as required under GOI pro-
cedures.
On-Lending Terms and Conditions
3.16      BRI Funds.  At the start of the project GOI and BRI would enter into
a financing arrangement to provide the funds to BRI to finance the credit com-
ponent. Funds for the credit component would come 65% from the IBRD, 28Z from
BI liquidity credits and 72 from BRI's own resources.  The IBRD funds would be
on-lent to BRI at 9.9% which was the IBRD interest rate at the time of the
invitation to negotiations, and GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
BI liquidity credits would be lent to BRI at 3% and BRI's own cost of funds is
estimated at 10.5%. The weighted cost of funds for the project would



- 16 -
therefore be about 8%. The repayment terms for the IBRD funds on-lent to BRI
and the BI liquidity credits would be 20 years with 7 years grace, the same as
to the smallholder. Under these arrangements BRI's income would be 14% for
years 1-3, payable by MOF, and 15.5% for years 4-20, 12% payable by the
smallholder plus a 3.5% subsidy payable by MOF. This would give BRI a spread
of 6%-7.5% to cover its overhead costs, risks of default and profit. This
spread has been calculated to provide a 1% profit to BRI assuming that average
overhead costs during the project are 5%, the default rate is 20%, and BRI
bears 25% of the default risk. The other 75% of the default risk would be
shared by MOF and BI.
3.17      For years 1-3 of field development the credit component would tech-
nically be in the form of a loan from BRI to DGE. At the end of year 3 the
loan to DGE would be "converted" to individual smallholder loans. Conversion
would take place after year 3 to provide time to survey the land and give
formal title to the smallholders, and to evaluate the quality of the planting
and the smallholder's performance.
3.18      On-lending Terms to Smallholders.  The base cost of providing two ha
of rubber per family under the project is estimated at US$4,000. The small-
holder would enter into a credit agreement with BRI for components totaling
US$3,100 or about three fourths of the total (see Annex 2, Table 7). The
interest rate to the smallholders would be 12% with a grace period of seven
years. Interest would be waived for the first three years, compounded in
years 4-7 and capitalized at the end of the grace period. This is equivalent
to an effective rate of about 11%. This would be positive in real terms in
all years of the project. These terms represent a significant increase in the
debt service to be borne by the smallholders compared with SRDP I which has an
interest rate of 6% with no interest accrued during the grace period. These
terms are consistent with other GOI-financed programs in the subsector and
with the GOI's objective of meeting target incomes and keeping smallholder
payments below 20-25% of gross rubber income. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that funds would be on-lent to smallholders on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Flow of Funds
3.19      For both the credit and non-credit components, SRDPU will prepare an
annual budget request in October to be reviewed by DGE, MOF and BAPPENAS. MOF
will then issue a formal approval of the budget before the start of the fiscal
year on April 1.
(a)  Credit and non-credit expenditures financed by the World Bank and
prefinanced by MOF: IBRD funds will be used for both the credit and
non-credit components and will be prefinanced by MOF. At the
beginning of each fiscal year MOF will release funds for the first
and second quarter budget to SRDPU's bank account, currently at BRI,
less the amounts for which it is expected the World Bank will make
direct payments. Budget releases from MOF to SRDPU for the third
and fourth quarters of each fiscal year would be contingent upon
SRDPU accountability reports documenting actual expenditure in the
first quarter (to get the third quarter release) and second quarter
(to get the fourth quarter release).



- 17 -
(b)  Non-credit expenditures financed by MOF.  These will be financed
under procedures similar to those described above. The first and
second quarter budget will be released automatically to the SRDPU
bank account at the start of each fiscal year. Accountability
reports for the first and second quarters will be required to get
the third and fourth quarter releases. As in SRDP I the source of
financing for MOF's small contribution to the non-credit component
will be the Dana Tanaman Ekspor (DTE, the Export Commodity Fund),
and MOF is committed to maintaining sufficient funds in the DTE to
cover its share of non-credit costs.
(c)  Credit expenditures financed by BI/BRI.  At the start of each fiscal
year BRI will release the amount budgeted for new planting for the
first and seconi quarters from the BI/BRI pool. This pool consists
80% of BI liquidity credits, to be released to BRI the quarter
before they are needed, and 20% of BRI's own funds. As with MOF,
BRI requires an accountability report for the first quarter to make
the third quarter release, and for the second quarter to make the
fourth quarter release. For maintenance of old planting, BRI will
require accountability reports for the third and fourth quarters of
the previous year before releasing funds for the first and second
quarters of the new year.
3.20      Until recently, MOF prefinancing of funds to be reimbursed by the
World Bank was drawn from the DTE. In theory this fund consists of taxes and
cess funds earmarked for tree crop development. In practice, since tax rates
are low, it consists mainly of subventions from the MOF. One problem in SRDP
I has been a delay in fund flows due to a shortage of funds in the DTE. To
circumvent this problem prefinancing of the IBRD shares of both the credit and
non-credit components for SRDP I and SRDP II will come directly from an
account consisting of general treasury revenues. This account will also
receive reimbursement from the IBRD.
3.21      The signing of a Financing Agreement between GOI and BRI, and of a
Sub-Financing Agreement between BRI and the DGE, both acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The Sub-Financing Agreement
between BRI and DGE would contain the terms and conditions applicable to the
smallholders after loan conversion (see Annex 3).
Procurement
3.22      Equipment and Supplies.  Procurement arrangements are shown in
Table 3.4 and summarized below:
(a)  Except as noted below, international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with Bank Group Guidelines would be used for fertilizer
(except urea, TSP, MOP and ammonia sulfate), agrochemicals, vehicles
and farm machinery (US$45.7 million). A preference limited to 15%
of the CIF price of imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to domestic manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids.



- 18 -
Table 3.4: Procurement /a
(in US$ million)
ICB          LCB       Other /b   N.A. /c   Total
Agro-inputs
Total                       30.6           9.1        17.8      17.7       75.2
Bank                       (30.6)         (9.1)      (16.6)    (16.6)    (72.9)
Civil Works
Total                         -           28.3         0.2       5.0       33.5
Bank                          -          (28.3)       (0.0)     (5.0)    (33.3)
Vehicles and Equipment
Total                       15.1           2.3         2.9        -        20.3
Bank                          (-)         (0.4)        (-)        -        (0.4)
Smallholder Labor
Total                                       -          -        52.0       52.0
Bank                                        -          -       (13.0)    (13.0)
Services
Total                        5.6            -          4.1       5.4       15.1
Bank                        (5.6)           -         (0.4)     (5.4)    (11.4)
Overheads and Administration
Total                                       -          -        24.9       24.9
Bank                                        -          -
Total Cost                    51.3          39.7        25.0     105.0      221.0
(IBRD financed)/d            (36.2)        (37.8)      (17.0)    (40.0)   (131.0)
/a   Costs including physical and price contiugencies.
/b   Other means of procurement including direct purchase of seed, fertilizer,
and land titling and applied research, reserve procurement of vehicles
and prudent shopping.
/c   Not applicable.  Includes production of planting material, civil works
constructed under force account, training, incentive payments to farmers
and overheads and administration.
/d   These figures are approximate and depend on the use of unallocated
funds. See also Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds, Annex 1, Table 2.



- 19 -
(b) Locally advertised competitive bidding following procedures accept-
able to the Bank would be used for cover crop seeds (US$2.5 million)
in which Indonesia is competiti-e, because it is essential that
these be purchased in a timely fashion; and for agro-inputs, minor
agricultural implements, office supplies and extension literature
(US$8.9 million) to be purchased in small lots unattractive to
international bidders. Purchases of minor agricultural equipment
and supplies other than urea, TSP, MOP and ammonia sulfate which are
under US$50,000 (estimated to total US$1.2 million), could be
obtained through prudent shopping with three price quotations.
(c)  Direct purchase would be permitted for urea, TSP, MOP and ammonia
sulfate (US$13.3 million) which would be obtained from P.T. PUSRI,
the state-owned fertilizer monopoly, at GOI-determined prices which
are uniform nationwide. This policy is followed in Bank projects as
local production costs are less than the import parity price, and,
to stimulate fertilizer use, the price is lowered further by GOI
subsidy. Rubber seeds (US$3.3 million) would be obtained from
qualified estates or from SRDP fields selected by the DGE, at prices
negotiated between the DGE and the estates.
(d) As Government requires the purchase of locally assembled four-wheel
drive vehicles and motorcycles, these items (US$2.9 million) would
be regarded as reserve procurement.
In the recent past, Government has restricted purchase of motor vehicles for
agricultural staff. Since the rubber fields in the Other Islands are widely
scattered and good extension cannot be provided without adequate transport,
CDC has agreed to disburse 100% (less any identifiable taxes) against the cost
of such vehicles and an assurance was obtained that Government would procure
four-wheel drive vehicles motorcycles on a schedule reviewed and agreed with
the Bank and CDC.
3.23      Civil Works.  About 20 separate works contracts would be awarded
tnrough 'CB for roads (US$25.2 million) and project facilities (US$8.3 mil-
lion). As these works are scattered over 50 locations in three provinces and
are implemented over five years, it would be difficult to combine them into
larger contracts suitable for international competitive bidding. Local pro-
cedures, similar to SRDP I, are acceptable to the Bank. In the case of
SRDP I, the GOI has experienced considerable difficulty in attracting bids for
road work in West Kalimantan so about 30% of the total works in that province
are being implemented by force account and funds for force account work have
been provided in this project. An assurance was obtained that the aggregate
amount of road construction done by force account would not exceed 20% of the
total cost of road works unless otherwise agreed by the Bank.
3.24      Services.  Three contracts would be awarded for technical assistance
(US$5.6 million), one each for technical specialities concerned with rubber
production, for financial services including the provision of local qualified
accountants in the provinces, and for training. These contracts would be
awarded on the basis of Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. As field



- 20 -
supervision demands an unusual combination of language and technical skills,
individuals could be hired on an exceptional basis as agreed by the Bank.
Training (US$5.4 million) would be carried out by selected PHU staff and
contractors according to a training p-ogram reviewed and agreed by the Bank.
Research (US$0.4 million) would be carried out by PMU staff on or adjacent to
farmers' fields. As land surveys and land titling (US$3.7 million) can
legally be done only by the Directorate General of Agraria (DGA) such services
would be provided by the DGA on contract to the SRDPU. Planting material
(US$17.7 million) would be produced by the PHUs. Land clearing, tree crop
establishment, maintenance, and fencing (US$52.0 million) would be undertaken
by the smallholders and compensation would be provided according to agreed
rates from the SRDP account. Transport (US$4.6 million), and maintenance and
overheads (estimated at US$20.3 million) would be covered under routine
expenditures.
3.25      Procurement under ICB would be carried out by the SRDPU with assist-
ance from its consultants. Local procurement would be done by the PMUs sub-
ject to SRDPU approval. Standard bidding documents agreed by the Bank would
be used for both ICB and LCB contracts. These documents are currently in use
under the Bank-assisted NES and Smallholder Rubber and Coconut Projects.  Bid-
ding documents for all contracts estimated to exceed US$500,000 would be
reviewed by the Team Khusus and approved by the Bank before issuance.
Disbursement
3.26      The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Annex 1,
Table 2 and summarized below.
IBRD (US$131.0 million)
(a) 100% of expenditures for planting material produced under the
project, and of imported or locally produced seed, fertilizer and
agrochemicals (less any identifiable taxes);
(b) for small agricultural implements and supplies, 100% of expenditures
for directly imported items, 95% of expenditures for locally
manufactured items and 65% of expenditures for imported locally
procured items;
(c) 100% of expenditures for civil works undertaken on contract or force
account (less any identifiable taxes);
(d) 100% of expenditures for training, applied research, and technical
assistance; and
(e) 25% of expenditures for incentive payments to smallholders.
Commonwealth Development Corporation (US$20 million)
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported vehicles and equipment and
spare parts purchased at the time of procurement;



- 21 -
(b)  1OOZ of expenditures on locally assembled four-wheel drive vehicle-
and motorcycles; and
(c)  10OZ of expenditures for sprinklers, workshop and comnunications
equipment and for furniture and office equipment.
Bank and CDC funds would be disbursed on separate components of the project.
Neither the Bank nor CDC would disburse against overheads or routine expendi-
tures. Surveying and land titling, much of which occurs in later project
years, would be financed entirely by the GOI. For most components, disburse-
ment would be made on the basis of standard documentation. Disbursement would
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE) for the production of
planting material, the training and research components, labor incentive pay-
ments and road construction by force account. Detailed documentation for SOEs
would be retained in Indonesia and available to the Bank for inspection (see
Annex 4).
3.27      An estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex 1,
Table 3. Because the project is limited to a five-year time-slice of the SDRP
program and because SRDP I has met implementation targets on time when funds
were available, project disbursements are expected to be completed in six
years, two years less than the average in regional or Bank-wide tree crop
projects which were not time-slice projects. The project closing date would
be June 30, 1991.
Accounts and Audits
3.28      To ensure adequate accounting under SRDP II, qualified accountants
have been provided in each project province and assurances would be obtained
under the proposed project that: (a) separate accounts and SOEs would be main-
tained for the project; (b) these accounts and SOEs, and the accounts of BR1
related to the project, would be audited annually by independent auditors or
firms acceptable to the Bank; and (c) these audited accounts and the audit
report would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of each
GOI fiscal year.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
General Organizational Structure
4.01      General.  The Directorate General of Estates (DGE), within the
Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for all tree crop and industrial crop
development in Indonesia. The DGE operates through a numnber of special
purpose committees (such as the Sugar Council) and it has six directorates.
The Directorate for Replanting and Rehabilitation is responsible for GOI-
financed PMU development. The DGE also includes twro special programs, SRDP
and SCDP, which are outside the directorate structure and responsible to the
Director General. A special team, the Team Rhusus, was formed in 1979 to help
prepare and supervise projects in the estate sector and to establish uniform
procedures for Bank-assisted tree crop development. In 1983 the Team Khusus
also assumed responsibility for the PIR program. A Junior Minister for tree
.



- 22 -
crops was appointed in 1983 to coordinate ministries involved in the subsector
(Industry, Finance, Cooperatives, etce.).
4.02      The SRDPU.  Under SPDP I, a management unit, the SRDPU, was formed
to implement Bank-assisted PMU rubber development projects. The SRDPU coordi-
nates irs work with the Team Khusus, but carries out its day-to-day activities
independently. As a special unit, the SRDPU has more operational and finan-
cial autonomy than a regular directorate. Under SRDP II, the SRDPU would be
strengthened and under subsequent projects it would gradually assume control
of all PMU rubber development, regardless of the financing source. SRDP I
also created small provincial offices in project provinces and under SRDP II
these would be expanded to assume some functions now centralized in Jakarta.
The organizational structure of the proposed SRDP II program is shown in
Figure 4.1.
Organization and Staffing of PMUs
4.03      PMU Organization.  Three types of PMUs are involved in the proposed
project. First, are large-scale PMUs included in SRDP I and each covering
about 20,000 ha of rubber plantings. Each of these PMUs has a central office
responsible for admi. stration and finance, equipment maintenance, training
and extension, and subunits responsible mainly for field development. These
PMUs are functioning and will be used to provide on-the-job training to new
SRDP staff. Second, are similar large-scale PMUs brought into the program in
the first year of SRDP II. These will cover about 10,000 ha. be organized and
staffed like SRDP I PMUs, but they will not have a training function.
Finally, there are 16 small GOI-financed PMUs in each project province. These
PMUs are each responsible for planting about 3,000 ha of rubber and they have
many of the same functions as SRDP subunits. To improve supervision and
financial control, four or five of these small PMUs would be grouped together
into larger PHUs before being absorbed into the SRDP program in years 2, 3 and
4 of the proposed project.
4.04      In order to transfer PMUs to SRDP authority, detailed audits and
inventories of assets (including plantings) are required. This process
involves several agencies and is cumbersome and time consuming. To ensure
that these procedures do not lead to implementation delays, assurances would
be sought that (a) the process of absorbing the PMUs would be comoleted before
tree crop establishment begins; and (b) preparation cf nursery materials and
recruitment of farmers could be undertaken by SRDP prior to full transfer.
The DGE is also exploring ways to simplify transfer procedures.
4.05      Staffing anu. Salaries.  Government has restricted both growth and
salary increases within the civil service. This does not present a serious
constraint at junior levels, where project salaries are relatively competi-
tive, but low salaries have made it difficult to recruit senior staff and
those with special skills. The general problem of compensation is currently
under discussion with Government and an assurance was obtained at negotiations
that the SRDPU and the PMUs would be adequately staffed. Even with signifi-
cant raises, however, GOI salaries would not be sufficient to recruit qual-
ified accountants or staff capable of supervising the construction of civil
works. To circumvent this immediate problem the proposed project provides



INOONESA
tMALUIOiDR RIfER DEMLOPIMENT PROGRAM
RdO_S6dWOP
-do
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
O.p.4~R4JMw s ,~ I.v Pq go ||
z -,                                          Ad.                             Ad         9A
'"us-ME    
C-|e *, 4hb. NOM. 'sW    i#u9h1. .*be
ow w 0   amwc 1WM Mm  d sc
"MAIM -                                   I                                                                                                             et
tw,. C MM - 3uu~~~~~~~~~~~~A.sbmdbn3-5wa.cO~~~~~~~~~~\lds-s
Me buAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  wAd~~~~~~~~~~~~S  d iO.MIw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 24 -
funds to hire three local accountants (one for each province) under a contract
for technical assistance on financial matters, and the Provincial Public Works
Department would supervise the construction of roads and facilities for 5X of
construction costs or, alternatively, domestic consultants would be hired by
the SRDPU to provide these services (para. 4.15).
Field Development
4.06      Farmer Selection.  PHUs would select farmers who reside permanently
within 5 T,n of the land to be planted; are fit and above 18 years of age; own
rubber land or work as share-tappers; have land of suitable slope and drain-
age; have sufficient family labor to develop 2 ha of project plantings; do not
own more than 2 ha of ricefields; agree to abide by all project rules and
maintain cultivation standards laid down by the PMU; and agree to the credit
conditions. There have been no problems under SRDP I in identifying appli-
cants who meet these criteria. In some Indonesian provinces (notably West
Sumatra) women are the main landowners in rubber areas and SRDP accepts women
both as project participants and wage laborers.
4.07      Planting Material.  There is virtually complete reliance on clone
GT1 for planting material in Indonesian rubber projects. Given the possible
susceptibility of monoclonal plantings to mutants of existing diseases, the
proposed project would broaden the genetic base by setting a ceiling of 70% on
the overall percentage of GTI and allowing up to 10% of each of five otLer
recommmended clones in any project area. Although a single cione would be
used in any planting block (20 hectare minimum) PHUs would, whenever possible,
provide different plantin- materials for each of a farmer's two hectares.
4.08      Nursery Development.  Budwood nurseries, with a five-year life,
would produce green and brown budwood for budding onto selected seedlings in
the stump nurseries. Budded stumps would be produced for all fully-parti-
cipating farmers, but up to 50% of partially-assisted farmers would be pro-
vided with budwood for field-budding their plantings. Under SRDP-I, GTl seed
for rootstocks was obtained through the Tanjung Morawa Rubber Research
Station. To simplify seed procurement, the proposed project would also permit
the use of biclonal seed from appropriate clone boundaries and rigorous
nursery selection would be undertaken prior to budding. Bare-root budded
stumps would be distributed both to fully-participating and partially-assisted
farmers.
4.09      Land Clearing and Planting.  To limit the degree of soil degradation
associated with mechanical cultivation, especially in steeply sloping areas,
land clearing by fully-participating farmers would combine manual and chemical
methods. Partially-assisted farmers would use manual clearing only. Where
rubber areas are replanted, poisoning would be undertaken prior to felling to
limit root disease. Tree poisoning, tree felling, herbicide spraying and land
terracing (in areas with slopes over 8%) would be done by farmer groups under
PMU supervision or by groups contracted by the farmers with PMU assistance.
Intercropping would be permitted only where alang-alang has been eradicated.
Land clearing would be completed by May/June and rubber and intercrops or
covercrops would be planted from October-December.



- 25 -
4.10      In SRDP I, field casualties are estimated at 15%.  In SRDP II
increased planting densities, in combination with more equidistant spacing,
would reduce the need for supplying vacant points, enhance balanced canopy
development and reduce maintenance costs. Because of the relatively high
initial planting densities (555 per ha), at most about 45 replacements per ha
are likely to be required. Field supplying would utilize bare-root budded
stumps, to be field planted wherever possible within three months of initial
establishment and within the same rainy season. During the course of the
project, management would provide farmers with training in the establishment
of both stump and polybag nurseries as a means of encouraging private nursery
development in the future.
4.11      Intercropping.  Where topography, soil conditions &ad weed
populations permit, rubber farmers would be encouraged to interplant with rice
and other appropriate food crops such as beans, maize, groundnuts or pine-
apple. Farmers would be discouraged from intercropping in terraced areas or
where land has been developed fror- sheet alang-alang. Intercropping would be
permitted during the first two years after rubber planting and long-term
credit would be available for agrochemical inputs. Intercropping, prior to
the establishment of a legumirous ground cover, would serve the dual purpose
of augmenting farmers' earnings and acting as a stimulus to field upkeep.
4.12      Rubber maintenance.  Control of alang-alang may be a problem for
smallholders especially where intercropping is practiced. This problem would
be minimized, in the case of fully-participating farmers, through the timely
application of appropriate herbicides and adherence to the criteria for inter-
cropping. In areas where intercropping is not undertaken, a mixture of
leguminous cover crop seeds would be sown immediately after burning or spray-
ing. Where intercropping is permitted, the cover crop seeds would be sown
before or at the time of harvest of the last intercrop. Weeding during rubber
immaturity would be undertaken by farmers closely supervised by PMU staff.
4.13      Manuring, Pest and Disease Control.  The credit package covers the
cost of fertilizers to be applied at standard rates for rubber trees and for
rice intercrops. Fertilizer recommendations from the fifth field year onwards
would be based on foliar analysis. The credit package also covers the cost of
labor and material inputs for protection of the rubber and rice intercrops
from disease and pests. Fencing is also provided to prevent damage to the
rubber by pests such as deer and wild pigs.
4.14      Tapping.  If fully-participating farmers adhere to recommended pro-
cedures during rubber immaturity, budded trees would be opened for tapping
during the sixth field year. Essential tapping equipment would be provided to
the farmers on credit. Farmers would be advised to tap rubber trees on a half
spiral, alternate day system (S/2 d/2) and it is assumed that they would tap
an average of 500 trees per day, 10 months per annum. The judicious use of
stimulants (e.g., ethaphon) under close PMU supervision could maintain small-
holder rubber yields at lower tapping intensities and thus at considerably
lower labor inputs with only small marginal costs.



- 26 -
Civil Works
4.15      Access Roads.  Under SRDP I, the District CKabupaten) Public Works
(DPW) office is responsible for the planning, design and construction super-
vision of access roads. For these services they charge the project about 5X
of the construction cost and assign one full-time person to SRDP in each
province. Generally, those assigned are not qualified engineers but have some
experience in the maintenance and construction of village roads. These
arrangements have not been satisfactory and have resulted in the wrong loca-
tion of cross drainage structures. For this reason, under the proposed
project supervision responsibility would be shifted to the Provincial Public
Works (PPW) which would assign an experienced engineer, on a full-time basis,
to supervise construction. If PPW is not prepared to assume this responsi-
bility, the project would use the 5% administration cost otherwise charged by
Public Works to employ a local consultant in each province to undertake
surveys, design, and evaluation of bids and to supervise construction under
the direction of the SRDP II Project Manager.
4.16      DPW is also responsible for the maintenance of village roads for
which they spend about Rp 0.5 million per kilometer. This is not adequate.
Under Repelita IV, activities of the DPW would be controlled and monitored by
PPW and a substantial increase in maintenance funds is expected. As this is a
national policy, no special assurances on additional funding are required.
Plantation roads would be maintained by the PMUs. The maintenance of such
roads has been satisfactory under SRDP I and adequate funds have been provided
each year for such maintenance.  A tractor with blade, truck and 3-ton roller
would be provided under the project for each subunit for hauling material and
periodic regrading of road surfaces.
4.17      Project Facilities.  The PPW office of Cipta Karya would be
responsible for design, preparation of contract documents, evaluation of bids
and construction supervision for project facilities. Standard designs exist
for staff housing and are used by all government agencies throughout
Indonesia. Design of such facilities as offices, workshops and warehouses
would be similar to those used under SRDP .. PPW would assign a person on a
full-time basis to work at the SRDP provincial offices and coordinate all
activities associated with payments to the contractors for the construction of
project facilities.
Credit Administration
4.18      PMUs would maintain credit records during the development period
including a record of all inputs and cash payments provided to each
participant. Cash payments to the farmers would be made by BRI from the SRDP
account. If extra inputs are required due to farmer neglect, these would be
charged to the farmer's account. Where damage is caused by forces beyond the
farmer's control, physical inputs would be provided without charge, but no
additional compensation would be provided for labor. Smallholder accounts
would be set up by BRI when loan conversion takes place at the end of year
3. At that time BRI would explain the repayment schedule, including penalties
for late payment or non-payment. To maximize returns, repayment schedules
would be graduated to permit smaller payments in the early years of repayment



- 27 -
when yields are low, and payments would be monthly to ensure that reasonably
small amounts would be paid in each installment.
Manpower Development
4.19      Training.  Two of the major objectives of the proposed project are
to improve the quality of rubber establishment and expand the capacity of PMU
management. To meet these objectives the project provides intensive training
to project staff. Under the proposed project the existing training unit in
the SRDPU would be strengthened and extended to the provinces. In the
provinces, special training centers would be established in SRDP I PMUs under
the direction of an assistant manager for training, and these would provide
both formal courses and on-the-job training. In addition, one person in each
SRDP I PHU would be appointed to assess training needs and coordinate the
training program. All managerial and supervisory staff would receive training
in management skills and specialized work-related topics. Initially most
higher level management training would be provided by the Estates Training
Institute in Yogyakarta and similar institutions, but in-house capacity would
gradually be developed within SRDP.
4.20      Most extension would occur through the training and visit system.
Under this system, project participants would be organized into groups of
about 10-25 farmers, and one extension worker (PLPT) would be responsible for
about six to eight groups during the planting and establishment period. Since
the PLPTs are the critical link between project and farmer, all SRDP extension
workers would receive intensive training including induction training and on-
the-job orientation (two months), rubber technology training (one month),
extension training (one month), and field supervision (one year). Subsequent
formal courses would be available for upgrading PLPT supervisory and technical
capabilities. SRDP I PMUs would also hold one-week courses for farmer group
leaders in topics such as _hainsaw operations, cover crop planting and bud
grafting, and they would provide extension literature to farm group leaders
and project participants.
4.21      Technical Assistance.  The expansion of the rubber development
program coupled with shortages of skilled technical manpower necessitates the
continued provision of technical support. To ensure the long-term success of
the SRDP program, the project provides technical specialists covering nursery
development and field management, processing and marketing, training and
extension, and monitoring and evaluation. Two financial advisers and three
qualified public accountants (one for each project province) are also provided
(Annex 1, Table 5). With the exception of the accountants, technical special-
ists would be stationed in Jakarta but travel extensively to the field.
Allowance is also made for 36 man-months of consultant time to cover short-
term studies related to road and building design, organization and management
and technical problems. Terms of reference are available in the project
files.



- 28 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22      Monitoring and evaluation are needed to record physical progress,
identify and resolve implementation problems, design appropriate technical and
credit packages, and evaluate the impact of the project on participants. In
order to strengthen all aspects of monitoring and evaluation, responsibility
for this task would be given to the Bureau for Planning and Budgeting within
the SRDPU. The Bureau would be responsible for monitoring baseline data,
physical progress, the quality of implementation, rubber growth and yield
data, institutional development and financial performance. It would report
monthly to the project director, semi-annually to the Bank, and to other
agencies as required. Monitoring and evaluation units in the provinces would
also be strengthened and gradually take over monitoring activities within the
three project provinces. Most field data would be gathered by PLPTs ir. the
course of routine supervision, and these data would be aggregated within the
PMUs, forwarded to the provincial office, and form the basis of an expanded
management information system. The SRDPU would be responsible for preparing
the project completion report.
Rubber Research
4.23      Rubber research in Indonesia is undertaken by the Estate Crop
Research Institutes at Bogor (West Java) and Medan (North Sumatra), by the
Rubber Research Centers at Tanjung Morawa (North Sumatra) and Getas and Jember
(Central Java), and by the Rubber Research Institutes at Sembawa (South
Sumatra) and Sungei Putih (North Sumatra). These institutes are coordinated
by the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD). The Sungei
Putih Station is being developed to undertake basic rubber research while the
Sembawa Station is being upgraded to undertake research activities directly
related to smallholder rubber cultivation. These institutes have been
equipped and their staff have been trained under the first Bank-assisted
Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1179-IND), and the planning, development
and execution of appropriate rubber research programs on the main research
stations is being addressed during the preparation of the Third Research
Project. Under the proposed project, provision is made for regular consulta-
tion between SRDP officials and AARD research staff and for a modest program
of on- and off-farm rubber trials in SRDP areas. The proposed program would
be under the technical control of Sembawa Rubber Research Station whose
officers would maintain close contact with SRDPU staff during the formulation
and execution of this component. The general work program has been agreed in
principle with officials of AARD and Sembawa and detailed plans would be
subject to Bank approval.
V. PROJECT ANALYSIS
Agricultural Yields and Production
5.01      Rubber.  Fully-participating farmers practiciig reasonable field
management are expected to attain average peak yields of 1,500 kg of dry rub-
ber content (drc) per ha corresponding to average annual production over the
25-year tapping life of about 1,100 kg drc per ha. Partially-assisted



- 29 -
planters supported under the project are expected to attain average peak
-yields of 1,000 kg drc per ha and average annual production of approximately
740 kg drc per ha. Average rubber yield profiles are presented in the working
papers together with assumed profiles for "good" and "poor" farmers. Dry
rubber production from the 95,500 ha established under the project would reach
an annual peak of about 132,000 tons in the year 2002/03. Additionally, an
annual peak of 101,000 tons dru2 would be produced in 1998/99 from plantings
established under other projects and maintained under SRDP II.
5.02      Intercropped Rice.  Rice would be intercropped for two years on
about a quarter of all rubber areas. Gross rice yields are projected at
1.15 tons of paddy/ha in both field years 0 and 1 of rubber planting and it is
assumed that 60% of a given hectare would be intercropped in the first field
year and 40% in the second. The total paddy output from fully-participating
farmers would be about 34,000 tons with a peak annual total of approximately
9,000 tons in 1988/89. No rice would be produced after 1990/91 from areas
planted to rubber under SRDP II.
Market Prospects
5.03      Rubber.  From 1950 to 1979 world consumption of natural and synthe-
tic rubber increased from 9.4 million tons to 12.3 million tons and thereafter
fell slightly to 11.5 million tons in 1982. During this period, the share of
natural rubber decreased from 67% to approximately 32% of the total, but abso-
lute consumption of natural rubber rose from about 1.6 million tons in 1950 to
3.7 million tons in 1982. Growth prospects and projected prices for all elas-
tomers depend heavily on assumptions about oil prices and recent projections
have shown great variation. FAO forecasts in October 1982 indicate a steady
growth in elastomer demand to about 21 million tons in the year 2000 and rela-
tive stability in the proportion of natural rubber required (6.8 million
tons). Assuming that Indonesian rubber continues to increase in attractive-
ness because of low labor costs, FAO has estimated that the demand for
Indonesian rubber could potentially be as high as 4.1 million tons by the year
2000. More conservatively, if Indonesia's share of production remains stable,
the market would be expected to absorb about 2.4 million tons of Indonesian
rubber. In either case, the potential market exceeds Indonesia's projected
production of 1.7-2.3 million tons by the year 2000 and suggests that market-
ing should not be a problem.
5.04      Rice.  Intercropped rice produced in the project areas would be
consumed by the smallholders or sold in active local markets. As most areas
depending heavily on rubber for cash incomes are deficient in rice, no market-
ing problems are anticipated. Should small localized surpluses of rice arise,
village cooperatives could act as purchasing agents for the Government's food
procurement authority which maintains a nationwide floor price for rice.
Marketing and Processing in the Project Area
5.05      Because of very low yields and prices, most farmers give little
attention to rubber quality. With poor tapping and collecting techniques,
about one third of the output is tree lace and cup lump. This material is
combined in large, irregular slabs which also contain bark and dirt. The



- 30 -
balance of the rubber is generally formed into thick coagulated slabs or
sheets which are run through mangles to produce thin, ribbed sheet. The
thicker slabs are generally sold at about 50% dry rubber content (drc) while
sun dried sheets are sold at 80% drc. Righ dirt and water content increase
transport costs, necessitate further drying and cleaning by the millers, and
result in a poorer finished product. Because of this, traders often inten-
tionally underestimate dry rubber content to nbtain higher margins. Prices
are set by the factories, with the middlemen us-.ally taking fixed margins, and
prices fluctuate in accordance with world market (Singapore) prices
transmitted daily by radio.
5.06      At preseuit, the FOB price for SIR 20 is about Rp 1000 (US$1.00) per
kg. After subtracting taxes, milling costs, transport, traders' margins and
mangling, the average farmgate price for sheet rubber is about Rp 500/kg (of
drc), or about 50% of FOB. The farmgate price varies widely, however, and
smallholders in remote, low yielding areas receive as little as 30% of the FOB
price while farmers in GOI-sponsored projects can receive as much as 70%. By
1990, the FOB price in constant 1984 prices is expected to reach Rp 1,057
(US$1.06)/kg (Annex 2, Table 2). The average farmgate price for sheet rubber
produced under the project is estimated at Rp 656/kg in 1990 (62% of FOB).
When infrastructure, smallholder knowledge of markets, and the quantity of
rubber produced in a given area improve, transaction costs should drop, and
the percentage of FOB should increase, reaching an estimated average of 682 of
FOB in 1995. The FOB price of SIR 20 is projected to increase to Rp 1,095
(US$1.10)/kg by 1995, giving the smallholder a farmgate price of Rp 744/kg.
5.07      In North Sumatra some group marketing organizations have been formed
which invite middlemen to weekly auctions. Though still in their infancy, the
system has increased prices and bypassed the lowest layer (subcollector) in
the marketing chain because the rubber quantity attracts larger dealers. A
similar system has begur, in SRDP I in South Sumatra with good initial results
and will be extended to other SRDP I PMUs as rubber comes into tapping.
Existing farmer groups are expected to provide the units for group marketing.
Farm Incomes
5.08      Pre-project incomes in the project area average about US$120/capita,
or US$600/family of five, of which about 30% is from rubber. Without the
project, the average rubber yields in project areas would decline, on-farm
incomes would fall, and many farmers would be expected to drop out of rubber
production. For the first seven years of the project, cash payments and the
value of rice intercropping would not quite offset the loss of income foregone
due to the project's labor demands. By field year seven, income would be
greater than pre-project levels and thereafter would increase rapidly to about
US$1,500/year. Total net income at full development (years 11-30) would
average almost three times the pre-project income. Farm model data are
summarized in Annex 2, Table 5.
Cost Recovery
5.09      The bulk of cost recovery under SRDP II will come from smallholder
debt service payments. BRI will be responsible for administering smallholder



- 31 -
accounts and collecting repayments. For an individual smallholder who meets
his repayment obligations, and taking the debt service payments and incremen-
tal land taxes together, the proposed project would recover 146% of total
investment costs in real (inflation adjusted) terms. If the inflation-
adjusted inflows and outflows are further discounted at 10%, which is the
estimated opportunity cost of capital (OCC) in Indonesia, then the cost
recovery index would be 48%. This implies a net transfer from the smallholder
to the GOI of US$2,017 per family in real (inflation adjusted) terms, but a
theoretical transfer from GOI to the farmer of US$1,649 if all flows are
further discounted at a 10% OCC. Government believes that these arrangements
are fully justified to meet its objectives of (a) increasing non-oil export
earnings; (b) increasing smallholder incomes, particularly in remote areas
with low fertility soils where few other crops can be grown and marketed, and
(c) reducing regional disparities. The expected cost recovery for SRDP II is
higher than other projects in the tree crop subsector and it is much higher
than in other agricultural subsectors. Therefore, given GOI's long-term
development strategy, the level of cost recovery in other subsectors, and the
particular needs of the target group of smallholders participating in SRDP II,
the expected level of cost recovery was judged reasonable.
5.10      There is still the risk that defaults could be high.  However, given
the projected yields and incomes and the expected development of comercial
credit markets in rural areas, the likely level of repayments was judged suf-
ficient to justify the proposed system of cost recovery. Additional forms of
cost recovery, such as a possible reintroduction of a modest cess or export
tax, are under discussion with Government, and could be used to supplement
direct cost recovery, especially if commodity prices rise. This subject is
being pursued in discussion of the Tree Crop Sector Review.
Project Benefits
5.11      Increased foreign exchange earnings over the life of the rubber
trees established under this project would be about US$3 billion (in constant
1984 US$), an average of about US$100 million per year.
5.12      The project would promote development in areas of Indonesia with few
economic alternatives. About 45,000-65,000 families would benefit from rubber
planting (depending on the number of hectares planted per family) and about
50,000 families with trees planted under prior programs would receive help
with maintenance.  These project beneficiaries are subsistence and part-
subsistence farmers whose average income under this project would increase
from about US$600 to US$1,500-2,000 at full development. This would increase
their income in relation to people in urban areas and could, thereby, reduce
migration to cities. In addition, the project would create 1,500 jobs in
nurseries and administrative work, and smallholder labor demand would increase
an incremental 60,000 man-years annually at full development.
5.13      Nutrition in the project areas would improve due to higher incomes
enabling better food purchasing decisions and to a lesser extent from the
intercropping of rice early in the project. Other nonquantified benefits
would include increased access by smallholders to commercial markets and the
credit system, and the ripple effects to other economic sectors. The latter



- 32 -
would be particularly stimulated by roads built under the project. In addi-
tion to being necessary for the adequate provision of inputs and the marketing
of production, these roads also benefit other economic activities in adjacent
areas and improve access to health, educational and social facilities.
5.14      The project would assist in the regional development of areas of
Sumatra and Kalimantan, and the research and technical assistance components
provided under this project would lead to long-term improvements in the rubber
industry throughout Indonesia. The emphasis on institutional development
would also permit these benefits to be extended over a wider area in subse-
quent years.
Economic Rate of Return
5.15      Assumptions.  The economic rate of return has been based on the
costs and benefits expressed in border rupiah and on the following
assumptions:
(a) Conversion Factors. Except as noted below, the analysis uses the
following conversion factors which are recommended for Bank projects
in Indonesia: general project costs - 0.80; rural labor on the
Other Islands - 0.80; vehicles and equipment - 0.85; civil works -
0.80.
(b) Other Inputs and Outputs. Where GOI subsidizes fertilizer, those
subsidies have been removed when deriving economic costs (see
Annex 2, Table 1). The derivations of the economic and financial
farmgate rubber prices are shown in Annex 2, Table 2.
(c) Maintenance of Existing Plantings. The ERR calculation is based
only on the costs and benefits of new rubber planted under the
project, about 75% of project costs, as it is difficult to estimate
how much of the output from 1980-1985 plantings would be attri-
butable to maintenance under this project.
gd) Start-up Funds and Sector Support. Start-up funds for the
preparation of a future project and general support for the tree
crop sector have been excluded.
5.16      The ERR.  Based on the above assumptions, which exclude nonquanti-
fied nutritional, social and economic benefits (paras. 5.12-5.14), the eco-
nomic rate of return for this project is 13% (see Annex 2, Table 6). This is
a reasonable ERR for a tree crop project in Indonesia intended to help poor
smallholders in remote areas and it exceeds Indonesia's estimated OCC of 10%.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.17      The projected ERR was tested against various adverse assumptions
(Table 5.1). As is usually the case with tree crop projects where benefits
are stretched over many years, the ERR is relatively insensitive to changes in
either costs or benefits. Costs could rise 20% or yields or prices decrease
20% and the ERR would remain at 10% or higher. Given the experience of



- 33 -
SRDP I, costs are relatively well known and not expected to differ signifi-
cantly from appraisal estimates and although commodities prices are known for
their year to year volatility, plus or minus 20% is considered a reasonable
range of expected commodity price fluctuations over the long term. Therefore,
the greatest uncertainty lies in the prospect that yields would be lower than
projected, due either to poor establishment or poor tapping practices.
Project phasing has been designed to maintain the high standards of rubber
establishment achieved under SRDP I, and training is provided to improve
tapping. Reduced yields in the later years of the project would have rela-
tively little impact on the ERR. Given the base case ERR of 13%, the switch-
ing values on total costs and benefits required to reduce the net present
value of the project to 0% at a 10% OCC are reasonable at 23% and 19%,
respectively.
Table 5.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Assumptions /a                                                   ERR (%)
Base case                                                       13
50% increase in fertilizer costs                                12
20% increase in all agriculture costs                           11
20% decrease in either average yields or average
prices                                                        10
20% increase in either average yields or
average prices                                                16
Switching values at 10% oppor-           Appraisal    Switching      Percentage
tunity cost of capital (US$)               value         value          change /b
Decrease in benefits /c                    8,245          6,699          -19%
Increase in labor costs                    3,388          4,934           46%
Increase in fertilizer costs               1,260          2,805          12.3%
Increase in all agriculture costs          5,681          7,232           27%
Increase in non-agriculture costs          1,031          2,558          153%
Increase in total costs                    6,699          8,245           23%
/a   All values in constant 1984 US$.  Based on a 2 ha smallholder model
(Annex 2, Table 6).
/b   The percentage change that would reduce the net present value of the
project to zero at a 10% opportunity cost of capital.
/c   Caused by either a reduction in average yield or average prices or a
combination of both.
Project Risks
5.18      Agricultural.  The technical packages are derived from those used
successfully under SRDP I and they are not subject to significant agricultural
risks. The risk of widespread disease outbreaks is being reduced by broaden-
ing the genetic base of rubber planting material, and tree densities are being



- 34 -
increased and spacings made more equidistant as a means of ensuring an ade-
quate stand of windfast trees during the tapping period. The inclusion of
appropriate applied rubber research under the project will help pinpoint uni-
dentified project risks and allow their minimization during the project period
and thereafter. The risk of poor tapping woul.i be reduced by providing inten-
sive training to the smallholders before tre . are brought into production.
5.19      Managerial.  Under the proposed program, SRDP would plant a total of
about 76,000 ha of rubber and it would produce planting materials for an addi-
tional 19,500 ha. By the end of Repelita IV (April 1989) SRDP would include
16 large-scale PMUs and plant or assist in planting about 26,000 ha of rubber
per year, about 50% of Government's anticipated PHU rubber planting program.
This is a relatively large program in relation to SRDP's previous experience
and it is possible that a program on this scale could strain implementation
capacity and reduce the quality of rubber planted. To ensure that managerial
capacity would not be overtaxed, and to take account of uncertainties in the
program, an assurance would be sought that no work would be given to the SRDPU
in addition to the agreed program, without the consent of the Bank, and a mid-
term review would be jointly undertaken by GOI and the Bank during the FY87/88
planting season to make changes, if necessary, in the implementation schedule.
5.20      Financial.  There is uncertainty about cost recovery through credit
and problems are accentuated, by the decision to recover smallholder loans in
cash rather than in kind. To address this problem, Government has raised
interest rates, improved repaymect schedules, and increased incentives to BRI
to participate. Further steps to increase cost recovery are also being
explored (para. 5.10). The slow release of funds has also been a problem
under SRDP I and has caused the 1984/85 planting program to be reduced.
While revised financing procedures for SRDP II, which will also be adopted for
SRDP I, are expected to improve fund flows, this issue should continue to be
carefully monitored by the Bank.
Environmental Effects
5.21      The project would establish food crops and tree crops in areas now
used for shifting cultivation and associated rubber production. Approximately
35% of the area is in grassland (alang-alang) of otherwise low economic and
environmental value, 25% is in brush and 38% is in a mixture of rubber jungle/
secondary forest. This land is accessible and periodically cut for food crop
production. There is a small amount of primary forest in Singkut (2%) but
this area has already been logged and divided into 5 ha blocks and is cur-
rently being brought into production by the smallholders. To prevent soil
erosion, land would be cleared by manual and chemical methods and terracing
would be carried out in all areas exceeding an 8% slope. Establishment of
leguminous cover crops would also reduce erosion and increase soil fertil-
ity. The small quantities of chemicals used to control areas, pests and
diseases would not have any significant adverse environmental effects.



- 35 -
VI.  AGREEMIENTS REACHED AND RECOMESDATION
Assurances
6.01      The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)  project funds would be on-lent to smallholders on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.18);
(b)  four-wheel drive vehicles and motorcycles would be purchased in
accordance with a schedule agreed by the Bank (para. 3.22);
(c)  the aggregate amount of work on force account would not exceed 20%
of the total cost of road works (para. 3.23);
(d) separate accounts would be maintained for the project; these
accounts and the accounts of BRI related to the project would be
audited annually by independent auditors or firms acceptable to the
Bank; these audited accounts and the audit reports would be submit-
ted to the Bank within nine months of the close of each GOI fiscal
year (para. 3.28);
Ce)  the formal transfer of PMUs to SRDP authority would be completed
before land clearing for tree crop establishment begins in the
relevant PTU, but SRDP start-up work could begin in these PMUs prior
to full transfer (para. 4.04);
if)  the SRDPU and PMUs would be adequately staffed (para. 4.05); and
(g) no work in addition to the agreed program would be given to the
SRDPU during Repelita IV without the consent of the Bank and a mid-
term review would be undertaken during the 1987/88 planting season
to make changes, if necessary, in the implementation schedule
(para. 5.19).
Condition of Effectiveness
6.02      Government and Bank have agreed that a condition of effectiveness
would be the signing of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower and BRI,
and of a Sub-Financing Agreement between BRI and DGE. The Sub-Financing
Agreement would contain terms and conditions applicable to the smallholder
after loan conversion (para. 3.21).
Recommendation
6.03      With the above assurances and condition, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$131 million with a twenty-year maturity
including a grace period of five years at the standard variable interest
rate. The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



-.21-                                                            s1
SULLU3LO  111in3 OkWELAINfW 12 PM%J1
Ph4p.k1 a
r.m15.    30      t et.   p.rv cmo     T.C.1
5.-   mes. I..cs1*91. mh  P&                            .  30 9h7.1-  1.51.01.
1. 1SW4Tr,in e?S
ltrrsl (0)                    2.0   2?7   2O          0.1       3.3 05 O 4         2.8          19.5 J.2               21.0
~~c.ccc.p.osd (WI)      -    0.3      0.1      0.5       0.1     1.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  0.3  2.4     0.         2.
lSbc.081 cd pl.s ..cstl.1                  2.0   3.0     L3        4.0      3.7    10.0         3.2         22.1          3.0       23.5
Fsttll..
ftrtil- z..N   .   S(9                               .        .0      2.3      2.9      5.7        0.2         11.9         I.a        13.3
-c_*   Nr  W lI.   A.S (ISw)                       1.3      1.0      1.0       1.7     1.2        .2          5.3         0.8         9.1
S.011.  w!ccIllswm                         _    2.9    31.         2.9-     i.*    1s5         10.4         20.2         2.2        22.4
iieX esSUC.                                  -     2        3 3      2.2      3 7    1.1           3.1         17.1         I.t       I.3.
Imccclcld.. .d- f_  sIcId..- (WOI            -    0.3      0.3       0.4      0.S      1.0       O            2.2         0.2         2.S
S 1s.c.1 .sc.cOslc.1s                      -    3.1       5.7      3.7      4.2    14.7         23.9         15.0        2.0        22.5
010sf
jIj Lclp_lt (1.0                             -    0.4       D.S      0.3      0.2      3.         03           2.0                     2.4
11_0 t  o   j @       _W4rrF  -LCt                  a0.7   0         0.n      0.7      29         1.4           .          0.1         4.2
1.aI._  .cctcrrd  pplZ. (PS)                 -    0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2      0.9        0.4           1.2        0.1         1.2
Sh.t.t.1 oCr                              0.0 o   .3      2.1       .3       1.2     5.3        2.-          J.          0.5 7t0
S.bocd.    L- :.0  10.3    12.0                                   13.5      13.7    51.A       29.0          "8.         At.i       75.2
I1. CIIFL URS
TFI1dg. sd c-CI   (l08)                    -    3.0       4.S      0 2      4.1    104          10.7         221J         SL        25.2
TPi42LT 1f17.. IN   A"   tfl ho-lse (3.5)     2.3   1.4      1.2       3.1       -      0.2         2.           7.2         0           .92
Tr1.15. fallIRl.. (LC03)                     0.1    -                                   .          .            .           .           .
Lad . *.l-l s(0)                            0.1    -        -         - (              0                       e..  2      0.          0.2
s.bm.l pr Je f teliuL                      2.5   1.      13.2      3.3       -        .S        2.4          7.          0.4         0.1
Iks,colt cl.11 -wk                         2..5   1.      S.7      3S.       4.1    22.9       13.1          29.         2.7*       31.S
11 1.  1<CL  AIM 911clr
Fo.a.,.0..1 drlr- -CC                       0.3   0.        0.4       -        -       1.0        0.7          1.1         0.3         1.2
4aFc1_ (C0O                                 0.    0.2      0.7        -        -       t.3        0.9          1.0         0.2         1.7
Tr.cks. k.. ..Il  -fll.. tI Cler
.od _.c r ek... C(15                       2.0   2.4      2.7      3.9       1.9      .9       10.9          13.7         1.4      1.1
I.bt.l wsbu" _   .d Lo. -shbi-             2.7   2.8      3.9      3.9       3.9    13.2       32.5          10.4         1.4      3U.3
Trfl-i4?3., .o_Ig-oc (1CU3                   0.1   0.0      0.1      0.0      0.2      0.         0.2          0.S          0.0        0.5
3016.0.9 .qu.1p...t (1.032                  0.0   o.0       .0       0.0 J     -       0.1         .           0.2         0.0         0.1
Co.rsert  ad radIlo  eooIAls (2.00)          0.1   0.1      0.2      0.0               0.5        0.3          0.5         0.1         0.0
Shtcd.1 .Ip-t                              0.3   0.2      0.3      0.0      0.2      0.9        0.0           1.L        0.3         1.2
nermit(0.1e   0.                                            0.1      0.                0.3        0.2          0.4          0.0        0.4
t _s .          O (LOS)                     0 1   0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      O.4        0.2          0.4         0.0         O.S
otbt l I_tt, ad .pPl_                      0.2   0.       0.1      0 1      0.         _ 0.7    0.2          0.          01          0.9
1.hc.cslet uskIal...d ".qpot                -.2   3.2     4.3      2.0      2.1    148         13.3         12.4          2.0       20.2
= 0LIMoM. l.Abr (0)                            -    0.1      0.2       5.0      9.4    32.7         0.0         45.1         2.7       40.3
1SoI.lId.r l_tIss (0)                          -    0.8       1.0      2.0      0.9      3.0        0.0          *.2          -          5.2
Sh.tstl IWl                                Z _   0.9      9.2     W00       10.4    301.5       0.0         30.7          1.7       52.
W. SEUICS
124 ldw tmt.l-   (0)                         0.0   0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.2        0.0          0.:         0.0         0.1
F1 stcff tIrsslas (0)                       0.    0.       0.S       0.8      0.8      3.5        0.7          4.          O.         3.3
Sbtet.l tmo1.3 L.5   0A.                                 0.0      0.9      0.9      3.8        0.7           i.J        0.S         3.4
T..e1 a..cs   e-e  Stdl- (ND)
c.otrni  . t                                 3 1.0   1.1   0.1       0.5      0.3      0.0        3.4          4.9          -          4.9
LacAl coorlls                                -    0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.5        0.1          0.7          -          0.7
S.bt.t.1 t.lI    1e          W a  studIo.   .I0   2.7     0.9      0.9      0. *      .5        3.5 S.0 _S    h 
0.ereL.                                       0.0   0.0      0.1       0.1      0.2     0.3         0.- 0.4                            G0
-,- .Vr                                  -r    0 -.2   0.3      0.       0.3      1.         0.1           1.S         0.2        1.7
L-_ tzilsa Ca)                               -    0.3      0.2       0.2      0.0      1.3        0.1          1.5         0.3        2.0
ShItcl l_d .g t..   W t111x 11a .5               05       0.S      0-.S     0.9      2.         0.2           3.1         0.S        .1.
Shbteol  ecc                              [A    2.1      2.0      2.3      2.2    10.7         4.S          14.3        130        15.1
VI. sUIMISIUATIM AM? OVUFAIS
V1. i.-ft   ~ Le C-5 .-LslsIthWC (0)          0.2   3.1      2.1       2.2      2.2     *.5         1.7         11.S         0.1        12.1
Otb.r Adalste.tratir Cupmlio . (0)
I.1s u:0.0                                         0.      0         0.0      0.0      0.2        0.0          0.3         0.0         0.3
&aMl.-..  -a sdsl ortlo0.3 0.1                              0.7      0.1      0.:      2.8        0.4          3.7          -          3.7
V.01.1..s Le-       CLC. sP.c Pert-)        0.0    0        0.       0        O.A      1.0        0.3          3.9         0.2         4.3
1qSwlp_os s.1.I.o.o. dl. .psre pscs.)       0.1   0.0      0.1        -        -       0.2        0.0          0.3         0.0        0.3
S1.bc.l etI..  .1r           eqesits       1.2   1.3      2.7     132        130     1.3        1.0          5.1         0.2         5.3
r-^  sTn rF   00)                           -    0.0       .        J.0      0.0      0.1        0.0          0.1          -          0.1
rT.-.     (0)                               -    O.0      0.7       0.J      1.0      3.1        0.0          4.2         0.3         4.3
Shbt,rAl 1_1 *Id t rOprc                    -    0.       0.7      03       1.0      3.1        0.0          4.3         013         4.A
S.0.t.1                    -b-trt     ad   <h  3.1   3.7  4.0      4.3      4.2    179          3.3         23.9         3.31       24.9
T.C.. Ie-l s 0t1.                         10.9  31-.5    37 .     37.17     37   134.0         03.0         203.5        35.5      221.0
Physicl eo0t5   llt.s.                                 0.1   2.       3.0      2.0       2.0    11.         0.1           -            -          -
Price cmilo5..cIs.                                     0.9   S.9    21.0      '0.2      20.1    50.0       20.0
7.1  Plebet 1551                            12.1  40.3    32.4      S. 5      59.3   221.0        0.4         205.5        25.5      222.0
P.r.lg. N4  *_                                         S 3.9  17.5    22.3    21.6      23.1    90.A                                  -         90.4
f5  PMJ.ct r-  April - lkref.



ANNEX 1
37                                Ta-   7
INDONESIA
SMALLIOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US- mimion)
Costs           Source of Funds
Total/a  Foreign  IBRD     CDC      GOI
Agro-iuguts
anting material                 19.8      3.8      19.8     -         -
Cover crop seed                    2.4      0.5       2.4      -        -
Urea, TSP, MOP and AS             11.9      5.7       11.9     -        -
Other fertilizer                   8.3      8.3       8.3      -        -
Agrochemicals                     19.5    18.5       19.5      -        -
Ag. equipment and supplies         7.1      3.1        6.6     -       0.5
Subtotal                       69.0    39.9       68.5     -        0.5
Civil Works
Roads & bridges                   21.9     14.2       21.9     -        -
Project facilities                 7.9      2.8       7.9      -        -
Subtotal                       29.8    17.0       29.8     -         -
Vehicles & Eqipm4t
Four-Wneel drive & motorcycles     2.8      2.0        -      2.8       -
Trucks, tractors, spare parts     14.2    14.2         -    14.2        -
Other equipment                    1.1      0.7        -      1.1       -
Furniture and office equipment     0.4      0.1        -      0.4       -
Subtotal                       18.5    17.0         -    18.5
Smallholder Labor                   50.3      0.0      12.6     -       37.7
Services
Training & extension material      5.3      '.0       5.3               -
Technical assistance and studies   5.6      4.4       5.6
Research                           0.4      0.1       0.4               -
Surveys & titling                  3.3      0.3        -      -       3.3
Subtotal                       14.6      5.8      11.3     -        3.3
Overheads and Administration        23.3      3.8        -      -       23.3
Subtotal                      205.5    83.5      122.2   18.5      64.8
Unallocated                         15.5      6.9       8.8    1.5       5.2
Total                         221.0    90.4      131.0  20.0       70.0
/a   Base cost plus price contingencies on base cost.



ANN(C I
-38-                                 Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements /a
(US$ million)
IBRD                   Cumulative              Indonesian           Baukwide
fiscal year               disbursements            tree crops          tree crops
and semester             US$                                               Z
FY86
First                 1.0           1               2                   3
Second               5.2            4
FY87
First                7.3            6              12                  13
Second              21.1           16
FY88
First                28.3          22              29                  27
Second              47.1           36
FY89
First                56.3          43              50                  45
Second              76.8           59
Year 90
First               86.8           66              68                  62
Second              108.4          83               -                   -
Year 91
First               120.2          92              79                  76
Second             131.2          100
Year 7 and beyond          -            -              21                  24
/a  Closing date - June 30, 1991.



-39-                                           ANNEX I
Table 4
INDONESIA
SMtALLHOLDER RUBHER DEVELOPMENT 1I PROJE.T
Breakdown of Areatw to he Planted and Matntained
Total   Total to he    Total
86/87     87/88   88189  89/90   SRDP 1[  lmintained   managed by
Year       Area        SRDP I  PrO I  Stngklut PHU Ii PRJ III PMU IV  planting  by SRDP It       SRDP IE
80181  S. Sumatra        1,000     500
1Lau             2,127   1,000
U. lKLtimantAn     939        -
qubtotal           4.a66   1.500                                                     -
81/82  S. Sumatra        1,540     7511            750                                2,290
Rtinu            2,000   3,250           1.350                                 5 5,250           _
W, Yaltmantan    2,160        -              n                                 2,16o
Subtotal           5,700   4,000           2,o10                                 9.700
r2/X3  S. Sumatra        1 .89 :  7511   21,')    75*1   685                         3,65n
XtRiu            2,735   1,250       - 5  700    255                  -        4,685             -
W, Kalimantan    4,240      400      -     250    220                          4,890
Subtotal           8,865   2,400    260 ; 1,700  1,160                          13,225
83/84  S. Sumatra        2,300       -    340                     , -  -  -           2,640
luau             2,150      450      -       -      -       -         -        2,600
W. Kalimantcn    3,35n        -      - *    -        -      -                  3,150
Subtotal           7,800      450    340,                                        8.590
84/85  S. Sumatra        1.55n       -      -        - -  -                           1,550
XtRU             2,300        -      -       -;   -         -         -        2,300             -
U. Kalimantan    2,150        -      -       -                                 2 -  -  2,150
Subtotal           6,000        -      -                                         6.no
85/86  S. Sumatra        2,1511      -      -        -      -      .-         -       2,150
Itia             3,150        _              _       _ -    _         _        3,150
V. Katimanctn    2,950        -      -       -       -      -          -       2,950
Subtotal           8250                                       -                   .250
86/87  S. Smwatra       2,n50   2.250  1,50       so R0   800    480      5,800       2.080
Riau             3,550   2.250       -     800    320    480 ;  5,800          1,600
W. Kaltsantan    2.900   2,250       - I  320    120    32n       5,150          960
I                      I
Subtotal           8,500   6,750  1.500   I's20  1.440  1.280    16,750          4.640        67.115
87/88  S. Sumatra       2,200   2,500  2,500   1,00. 1,200    7211    8,200           1,920
Uau              2,150   2,500       -   I,n00     5610   720     5.650        1,280
U. Kalimantan    3,1503  2,500       -   1,000:   560    720      6,650        !,280
Subtotal           7,500   7,son  2&500   hoo0  2.2   2 160    20s500            4,480        92.100
88/89  S. Sumatra            -   2,000  2,500   1.5011 1,nOf *  720       7,non         720
RLaaz            2,000   2,000       -   1,500  1,0OO    720      6,500          720
U. KIllmantan    2,n00    2,000      -   1,500  1,000    960      6,5n0          960
Subtotal           4.000   6,non  z,5oo  4.500  3ooon, 2.400    2n.noo           2,400       114.500
89/90  S. Sumatra            -   1,750      -   2,00,n 1,5on  1,noo      6,250
Ulau                 -   1,750       -   2,000  1,500  1,000 :  6,250              -
Wl. Kaltmantan       -   1,750       -   2,n0o  1,500  1,000   i 6,250
Subtotal               -   5,250       -   6,000  4,500  3,000 O   18,750            -       133,250
Total             60,700  33.850  7,100  19.200 12,400  8,800 I 76,nOn          57,25n       133,250
(approx.)
/a  Heetares between /a and /b are maintained hy SROP 11.
7i; weetares below thla ltne arc entablished by SROP It.



ANNE[ 1
- 40 -                          Table 5
INDONESIA
SMALLUOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Technical Assistance Tables
Manmonths Required
85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   Total
By Type of Recruitment            Type
Expatriate - in firm             A          42        42      30      24       12     150
Expatriate - individual          B          54        54      54      36       12     198
Domestic recruitment             C           0/b      48      48      48       48     192
Total                                  84       144     132     108       72     540
By Task
Technical Advisors/a             A          36        36      24      24       12     132
Monitoring & Evaluation          B           12       12      12       0        0      36
Training & Extension             B          24        24      24       12      12      96
Financial Advisor               B/C       12/0    12/12   12/12   12/12    0/12        96
Qualified Public Accountants    C            0/b      36      36      36       36     144
Unallocated                     A/B          0        12      12       12       0      36
Total                                  84       144     132     108       72     540
/a   Rubber production, marketing, nursery development and food crops.
/b   36 mm to be provided under SRDP I.



ANNEX 2
- 41 -                              Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices for Urea and TSP
(1984 constant values)
1984-87      1988-92      1993+
Urea
Financial farm-gate price (RpIkg) Ia            100           112         150
Derivation of economic prices
FOB Europe (USs/ton) /b                       180           259         269
Plus transport to ex-factory Palembang
(US$/ton)                                    15            15          15
Ex-factory (US$/ton)                          195           274         284
Ex-factory (Rplkg) /c                         195          274          284
Plus storage and distribution to
farm-gate (Rp/kg)                            15            15          15
Farm-gate economic price (Rp/kg)              210           289         299
TSP
Financial farm-gate price (Rpfkg) /a            100           112         150
Derivation of economic prices
FOB Florida (US$/ton) /b                      145           176         176
Plus transport to warehouse (US$/ton)          34            34          34
Ex-warehouse (US$/ton)                        179           210         210
Ex-warehouse (Rp/kg) /c                       179           210         210
Plus storage and distribution to
farm-gate (Rp/kg)                            15            15          15
Farm-gate economic price (Rp/kg)              194           225         225
/a 1984-87 estimated financial prices are current actuals; thereafter, they
represent mission's assumptions as to a gradual phasing out of sub-
sidies. 1993+ figures correspond to assumptions in the Second Swamp
Reclamation Project.
/b From EPD projections, adjusted by Manufacturing Unit Value Index to 1984
values.
/c US$1.00 = Rp 1,000.



ANNEX 2
- 42 -                              Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices for Rubber
(1984 constant values)
1985-87      1988-92      1993+
Rubber
Financial Prices
RSSI, CIF NY (t/kg) Ia                        124           143          148
RSSI, FOB Jakarta (k-g) /b                    110            127         132
SIR 20, FOB Jakarta (W/kg /c                   91           106          110
SIR 20, FOB Jakarta (Rp/kg)fTd                914         1,057       1,095
SIR 20, ex-fttcaory (Rp/kg) fei               887         1,025        1,062
SIR 20, farm-gate (Rp/kg) /f7                 567           656          744
Economic Prices
SIR 20, financial farm-gate (Rp/kg)           567           656          744
Plus taxes /L                                  53            62           64
SIR 20, economic farm-gate (Rp/kg)            620           718         808
/a From EPD projections, adjusted by MUJV to constant 1984 values.
/b Less 11% of CIF NY for shipping.
.c Less 15% of RSSI CIF NY for being inferior quality.
/d US$1.00 - Rp 1,000.
/e  Less 3% of rOB Jakarta for charges from factory to port.
/f Transport, processing, taxes and middlemen assumed to take 36% of ex-
factory (1985-92) and 30% of ex-factory (1993+).
/g 6X of ex-factory.



43                                         ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDONESTA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Estimated Rubber Production
('000 tons of dry rubber)
Area established prior to project        Area established under the project    Total
Ex-    PNU   Sing-    PMU II,    Sub-   Main   Other    Partially-   Sub-    rubber
Year /a   SRDP I    I /b kut /c  III, IV /c total  PMU /b  PMUs /c  assisted    total  production
1986         2       -        -           -       2        -        -          -         -         2
1987         6       1        -           0       7        -        -         -          -         7
1988        12       3        -           3      18        -        -          -         -        18
1989        20       6        0           6      32        -        -         -          -        32
1990        28       8        0           8      44        -        -          -         -        44
1991        42       9        1           9      61        -        -          -         -        61
1992        44       9        1          12      66        7        -          -          7       73
1993        49      10        1          17      77       20        1          1        22        99
1994        53      11        1          22      87       35        6          1        42       129
1995        56      12        1          25      94       47       14          4        65       159
1996        59      12        1          26      98       50       18          5        73       171
1997        60      12        1          26     100       59       24         11        95       195
1998        59      12        1          29     101       66       27         13       106       207
1999        58      12        1          29     100       71       29         15       115       215
2000        56      11        1          30      98       76       32         17        125      223
2001        54      11        1          30      96       77       35         18       130       226
2002        52      11        1          29      93       77       36         19        132      225
2003        50      10        1          28      89       75       36         20       131       220
2004        48       9        1          27      85       73       35         19        128      213
2005        45       9        1          26      81       71       34         19       124       205
2006        43       9        1          24      77       68       33         19        120      197
2007        41       8        1          23      73       65       32         19       116       189
2008        39       7        1          22      69       63       30         18        111      180
2009        36       7        1          21      65       60       29         17       106       171
2010        34       6        1          20      61       57       28         16        101      162
/a Project year, April-March.
/b Large-scale PMUs.
/c Small-scale PMUs.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Intercropped Rice Production
(Fully participating farmers)
1986/87 /a            1987/88              1988/89               1989190              1990/91
Net area   Paddy    Net area   Paddy    Net area   Paddy    Net area   Paddy    Net area   Paddy
inter-    produr.-    inter-   produc-    inter-   produc-    inter-   produc-    inter-   produc-
cropped    tion      cropped    tion      cropped    tion       cropped    tion      cropped    tion
(ha)/b    (tons)/c    (ha)    (tons)        (ha)    (tons)        (ha)    (tons)       (ha)    (tons)
Prabamulih (South           713       820        1,242    1,428         510       586           -        -
Sumatra)
Teluk Kuantan (Riau)      1,108    1,274         1,409    1,620       1,071    1,232          416      478           -         -
Lubuk Linggau (South        648       745        1,152    1,325       1,056    1,214          888    1,021         336       386
Sumatra)
Pasir Pangaraian (Riau)    581        668        1,032    1,187         946    1,088          796      915         301       346     >
Singkut (Jambi)             540       621        1,260    1,449       1,500    1,725          600      690           -         -
GCC areas/d
S. Sumatra                  -         -          348      400       1,102    1,267       2,146    2,468        1,044    1,201
Riau                        -         -          420      1;83      1,330    1,530       2,590    2,979        1,260    1,449
W. Kalimantan               -         -           72       83         228       262        444       511         216      248
Total                3.390    4.128        6.935    7.975        7.743    8.904       7.880    9.062        3.157    3,630
/a  Project year April-March.
lb  Assumes 60X of gross rubber field intercropped in first year and 40X the second.
Ic  Paddy yield is assumed as 1,15.0 kg/net ha.  Conversion ratio paddy:milled rice - 100:60.
/d  Small-scale PKUs,.
mx 



ANN  2
-45                                                 Table5
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUbBER OEVELOPMENT lI PROJECT
T9pical Fare Uudg!lt Ia-
-9T84 c*;natant vaium;5w
/b     /b
0      1      2      3      4       5      6      7       8      9    10-19  2O-30
Income
Harvested area (ha)
Rubber (lot ha)          -       -      -      -              -      I       I       I      I      I       I
Rubber (2ad hr)          -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -               1      1
Rice                   0.6    0.4    0.6    0.4       -       -      -      -        -      -      -      -
Other                  0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3   0.3    0.3    0.3         0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Yield (kg/ha) i:
Rubber (1st ha)          -       -      -                          400    800      950  1.100  1,400  1.000
Rubber t2nd ha)          -       -      -      -                                  400    goo  1,300  1.00n
Rice                  1,ls5  1,lso  1,150  1,150       -      -      -      -        -      -      -      -
Production (kg) /c
Rubber                   -       -      -      -                   400    800   1,350  1,900  2,70n  2,000
Rlce                   690    460    690    460       -       -      -      -       -       -      -      -
Price (tRpkg) /c
Rubber                   -       -      -      -                   650    650      750    750    750    75n
Rice                    165    165    165    165      -       -      -      -       -       -      -      -
Gross value of pro-
duction (Rp'OOO)
Rubber                   -       -      -              -      -    260    520   1,013  1,425  2,063  1,500
Rice                   114      76    114     76      0       0      0      0       0       0      0      0
Other crops             100    100    100    lnO    10O    100    100    100       100    ino    1no    inn
Subtotal            214    176    214    176    100    100    360    620   1.113  1,525  2,163  1.600
Other income
Cash payments for
project work         125    117    186    147      89      58     28     28       -       -      -      -
Non-project income      300    400    300    400    450    450    300    300       200    200    200    200
Subtotal            425    517    486    547    539    508    328    328       20n    200    200    200
Total Income        639    693    700    723    639    608    688    948   1,313  1.725  2,363  1.800
Expenses
Cash expenditures for
project works
Rubber                  20      20     20     20     20      20     76     76      152    152    152    152
Rice /d                 40      27     40     27      -       -      -      -       -       -      -      -
Sibtotal             60      47     60     47     20      20     76     76      152    152    152    152
Other cash expenditures re-
lated to Incone-producing
acttvities /e              45     60     45     60      68     68     45     45       30     30     30      30
Debt *ervice paynents /f   -       -      -      -       -      -      0    114      223    314    454      0
TMXes 5                    -       -      -      -       -      -      8      16      30     43     60     40
Total Expenses       105    107    105    107     88    g8    129    251        435    539    696    222
Net Incoee          534    586    595    616    552    521    559    697       878  1,186  1.667  1,578
Estisated net income
without project           600    600    600    600    600    600    600    600       600    600    6no    600
Net Incremental
Income            -66    -14    -5       16   -48       79    41      97     278    586  1,067    978
/a  For South Sumatra, no terracing, 2 years' intercropping, .uallholder to pay 122 interest on a 20-year
loan, with a 7-year grace period.
/b  Average.
7c  No yield, production or price given for "Other Crops".  See "Cross Value".
Td  35% of farmgate value.
i 15% of non-project tncome.
fT  22Z of gross rubber income.
T7  32 of gross rubber income.



AIIIII 2
Seble 6
Pa" I of Z
INWlDtSIA
SlALLllOLDit RISIIU DrnLoruT 11 7RW1CT
Calculation of  U /o
LIp thousand)
Yeart     0          1       2         3       4        5        6        7      8        9        10      11       12       13      14       It       16
Land Clearinx Costs
Labor                                        99        -       9
other                                         8        -        6        -       -        -        -       -        _        _       _        -        _       _        _        _       _
Subtotal Lend Clearing                    683                        -- -eS                                                       Z       Z        -        Z        -
Planting and Ilnlteasnee
Labor                                       232      144      322      195     138       99      248     248      448      448      438    448       4U       43      4U6      44      448
rertilinet                                   77       83      137     153      143      133     143      145      120      120     120      120      120     120      120      120     120
other                                       162       22      l8t       62      69      107       78      101      67       6?      6?       67       67      67       67       67      67
Subtotal Planting 4 Maintenance          47J      249     646      410      350      361     469      494      635     635      63S      635     635      633      633     635      635
hI!nsrilewlturd Costs
"Oldn /b                                     82       82       82      62       20       20       20      20       20       20      20       20       20      20       20       20      20
Project facilities /e                        20       20       20      20        2        2        2       2        2        2        2                -       -        -        -       -
Vehbiles end equipeent                        so      so       so       30       -
Hopping. tranelnl  6 tech. asilstance        17       17       39       17       3
Overleads /o                                  63      33       61       27      25       11       14       4        4        4        4       4        4        4       4        4        4
lend certification                             -       -        -       44        -       -        -        -       -
Subtotal NosgrTieulturel                 232      202     232      240       54       47      !2-      L6       2e      3J       26       26       26      26       24       24      24
Totel SIoI Costs t  ha) Lecludina
F rIe1Col Centenelea                        a88m     451   1 083      650      404      408      502      30      661      661      61      661      661     661      659      659     659
rhyelCal e-orttlyenelo /re  La                       3-4  2W          IT       -S         T     -I                -w  SO              a     so       -                 so  SO          -
total Sift Cost(2 ha) Includina
hyscale  Contisnencies                 9335    483   1.165       699      433     639      540     J1        711     7t 711   7I3      13      731      131      709     705      704
Prlc    4p/kg) /f
araygate for 33D1                           639      639      839     713      73       738     718      718      718      S0?     807      5T7      *07     So?      Sol      30?     507
Rubbor Yields (t4hsa) LL
lot heSDP                                     -        -        -       -        -        -     400      800      9350   11000   3,300   3,300  13400   1.500   1.300  13500  13450
2nd ha IMP                                    -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -      400      800     950   1,100   1.100  13300   1.400  13500  13300
Total Prodgletieo                          -                Z        Z        Z        Z     400      800   1.350   JLOO_  2I050    2.400   2.S00   2.0    2.900   3.000   2.730
SotelIDTiit2 ha)                           :       :        :        :        -       :      287      374      9659   1.533   1.654   1.937   2.03    2.260   2.340   2.421   3.8
not isnefit (2 ha) SDF                        955    -       -1.165    -699    -435    -439    -253           4     258      822      943   1.226   1.307   1.549   1.31   1.712   I.t72
La   Based on a I ha seitholder new plantlo. odel tLth neeand ha pioted 2 years after tla first, enludi$ iatecevoppioR  with trice.  2ouoec costs aed bsflits expreesed
l  constant 1984 leplb.  Conversion f(eters to derive sconoiec costs sre as follpeis  geersl project cost. - 0.80; labor - 0.60; vehicles and *              quipent * 0.83; civIl
worke * 0.60. SpeetIic calculations line been made for the econmie prices of fertillter and robber (Sea Annex 2, Table 1-2). OUI1 * 4 1,000.
S 3tarttng In Year 3 uIntenunce of rude ass*o d to be 62 of lestment costs per yeer tbroughout project life.
/e tarting In T"r 4 uaintenence of facilities asseued to be 22 of lovesFtent costs for 10 yeare.
j   For TSers 0-7. calculations are for ectmel antemleo  plus other ovevhd  costs, until all trees ready to be tapped. A further strem of 332 of the final Imature year Is
*eouad to continue for 10 years to represent reduced extension work after the trees are macore.
/e 52 ft bose coats
7     Prlce per bilo for D3C.
i Uloe of eUC per hectare.
oteal  Inutrnl rateo of returm  of not strea  * 131.
0  



Year:    17        38      19       20       21       22       23       24       25       26      27       2R       29       30        31   32-33   Totalx
Land Clearing Costs
Labor                                         -        -        -        -        -                                                                                                        198
Other                                         -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -       172
Subtotal Land Clearing                              -        -                         Z                                           Z.                                                   370
Planting and MAintenance
tebor                                       448      448      448      448      448     448      448      448      448      448      448      448      448     *48      448      224   12,826
Fertil Ier                                  120      120      120      120      120      120     120      120      120      120      120)    120       120     120      120       60    4,036
Other                                        67       67       67       84       84       84       84      84       84       84       84       84       84       84      84       34    2,464
Subtotal PlantinS A Ma-adenance          635     635      635      635      635      635      635      635      635     635      635      635      635      635      635      318   19,326
Ro ct l                                      20       20       20       20       20       20       20      20       20       20       20       20       20      20       20       20       928
Project lacilitiea /c                         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -       100
Vehtcles and equipient                        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -       200
happing, trainiig & tech. aselstance          -        -        -        -        -        -       _        _        -        _        _        _        _        _                -        95
Overiead. /                                            -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -       301
Land certification                            -            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -             -       -        -        -        67
Subtotal Nonsgricultural                  24       20       20      20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20      20       20       20       20       20       928       1
1.
Total SQOP Cost   2 ha    Excluding
Physical Cor.t ences          -             659      655      655      655     655      655      655      655      655      655      655      655     655      655      655      338   21,387
Physical Contingencies /s                    50       50       50       50       50       50      50       50       SO       50       50       50       50      50       50       26    1,617
Total SRDP Costa (2 ha) Including
Physical Contingenctes                709      705      705      705      705      705      705      705     705      705      705      705      705      705      705     364   23,004
Prices (Rp/kg) /L
Farmgate for SlOP                           807      807      807     807      807      807      807      807      807      807      807      807     807      807      807      807   26,460
Rubber Yielda (k4/ha) /R
Ict hi SRDP                               1,400   1,150   1,300   1,250   I,ZO0   l,150   1,100   1,000            950      900      850     800      750      700      700        -   28,400
2nd ha SROP                               1,500   1,450   1,400   1,350   1,300   1,250   1,200   1,150   1,100   1,000              950     900      850      800      750      700   28.400
Total Production                       2,900  2j,00   2,700   2.600   2.S00   2,400   2.300   2LI50   2,050   1190   1.800   1.700   1,600   1500  1,450                      700   56,S00
Production Value
total SRDP (2 ha)                     2340   2.260   2j179   2098    i018   1.937   1.856   1_735  j,654   1,533   1.453   1,372    Jj291   1,211   1,170                    565   45,611
het Benefit (2 ha) SRDP                     1,631   1,555   1,474   1,394   1,313   1,232   1,152   3,031            950      829      748      667    57        506     466      201   22,607
September 28, 1984
0



1t400tWSI A
5uo   ER RU615ER    DEVELOPMENT 1t PPOJECT
Iculjjon. of Coot Re yaver  Index /a
(Rpd5iY)
Total       0       t      2       3     4      5     6      7       8        9       10       I3       12      13       34      15       I6
COX OUTFLQWS
Credit expenditures - bass coato                               3,121      656   200       803   396   315   351   200   200
Subtotal - Credit Expenditures                              3.358      706   215      86    426   339   378   215   23            0        O       &        o        a       .         .       . 
tnclud. physecal contingencies Lb
premont value of credit outflows at a 102 OCC                     39.
Noneredit expenditures - base  costs                                b3b      295   259      125    55    40    31    14    17           -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -       -
Fertilaer subsidy (tinancialt  to Year 6)                            83        3    10       15    l5    t5    l5    tO        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        _       -       _
Subtotal - Non-credit expenditure  ncl.                       989       21   289      151    75    59    49    26    t8           0        0        0       0        a        O        O      .        O
physical contingencies /b
Present value of noncredit outflowa at a 30% OCC                    782
Total GOI Outflows In Constant 19814 Values                 4 347   j,927   505   t.05   501   398   427   241   233             0        o        a       a        a        o       a       a        a
Present value of total outflows at a 102 OCC                      3,176
COI INQ~OWS
Siiii1older rubber yields (ig)                                56,600        -      -        -     -      -      -   400   800   1,350   1,900   2,050   2.400   2,500   2,800   2,900  3,000   1,950
Faregete financial price (Rp/x)                                    -        -      -        -     -      -     -   650   650       750      750      750      750     750      750      750    750      750      ;
Gross Income from rubber  '000 Rp)                            41,955         0     0        0      0     0      0   260   520   1,033   1,425   3,538   I,800   1,875   2,300   2,375  2,250   2,213
DObt service for years 7-l9 assainn                            5.106         0     0        0     0      0      0     0   134      223      334      338      396     413      462      479    495      487
smallholder pays 221 of gross rubber income c
Present value of debt service at a I0  OCC C10Q
Seatlholder taxes ass5nin  smallholder pays                     1 259        0     0        0      0     0      0     a    36        30      43       46       54       56      63       65      68      66
3X of gross rubber income
Present value ot taxes at 1OX OCC                                 226
Total 001 Inflows in Constsnt 1984 Values                   6 364 Q a                   a O                 0           1 330   253      356      384     450       1       525      544    563      553
Present value of total 001 Inftlowe - I0  OCC                  3.527
COST RECOVERYnCUlATsOI
Measured in constant 19Ba  valuesi
Total inflows/total outflows                                     146X
Credit lnflo/wa  credit outtlows                                 1522
Credit inflows/total outflows                                    1172
Taxes/total outflows                                              19X
Measured In present value teras vith all flows
adjusted for inflation and further adjusted
at a 102 OCC
Total Inflows/totel outflows                                      481
Credit Inflows/ credit outflows                                  54X
Credit Itnlowe/total outflows                                     41X
Taxes/Total outtfows                                               72



17      18       I'       20       21       22      23       24       25      26      27        28       29       30       31    32      33
COI OUTFLCIWS - CONSTANT 1984 VALUES
Credit expend.I.ue       an cots                                      -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -                --             -       -
Subtotal - Credit Expendttures                                    -       -        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0
Includ. Physical Contingencles /b
Noneredit expenditures - bass costs                                    -        -        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0
Fertilizer subsidy (financiall  to Year 6)                             -        -        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0
Subtotal - Non-eredilt expenditure Incl                                            0        0        0        O        O        O       O        Q        O        O       O
physical contingencies /b
Total GOI Outflows In Constant 1984 Values                                         O        O        O        O        O        O       O        O        O
Present value of total outflows at a  0OX OCC                          -        _        -        _-                                                                                      -        - _
00! INFLOWS
Smaliholder Rubber Yields (kg)                                   2,900   2,800   2,700   2,600   2,500   2,400   2,300   2,150   2,050   1,900   1,800   1,700   1,600   1,500   1,450   700    700
Ferugate financial rate (Rp/kg)                                    750      750      750     750      750      750      750      750     750      750      750      750     750      750      750   750    750    a
Gross Income from rubber ('000 Rp)                               2,175   2,100   2,025   1,950   1,875   1,800   1,725   1,613   1,538   1,425   1,350   1,275   1,200   1,125   1,083   525    52S   '
Debt servtce for years 7-19 assumin5                               479      462      446
saallholder pays 222 of gross rubber income /j
Ssallholder taxes assuming osaliholder pays                         65       63       61      59       56       54       52       46       46      43       41       38       36       34      33    16       16
32 of gross rubber Ineon
Present value of taxes at a I02 oCC                                  -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -      -       -
Total GO0  Inflows In Constant 1984 Values                     544      525      506       59       56       54       52      48       46       43       41       38      36       34       33    16      16
/a  lamed on a 2 ha sasllholder new planting model with the second ha plented 2 years after the first, excluding Intercropping with rice.  Financial costu and benefits expressed in constant
1984 Ruptah.  US$1.00 - IRp 1,000.
lb  Fhysical contingencies   8X of base costs.
I/  Based on a 12X interest rate, a seven year grace period and 13 years to repay.  Interest to be waived for the first 3 years, accrued for the remainder of the grace period and capiteuited
at the end of the grace period.
!EIr1



_ 50 _                          ANNEX 3
50                      Pa~~~~~~fgel
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Financing Arrangements
SRDP II Financing Arrangements
1.        Smallholder Terms
(a) The interest rate will be 12Z with 7 years grace and 13 years
scheduled to repay.
(b)  Interest until loan conversion (at the end of year 3) wili be
waived.
(c) Compound interest will accrue after loan conversion and will be
capitalized at the end of the grace period.
(d) Smallholders will make monthly payments.
Ce) The actual repayment schedule will not be calculated on a level
payment basis, but according to a model of what the farmer can
afford, as yields will be low in the early years of repayment. Team
Mhusus, together with MOF and BRI, will be responsible for determin-
ing the formula to be used for calculating the smallholder repayment
schedule. This is expected to correspond to approximately 20-25% of
the farmer's gross income from rubber.
(f)  Procedures will be determined for what happens in case of disastrous
field conditions, weather or poor performance by the farmer. MOF is
preparing a paper on this subject and it is possible such problems
will be handled on a case by case basis.
2.        BRI's Role
(a) BRI will be an executing bank.
(b) BRI's cost of funds for the IBRD financed portion of the credit
component will be 9.9%, approximately the same as the IBRD interest
rate when invitation was issued for negotiations. GOI will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
(c) BI liquidity credits will be lent to BRI at 31.
{d) The maturity for both the IBRD money on-lent to BRI and the BI
liquidity credits will be 20 years with 7 years grace on principal.
(e)  MOF will pay BRI a 14X subsidy until the end of year 3 (the time of
loan conversion), and a 3.51 subsidy thereafter on principal and



- 51 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 2
accumulated interest. This 3.5% subsidy plus the 12% interest rate
payable by the smallholder may be considered a total interest rate
of 15.5%.
(f) BRI will bear 25% of the risk for loans that are converted. The
remaining 75% will be shared 37.5% by MOF and 37.5% by BI. In SRDP
I it is MOF 70% and BI 5%. As in SRDP I, ASKRINDO, the government
insurance agency, will not be involved. Insurance will be paid
directly by MOF and BI, and no premium will be charged. Detailed
procedures of how MOF and BI will pay BRI for their share of the
risk still need to be determined.
(g) BRI, MOF and DGE will agree on the criteria to be used in deciding
if the loan to the farmer will be converted. Although BRI will
still have the right to refuse conversion, in practice the actual
decision will be made by a committee consisting of representatives
of BRI and the project agency. If the loan is not converted, BRI
will bear no risk and MOF will repay BRI for the principal disbursed
so far.
Revised SRDP Financing Procedures
3.        In order to overcome the existing fund release problems for SRDP I
and to insure a smooth release of funds for SRDP II, the following procedures
have been or will be adopted.
4.        World Bank Prefinancing
(a) This will be financed directly from an account receiving general
treasury revenues instead of from the export commodity fund (DTE).
Cb) SRDPU will still send only one accountability report (SPJ) to the
Directorate General of Internal Monetary Affairs (DGDMA) covering
both MOF's non-credit component and prefinancing for both the World
Bank credit and non-credit components. DGIMA will separate the MOF
and World Bank portions. After review by DGIMA, the World Bank
prefinancing portion will be submitted to the Directorate General of
Budget (DGB) which will release the funds. Since the SPJ will
already have been reviewed by DGIHA, no additional review by DGB is
required.
'.        MWF Non-Credit Financing.  This will continue to be financed from
DTE. Due to the low level of export taxes which were originally designed to
fund DTE, there have been problems with insufficient funds in the DTE in
recent years. MOF is committed to making regular subventions should
shortfalls continue to occur.



ANNEX 3
52 -                                Page 3
6.        BI/BRI Credit Component
(a) There will be a one time special procedure to "catch-up" the
unreleased funds for SRDPI. For 1980/81, 1981/82, 1982/83 and
1983/84 SRDPU will complete a special accountability report (LPJ)
and send it to BI/BRI. BI/BRI will then release funds to the
project according to the amount of the LPJ itself. Among other
things, this means that SRDPU will be permitted to submit the LPJ
for activities carried out for which it never actually received
prefinancing. Although this is not the usual procedure it will be
permitted in this special case.
(b) There will be a clear instruction from BI to BRI that an LPJ need
only account for 80Z of a previous funds release.
(c) Starting in FY84/85, first and second quarter funds will be released
automatically each year without LPJs from the project for the new
planting. For maintenance of previous planting LPJs will still be
required for the third and fourth quarter of the previous year. For
release of third and fourth quarter funds LPJs for the first and
second quarters will still be required as per BI regulation
15/776/UKU/KPt of January 18, 1983.



_53 -                              ANNEX 4
Page l
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
General
1.        Statements of expenditure would be used for Bank disbursement
against the following items:
Item                                 Loan Amount
(US$)
(a)  Planting material                                21.0 million
(b)  Training                                          5.4 million
Cc) Research                                           0.4 million
Cd)  Farmer labor payments                            13.0 million
(e) Road construction on force account                 5.0 million
Total                                           44.8 million
2.        Prior to the year of implementation the SRDPU would submit unit
costs for training, farmer labor payments and road construction to BAPPENAS
for approval. They would also submit the cost of planting materials (based on
the previous year's cost) and a program of research to be carried out on
farmers' fields. These costs, reviewed and agreed by BAPPENAS would serve as
the basis for budgeting and SOEs would be based on actual expenditures and
submitted quarterly. The Bank would disburse 100% against all expenditures
covered by SOEs except for farmer labor payment against which it would
disburse 25%.
Detailed Features
3.        Planting material will be produced in PMU nurseries in the year
prior to field establishment. The SRDPU will maintain a record of the cost of
nursery inputs (seed, fertilizer, labor) and determine the cost of production
per stump. Disbursement would be made on the basis of quarterly statements of
expenditure indicating the numbers of hectares planted, planting density and
cost per stump.
4.        For training and study visits the SRDPU will maintain documentation
on the costs of travel, housing, training and follow-up for each type of staff
member or farmer to be trained. This information will be used to determine
the cost of training staff or smallholders. Disbursements will be made



ANNEX 4
Page 2
against quarterly statements indicating the number of people trained, the type
of training and the unit cost.
5.        The SRDPU will develop a program of applied research to be carried
out on farmers' fields and they will produce a quarterly budget for this work
to be reviewed and approved by BAPPENAS and submitted to the Bank prior to
each fiscal year. Disbursment will be made against quarterly statements of
expenditure accompanied by certification from the SRDPU manager that the work
has been carried out.
6.        Disbursement for farm labor payments will be made on the basis of
quarterly SOEs indicating the unit rate for each type of work approved by
BAPPENAS and the number of farmers carrying out this work within each
province. In the auditing process, PMU records would be checked against BRI
records of payment to SRDP smallholders.
7.        Standard construction rates per km for roads constructed on force
account will be reviewed and approved by BAPPENAS at the beginning of each
fiscal year.  Unit rates would be based on prior year's costs and the cost of
similar work on contract. Disbursements will be made against quarterly
statements indicating completed length and agreed unit costs. Quarterly
withdrawal applications would be accompanied by a certificate from the PPW or
supervising engineer that prior work has been completed properly.
Implementation
8.        Technical assistance for project accounting and SOE preparation was
provided under SRDP I and this would be continued under SRDP II. To cope with
the expanded work load resulting from the addition of new P(Us, the project
also provides for three qualified public accountants to be hired as consul-
tants and stationed in each of the project provinces. These finance and
accounting specialists would work with training staff to develop a training
program for PMU staff on bookkeeping and accounting. SOEs would be subject to
regular Government audit which is acceptable to the Bank. With these steps
the SRDPU would be capable of maintaining the required accounts.



-5 -                              ANNEX 5
-- 55 ~Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Project Area Characteristics
1.       Location.  The project is located in the three SRDP I provinces:
South Sumatra, Riau and West Kalimantan. It also includes one area in the
south of Jambi Province. Within the target provinces, project areas fall into
three categories: (i) areas involved in SRDP I - Teluk Kuantan (South
Sumatra), Prabamulih (Riau) and Anjungan kWest Kalimantan); (ii) areas under
large-scale PMUs which will be absorbed into the SRDP program in the first
year of the proposed project - Lubuk Linggau (South Sumatra), Pasir Pangaraian
(Riau) and Sambas/Sanggau Ledo (West Kalimantan); and (iii) areas associated
with small-scale PMUs which will be consolidated and brought into the program
in years 2, 3, and 4, of the project. There are 16 small-scale PMUs in each
project province, of which at least 12 would be absorbed into the SRDP
program. These areas would be precisely defined by studies to be undertaken
in tbe first year of the project. Project areas and PMU locations are shown
in the attached maps.
2.       A detailed description of SRDP I areas is given in the SAR for this
project (Cr. 984-IND) and is not repeated here. Of the SRDP II areas, Lubuk
Linggau in South Sumatra is located along the Trans-Sumatra Highway within
Musi Rawas District near the Jambi provincial boundary.  It is approximately
200 km northwest of the provincial capital, and 160 km northwest of the SRDP I
headquarters at Prabamulih. There are 16 small-scale PHUs in South Sumatra
scattered mainly in the central area of the province. Two PMUs located on the
island of Bangka would not be included in the project. Pasir Pangaraian in
Riau is located in the Kampar District near the boundary of West Sumatra
Province approximately 135 km northwest of the provincial capital and 200 km
northwest of the SRDP I headquarters at Teluk Kuantan. The 16 small-scale
PHUs in Riau are widely scattered throughout the province and three are on
offshore islands. Sambas/Sanggau Ledo is in the Sambas District of West
Kalimantan and extends from Anjungan, covered under SRDP I, to Sambas some 70
km to the north. It is approximately 150 km north of the provincial
capital. The 16 small-scale PMUs in West Kalimantan are scattered throughout
the province. Singkut is in Jambi Province near the boundary of South Sumatra
Province and approximately 175 km southeast of the provincial capital. It
falls within the area described for the second Bank-assisted Transmigration
Project (Loan 1707/Cr. 919-IND)
3.       Climate.  In all project areas, the climate is classified as lowland
wet tropical. Rainfall is generally within the range of 2,000-3,000 am per
annum with favorable seasonal distribution. The rainfall patterns and average
temperatures, relative humidity and sunshine duration are all appropriate for
successful cultivation of rubber and a range of smallholder food crops. Data
from provincial meteorological stations are summarized in Table 1. Although
the small-scale PMUs will be in areas exhibiting a range of climatic charac-
teristics, all areas have climatic conditions suitable for rubber establish-
ment.



ANNEX 5
- 56 -                             Page 2
Table 1: CLIMATIC CONDITIONS IN PROJECT AREAS
Rainfall    Annual      Average   Relative      Wind
Area             mm/year   raindays    temp. CO  humidity   velocity
(knots)
Lubuk Linggau           2,685        145        24.6      81.2%        4.8
Pasir Pangaraian        2,624       125         26.4      83.7%        5.5
Sambas/Sanggau/Ledo    2,822        137         26.0      84.8%        4.4
Singkut                 2,889         -         26.3      84.0%        3.2-4.9
4.       Soils.  Land selected for rubber planting is predominantly of the
yellow podzolic type with the balance being red and brown podzolics, latosols
and lithosols. Although areas of alluvial soils were originally earmarked for
inclusion in the Sambas sub-district in West Kalimantan, these have been
eliminated because of the high watertable. Soil depths and structures within
the main project areas are generally suitable for rubber and the envisaged
intercrops; however, poor soil fertility resulting from heavy leaching will
necessitate substantial fertilizer application and timely establishment of
leguminous cover crops. Soil characteristics in the small-scale PMU areas
will require further investigation prior to development.
5.       Topography and Land Suitability.  In all the new project areas there
is adequate land of suitable altitude, drainage and slope for successful
rubber cultivation. Drainage is fair to good except in some alluvial flats
which have been excluded from the project. The relative susceptibility of all
areas to soil erosion will necessitate early establishment of a creeping
ground cover, silt pits in gently sloping areas and terraces where slopes
exceed 12% (7 ). An estimated 40% of rubber areas will require terracing
except in Sambas/Sanggau Ledo where allowance is made for 100% terracing. Li
areas remaining to be planted to rubber in SRDP I areas, Prabamulih, Teluk
Kuantan and Anjungan, it is estimated that 20%, 40% and 100% respectively,
will require terracing. The topographical characteristics of the PMU areas
will be investigated further before upgrading and expansion.
6.       Population and Land Use.  Data on smallholder farm size, family size
and income in project provinces is summarized in Table 2 and detailed
information on the population and land use in new PMU areas is summarized
below.



ANNEX 5
- 57 -                       ~~~~~~Page 3
Table 2: SUMMARY INFORMATION ON SMALLHOLDER FARMERS IN
PROJECT PROVINCES, 1981
Eight
South      West       province
Riau   Sumatra  Kalimantan   total
Number of respondents                      101       101        112         657
Average farm size (ha)                     3.8       6.4        6.0         5.3
Average amount of rubber (ha)              2.8       5.1        2.9         3.7
Rubber as % of total farm                  74%       80%        48%         70%
Percent with less than 4 ha rubber         83%      59%         79%         74Z
Average family income (Rp 'OOO/US$)        423       454        604         516
Average income from rubber (%)             28%       41%        23%           -
Percent farmers with 2onl rubber
income                                   10%      30%          1Z         11%
Average income of those farmers            407       286        146         297
(Rp 'OOO/US$)
Percent farmers with no rubber             39%       14%        36%         26%
Average income of those farmers            416       422        561         547
(Rp 'OOO/US$)
Percent farmers with rubber and
other income                             51%      56%         63%         63%
Income from rubber                     152      181         217         172
Income from other sources              279      370         419        370
Total income                           431      551         636         542
Rubber as x of total                   35Z      33X         34%         32%
Source:  SGV study on Smallholder Rubber Production.
7.        The population of the Lubuk Linggau project area is approximately
275,000 including both local Sumatrans and Javanese transmigrants. The
average family size is 5.2 with 2 economically active members. Project sites
are located in seven subdistricts covering some 140 villages. Approximately
3% of the land area is devoted to food crops and 16% to tree crops. In the
seven subdistricts covered by the project, the total old rubber area is
approximately 60,000 ha with an average yield of about 450 kg dry rubber per
ha.  Some 18% of rubber trees in the project area are more than 30 years old
and virtually all trees are of low productivity.
8.        The population of the Pasir Pangaraian project area is approximately
60,000 people of mixed Sumatran ancestry with an average family size of 4.4.
Project sites are located in three subdistricts covering some 25 villages.
There are currently about 22,000 ha of smallholder rubber of which an
estimated 242 is no longer productive. Of the rubber to be planted under the
project, approximately 50% will be developed from rubber jungle/secondary
forest and 50% from alang-alang.



- 58 -                                 ANNEX 5
Page 4r
9.        The population of the Sambas/Sanggau Ledo project area is approxi-
mately 180,000 including local Iban and other Kalimantan groups, and scattered
immigrants from Java and Madura. Average family size is 5.4 with 2
economically active members. Coastal and riverine alluvial areas are largely
devoted to rice cultivation although considerable areas of rubber also occupy
poorly drained alluvial and peat soils. Rubber is widely cultivated on
undulating and hilly areas accessible from rivers and roads. Project sites
are located in six subdistricts covering approximately 300 villages. There
are currently approximately 29,000 ha of smallholder rubber with a relatively
high average yield of almost 600 kg dry rubber per ha. Some 16% of rubber
trees in the project area are unproductive. It is estimated that of the
rubber to be planted under the project, approximately 40%, 30% and 30% will be
developed from rubber jungle/secondary forest, scrub forest and alang-alang,
respectively. There have been some conflicts near the project area among
local Iban and immigrant Madurese; however, SRDP I subunits are relatively
homogeneous and have experienced no problems.
10.       The population of the Singkut project area consists of transmigrant
families whose current livelihood derives from food crop production and off-
farm work. Most farmers will be planting rubber for the first time and the
Singkut PHU is intended as a model for introducing tree crops to transmigrants
in the future. Of the rubber to be planted in this area virtually all will be
planted after clearing secondary forest.
11.       Existing Infrastructure and Services.  The projecc area in the Musi
Rawas district of South Sumatra and with Lubuk Linggau as the district capital
is adequately served with infrastructure and services to permit the foreseen
agricultural development. Lubuk LirIggau is at the junction of roads to
Bengkulu, Jambi and Palembang, the provincial capial. It is the terminus of
the railroad to the provincial caUital and it is traversed by the Trans-
Sumatra Highway. The project areas in the Kampar District of Riau and the
Sambas District of West Kalimantan are less well-served with basic infrastruc-
ture but communications links and agricultural services are judged adequate
for agricultural development under PKU management. The Singkut project area
in Jambi Province is close to the Lubuk Linggau area and will benefit from
shared services and the proximity of the Trans-Sumatra Highway.



-59-                             ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A.   Selected Material on Project Subsectors
Al Study on Smallholder Rubber Production, SGV, 1983.
A2 Study on the Marketing and Processing of Smallholder Rubber, SGV,
1983.
A3 Tanugraha Report on Rubber Processing, 1983.
A4 CDC Report on Rubber Processing, 1983.
B.   Background Material on Project
BI Feasibility Study on the Smallholder Rubber Development Project II,
prepared by the SGV Group, 1983.
Vol. I - Summary Report
Vol. II - Annexes, Maps and Exhibits
Vol. III - Supplementary Information
C. Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Bank Staff
Cl Detailed Cost Tables
C2 Field Development
C3 Roads and Project Facilities
C4 Training and Technical Assistance



10.2                                        reo Pakanhiru                                 id.o
MUARAUNG   8                                                                TAAUUNGJA8UG
uara       MuaratebJ    A                  M      a                          * 
/ e AD TAN . G   ~-<MUSI BANVUASIN
lianko ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -                    ~        Pnkla   aa
SdkROLANGUN Sa~~*ILI   GNG
BENGKULU ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    bIii                              TEN_ AAM A  /                       aJun 1gy,j
>   t    4               ^\f  /  ' [   r~~~~~-   Baturaja)(Jo 
-MUIOGAN KOMERINGULU                     .1        ../
T  he   Woad    E   t-  sf                     \   RENG   IULL USELA   TAN    (         \  u r u        \/    ,/  (X           /   A P 
torlhec    m                      lUanna  Iw                                                                              Ii fA R  L AMPUNG  .-
CopoaIon                                                           Tr-ennubn
used rand th towulais icow?                                                                  urd~           
partat The  Worlde  Bank- fand fle            ~                                   *                 \L! Kpa
htmtnl l-a2anc- CroaIOn                                                          D         ,7z              __,_
en y-s ~pne do ndmp. one meGag stEa BAlai
ebnd wsniwW      Cowr                                                                R;,r2)  ?/~    Kotabatu_              LKotabumi             -
end2r ar   occRAd                                                                                                              -P         NI'
s~~~~~~Lbuk.                              -    -    beii                \ - W 
102UL  UTARA.Jt 
.                                                                         .,                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~g



-Ij_________________________________IBRD 17777
-buo . p                  '            Brunej -ffi;      - philipph    APRIL19S4
FZl|fs~~~Bunj -r~ ,ri'B3
.) Lt     r__  r                                        '<- Ln,aponr-~-"-   ,.                            - |>,
. .' ;  ,     ;=     -  Mt$AN JAYA    *
,~~ Olr *{) - ;. . - :---t ~'r WCO; I 
--1,1,mpp-  j_
Aram of Map *
.ALi
J. TMIOFR
Sunpailiat                        .                       l       30
Mentok                  Pudingbesar                                                                              2
N                                P6tfalinflfl  Pankalpinang
-  .   ;--1                                                          ICKILOMETERS
I      --z 'O 20    60 60                                                                 100
[  \-                  o   10~~~~~~~l  io   30   40  is"b
-1 3ANG -  ,              \                                                           7MILES
Pangkalan Lamdam \n  SE ON                                                  T       n           fliTiNG
INDONESIA
awuagung
OGAN KOME91,VS ILIR                           SECOND SMALLHOLDER  RUBBER
DEVELOPMENT PROJE CT
SUMATERA SELATAN AND JAMBI
(SOUTH SUMATRA AND JAMBI)
PROPOSED PROJECT
f101, : , PROJECT AREA                                        4
i. (^A    PMU HEADCIUARTERS
- L    ,G.O.I. FINANCED RUBBER PMUs TO BE AGGREGATED AND
a    ~            REDEVELOPED UNDER SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PREVIOUS PROJECT
Manggaba          _                                --I PROJECT AREA        CREDIT 984 INO
A      PMU HEADQUARTERS
-     .9 NATIONAL ROADS
I l  R,    U       N     G                                 PROVINCIAL ROADS
f  '- ' "RAILWAYS
LAMPUNG TENVAH
Terbarggibesar                                     RIVERS
- ** -  DISTRICT(KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
- K  * -   PROVINCIALUPROPINSI\ BOUNDARIES
>  \    -    -   INTERNATIONAL BODUNDARIES
TO Tanjam.kwao                 1O6



IBRD 17778
1110                              -t. '                 }+,       ,- ~APRIL 1U4
-RE OF IV '_   _Al~ .-;                    A ._
LLYSASOMIA 
.~~~~ i
*s>            M r  NAN J"AV
1120                       113
M A L A Y SIA
_ _ J   X                                                    /            ^ v F U  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAOS   It UJ L U- 
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
'-N                                                     (~~~~~~N
=  ms~~~N.,                                                              ,  ../             PUTUSS   ,UC /L
SIN T: rTANG-
PONTIANAK                          ,N   a<-G M
KA I M A N T A N   B a R A T                                                                           KA .  IM ANTA N
TENGAH
INDONESIA
K~I.k0A                     /  SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
KALI MANTAN BARAT (WEST KALIMANTAN)
PROPOSED PROjECT
KETAPAN $,<               j        )                                            1    PROJECT AREA
A     PMAU ,IEADOUJARTEfAS
A  GOlI. FINANCED RUBIBER FRAU. TO BE AGGREGATED
AND REDEVELOPED UNDER THE SECOND
S RALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRE VIOUS PROJECT
\1 5,.,; PROJECT AREA      CREDIT E14 INO
A  PMU HEADOUARTERtS
-MAIN ROADS
____OTHER ROADS
RIVERS
-   -   DISTRICT IIABUPATENI BOUNDARIES
--- PROVINCIAL IPROPINSII BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
r-. Cn- n.. ,rM nrr b b.   _r s7.     .  M ff _ IM I
M.O MM. PWIF T1 71 IB   W VW-FW       C          _0k  rW                                         0   20  40       so BO
M D. r1d "A. 0 r Ov Wm" ' VW .wM    N .mMw^ rodr..I-                                  KILOMETERS .
MILES 6  lb  23r
1100                ~~~~~~~lia ~                112*13



I, 16*"                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 17779
7Wea >> V,_;_ 1 APRIL IN4
S  \ S   X:    zrv            zAvrumcofc OFw                                           INDONESIA
X w  - t r  $                                          ~~~~~SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
St, w-c 1   tt'   0   D; - ''i_                                                      RI AU
- +, p : s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSEO PROIECT
-    ---ZV$d;"CSl ,;;fi! CiA.                                            pROkJECr AREA
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P    L^U HEAOURTERS
G6.O.I. FtNtWCE RUBBER PWJs TO IBE.AGGREGATED AND
__    _  _    _   __                                           g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EVELOPllEtiT PROJECT
a  ___Z__   __a_____                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREVIOUS PROLJECT
_   __,___=    =    =   =;                               . * - - . PROt~~~AL PMU  EACUATERs  CREDIT 984 1N
x -,                             ~~~~~~~~~M A L A Y S I A            SiAIN ROADS
,   1                 \                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
I    \  -- rl                                      --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERs
'   ~~~5< i:\R   -    42    ~~~~~~~~~  -   - ~~DtSTRICTtKASBUPATAN) BOUNOARIBE
t. ,   oE   ' !            sqe        X             -   -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCUAlUPROPINStl HOUNDARIES
-2?                                                                                       l   t;   - -  NERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES         2q-
Toim,mhO       N       J0   d  ;o o o   BZ  loo
> TnO ) ~~Dump \< 
)          ~~~~Pujudo 0                                                                   MILESb - 
i           )  2         s    ~~~~~~~~~~Sungpi Pak,}                          gG          PO R
SAPAANk,         *          PEKANBARUX.  
a  t  w \ _ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                      KEuAu/RI   tAV RUA
p { ,:sKO rA                                                                                                                      40 a .A ,-.Xe
B f : J \ {te~~~~~lOURAGlFI VA jIORARf-_ 
AGAAI           B     _ \>_tpfbE>     ~
PADA6     
PARIAHEMAN\\                                   >\                ',+ 
PADAN2\__                       _+ i*                       :      / \       \\ 
\>   t \_ SOLON                                                         rA /2ov_   u AIItOG jAuNG   . ~ ~
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B -"   _       .,/"
-   \  l }                 o-)                   fF \MLAN/U  SUMATERA ' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.   v '   ,v



