Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12542
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SNALLEOLDER RIUBBR DEVELOPW    II PROJECT
(LOAN 2494-llD)
NOVEMBER 29, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12542
Type: PCR
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Agricultural Operations Division
Inis document has a rested distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
Ithdr offical duties. Its contents may  ot odhewise be disclosed without World Bank authoriton.



CURRENCY EQTYVALENTS
At tippraisal (1984), US$1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 1,000
At completion (1991/92), US$1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 1,950
For exchange rates during implementation, see Annex 1, Table I
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS            National Development Planning Agency
-M,                Bank Indonesia
BPN                 National Government Land Agency
BRI                 Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CDC                 Commonwealth Development Corporation
DIP                 Development Budget
DGE                 Directorate-General of Estates
DRC                 Dry Rubber Content
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP              Food and Agricultural Program/Cooperative Programme
GOI                 Government of Indonesia
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MIS                 Management Information System
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
NES                 Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Project
OED                 Operations Evaluation Departnent (World Bank)
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PMUj                Project Management Unit
PRPTE               Tree Crops Projects Financed only by GOI
Repelita            Five-Year Development Plan
RSI                 Resident Staff in Indonesia (World Bank)
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SRDP                Smallholder Rubber Development Project
TCSDP               Tree Crop Smallholders Development Project
WB                  World Bank



FMOR OIIL USEOINLY
THE WORLD BANK
WaaNngtona D.C. 20433
U.SA
ofmt of Dokno-G.ma
OpeAUa Evaluadon
November 29, 1993
MEMORANDUM Io THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Smaliholder Rubber Develoomel It Project (Loan 2494-INDI
Attached is the Project Completion Report on lndcnesia - Smaliholder Rubber
Development 11 Project (Loan 2494-IND) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office. Part 11 was contributed by the Borrower.
The economic performance of this project exceeded expectations, largely
because of much lower investment costs and higher rubber prices than foreseen at
appraisal. Areas of crop established were close to target. Marked improvements in the
quality of rubber deliveries to market - and therefore in farmgate prices - promise financial
sustainability.
The project failed, however, to find ways of resoMng a history of poor cost
recovery through credit collection. It thus fel short of its institutional development
objectives. Overall, the project outcome has been rated as satisfactory.
The Project Completion Report provides a good account of project imple-
mentation and performance.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
T  dotStlent hJJ a reuk  dbuows_nd am b Ue usifb r,:cf odJ In tM  enfowm of
d   of flQ &#Js. ka coome  may not oOAs be disikosesJ t 4ttwn Wodd Ban suo _e



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COM PLETION REPORT
.iDONESIA
SMAMLLOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
(LOAN 2494-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ...........................................i
Evaluation Summary .............   ...................-
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                   1
Project Identity  .................... . ..............
Background................ ........,....,.,....
Project Objectives and Description     ..                                 2
Project Design and Organization           ..2
Project Implementation .......... ............                            3
Project Results           ..                                              7
Project Sustainability..                                                  8
Bank Performance                     ..9
Borrower Performance.                                                     9
Project Relationships    ..10
Consulting Services ................................                     10
Project Documentation and Da t       ..11
Summary and Lessons Learned    ..11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   13
World Bank Performance    ..14
Project Supervision          ..14
Processing of Procurement Contracts    ..is
GOI Performance                      ..is
Administration    ..19
Technical Assistance    ..20
Project impact   ..21
Relationship Between the World Bank and GOI    .       .23
Performance of CDC (Cofinancier)    ..23
PART mII: STATISTCAL ANNEX  .....................                               24
1. Related Bank Loans .24
2. f'roject Timetable .25
3. Loan Disbursements .26
4. Project hmplementation .27
5. ProjectCostandaFinanng .28
6. PojectResults .30
7. StatusofLoanCovenants .32
8. Use of Bank Resources .33
This document has a restricted disttibution and may be used by recipients only in the performace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Economic Ainysis
2. Statistical Tables
3. Bibligrahy
MAP: IIBM Nos. 17777
17778
17779



PROJECT CONPLETON REPORT
INDONESA
SMALLUOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
(OLan 2494-IND)-
PREFACE
This is the Project Completon Report (PCR) for the Smallholder Rubber Development 11
Projec m Indonesia, for which Loan 2494-IND m the amount of US$131 million was approved on
Febary 19, 1985. Ihe Ptoject was Implemented from 1985 to 1992. The Loan was closed on June
30, 1992, one year behind schedule. The total oan disbursemens amounted to US$63.5 million and the
last disbuman was on November 23, 1992. A total of US$67.5 million was cancelled.
The PR was joitly prepared by the Agricltre Operations Division, County Department
m of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office and the FAO/CP (Prefae, Evaluation Summary, Pars
I and Im), and the Borrower (Part IH). The Commonwealth Development Corporation, which co-financed
the Project, was inted to provide comments on an earlier draft. They reported their saisfaction with
te PCR except for some minor discepancies in Annex 2, Table 9, which have been corrected.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's supervilon mission of the Project
in February 1992 and is based, inter alia, on Staff Appraisal Report No. 5059a-IND dated Jamny 30,
1985; supevision reports; mid-term evaluation report; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and iteral Bank memoranda (bibliography, Annex 3).



PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALLIOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(Ln. 2494-IND)
EVALUATION SUMARlY
Objectives
Ihe objective of the Smallholder Rubber Development (SRDP) II Project (La  2494-1ND)
was to expand and improve the effectiveness of the Government of Indonesia's (GOI) SRDP program to
increase foreign exchmge earnings, create employment and improve the incomes of rubber smallholders,
promote regional development md increase the productivity of under-utilized land. To achieve this
objective, the Project was to include Wlanting and maintenance of about 76,000 ha of mbber trees;
proVision of rubber planting materis for about 19,500 ha to be planted under the parti approac; and
maintenamce of about 57,000 ha of previously planted rubber trees in project provinces. The other
conmonents of the Project were: (a) construction or upgrading of plantation, access and vfllage roads dad
offices and staff quarters; (b) provision of training and technical assistance; and (c) support for
monitoring and applied research on farmers fields and start-up activities for a foUow-up project, the Tree
Crop Smallholder Development Project (TCSDP) (Loan No. 3464-IND).
Ituplanentatlon Experiece
In general, the Project was implemented in accordance with the proposals outlined in the
Staff Appraisa Report (SAR), albeit with some delays which necessitated the extension of the project
period by one year. Most of the SAR targets have been reasonably achieved. Being the follow-up to a
first phase project (SRDP - Credit 984-IND), the project implementation bedefited fiom the experience
of the previous project and the well established SRDP I institutiona arrangement within the Directorate
General of Estates (DIE) consisting of a Project Head Office, Provinci and seeral Project Magement
Units (PMUs) at field level.
Under the tree crop establishment and mainenan  component, 72,271 ha of high-yielig
clonal rubber were planted, representing 95% of the SAR target of 76,000 ha. The standard of planting
under the comprehensive approach including extension, input delivery and credit was satsfactry. On
the other hand, under the partilly-assisted approach, only 6,122 ha were planted, representing 31% of
the SAR target of 19,500 ha. Nevertheless, compared with past achievements the implemen    of this
program has been satisfactory, particularly in view of inadequt promotion of the concept among non-
project farmers and competition from private sources to supply planting material. A self-help approach
was promoted by the Project to encourage farmer self-help group partipaton in the production of their
own quality planing material. The program of maintonanoe to maturity of previously planted rubber



-iU^
tresactuly covered 47,908 ha, compared with 57,000 ha epected at appraisa (84%).  Mm
Implementa-ion of the Infastructu  (roads) sub-component was adjusted to actual requiements by local
PMUs and was at a reduced level, compared to SAR estimates.
As far as the program support is concerned, although most of the traing target in tenm
of numbers of staff and farmer training days were achieved, thetraining acdvities could have been bettor
programmed and planned to meet actual on-the"job training needs over the Projectes implementaIon
period, as this is now being planned for TCSDP, the follow-up ptoject. As anticipated in the SAR, a
study was undertaken in Project Year I on the location and performance of all 001-fianced rubber
p_atins under local PMUs. Tbe study was instrumental in selecting the better PMUs which were
incorporated into the SRDP. ITis helped in further strengthening the already existing well organized
stucure, which managed the Project. The applied research program after some delays was entirely
cauried out.
IThe Pjoect was to establish a monitoring and evaluation system with units in Jakat and
the provinces, and monitoring staff was to be designated in each PMU. This component was not
implemented as anticipated in the SAR. A Management Informadon System consultant was not hired as
planed. Consequently, the aysis of project impact on beneficiaries wi delayed.
Planting of rubber trees by smallholders was to be fitnaced by credit funds provided by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). As under SRDP I, tbe credit funds were to be initially released by BRI
In the form of a loan to DOE as project works were undertaken and after three years the loan to DOE
was to be convered to individual smallholder loans. Financing and sub-f cing   gements
however, proved to be rather rigid and the credit conversion process was delayed for several reasons.
However, project management was instrumental in helping smallholders to form saving accounts, which
should eventually improve the credit recovery mechansm.
The acta project cost totalled only Rp 142.2 billion (64.3% of the appraisal esdmate of
Rp 221.0 billion) or equivalent to US$81.9 million (37% of the apprisal estimate of US$221.0 milion).
The subantal cost under rn of Rp 78.8 billion (US$139.1 million), as compared with the appraisl
estmate, is due to:
(i)    the depreciation of the Rupiah against the US Dollar;
(1i)    the reduced labor incentive payments to smallholkers compared to appraisal
estimae, which was due to release of insufficient funds under the credit
component; and
(iii)   lower achievement as compared to appraisal estinate in respect of absorption of
earlier plantings into SRDP II, delays and lower achievements in other plating
targets, and savings on other physical items (roads, civil works and equipment).
Consequently, the utilization of the Bank Loan was much lower than anticipated. Out of
the Bank La of US$131 million, only US$63.5 million or 48% was disbursed. Further, of the
US$63.5 mfllion actually disbursed, US$11.6 milion was used for the support components, including
technical assistance for DGE, and nursery development and other start-up items for a follow-up project.
At project completion US$51.9 million was actually used for SRDP II implementaton.



- iv -
Result
Overall, tihe Project achieved most of the physical SAR targets, the notable exception being
the paally-asted progm  which was completed at much less than SAR expectations.
The expeded rubber yields from SRDP I plantings wold z!erage about 1,100 kg of
DRCia (dry rubber content/ha) in Sumar over the 2S years tapping life. This is in line with the SAR
stimas. in West Kalimantan with les favorable environmental conditions, however, verage yields
should reach about 720 kg of DRCtha.
A sudy on farmers' income cared out in 1992 shows that the income of participant
families from rubber only has more than doubled. The recaluleatd economic rate of return for the
Project over 35 years at 19% is higher by 6 percentage points than the SAR estmate of 13%. Overall
the rubber development has been enviromentally-friendly.
Although the physical results achieved under SRDP n are considered to be good, further
extnion and supervision would be needed during the mature period of rubber plantings. Training in
tping tecnques would need to be pursued in order to sustain yields. The recurrent issue of cost
reovery trough credit collection is unresolved and poses the question of financial sustbility over the
long term. The new GO0 policy of credit collection by the project staff under the follow-up project may
imrove this situaion. The issue should condnue to be very closely monitored. 'Te progress achieved
by fimer groups in procssing and marketing their rubber is a good indication of long-term project
susainability.
pFdigs and Lessons Learned
The experience of SRDP U has been encouraging. The lessons learned include:
-      The close functioning linkage between project staff and the geograhically
dispersed farmers fostered via the PMU system has been effective in promoting
tree crop development in the outer islands.
-      Poor smallholder farmers, when given the chance to have access to credit
assistance and Improved technology to develop their lands, are able to plat rubber
fields of satisfactory stand-wds and benefit from increased income.
-      Satisfactory standards of planting can be achieved through proper etension advice
and effective supervision of field development.
-      Good project plantings have an encouraging demonstration effect. A number of
non-project famers have adopted the new technology in replanting their old fields
or in developing new areas, wiihout financ  assitnce. These farmers purchase



-V-
high-yielding plantg materials fom the Project and folow thecommendet
techniques, Including feiizer applications.
Thrugh Its pilot self-help prograr the Project was also able to demonstrte that,
with appropriate technical assistance, farmer grups are capable of stabliig
their owl nurseries, the Projet providing budwood, training and extgosion, while
the farmers supply the required agro-inputs and labor.
Despite major attention at appraisal, the Project's credit recovey component, as
designed, was not successfiu. Revised arrangements, not involving commerciW
banks, are to be implemented. This would need to be closdy monitored duin
the implemention of the follow-up TCSDP by the project staff and Bank
supervision missions.
The Project's PMU approach clearly demonstrates it has the management capacity
and capability to enhance productivity, cut costs and improve quality in tree crop
development - accomplishments that are expected to benefit the follow-on TCSDP.
The planting of a wider variety of suitable clones according to agro-dlimatic
conditions should be encouraged. Experience in West Kalimantan showed that
mono-lonal planting (GTI) had resulted in severe Collekcotrdchn leaf infection,
which affected adversely normal tree development and rubber production.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALLHOL4DER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT U PROJECT
(Ln. 2494-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Project Identity
Name:        : Nucleus Estate and Smaliholder Rubber Development U Project
Loan Number : 2494-IND
RVP Unit    : East Asia and Pacific
County       : Indonesia
Sector       : Agriculture
Sub-sector    : Tree Crops; Rubber
2.  Bd
2.1     The agricultural sector is of overwhelming importance to the economy of Indonesia Over the
last two decades agricutural investment has concentrated maily on irrigation, tree crops development,
tranmigratlon  and agricultura support services. Within the tree crops and industral creps sub-sector,
85% of the area is owned and cultivated by smallholders, while the balance, 15%, is under public and
private estates. Ambiutous targets for plantg tree crops were sat by the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
as early as the Third Five-Year Development Plan - Repelita m (1979-1984). More than 50% of hie
targets were for rubber and coconut, the two most important smallholder crops.
2.2     Since early 1970's two approaches have been developed to foster snalholder tree crops
development in general and rubber in particular. The first approach involves the formation of
geographically concentated Project Management Units (PMUs) within the Direcate General of Estates
(DGE). PMUs assist local land owners to plant, replant or rehabilitate their holdings by supplying
etsion services, planting mateial and fertilizer, and incentve payments for labor (PMU approach).
The second approach involves the use of publicly-owned estates to block plant tee cps for smallholder
settlers (Nucleus Estate and Smallholder approach). Under both approaches, smallholders are expected
to replay the cost of the development, under credit arrangement. A pressing concern during preparation
and appraisa of SRDP U, was the lack of credit recovery being obtained under earlier projects.
2.3     Based on the PMU approach, SRDP I was the follow-up to a first phase project (SRDP I)
which was executed from 1981 to 1985 and under which about 36,000 ha of rubber were planted in three
major provinces.



-2 -
3.      Poe  Cbjcti!ves and Description
3.1     Objectives. The objectuve of SRDP II was to expand and improve the effectiveness of the
GOrs Smallholder Rubber Development Program in order to increase foreign exchange earnings, create
employment and Improve the incomes of rubber smaliholders, promote regional development and increa
the productivity of underutlized land.
3.2     Project Desription. The Project was to include:
(a) Tree Crop Establishment and Maintenanle:
- planting and maitennce of about 76,000 ha of rubber trees;
- provision of rubber planting materials for about 19,5W ha to be planted under the
partial approach;
- maintenance of about 57,000 ha of previously planted rubber trees in project povins;
- construction of about 1,930 km of plantation roads and 320 km of access roads,
upgrading of 380 km of existing villages roads and provision of road maintenance
machinery; and
- construction of facilities and staff quarters in project PMUs.
(b) Program Development:
- provision of training for about 4,500 farmer gwup leaders and 2,800 staff;
- provision of about 540 person-months of consultant services for technical support and
studies;
- provision of funds to facilitate monitoring and applied research on farmers fields; and
- start-up activities for a fitmre project.
3.3     Tne tota project cost at appraisal (1984 prices) was estimated at US$221.0 million including
US$90.4 million (41%) in foreign exchange. ITis was to be finmced by loans of US$131 million from
tWe World Bank, and the equivalent of US$20 million from the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC), and the equivalent of US$70.0 million from GOI fimds.
4.      Project Design and Orgaization
4.1     The design of the project was based on the PMU approach which had proved to be effective
in producing good quality tree crops. The experience and lessons learned from the Smallholder Rubber
Developmen I Project (Credit 984IND) helped to establish adequate design standards. Ihe project
completion report (PCR) on SRDP I emphasized that "more work was needed to make the credit system



-3-
opertloal* and demonated ta the PMU system was an effective means of developing and
imp!       planti  programs. t also pin-poind the need to reolve the problems of complex fn
rlease and pwcment procedus to avoid delays in implementtion.
4.2     During prepartonlapprabal, the difficulties with credit recovery were discussed with the
Government and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI).  TIe Govenment decided to contine with the
'executing" bank afrangement under with BRI contributed some of the funds for credit, and became
partily at rdsk once smallholder accounts were established and land tide issued, in principle three yeas
after plantg. Detaed agreements were drawn up aimed at facilitating both the credit arrangements,
and find releases.
4.3      The well established SRDP I ogaion structure at the project Head Office, provincial and
distret levels helped in steady SRDP I start-up and faciitated smooth transition between the two projects.
Ihe tming of SRDP It which had a one year overlap with SRDP I was appropriate and ensured the
continu0ty of the mainitenance of previous planting under SRDP I. Also, the first project year, being the
start-p, provided the required lead time for the establishment of nurseries for the first planting in the
second project year, for fiamer and site selections and for training of project staff and farmer leaders.
S.      Project   pl      i
5.1     General. On the whole, project implementaion proceeded satsfactorily albeit with some
delays which necesitated the extension of the project period by one year.
5.2     Project costs. The actu project cost totalled only Rp 142.2 biRlion (64.3% of the appraisa
estime of Rp 221.0 billion) or equivalent to US$81.9 million (37% of the appraisa estite of
US$221.0 million). The substantial cost under run of Rp 78.8 billion (JS$139.1 million) as compared
..th the appraisal estimate, is due to three main causes:
(a) the depreciation of the Rupiah against the US Dollar;
(b) the reduced labor incentivepayment to smallholders compared to appraisal estimate which
was due to release of insufficient funds under the credit component but which did not
affect implementation adversely; and
(c) lower achievement as compared to apraisal estimate in respect of absorption of earlier
plants into SRDP II and delays and lower achievements in other plantig targets, and
savings on other physical items (roads, civil works and equipment).
5.3     Disbursements. Utilizaton of the Bank Loan was much lower than anticipated largely due
to depreciaton of the Rupiah during the implementation period and some cost reductions compared to
SAR esmates. Out of the Bank Loan of US$131 millon, only US$63.5 million or 48% was disbursed.
A total of US$64 million was canceled during the project implementation period (4 cancellatons). The
rtie Loan amounted to US$67 million. 'he original Closing Date according to the Loan Agreement



-4-
was June 30, 1991 U, but the Loan was closed on June 30, 1992. Of the US$63.5 million actually
disbursed, US$51.9 minlion related to the main tree cop establishment and maintenance component, of
which US$41.6 million (76%) was used to finance the credit components and US$10.3 million (24%) for
the non-credit components (Part m, Table 5). The sum of US$11.6 million was used .r the support
componets, including techmical assistance for DGE, and nursery development and other start-up items
for a follow-up project. The project description was revised to permit financing of coconut development
as well s rubber. At appraisa, the Bank was to finance 59% of total project cost; the actual results were
that the Bank Loa covered 63 % of total SRDP 11 project cost.
5.4     New rubber platings. Under the comprehensive approach, or the fully-assisted program,
which depended on farmer initiative, training, supervision, field extension, credits for planting materials,
fertilizers and pesticides, including incentive payment for farm labor, a total of 72,271 ha of high-yielding
clonal rubber for smallholders was plant. The total planted hectarage represented 95% of the SAR
target of 76,000 ha. The location-wise distribution of the new plantings, with the achievement of the
relevant location-specific target given in brackets, was as follows: South Sumatra (+ Jambi) 26,010 ha
(95%), Riau 22,239 ha (92%) and West Kalimantan 24,022 ha (98%). The total hectarage planted
comprised 99.4% new planting and 0.6% replanting, and included 86% 1-ha holdings and 14% 2-ha
frms. 'This trend in development was in line with GOI's plan to provide for greater farmer participation
in the outer islands and to promote the planting of the second hectare through the self-help or partially-
assisted program.
5.5     The standard of planting has been very satisfactory as a result of keen participation by
modvated farmers and adequate support from the project management both at the national level and in
the provinces. The quality classes achieved, based on assessment of treeslha (A = >400, B = 320-399,
C = 200-319, and D = <200), as shown in Annex 2, Table 4, compare very favorably with the 1988/89
mid-term review of all Bank-funded tree crop projects which reported 50% plantings as sub-standard.
aass D plantings with low rubber stand and uneven growth were caused by alang alang fire, damage by
wild animals such as pigs, deer, tapirs and elephants and diseases during implementation which, apart
fom disease infections, were usually associated with sites located along boundaries adjacent to
undeveloped land. West Kalimantan's relatively poorer performance was largely due to less favorable
environmental conditions - poo: soils, impeded drainage, high and frequent rainfal, and high incidence
of root/stem diseases and, in particular, foliar disease (Colletonichwn gloesoporioWdes) which affected
the mono-clonal GT-1 plantings. Most of the rubber trees were expected to become tappable at seven
years from planting, but alang alang fire, damage by wild animals and diseases posed problems. Apart
from the expected appropriate agronomic inputs, preventive measures, such as better alang alang control,
constuction of fire barriers and boundary patrols to deter destructive encroachments by wild animals,
would alleviate the problems and contribute to the sustained quality development of smallholder rubber
holdings.
5.6     Partially-aisted program. Tbis program consists of selling plantigg materials to farmers
but does not provide extension and supervision. This approach to promote greater smallholder rubber
development was initated during Repelita I and 11 (1969-1979) with limited success due to inadequate
infraructure, unavailaility of fertilizer and poor credit facilities. During SRDP I a small component
to test the partal approach was included but again the objective remained unfulfilled due to funding
u  Low Agmeent Sctin 2.04 pgo 3.



problems as officials wished to provide financl incentives for good maintenance. Under SRDP n,
19,500 ha were earmarked or fiurher partially-assisted initiative, paticularly aimed at farmers who had
sufficit cash to plant rubber without credits, through provision of planting materia at cs an
assitac in obWni  agricultural Inputs. At project completion, 6,122 ha wer platd under ths
program, representing 31 % of the original target. A design fault turned out to be the assumption that
smallholders in the vicinity of the PMUs would be willing to participate. Many felt it would be better
to await a new project when they might receive the full assistance package. Compared with past
achievements, implemeation of this component can be deemed as satisfactory, particularly in view of
its emphasis on the quality and validity of the planting material supplied, staff and extension constrains,
the difficulty of promoting the concept among non-project farmers in close vicinity to those receiving fult
assistance, competition from private sources which sold relatively cheaper planting materials and
prvincial agencies which provided planting materials free-of-charge. Experience gained from thi
program should, however, benefit follow-on Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project (rCSDP) self-
help component.
5.7      Self-help approach.  Due to the limited succes of the partialty-assisted program and
experience gained during implemenution, project management revised the component and modified the
approach, in mid-course, to encourage farmer self-help through group participation in the production of
their own lower cost, quality planting materis - bare-root budded stmps, polybag budded seedings,
seed-at-stake and green budding - with PMU technical assistance. This pilot program was successfully
implemented in Riau and South Sumatra where paricipatng farmers also gained valuable hands-on
experience in the economics of nursery management and production of quality polybag planting materials.
In view of the promising inital success, the self-help approach is expected to be fiuther testd to
complement the fully-assisted program under TCSDP.
5.8                  of earlier plantings. Ihis component covered rubl  plantings established
during 1976-1985 under SRDP I, PRPTE (tree crop projects financed only by GOID, GCC (group
coaating center) and THsmigraion 1 (Loan 1735-IND). The Project achieved the mainae tilU
maturity of 47,908 ha (84%) compared with 57,000 ha expected at appraisal. The quality of planting was
highly variable due to late initial quality Inspection to identify field problems for remedial action. As a
resdt, the trees came into production from as early as six years from planting (Sumatra and Riau) to as
late as eight to ten years from establishmntm (West Kalimantan - Sosok and Singa. Major causes
were: delayed absorption of the administration of maitenance areas, inadequate extension during initial
planting, poor soil with impeded drainage, use of low vigor bare root stumps, poor planting techniques,
sub-standard upkeep, poor access, fire/wild animal damage and disease infections. To ensure sustained
tree crop development, inherited plantings from other projects should be imspected early to identify
problems for timely corrective upgrading or rehabilitation, and the transfer of authority to the new
management should be without delay.
5.9     lnfrastruure. Ehis component included road construction and upgrading,- construction of
facilities and housing for staff, and the provision of machinery/farm equipment and transport facilities.
Its imple ion suffered from financial constraints due to institutional delays in budget approval and
budget cuts. Consequentiy, SAR targets were not filly achieved, as detailed in Part m, Table 4. To
achieve orderly progress in planting, project management adjusted the infrastructural provisions according
to local PMU requirements to optmize their cotribution to project development without compromising
on quality. Ihe avalbility of 894 motorcycles (90% of SAR target) to PMU field staff was particuarly



effective in fiditating the extension program as, apart fom expanding the scope of the extension service,
It mtivaWtd the staff to undertake field visits as required and discharge their duties efficiely.
5.10    Prorm support. lhis component sought to fulrther upgrade the administrative and technical
skills of project management and farmer participants through: (a) tning and manpower development;
(b) consultant services and studies; (c) technology development including applied research for
smaiholders; and (d) technical start-up for TCSDP. These objectives were largely achieved despite
onstraints such as late approval and release of budgets and changes in institutional procedures affecting
funding and approval for training during implementation. Overall, training in human resource
development was provided to 1,416 project staff and 45,672 farmer trainees, including support for
overseas training In tree crop development and management for project staff. Total training person-day
input was 268,986, the achievement being 66% of the SAR estimate. Overall, the training was well
planned and programmed, but delayed fund release and frequent transfer of coordinators bad adversely
affected implementation and training capacity. The Project also provided consultancy services for
training and extension, financial management, planting managemen, processing and marketing, and
appited research undertaken in collaboration with Sembawa Research Insttte. There were savings in
exnditure on consutancy services.  As against the SAR provision of $40 person-months of
intnatlonaly recruited consultant time, the actual utilization was 240 person-months (44%). IThe
positions of Management Information System (MIS) consultant and processing/marketing consultant were
not filled. 'Me absence of the MIS consultant caused delays in the analysis of project beneficiaries. But
there was no serious setback on rubber processing/marketing as project management was able to tap the
services of Team Khusus' consultant to provide the needed expertise - a commendable inter-agency
collaboration. With the Bank's agreement, the objectives of the Project were expanded to cover coconuts
as well as rubber, and 251 person-months of consultancy services supported related requirements to
ensur a smooth transition to the follow-up project (CCSDP) covering both crops.
5.11    Cost recovery and credit conversion. The issue of cost recovery has been a recurrent one
in tee crop projects in general, and in rubber projects in particular. Ohe Project was to concentrate on
steps to improve cost recovery through a credit system introduced under SRDP I, by increasing the
amount to be repaid and implementing mechanisms to strengthen the ability of smallholders to repay.
All direct expenditures for new planting, including on farm labor (to provide adequate incentive for good
maintenance) which were estimated to constitute about threefourths of the total expenditure, were to be
covered by a credit package administered by BRI, the executing Bank. The credit funds were to be
initilly rleased by BRI in the form of a loan to DGE as project works were undertaken and after three
years the loan to DGE was to be converted to individual smallholder loans. The lending rate of 6%
under SRDP I was to be increased to 12% with interest to be compounded and capitalized after three
years instead of seven years as under SDRP I. However, for reasons of delays at BPN, BRI and
indecision on sub-standard plantings, the actual implementation of the whole process proceeded more
slowly tham anticipated at araisal and the conversion of DGE loans of both SRDP I and SRDP II into
smalholder loans has been delayed.
5.12    DetaRed stus of conversion is given in Annex 2, Table 11. Of the 123,614 ha of rubber
planted since 1980/81 the beginning of the Program and even earlier, 63,731 ha were due for conversion
(52%) at June 30, 1992. Of these, only 13,826 ha have been converted (11% of total plantings) and
49,905 ha have not yet been converted (41% of total plantings). In addition, about 12,935 ha or 10%
of total plantings are not eligible for conversion (Class D = less than 200 trees/ha). Overall repayment
perafrmnce of SRDP I and SRDP UI converted credits was given by BRI. The latest available BRI



-7-
credit repayment statement for November 1992 shows an average repayment of principal of about 75%
for both SRDP I and SRDP 1X credits. At that time, averge arreas amounted to 25% of principal dues
for a combined cumulative total of about 14,000 farmers.
5.13    The credit recovery conponent as designed was not successful, despite the major attentrmn
given to it at appraisal, when the risks associated with defaults on credit repayments were analyzed,
interest rates were increased, and it was judged that an adequate margin existed to cover BRr's costs,
especially as only a small portion of any defaults were to be born by BRI. During implementation,
detailed discussions contimued, aimed intially at ensuring that BRI had the necessary trained staff in
braches to handle the smallholder accounts, and pursue recoveries. During these discussions, it became
increasuingly obvious that BRI remained concemed about the risks and costs involved, and the diversion
of staff from other more profitable actvities. The January 1990 banking sector reform discontinued most
subsidized directed credit which necessitated a fundamental review of the role of the banking sector in
smallholder tree crop finance. In January 1991, the Government decided that future smanlholder
programs should proceed without banking sector participaion.
5.14     Under the follow-u  project, government credit is to be provided to smallholders, to be
administered by the PMUs. The current expectation is that the credit under earlier projects, including
SRDP II, will be removed from BRIs books, and also become Government credit.
5.15     The issue of cost recovery would therefore need to be closely monitored during the
implementation of the follow-up TCSDP by the project staff and Bank supervision missions, particularly
in view of the recent change in GOT policy (para. S.14).
6.      Project Results
6.1      General. Overall, the Project achieved most of the physical SAR targets, the notable exception
being the partially-assisted program which was completed at much less tan SAR expectations (see Secdon
4 of Part m for details).
6.2      Rubber production. Rubber yield projections, based on field visits, farm records and
project's quality classification, are detailed, according to quality of plntng, in Annex 2, Table 4.
Becuse of generally satsfactory esublishment, despite differences in plating conditions, the trees are
epected to become tappable in the seventh year after plantig. The fully-assisted plantings in South
Sumatra and Riau, where growing conditions are very suitable for tree crop development, the trees are
expected to attain average peak yield of 1,590 kg/DRC/ha, corresponding to the weighted average annual
production over the 25-year tapping life of about 1,100 kg/DRC/ha. These yields are in line with the
SAR estimates. In West Kalimantan, with less favorable nirnme     conditions for rubber tree
development, yields for fully-assisted plantings are projected at about 1,050 kgIDRC/ha at peak
production equivalent to 722 kg/DRC/ha (65% of SAR estimate) for anmnal weighted average of 25 years
of economic life; the lower yields being attributable to the susceptibility of mono-clonal planting of GT-1
to perenn  leaf disease (Colletotrchn) infection, uneven tree stand and lower tappability. The
projected yields are sustinable provided farmers continue to give attention to field maintenance,
disease/pest control, fertilizer application and tapping management, which must emphasize proper tapping
technique including control of bark consumption, which in turn is dependent on availability of adequate
post-harvest advisory services.



6.3      Financial and economic results. A study on farmers' income carried out in 1992 shows that
the income from rubber only of SRDP I farmers rose by about 150% from Rp 813,000 on average per
family per year before project to Rp 1,988,000 after the Project.
6.4     Details of the ex-post economic analysis of the Project are given in Annex 1. The analysis is
based on actual costs for SRDP II new plantings only and estimat  projected benefits from these
SRDP H plantings established during four years between 1986/87 and 1989/90. The recalculated
economic rate of return (ERR) of SRDP II over 35 years is 19%, higher by 6% than the SAR estimae
of 13%. The current re-estimate of the ERR is based on actua costs to date and the aggregate planted
area phased from project year 1-5, and is thus more rigorous than the appraisal estimate based on a 2 ha
rubber model. The principal factors wh^'h have contributed to the higher ERR are as follows:
(a) higher projected rubber prices compared to appraisal projections; and
(b) lower investment costs than those estimated at appraisal.
6.5     Environmental impact. Ihe Project has successfully planted and maintained a rubber crop on
land that was previously unproductive with alang alang, degraded secondary forest, or low-yielding old
jungle rubber. To achieve these objectives, it incorporated proper environmental concerns into its
operation to sustain natural resources. These included: (a) selection of planting sites that were not
susceptible to soil degradation, (b) application of the appropriate farming practices - non-mechanical land
preparation with use of safe weedicide, construction of conservation terraces, planting legume cover crop,
and minimum usage of agro-chemicals; (c) proper waste disposal - rubber effluent from group processing
centers was biologically treated in retention ponds before being discharged; and (d) during supervision,
attention was drawn to the need for protective and mitigatory measures and practices to enhance
environmental qualities. Overall, the rubber development has been environmentally-friendly. At
replanting, the rubberwood as renewable resource would contribute to sustaining timber supply.
7.      Project Sustalnability
7.1     In order to sustain an acceptable stream of net benefits, throughout the Project's economic life,
proper tapping practices, control of diseases, pest and fire and continued application of feriizers by
smalIholders have to be encouraged. The project management should perform this function through its
extension services during the credit repayment period. Without continuing supervision of these activities
by project staff, production is likely to be lower and the production life of the rubber stand would be
shortened. Thus the ability of smallholders to repay filly their loans would be in jeopardy. Therefore,
although the physical results of SRDP II can be considered to be good, further extension and supervision
by the project office will be needed during the mature period of rubber plantings. Further training in
adequate tapping techniques is also required to sustain yields. The follow-up project is designed to ensure
this follow-up takes place.
7.2      On the other hand, the long-standing issue of cost recovery through credit collection is stiU
open, and the new procedures to be implemented under TCSDP remain to be proven in practice. The
cost recovery issue therefore raises the question of the financial sustainabiity of the smallholder tree crop
program over the long-term.



-9.
7.3     The progress achieved by farmer groups in marketing their rubber is on the other hand a good
Indication of the long-term project sustainability. Farmers presently obtain farm-gate prices estimated
at about 80% of F.O.B. local prices (compared to 50% estimated at appraisal) as a result of improved
rubber quality. The strengthening of farmer groups for processing/marketing should be further
encouraged during the follow-up project to improve sustainability.
8.      Bank Performance
8.1     During preparation/appraisal, the design of the credit component was a contentious issue inside
the Bank. After much deliberation, it was decided to support BRI as the executing Bank. This occurred
despite misgivings that such a system might not be effective in providing the expected banking services.
The SRDP I experience has proven the credit recovery system, as designed, could not be successfully
Implemented. As a result, revised arrangements, involving the PMU, are to be implemented under
TCSDP.
8.2     The ten Bank supervision missions as well as the mid-term review carried out in 1988 with the
assistance of the Resident Staff in Indonesia, no doubt, contributed to the successful completion of the
Project. Overall, the Bank supervision missions guided and encouraged the project managerment to strive
for further improvement of its performance. The project office feels that the mission aide-memoires
during the earlier years of the project were too lengthy and included minor details of implementation.
In later years, however, the aide-memoires focused on key problems which project management should
fuly address. While in the earlier years of the project when staff complements with the appropriate skill
was available, supervision missions were carried out essentially with RSI staff, the more recent ones were
conducted by Bank specialists from Washington which continued to foster management quality, focusing
on raising productivity, efficiency and cost effectiveness.
9.       Borrower Performance
9.1      During preparation of the Project, the officers of DGE and the management and consultants
of the previous SRDP I were enthusiastic and provided valuable assistance and relevant data to the Bank
pre-appraisal and appraisal missions. The design of the cost recovery scheme, however, required
numerous discussions with other GOI agencies before a final consensus could be reached.
9.2     The Borrower fully cooperated with Bank supervision missions. Project management strove
to resolve the issues raised by these missions and took extra efforts to improve implementation standards.
The undoubted success of the Project is a tribute not only to the participants, but to the Project
managementes leadership in promoting a well trained and motivated staff, and sound relationships with
farmers base on a good understanding of their interests and concerns.
9.3     The placements of key staff generally suited the operational requirements of their positions.
The resident consultants, who were based in the Jakarta Head Office, provided assistance to the project
officers in Jakarta and visited the Provincial Offices and PMUs on a regular basis, as well as when
symptoms of serious problems appeared in the areas. Further, DGE maximized the utilization of the
available consultant's expertise by requesting theem to undertake field surveys and feasibility studies for
new projects.



- 10-
9.4     Although the Implementation of Infrastructe component in particular suffered due to
lnstitutional delays in budget approval and budget cuts (para. 5.9), budgeting and fund release procedure
Introduced by GOI In 1989190 subsequently resulted in some improvement in annual funding of the
Project. The pace of credit conversion continued to be very slow, and the executing bank has o been
sufficieny active In collecting conved farmer credits. Project manaement, however, instituted
complementary measures to collect unconverted credits from farmers whose rubber fields have come into
beaing. Ihe result of these collection measures are quite encouraging and provides a basis on which
PMUs could build upon to effectively discharge their credit collection responsibility under the follwup
TCSDP.
10.     Projec Rlonships
10.1    Years of mutually cooperative relationships among the Bank, CDC (the co-financier), and the
concerned 001 agencies, particuarly DGE and the project office, had a positive impact on the design,
preparion, and implemeion of the Project. Tne close relationship between Bank officias and project
management, and the latter's familiarity with Bank policies and procedures, led to the success of the
Project. Reguar interactions among RSI and visiting supervision members helped to strengthen overal
capacity and capability of the PMU system of management.
10.2    The participation of CDC starting from the project appraisal, through the design, together with
WC. agencies, of procurement and loan disbursement procedures, clarified all issues and minimized
problems during project implementation.
10.3    There was, however, some lack of ommunicationbetween project office and BRY, arising from
BRIrs concerns about the viability of converted tree crop loans in their portfolio.
11.     Consuti  Sevices
11.1    Overall, the resident consultans have performed well. Their familiarity with DGE policies
and Bank procedures, together with their appreciation of the particular development requirements of tree
crop smallholders, strengthened their capability in conducting surveys and feasibility studies, and in
effectively providing assistnce to the project during implementation. Their long association with and
considerable experience in implementing PMU-type projects made their assistance very valuable to DOE.
11.2    The National Land Authority (BPN), the GOI agency which has been the contractor for land
titling, could not cope with the large volume of land certificates needed to be issued. Although the BPN
was granted more auithority at the district level in processing land tides, the delays persisted. This delay
had been one of the causes of the slow credit conversion rate, because the land certificates were required
to be pledged, as security, to BRI.



- 11 -
12.     Project Documentation and Data
12.1    The legal documents of the Ptoject were well drawn, and the Staff Appraisal Report was
sufficiently comprehensive and served as a clea implementation guideline for project officers at the
Jakarta Read Office, Provincial Offices and PMUs.
12.2    The project office prepared a draft PCR and provided comprehensive stadstical data and other
infration required by the PCR mission. It has not, however, Integrated its data bases and is owW
undertking an overall improvement of its internal management information system, taking into account
the reportig requirements of DOE and the Department of Finnce (which has been revising the
accountng system of GO and of foreign-assisted projects).
13.     Summary and Lessons Leared
13.1    Overall, the Project has achieved most of the objectives envisioned at appraisal and the resuts
have positive impacts on poverty alleviation, institutional strengthening, human resource development,
sustnable growth of rubber crop, and environmental concerns.
13.2    The main lessons learned include:
-   Ihe close functioning linkage between project staff and the geographically dispersed
farmers fostered via the PMU system has been effective in promoting tree crop
development in the outer islands.
-   Poor smallholder farmers, when given the chance to have access to credit assisance and
improved technology to develop their lands, are able to plant rubber fields of satisfactory
standards and benefit from increased income.
- Satisfactory standards of planting can be achieved through proper extension advice and
effective supervision of field development.
- Good project plantings have an encouraging demonstration effect. A number of non-
project finners have adopted the new technology in replandng their old fields or in
developing new areas, without financia assistance. These farmers purchase high-yielding
planting materias from the Project and follow the recommended techniques, including
fertilizer applications.
-   Through its pilot self-help program, the Project was also able to demonstrate that with
appropriate technical assistance, farmer groups are capable of establishng their own
nurseries, the Project providing budwood, training and extension, while the famers
supply the required agro-inputs and labor.



,.12 
Despite major attention at appraisal, the Project's credit recovery component as designed
wss nOt successfi=I. Revised arrangements, not involving commercial banks, are to be
implemented. }his would need to be closely monitored duing the implementaion of the
follow-up TCSDP by the project staff and Bank supervision missions.
The Project's PMU approach clearly demonstrates it has the management capacity and
capability to enhance productivity, cut costs and improve quality in tree crop development
-accomplishments that are expected to benefit the follow-on TCSDP.
Ihe planting of a wider variety of suitable clones according to agro-climatic conditions
should be encouraged. Experience in West Kaliatan showed mono-clonal planting
(GTI had resulted in severe Collectokidum leaf infection which affected adversoly
nornm tree development and rubber production.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF ESTATES
SMALLUOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMEUNT PROJECT
(LOAN 2494-IND)
PART UI: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWME'S PERSPECTIVE
Table of Contents
1. WorldBak Performance ...............................                     14
2. ProjectSupervision .14
3. ProcessingofProcurementContracts     ..15
4. GOIPerrmance .15
MawementdOrganizati.on .15
TechnicalAspe. .17
Fi eand Credit. .18
S. Administratn..                                                           19
6. Tecbnical Assistance .20
7. Project Impact .21
8. Relationship Between the World Bank and (301.23
9. PerforanceofCDC(Cofnancier). .23



- 14-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
DIECTORATE GENERAL OF ESTATES
MALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPM  PROJECT
(LOAN 2494-IND)
1. World Bank Performance
1.1 PIoWect Design and Anraisad. SRDP l, the follow-up to SRDP I, was well designed in
general, since any shortcomings of the first project were rectified in the succeeding project. Ihe
asorption of three Assisted Replanting Project (ARP) PMUs from PRPTE ensures the continued
maintence of their previous plantings. Also, the inclusion of Singkut, previously under the
Trasmgration II Project, benefitted the poor transmigrants and supported the tranmigration program
of GO(. Further, the regrouping of 32 small Group Coagulating Centers (GCCs), which were
absorbed from PRPTE, into seven (7) medium-sized PMUs covering about 3,000 hectres each
reduced administrative overhead.
1.2 However, the three PMUs of SRDP I, which continued planting under SRDP II, became too
large to be manageable. The Project management split each of these PMUs into two, thus becoming
six PMUs, each covering from 8,000 to 10,000 hectares.
1.3 Findlly, the partial assistance scheme and the processing and marketing system were not fully
addressed during appraisal, probably becase the details of these components depended to a large
extent on the specific chateiscs of the provincial areas. Project management, therefore, had to
explore for the appropriate scheme for the partial assistance and the suitable on-farm processing and
marketg systems, considering the circumstances in each province.
2. Project Supervision
2.1 Ihe World Bank, thrwgh its supervision missions throughout the implementation period of the
Project, had indeed contnrbuted to the success of the Project. Project management had been always
consious of the condnual Bank supervision, and had exerted extra efforts to perform well. Further,
the Bank missions could take fast decisions and had been flexible in accommodating and assisting the
Project in resolving operational problems encountered during implementation. However, the
missions could have been more effective had specialists on marketing, famer institutions, and social
economy been included, in addition to agronomists, as members at one time or another.



- 1S -
3. Processing of Pt  Contracts
3.1 Ihe reorganizadon of the World Bank, whereby the World Bank-RST, in essence, became a
liaison office, had no adverse effect on the processing of procurement document. The no objection
lets, although issued by the World Bank Headquarters in Washington, were transmitted fast
enough to RSI at Jakart through modemn communications.
4. GOI Performance
4.1 Qval errmance.   e Project performance had been very satisfactory, with plating of
72,271 hectares under the full assistance program, or 95% of the 76,000 hectare target, over four
years (1986/87 - 1989/90).
4.2 lhe target would have been met or even surpassed, bad Bappens and BEU approved the
requested planting program for 1990/91. At the time of the budget preparation for 1990/91,
Bappenas and BRI were concerned about the continuation of financing for the maintc    up to
matrity of SRDP II planting, in view of the limited availability of BI liquidity credits and the
revision of the financing and cost recovery scheme for TCSDP, wherein state commercial banks
would no longer participate.
4.3 The actWal project cost was well below the original estimate, having totaled only Rp 142.2
bilion (64.3% of the appraisal esfimate of Rp 221.0 billion) or US$ 81.9 million (37.0% of US$
221.0 million estimate). The utiization of the IBIRD loan reached US$ 63.5 million (48.5% of dt
original loan of US$ 131.0 million), while that of the CDC loan was US$ 9.1 million (35.7% of the
origia amount of US$ 25.5 million).
4.4 The Government has complied with the foreign loan covenants and has been submitting audited
financi  reports fairly on time.
4.5 froiect PreMaration and Start-U. In retrospect, the cost recovery system with its credit
converiion feature, could have been modified in design had 001 accepted the World Bank
recommendation during the preparation of the Project, and acceded to the wrien wishes of BR1
mnanagement, to change the role of BRI from the previous executing bank in SRDP I to a collecting
bank under SRDP E. At the time of Project preparation, however, GOI was overly concerned about
the sources of financing for the Project and wanted to tap the financial resources of state commerci
baking institutions.
Magment and QrMization
4.6 Projec Management. Although the Project leadership has performed qVite well during the
implementation phase, there was room for iuprovement with regards to taing more timely acdons
and supervising more closely thue progress of mplemenion by the Provinci Offices.
4.?7Qranizbon  Structure. The Project orgaizaional structure, whicl was a carty-over from
SRDP , had adapted well to the expanded operations of SRDP H., The Provincial Offices assumed
greater responsibilities with regards to procurement and releases of funds, since the Department of



-16-
inance introduced the new procedures conunencing in 1989/90, in line with the GOI policy of
dectriztion.
4.8 DGE also strove, with the approval of higher GOI agencies, to realign the echelon levels of
Project officers with those of the struturu organization of DGE. Ibis action provided more
motivation and opened opportunities for career advancement.
4.9 The monitoring and evaluation functiov, however, bad not been accorded due importance. The
fiunction had been assigned to just a section of the Technical Department. This weakness was
rectified in the TCSDP organization, wherein the Planning and Evaluation Department was created at
the Jakarta Head Offhce and in the Provincial Offices as well.
4.10   Personmel and ctrlilng. Tne number of Project staff reached its peak (1,525) in the third
year (1988/89) of Project implementadon. Thereafter, it gradually decreased to 1,416 by the end (30
June 1992) of the Project, consisting of: 75 staff at the Jakrt Head Office, 95 at the three
Provincial Offices, and 1,246 at the 17 PMUs. Staff separations during the Project period were due
to:
- Transfers to Bimas Program    235 staff
- Voluntary resignations        108
- Transfers to Dinas Perkebunan  38
- Dismissals                     23
- Deaths                         14
- Retirements                     4
Total                       422 staff
4.11   At the time of project appraisal, DOE proposed 2,011 Poject staff, whereas the SAR
stipulated the training of about 2,800 staff composed of 1,000 extension level staff, 500 managerial
and 1,300 administrative and supporting staff. The SAR estimate was not reached due to budgetary
constraints, the policy of DGE of no new recruitment other th ransfers from other DGE projects
and Dinas Perkebunan, and the SAR over estimate by about 50% of the extension workers.
4.12   The Interna Audit staff positions were not filled due to the insufficiency of appropriately
qualified personnel within the Project. The Internal Audit staff could have been instment in
inspecting and improving furither the financial administration and field operations particularly at the
PMU level.
4.13   Training of Project staff concentrated at the PMU level, especially the extension workers.
One-half of the 36 courses offered was conducted by the Project, and the other half was contracted to
government and private agencies, including two out-of-country courses. About Rp 2.0 billion were
spent for Project staff training and about Rp 1.7 billion for famer training. Therefore, the total
training expenditure reached Rp 3.9 billion (mcluding overhead), which represent 66% of the SAR
esdmate of Rp 5.9 billion.



- 17 -
4.14   With the implementation of its traing program, the Project effectively upgraded the
capabilities and skills of Project staff (most of whom were absorbed fiom SRDP I, while others were
transferred from PRPTE). The training program, however, had not been complemented by a
performance evaluation system, whicma objectively gauge the impact of the training program  on
the job performance of Project staff.
4.15 Management Reporting. The Project has been able to fuIfill the reporting requirements of
the World Bank, the DGE and other GOI agencies, and of internal management as well. The
management information system (MS) of the Project, however, has not yet undergone substantial
improvements, due to the absence of the MIS Specialist (who was not hired as envisaged in the Staff
Appraisal Report). Realizing the need to streamline its MIS and to utilize more fiuly the available
computers, coupled with the availability of GOI fincing, the Project, in the latter half of 1991,
engaged the services of a local consulting firm to undertake the design of a computer-based MIS for
the Project. The new system is being designed to meet the requirements of TCSDP and would be
implemented, initially on a pilot basis, starting in 1992/93.
echbnical AgDects
4.16   NTrser      h . 'Me program for nurseries included: (a) putting up rootstock nurseries to
produce planting materials for Project planting under the full and partial assistance schemes; and (b)
the establishment of budwood gardens with selected clones other than GT 1.
4.17   The establishment of multi-clonal budwood gardens suffered delays due to the limited
quantity of selected clones available from the research stations. Consequently, the SAR targets were
not attained. The Project, however, was able to establish some multi-clonal budwood gardens in
1987/88 and 1988/89, and some new clones were planted in -1989190.
4.18 Full Assistance Program. The fill assistance planting program attained 95% of the
76,000-hectare SAR target. However, one major issue which requires serious attention by GOI is
the sub-standard (Class D) plandng (4,044 hectares or 6% of SRDP planting and 5,007 hectares or
43% of ex-PRPTE planting). At the request of the World Bank, the Project conducted, in July 1992,
a survey of the sub-standard planting to determine the impact on farmer income and to formuate
appropriate remedial measures, considering farmer reactions. Based on the survey findings, the new
Project plans to undertake the following actions:
(a) Propose to GOI the write-off of the credit (except land titling cost) pertaining to fields
classified as Class D; and
@) Encourage the farmers, whose credit would be written off, to replant their fields under the
full assistance or self-help program of TCSDP;
4.19    Partial Assistance Progrm. In contrast to the full assistance program, the attainment of
the partial assistance program was low - 6,122 hectares or 31% of the 19,500-hectare target. Ihe
iwplementation of this program suffered from: (a) lack of field survey during Project preparation and
improper selection of participants; (b) the higher price of budded stumps offered for sale by the
Project as compared with low quality stumps available from other suppliers in the areas; and (c) the
diversion of about 60% of the planting materials, which were intended for the partial assistance, to



-18 -
the planting and supplying of the fu}l assistance program and the establishment of budwood nurseries.
Also, the stas and outcome of the partial assistance program remain to be closely monitored by the
Project.
4.20 Despite the limited attainment of the partial assiztance program in terms of hectarage, Its
Impact has been well appreciated by the farmer participants and by the Local Government of South
Sumatra. Further, the Project had adopted a new approach to reduce the cost of rubber planting
material from Rp 275 to Rp 110 per budded stump. Farmers were enjoined to provide fee labor and
manage the nurseries, while the Project provided agro-inputs at financial prices.
4.21    Production. On-Fam Processing and Marketing. In order to ensure sustained realization of
higher income from rubber development, the Project has been training farmers on proper tapping
techniques, guiding smallholders on the suitable on-farm processing to produce good quality rubber,
and encouraging and assisting farmers in the formation of cooperatives to handle joint marketing of
members' produce.
4.22    Although tapping of matured trees is generally good, there are indications that the quality of
tapping is deteriorating in some areas, probably due to share-tapping, over-tapping by farmers, and
insufficient continual monitoring and supervision by the Project. If the situation were allowed to
continue, full repayment of farmer credit would be in doubt. As more and more of the rubber
plantings enter the mature stage, the Project has to correspondingly expand its activities on the
processing and markedng to cover new areas. IThe
approaches and arrangements which have proved effective in the areas where processing and
marketing systms have stabilized, should be adopted in the new areas.
Finance and Credh
4.23   }Budgting and Funding. The change, in 1989/90, of the GOI budgeting system (from
DlPP to DIP) for the non-credit components of foreiget-assisted projects resulted to timely releases of
the approved budget documents and significant improvement in the amounts of fund releases to the
Project. Further improvement of the fund release procedures was implemented in the same year
when the Project Provincial Offices were allowed to draw funds directly from the Provincial State
Treasury Offices. The latter improvement resulted to more effective utilization of available funds and
mu-h faster accountability reporting of Project expenditures.
4.24,    he above improvements, however, did not apply to the credit components. The late
apa of the annmal budget and fund releases by the BRI Special Branch in Jakarta continued up to
the completion of the Project.
4.25    Credk SAm. The Project cost recovery scheme, through the credit system and its
cumbersome conversion feature, could not be effectively implemented. The much delayed land titling
and the overly inflexible credit conversion by BRI have resulted in unacceptably low amount of
converted farmer credits.



- 19-
4.26 With a view to ensuring farmer credit repayment after conversion, the Project encouraged
the participants, whose fields had entered the production stage, to earmark and deposit a portion of
their rubber income in savings accounts (Tabanas and Simpedes). This measure, although not a
built-in feature of the cost recovery scheme, was well accepted by the participants.
4.27    Further, GOI created an inter-agency forum which deliberated on the credit conversion
problem and issued a decision aimed at hastening the conversion process. The implemenation of
this decision, however, had not really improved the pace of credit conversion. In spite of this
situation, the conversion of SRDP 11 credit is considered much better than those of other smaliholder
development projects of DGE.
4.28 Project Cost an! Loan Utilization. The actual project cost totaled only Rp 142.2 billion
(64.3% of the appraisal estimate of Rp 221.0 billion) or US$ 81.9 million (37.0% of US$ 221.0
million estfmate). Similarly, utilization of the IBRD loan was only US$63.5 million (48.5% of the
US$131.0 million total loan), while that of the CDC loan was US$9.1 million (35.7% of US$25.5
million, the original equivalent of L 15.0 million).
4.29    The substantial actual cost under-run of Rp 78.8 billion (US$139.1 million), as compared
with the appraisal estimate, is attributable to the following main causes:
(a) The currency exchange rate applied at the time of Project appraisal was Rp 1,000 to
US$1.00. The Rupiah equivalent of the US Dollar, however, has consistently risen over the
years and has reached more than Rp 2,000 at present. Total cost saving due to the changes
of the exchange rate is roughly estimated at US$60.3 million.
(b) Family labor incentive payments to smallholders, estimated at Rp 46.8 billion at appraisal,
reached only Rp 19.6 billion (41.9%), thus resulting in a saving of Rp 27.2 billion. The
very significant reduction was due to delays and insufficiency of fimd releases of the credit
component.
The reduction of payments, however, had no apparent adverse effect on the willingness of
farmers, especially those who are not so poor, to perform the required field activities.
(c) Although the project period was extended by two years, the additional expendiures during
these years were more than offset by: (J) the reduction of the first year (start-up)
expenditures (which were charged to SRDP I due to the one year overlap in project periods);
(ii) the lower total PRPTE plantings absorbed by SRDP 11 (10,437 hectares against the
20,670 hectares estimated at the time of appraisal); and (iii) other cost savings due to lower
accomplishments of most other physical items as compared with the SAR estimates.
S. Administration
S.1 Ptourement. Project procurement followed both the World Bank and GOI guidelines. There
are, however, inconsistencies between the two guidelines, as discussed below:



-20 -
(a) Ihe GOI upper limit for prudent shopping is Rp 20 million, while the World Bank permits
up to US$50,000 (Rp 100 million). The Project had to follow the lower 301 limit for
prudent shopping, and procurement above this limit were processed through LCB, which
requires a longer lead time.
(b) In case the first bid winner withdraws, the second winner is awarded with the contract. The
(301 guidelines, however, requires that the second winner must adjust his price to that of the
first winner. Under World Bank guidelines, the contract is automatically awarded to the
second winner without any adjustment of the bid price. The Project had to resort to
retendering, which entails a longer procurement time.
5.2 There were two cases where the nutrient content of rock phosphate fertilizer delivered by local
suppliers did not conform with the minimum percentage provided in the contract. These were
liscovered subsequent to acceptance of deliveries. GOI authorities had to enforce the provisions of
the contract and demanded rebates from the erring suppliers. Thereafter, the Project had to exercise
utmost care in testing the quality and accepting deliveries.
5.3 Land Titing. The processing of the great volume of land titles for widely dispersed smallholder
fields which were developed by the Project had been very much delayed. Out of 67,764 hectares
contracted for land titling in SRDP U, only 16,961 hectares (25%) have been issued land titles. BPN
(National Land Board) has insufficient staff to handle the great volume of land tities to be processed.
5.4 Land titing contracts have been executed between the Jakarta Central Office of BPN (the
National Land Board) and the Project Head Office, while the field surveys and issuance of land
certificates were being undertaken by the BPN offices at the district level. This arrangement,
somehow, had an adverse effect on the pace of land titling. In the case of the new TCSDP,
management plans to have the Project Provincial Offices sign land titling contracts direcdy with the
local BPN Offices.
5.5 Civil Construct    The construction of offices, meeting halls and staff housing was lower than
SAR estimate, due principally to budget limitations. Storage and workshop construction, however,
was essentially in accordance the SAR estimate.
5.6 The construction of estate roads could not be accomplished as planned, due to the reluctance of
contractors to accept contracts involving short sections at various locations. Upgrading of village
roads was lower than SAR estimate due to budget constraint.
6. Technical Assistance
6.1 Conslants. The active support of the Project resident consultants (Financial Advisor, Rubber
Technical Adviser, Rubber Production Advisor and Training Advisor) had been quite valuable and
contributed gready to the good performance of the Project. The consultants' exceptional performance
is apparent in the continued retention of their services by the DGEIProject, and DGE's decision
(which was supported by the World Bank) not to hire other consultants, but to tap the capabilities of



-21 -
DGE resident consultants to undertake a number of field surveys, feasibility studies, and other related
preparation activities for new tree crop development projects.
6.2 Although the Project did not hire the Processing and Marketing Advisor, a consultant of Tim
Khusus with this expertise assisted the Project when necessary.
6.3 TMe position of the MIS Specialist was not filled, because at the time the consultant was to be
hired, it was thought that the DGE MIS Study would also cover the internal reporting requirements of
the Project. However, it turned out to be limited in scope.
6.4 The Project encountered difficulty in recruiting suitably qualified local accountants (four were
provided in the SAR) who are willing to work on full-time basis with the Project.
6.5 Technical      . The Project collaborated with the Sembawa Rubber Research Institute in
conducting trials on farmer fields to determine cultural practices most suitable to smallholders. Of
the 14 field trials programmed, 11 were undertaken. Due to budgetary constraints (RP 93 million or
US$ 33 thousand compared with US$400 thousand provided in the SAR), only one trial was
conducted with full participation by Sembawa. The Project set up and monitored the other 10 trials,
and interpreted the results; Sembawa just provided general supervision. Eight trials have been
completed, while three are still in progress.
6.6 Studies. The studies financed/undertaken by the Project were the Study on the PRPTE GCCs
which were absorbed by SRDP II and the Feasibility Study for TCSDP. The latter study, as
originally envisaged, was for SECDP (the follow-up of SCDP), but was partially funded by the
SRDP II loan. The preparation of this follow-up project, however, extended over several years, in
view of difficult policy questions which required a series of lengthy discussions between the World
Bank and 001 agencies. Ultimately, the scope of TCSDP was expanded to cover the previous
cocnut plantings of SCDP, the previous rubber plantings of SRDP II, the TCSDP rubber and
coconut plantings which were fully financed by GOI, and new development of rubber and coconut.
In essence, therefore, TCSDP became the follow-up to both SCDP and SRDP II.
7. Project Impact
7.1 Economic Rate of Return. PCR estimate of ERR is 18.0%, compared with the SAR estimate of
13.0%. The higher ERR per PCR is attributable to lower actual Project cost. The PCR yield
estimates by field class, as revised by the PCR Mission in consultation with Project officers, are
deemed reasonable. Only 10% of Class D plantings in Riau and South Sumatra are deemed
productive, while all Class D plantings in West Kalimantan are considered unproductive. Actual
yields of SRDP I plantings indicate that the PCR yield estimates are attainable.
7.2 Institutional Development. The Project organization, with its substantial experience in
implementing tree crop development projects, is an invaluable DGE resource which can be tapped to
ensure the success of other tree crop projects, both the foreign-assisted and the 001-financed projects.
Some key persomel of SRDP II were already reassigned to TCSSP, which is financed by ADB,
when the latter project was organized recently. The Project, in conjunction with its efforts to
improve the tree crop smallholder on-farm processing and marketing systems, has been fairly



-22 -
effective in creatig a sound foundation for the emergence and evolution of farmer groups into
fill-scale cooperatives. Ihe Project had assisted In establihing eight (8) formal cooperatives In three
provinces (four in Riau with 5,352 meibers, three in South Sumatra with 2,884 members, and one in
West Kalimantan with 2,409 members, or a total membership of 10,645). Three (3) cooperatives
have been classified as self-reliant, and the 'Harapan Maju' Cooperative in Prabumudih received an
award as the second best among the cooperatives in Muara Enim Distict and the third best in the
whole South Sumatra Province.
7.3 To further strengthen the capability of smailholder development projects in this endeavor, the
projects have to closely coordinate and cooperate with the local offices of the Department of
Cooperatives.
7.4 Technological Impact. ehe Project, through its field exnsion services and ti-aining of farmer
leaders, have introduced improved technology on all aspects of rubber development from land
clearing through on-farm processing, which was adopted by farmer participants. The improved field
practices, together with the introduction of bigh-yielding planting materials, resulted in good quWity
rubber stands. Class A and B fields account for 94% of total Project planting.
7.5 Moreover, there have been encouraging indications of the demonstative effects of the Project
planting. Some on-Project farmers, who are within the vicinity of SRDP I development areas in
South Sumatra, have started utlizing budgrafted planting mateials and improved practices in
developing rubber fields with their own fimds.
7.6 Socio-Economic mpact. The beneficiary smallholders, most of whom belong to the low-income
group at the time they were accepted as Project participants, have been realizing much improved
income after their fields have come into the production stage. A survey conducted by the Project in
June-July 1992 indicated that the average gross family income, which was previously about Rp
989,000 per year on the average, is now averaging Rp 2,304,000 per year (2.3 times higher). 'lb
Project, therefore, has been contributing to the attainment of the Gov ee's broad objectives of
developing the outer islands and more equitable distrbution of the benefits from economic
development.
7.7 'he significant improvement in smaliholder income are attributable to: (i) the improved quality
of their rubber produce; (ii) the shorter marketing chain, since farmer groups are now selling mostly
direct to processing factories; and (iii) the resulting higher farmgate prices (ranging from 71% to
88% of local FOB price at present, compared with just 50% previously) received by smallholders.
7.8 The impact of improved family income is quite apparet in the higher standard of living of
smallholders (1,449) who were interviewed by the Project. Smallholders have started to enjoy the
benefits of better housing, owning more household appliances, sending children to higher educational
institutions, and driving motor vehicles, in some cases. lhe multiplier effect of the higher buying
power of the smallholders, no doubt, has been contributing to the stimulation of commercial activities
in their localities.
7.9 At the national level, the incremental rubber production of Project smallholders has been
contributing to the increase of the volume of total rubber production and thus of export earnings.



-23-
SRDP It plantig alone would produce a total of 1,748 thousand tons (US$3,361 million) over Its
productive life, or an annual average of 62 thousand tons (USS 120 million).
S . eationhp Betwee te World Dank and GOI
8.1 The relationship between the representatives of the World Bank and the officials of OI
agencies, which were involved in the design and implementation of the Project, had been generally
cordial and most cooperative in nature during the Project preparation and its implementation.
9. Performance of CDC (Coflnancder)
9.1 The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) of the United Kingdom, the co-financier
of the Project, had been very supportive and accommod  during the Project appraisa and during
the supervision missions' visits throughout the Project implemenion phase. The omponents
fnanced by CDC complemented those finaced by the World Bank and reduced the fiacing burden
on GOI. CDC was quite flexible in providing assistance to the Project to alleviae orional
problems encountered during implementation.
Directorate General of Estates
26 January 1993



-24 -
PART m - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tablel: Rd1:     eank
LOa Title                Purpse             Year of      Su               C
Approval
Cr. 358  . Sumatra                                  73        Closed    PCERR 18.7%.
Snlholder Dev.                                                           Prject sucef
implenmenig fit
sUmalhode tre crop
Cr. 984 Smuode                                      80       aCo         PI ERR 11.0%. Agric.
Rubber Development I                                                     impact vy satisfcoy.
Ln. 1898 Smallolder                                 80        Closed    PCR ERR 12.6%.
Coconut Development                                                      Sucoeeded in
intoduction of hybrid
coconuW
la. 1494 - NES I       Smaliholder and regional     78         Closed    PCR ERR 14.0%.
development,                                      Reasoably succesfl.
l.a 1604 - NES II     improvi1Unt guation,          78         Closed    PCR ERR 13.0%.
mproving rual incl somes,f
iness export eamings,                             Resnably sccessful.
Ln. 1751 - NES m       impot  bstitution.           80        Closd    PCR ERR 15.0%.
Ruesonably swocessu.
La. 1835 - NES IV                                   80        Closed    OED Audit ERR 14%.
Resnably scesfl.
I. 2007 - NES V                                     81        Closed    OED Audit ERR 6%.
Unsuccessful.
a. 2126 - NES VI                                    82        Closed    OED Audit ERR 10%.
Reasonablylpartly
successfill.
LA. 2232 - NES VII                                  83        Closed    PCI ERR 9.1%.
Paty successful.
Lu. 3464 - TCSDP I                                  92      Under SPN   Loa signed Ju  '92.
IL. 300 - TCPP         Expad processing             89      Under SPN   latest 590 Overail
capacity for smaliolders                         status: 2.
and improvo efficiency.



-25 -
Table 2: Poe  bfb
Acdvity                          Planned               Revised                Actua
dentfication
Prpuarion                                                                      03183
Appraisa Misson                                                                10183
Loa  Negotiato                                                                 01185
Board Approval                                            -                  02/19/85
Loan Signing                                              -                  03/28
Loan Effectiveess-                                        -                  1012418S
Proec Completion                06/30/90"                 -                  06/30/92
Lowa Closing                    06/30/91"              06/30/92             O0630/92
Loan Ag_eeme, Schedule 2, Descipion of th epojedt, page 18.
2 Lou Ageement, Soction 2.04, page 3; and Staff Appasl Report, pana. 3.27, page 21.



-26 -
Table 3:   I   Disburements (in USS million)
PCR Estima
Finda year                     SAR Es"'npJV          Actual Cumulative
1986
Fios                               1.00                   0.00                   0.0
Seoond                            5.20                    0.01                   0.?
1987
Fifst                              7.30                   0.10                   1.4
Second                            21.10                   0.00                   0.4
1988
First                             28.30                   4.60                  16.2
Second                            47.10                  15.40                  32.7
1989
First                             56.30                   0.00                  27.3
Second                            76.80                  30.10                  39.2
1990
Firs                              86.80                   0.00                  34.7
Seoond                           108.40                  35.40                  32.7
1991
Firs                             120.20                  46.30                  38.S
Second                           131.20                   0.00                  35.3
1992
Firs                               0.00                  55.80                  42.5
Second                             0.00                   0.00                  42.5
1993
Firt                               0.00                  63.47                  48.4
Seoond                             0.00                   0.00                   0.0
M, Saff App4qnai Report AnneX 1, Tabl 3.



-27-
Table 4: ftvlAd ImImm   Q -    rfrme iCatI
(As of June 30. 1992)
item                  SAR      Actual    Target                 Remarks
Achieved
(%o)
Budwood Nursery (ha)
- SRDP II                              120       96      80     - Now loceed In 6 provinces.
- Budwood also supplied by research.
- Star-up for TCSDP                   300       109      36
Rootstock Nurseries (ha)
- for Full Assistance                2,023    1,788      88     - Established according
- for Partial Assistance              156      431     276       to requ!irement.
:leld Planting (ha)
- for Full Assistance               76,000   72,271      95
- for Partial Assistace             19,500    6,122      31
- Maintenance Component             57,000   47,908      84
Land Survey and Land l;tling
(na)                               133,000   51,290    38.5     - Based on 63,731 ha due for
- for Pre SRDP II and SRDP II                13,826    21.7       conversion.
- Conversion
Road (Ian)
- Smailholder Roads                  1,900    1,256      66
- New Ville Roads                      330      260      79
- Upgrading Existing Village Roads    370       109      30
avii Works (m)
- Offices                            4,100    3,060      75      - GOI revised according to
- Staff Housing                      8,570    6,136      76      local requirement.
- Storage plus Workshop             21,240   20,895      98
Vehicles and Equipment (No.)
- 4-wheel Drive                        83        62      75     - GOI revised to actual
- Motorcycles                         996       894      90       requirement.
- Kapck Sprayers
Farmer Parcipants
(a) SRDP II + I Maintenane         100,000  104,571     105     - Of which 13,554 (15%)
(b) SRDP 1I + I New planting only            93,226             are women.
(c) SRDP H   New planting only               62,146
"Plantng matciak wer madc avilabl to fMlly asistd progamm an dsome were sold to pnvawe eowc



-28-
Table 5: P         Cost CQi and Financing
A. Prje  Cost
(at June 30, 1992)
Local Fotiga Toal Loa Foreiga Totdl    La Paorl  Totad  Locl F17  Tot
-6iS3millon)--(Upbillon)        (1$   lo)--Upbillon)-.-
INVSUINTCOSTE
A A4Puta                     22.1  29.5  S1.6  22.1  29.S  SI.6      16.7  223  19.0  2S.S  385  41.3
-itil wwo                     9.8  13.1  22.9  9.8  13.1  22S         32   4.3  75   S.6  .S  13.1
- V.  hand eq*lp              lS  133  14.8  1.S  133  14.1          0.6  53   5.9  1.0   92  103
- Labour                     36.5  0.0  3645  36.5  0.0  36S         11.6  0.0  11.6  19.6  0.0  19.6
Sub4otak                    69.9  559 1S.5  69.9  559 12.8         32.1  31.5  640   5.1 55.2 1103
SERVICE&
- TUW                         3.0  0.7  3.7  3.0  0.7  3.7-           1.8  0.4  2.2  3.1  0.7  3.8
- Tech. aaaL&aludd.           1.0  35   4.S  1.0  3.5  4.5            0.8  2.7  3.5  1.4  5.0  6.4
-Applid _eA                   0.2  0.1  03   0.2  0.1   03            0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.1
- Landsarqy ud 8t             2.2  0.2  2.4  2.2  0.2  2.4            1.3  0.1  1.4  2.2  0.2  2.4
S&b4ctk                      6.4  4.S  10.9  6.   4.  10.9          3.9  33   7.1  6.8  5.9 1U.?
ADWIN & OVERHEAD             14.6  3.3  17.9  14.6  3.3  17.9         8.8  2.0 18  15.?  3.S  19.2
TotlBanC csh                90.9  63.7 154.6  90.9  63.7 154.       44.8  31.  81.9  71S  64.? 1423
ibyI  oancreowAss            5.7  6.1  11.8  5.7  6.1  11.8
Pucontingono                34.0  20.6  54.6  34.0  20.6  54.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST:         130.6  90.4 221.0 130.6  90.4 221.0      44.8  37.1  81.9  77.5  64.7 142.2



-29 -
B. Project Financing
(Up to 30 June IM)
-Partculan                         Rp mion                         USS'O
APPLALSAL ESMATE
ii-
- IBRD Creit Component                              86,000                         86,000
- B1D Non-Credit Componn                            45,300                         45,000
Total                                              131,000                       131,000
- CDC                                               20,000                         20,000
- GOI-MOF                                           25,000                         25,000
- BVBRI                                             45,000                         4S,000
Total Jlusudug                                    221,000                        221,000
PCR ACTUAL
- IBRD Credit Component                             71,813                         45,651
- IBRD Non-Credt Component                          23,442                         13,258
Total                                              95,255                         54909
- CDC                                               14,999                         8,551
- GOl-MOF                                           14,448                         8,16S
- BIIBRI                                            17,506                         10,272
Total ilnandug                                     142,208                         1,897



-30-
6. Proje      e t
A. Diret Umef is
. ditous                          A     ilEsmate             ICR Estmae at Casing Date
Total Rubbr Production (tons)                          1,598,000U                       1,748,000
Totl Number of Beoofiaies                               100,000'                        104.571'
of Wblc  Now PbEla g.                                45 to 65,000v                       62,146
UMutm s of old platings                          50,000w                          42.425
lob Cist                                                 1,500                          2,944
of which 1,416 ptqejt daff
1,28 outseuies
Wouen Famer Participants                                  ...                      15s% of participants'
$AR. Am  2, Tab) 3 19     .
"SAR Loan Su_my.
PM EL,4.
4' SAluavaph.lZsmpS.
Cotapd to 10% In MP  L
B. Economic Impwt
Appraisa Estimate                     PCR Estiat
Econmic Ra. of Retm                                 13%                                 19%
Aami                                             2 ha model               Total actul proect costs for SRD? J
plantng
- Pject ifa: 35 yam
Co8version      same asSAR
C. inmdal Inpact
SAX Estimate                                 ICR
Aveao  income incr   for a 2      US$600 to 1,5002,000       From Rp1 m    ;lian per
ba  odel (1984 consan values):         equivaet to          familylyear to Rp2.3 miion.
Rp6W,000-2,000,000
Commak I. PCR es'uoat is based on a m*rvey of SRDP  mature plantings for a 1 ba model of
ubber in 1991 constant sices



-31 -
D. Studies
Ppose as Ddlfed at Appraisd                    Stabm                           Impact of Study
1. D ed stuie of the -ma under    Caied out and completed during Year   Poit  on poec nwanagenaL
alacae PMUs to be absoibed      I of the project
into tde pmgramme in Yeaos 2, 3
and 4 of eo project.
2. Faity dstdy for futre Bnk        Cauried out and completed ad becm   Used for TCSDP appral n 99
aesistd prct (MDP  I).           TCSDP I (SRDP U and SCDP aea).
SIES DONE BY PROJECr NOT FORESEEN IN SAR
3.                                  In depth anysis on the causes of Class
D Areas Planted by Ptevious Projects
(PARP/GCC; SRDP I) and SRDP n,
including yields and income. Carried
out in December 19.
4.                                  Study of Incomes of Project Fanners
(ARPIGCCtSRDP I) before and after
joining the projct December 12.



1 1   1 1 |  i l ""I    n   I i ni^                 I   i 1Ig   |       2 0 3
a~i if                ,                                        ,  ,   ,   
1    i ~      K   -  iai i   i   i                 I   i
l      3i   ':L   s                   a a          i  1    .|
1  11     1   1  1  t tt  1   1 | |        3,g,uuE &u.& 



-33 -
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (slw)
FY                             LENP          LENA          LENN          SPN           PCR          Total
79                              28                                                                   2.8
83                              13.1                                                                 13.1
84                              17.S          71.4                                                   88.9
85                                            15.1           7.1                                     22.2
86                                                                         4.7                        4.7
87                                                                        10.7                       10.7
88                                                                        13.1                       13.1
89                                                                        11.9                       11.9
90                                                                        12.6                       12.6
91                                                                        15.3                       15.3
92                                                                        11.4                       11.4
93                                                                         4.S          11.3         15.8
ITola                              4          86.5           U1S                       11.3        ;2ZL
D. Misions
SMP*tPmje           MonbYmr          N. of PWS=      Da"isn        Spedal             Pe              Type f
Cycl                                             HO u R                              at.s       PFobl  a
ApPraiM:                 10/l3             8            AA.      AG. TC, AA, FA. EO       n.S.
8Upe1VWMOINS11/85                          2             6             TC, FA              1
07II6              1           18              TC                 I              F
02187             2            4..            TC, FA               I             F
07187              t           na.             TC                  I             F
06/88             2            19             TC, FA              2              F
07/M9             3             4         AG, TCFI,ED              I             F
03/90             2            10             AG, TC              I              F
10190             4            n.e.         AG. TC, ED            I              F
02192             2             12            AG, TC              2             FPIM
PC.:                    01193              3            20           TC/AGIFA              2             PI M
V PCR misdoa;ma h   ondPinct fCies.
'8Spc;_bsoo AG - AdcfuIiht PA - Facbal Analyst; TC  T    Crp spact EB O  Engimmw,
ED - E_ama  SpecllL
P_onenclRa*a. I - Probtem be at winoc problem;2 - Modem polem; 3 - Mjor problem
Tyes oebtpw:b    F - Ph- ul; K( - M,an .



34
ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Genal
1.         The analysis has been made using constant 1991/92 Rupiahs, with hitorical costs being
expressed in 1991/92 terms through the use of MUV index deftlators. The conversion factors applied are
presented in Table I of this Annex. Financial and economic prices of inputs (fertilizers) and outputs
(rubber) are presented in Tables 2 and 3. Economic prices for trades commodities have been calculatod
on the basis of the World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts dated February 1992. Conversion factors
supplied by the World Bank have been used to derive other econmic values.
2.         The posteriori economic analysis of the project is based on actual costs for SRDP 11 new
plantings only and estimated projected benefits from these SRDP 11 plantings alone which were carried
out in four years between 1986/87 and 1989/90. Since it takes into account acta economic costs of the
project, it differs from the ex-ante economic analysis made in the Staff Appraisal Report, which was
based on 2 ha of rubber model, which was therefore less precise. However, these different
methodologies used do not permit a strict comparison of the results.
Economdc Cost Stream
3.         It is derived from the actual total project cost, less the following items which do not
correspond to new SRDP R plantings, i.e.:
(a)    cost for the partial assistance component;
(3)    maintenance to maturity costs of earlier plantings under SRDP I and PEPTE;
(c)    TCSDP new project start-up funds and studies cost; and
(d)    subsidized fertilizer stock-end.
Adjustments for economic values include:
(a)    full economic cost of unpaid labour at shadow price;
(b)    cost of fertilizer subsidy using conversion factors;
(c)    conversion factors applied to the following categories of expenditures: civil works
(0.90), vehicles and equipment (0.90) and training and overheads (0.90); and
(d)    economic deflators to convert this resulting strem in current value to constan
1991/92 tem.
5.         In addition, it also includes anticipated economic costs to reach maturity as well as
production costs after maturity, processing and harvesting costs of rubber production.



- 35 -
(a)    Mainteance cots to marty (Year 7) for SRDP It plantings including economic
adjustments for family laboui ad fertilizer subsidy.
(b)    Production costs after development (Year 8 to Year 25) which include
maintence, tapping equipment, and etemnsion and overhead during production
as well as on-farm processing coss.
IBnefits Straim
6.         It is based on estimated production by province and by class and rubber yield assumpdons.
This production has been valued using economic farm gate prices for rubber (Table 3).
Eonomic Rate of Retun
7.         Based on the above assumptions, the recalculated ERR of SRDP II over 35 years is 19%,
higher dtan ihe SAR esimate of 13%.



3 }   I                           -g         , .  4  4  w  4              0 0      0 0  0
b.
I'M  1                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I~~                                                                                      i



INDONESIA: smatthotdor Rubber Devetopment It Project
Annex 1: Economic Amtysis
TolAe 2.  Price Projectiom  Of InPuts - firAMIOL wd Eccnmic Prices Of Irons   1991 Comtent Viltue
priat Pr*Iqe%1wk of Silegied fo"lllteeo
Flosoletel set sco""Ic 1991 Constook Volue
can."14y,           Deogrittion -                                ulit       soot    1092   1993    1994    1995          19"        1907      1996      1999      2000       2001      2M         2m        20114     im
UtFA                      I I'ARITY
fn  Gersoo (669904) Co% Gs           V/    slum         116      lot    %0S       too      too        M         112       M          It?       120       iie        for       $0        its       142
M    morop* (06094) Co% 91           C/    #/tea        113      050     $56      its      lot        16S       M         M         114        sit       M          114       112       I04       W
Foe to,$W001 a                      al    ftoos       344       300    312       321      321       321       33S        341       44f        -31111    M         344        $42       "I        M
De-ootic nothoties A trooloport                          la       is      is       le       is        is         Fe        18        ?a         la        14         is        le        is        to
le"oolc foroesto pries                                 422       316    3"        399      399       407        413       419       AIS        434       429       424        470       4as       410
Floomeset too-Posto #tits                              tio       239    26S       341      430       ais        04        461       461        4?8       412       46Y        462       is?       01
12.339 12.331  24.6219 29.42X    2.0911    1.4ax    9.44X    1.42X    2.241   -1.01   -1.12%   -1.12X   -1.J21   -1.11S
A"Oilut              PCMI FAItIfT
SULPIVML            146. price 144000010 (t*0404)    tj    S/t"             too      Soo    100       No        1.00      101)      Joe        too       9100      too        100       im        100       too        Soo
Vem,ooki  harke0of A froolopert             Oslkg        Ss       M       St       St       St        61         SI        H         61         Al        St        61        SI         SI        Si
aco"olo. for-obte Pelee              I/    no/bo       290      230    2150       m        250       m         250        250       250       250        pso       VA        230       230        250
Flesselel foreseto Poloo                               210      240    211,    ITS         2IS       215       vis        215       275       216        M         2is       27S       216        215
14.4169 14.44%   o.M       *.Ws    6.00%    41.0016    0.001    0. Ws    0.001    0.004    *,oox    0.00               0.4101    0.001
Miry
M-M  evil Clot 05                                                 19               93       of                   96        91        or                             SS
no to Cwof Co% el                           #/Lo"       134      Its    134       039      143       143        143       145      '145        146       146       149       146       M          944
004 too.                                       43        43      43       43       43        43        43         43        43         43        43        44        43        43         43
CIO W         Pool,                  41    MPliks      SS3      320    3S3        362      311       311       311        314       314       %II        all       WT        3)?       311        311
000.01; 11*0401LIAM &                                    St       St      St       St       St        St         51        M         el         SI        St        61        at        51         St
94009-te forsook. p"Wo                                 404      311    404        413      422       422       422        425       426       428        426       4"        420       4"         4"
Flaoftelol           price                             no        340    444       454      464       464       464        467       461        410       410       410       410        410       AM
30.102 30.100   2,21X   2.66%    0.001    0 004    0. Tax    0.001    0.7011    0.0"               0.004    0.00%    0.00%    0.009
80101111011          V1Vff rmtfy
foe-Coool-lbotee Co% OS                     1/um         20       29      20                30                   30        30        30         It        31        39         31        31        31
4     F08-Cooo1p1**ep Cat Oi                       $/%oo       42       43      42        43       4S        4S        4S         A$        45        46         44        40        40         44        46
1;    Freight *"A to..                                         32       37      32        32       32        32        32                   32        32         32       .12        31        37         32
A     CIP 1.4. Pool                         J/    no/he        14Y      ISO    S41       $so      IS3       IS3       IS3        153       153        $$#       M         ISIS       ISS       Is$       asIS
O"001,1C 140401,144 a T,4004part                         St       St      St       6%       St        St         St        St        At         Gs        St        M          St        61        St
Ltommic Isro,404* #el$*                                 M        201    190       201      204       204       204        204       204       201        201       "I        201       act       201
Pleenciol to,060to 04-14#                              210       221    218       "I       224       224       224        M         224       221        92F       "IT       231       221       227
5.10, -1.40%   1302   1.481    0.00X    0.001    O.OOX    G.GoX    1.449    0-001    *.On                   0.0ox    0.0"       9.on
11    M-Vooc~*r Cot SS                      of    sit"         13       13      12       72        it        72        ?I        ?2         12        is         is        it        it        is        it
9     FOO-Voacwwor Cot 91                  4/    S/L         109      Soo    tor       to?      to,        to?       lot       lot        $or       104       Aot        too      .100       I"        los
Freight 0004 lo*.                                       71       24       21       29       21        21        it         21        21        29         21        21        21        2i         21
Cip led. Port                        Al    RV/%a       259      M       256      256       2S6       254       256       2ss        264       2S3        263       253       253       2S3       253
Des,0604 OU4,0004 A Traft6port                          so        so     so        so       so        Ss        so         SO        so        Go         So                  so                   so
sconook  16t.4640 fete*                                317      311    M4        314       314       314       314       314        314       311        W                   211       UA        MI
flooliciel f6reepte so4go                              260      299    345       345       34S       34S       34S       34S        345       347       342        $42       342       342        342
.......................................................................  Is.$?$ 15.112    *.On                    0.00X    0.00%    0.002    0.002    0.001    -0.951    *.ooz    e.0oX    0.001    0.803    0.001
a/ U004 oft VW14 bw% Co-mosity Price Pfoiketions. 004A Folbevoey 3. 1922.
41 9*604 to owerook "Aet price of $60/ko 1100 faeop. fee greoviso- emolwo owlph.tq. ploo $Salw% froisht 644 toporanto.
4/ "N wastivil.r - 1.4899
41/ 64e%**QQ n6t.1 tBll . ft 1"2
Uoees$ khot Cos will .1tolosto torsellsor 44*141*o. dmck the& th. fineftelas feresot* pelves for
ow1ow1410#4 for.1116.ro elso fqwol the ocample foroosto 40*Lo ON# 103 VAT top, 1993. Tk&t &.oil** Ne LO-* most t.. 3reboo, o
1.6tor loorowee lot cooetent toteop .16 2114 ter *~I*m oulpt.6te. 311 for ISP sa.0 142 too, KL. ftch p%.oplbot* hoo me *.WOV.
For or.$, OA. fla"elos w &*414% "16.841 skIN14 16s .11.1asts4 4Al t"s 6^4 tho orelv41610* sul'ol,ty 1.1 1911S.
......... . ...... . ................................. . ............... ...........................................................
Source: TCSDP - SAR. Mmx 6, TabLe 1



IIDOKESIA: S.tlIholder Rbeter Development It Project
mnex 1:  Economic Aalysis
Table 3.  Price Projections - Finwcial sad Ecaic farnate Prices of Rtuber - 1991 Cantont Value
t_sO    1991 1t992   11993   1994    199    1996    1907   1 99    199            2000  1_    i 21102 i203 i 204 i I25
ElWW PATY
*    RSS*tCwt4YCs851/                              a9 61              69       71      73      85      06       87      87      88      89       89      88      a8      67      or
I ssal CIycFW st 91 21                          0          101     103      106     109     127     128      129     130     131     133      132     131     131     130      130
+    P,otdtnurance                                             6       6        6       6       6       6        6       6       6       6        6       6               a 6     8
*    Less qualty 0.15% of RSS NY                              1S      15       16      16      19       19      19      20      20      20       20      20      20      20       19
S StFOB tnd. Por 3/                               ApAk      1596    1621    1672    1722    2025    2045    2065    2005    2105    2126    2116    2106    2095    2065    2075
*    P1OcOSSgtJanspoflfdtfg                                  175     175      175     175     17S      175     175     175     175     175      175     175     175     175      175
j   Tbdths'  ari-s (5% of FOB)                                8o      81      84       86     101     102      103     104     105     106      106     105     105     104      104           w
on
-    Economic latmgate prIce                                1341    1365    1413    1461    1749    1767    1786    1806    1825    1645    1835    1625    18.    16o6    1797
Fkwcw ft"Irmgate price 4/                                  1207    1229    1272    1315    1574    1591    1608    1625    1643    1660    1651    1643    1834    1625    1617
Soluca TCDP - SAR - Annex 6. TabC 2.
1fad an Word Bank Commodity ftce PRoWelon% dated Febuay 5, 1992.
2/ MW 6m*pke * 1.4869
3JEuctqpn Iata: USS1 - Rp1992.
4J fA  iclW bttmate price of ruber polectted at 90% of llse economik fatmgate price (10%  ffeence due to VAT).



_39_
tMONESW Smlthr Rube eflpnt   U Ptlc
Am= 1: E=nOA*Ansysi
Table 4. Actual Projet Cost
fteauzm         Is       Istm    III" I  M  19": tit" Is tl"o  t  towtl :re hti 2: Csl  :. ts' 9   git
^ :   VW    113 l:   4:           0 :40  I         o :lV  : 111:  :114            1 :4
t. 5  ~       ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~ :z :  :     :       : lo. I'          il :    i:   .lt   Lico.'n
E==1~~~~~~~~~~S"    MM h: tt4  s:J2:sUI  tia UJ                d 3    ,0 ast,itsl  u44. AO      lisu
seud.Linl         t  I WttU$si   '2i    US 1           W  t    tts    t .9e t4 16 U4 U1.9 sltS  :SI   1.   mM:
to   cii                 e:t 01,   f    iU16:  t144:  4,613: 3117         1,113:  0:  Ulles   3U."e:  illG
i. VW= in5               :               :       :       :                       :       :       : 
felids C           : I ram:   ttS:  1.z5 li t m:14    t,R:1 ,l 0t   jatR: 3, 1tt.4lC
kdp*s         C        i        n        l  : 4         10 1,,  lot:   usiU:   LOU:I,St  1,20            111: :I,HS.tS: Oil
-    :4                   t           :  tit :  :-:  --:.'             4     :      a 
W    hi           ISi              1.      -  ffCt UD :  Is:  3a: :   '
.e;U   *tu Ui:O:tl:                      13 1,0:13T             ,3:       9:        : 1f,S02: U.lOt j   11$4":
43Pt               ~ ~~~~~0 3e:    sa     ar:    ItO:36     101    USS I,  s .  Lo       1,2al   tm  I
Thckissit    I            e:tu    o: in           te:    53S:  Ism        tl:      t:       :  S00:   (sl:
$MM/Raw-:-                           I       0 :            to                              40 '    ' :  -
:~~~~~~~~~~t -:-:    :-:-                   0: :-:-:-:-:oo
; a       :     e:  t,":  X.tt~~~           ~~1:  ,en:t  i,s   :Xns     o: IS,: u.sse:  11t611:
bw ibi                       : ftd,1 Q,Im   on: :-'       4:   'M          --6 :-to:-        :OO         I,:
MM'Si           ox        lo    :28      :S1        .11  i'm: Liz :,C4  U'UU.                                .s
-Fin hAn                    ,     :      SSi      ai so    .t:             e tU:fU                ,:      Ill



- 40 -
INDONESIA  Smallho4mer Rubbex Domt 11 Pmic4t
Annexk L Eowmic Analysi
Table S. Famlly Labour Payms ts for SRDP n Planting
(In Thousand Rupiahs)
DEscriptiom     Total    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89      1989/90    1990/91   1991/92
R   A.U
Per 8Wdget  11,638,194  1,314,165  1,606,126  2,346,173   3.575,466  1.659,9S8  1,136,3C6
Actual      6,000,280   831,96S  1,Z01,406  1,186,876   2,030,488           0   749,544
% of Budget      51.6%      63.31      74.81      50.6%       56.8        0..O      66.0%
SCM SLAMERA
and JAMBI
Per Btsget  16,821,274  1,539,983  3,269,462  2,713,214   4,055,535  1,980,809  3,262,271
Actual      5,525,981    826,551  1,177,927  1,257,414   1,231,900          0  1,032,189
% of Budget      32.9%      53.7%       36.0X     46.3X       30.4%       0.0%      31.6%
Wmr SALIAMAN
Per Budget  16,848,912  2,094,745  2,495,303  2,989,316   4,118,368  1,916,889  3,234,291
Actual      ?,314,066  1,292,455  1,110,546  1,603,319   2,469,104          0   838.642
of Budget       43.4%     61.?7       44.S%     53.6%       60.0%       0.0%      25.9%
GRAND 1OAL
Per Budget 45,308,380 4,948,893  7,370,891  8,048,703  11,749,369  5,557,656  7,632,868
Actual      18,840,327  2,950,972  3,489,879 4,047,609   5,731,492          0 2,620,375
% of Budget       41.6%     59.6%       47.3%     50.3%       48.8%       0.0%      34.3%
WMTE:  For SP II plscti=g on1u (excluding maintensoe
of ex-SRDP I and ex-ABP/JCC plantings)



- 41 -
DONESW: Smafholder Rubber Deveopmenit II Prjec
Annex 1: Econonic Analysis
Table 6. Maintenance Costs of Ex.SRDP I and Ex.ARP/GCC
(In Thousand Rupiahs)
Plantg Yr  Hectares  Total        1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1988/90   1990/91  1991/92
R I AU
1980/81    2.543     246,014    172,518    32,940      22,506    13,374    4,542       134
1981/82    2,857     425,082    194,739    153,258     34,321    39,260    3,302       202
1982/83    3,714     630,444    231,363   209,124    105,251    42,901   40,965   , 234
1983/84    .2,309    687,311    228,878    151,212    211,418    82,473   12,592       638
1984/85     1,811    940,334    254,008    139,284    169,117   375,630    1.166    1,129
1985/86 5   1,136    740,294    166,586    131,753    116,217   113,48?  146,6J4  65,652
Total      14,370   3,669.479  1,248,092    818,171    6i8,830   667,126  209,Z71  67,989
SO~ SU~A
and JAMI
1980/81     1,658    118,217     91,547      3,849     19,074      2,231    1,5I6     -
1981/82    3,983     639,469    115,944    265,313    208,010    32,266   15,744    2,192
1982/83    4,527     792,955    156,404    139,696    290,849    136,764   60,S33    8,609
1983/84    2,280   1,022,539    173,746    124,337    222,619   397,233   86,692   17,912
1984/85      998     576,3S3     82,980     62,739     69,613    183,548   83,066   94,40?
1985/86 s   3,274   1,316,095    385,310    151,563    133,911   32!,873   99.102  284,336
Total      16,720   4,525,628  1,005,931    747,497    944,076  1,073,915  346,753  407,456
WEST XQ.N"-rA
1980/81 s   1,429    103,T62     51,265     14,186     10,626    19,607    5,396    2,682
1981/82    2,160     304,320    156,868      15,493    21,163    68,219   24,237   20,340
1982/83    5,375   1,112,793    289,714    254,282     71,625   221,728  140,746  134,698
1983/84    4,056   1,356,260    239,432    218,726    477,115    191,627   70,729  158,631
1984/85    1,963     847,213    187,018    102,508    218,029   297,572    8,811   33,275
1985/86 *   1,835   1,013,506    257,930    126,359    185,463   209,573  169,863   64,318
Total      16,818   4,731,854  1,182,227    731,554    984,021  1,006,326  419,782 413,944
Grand Total. 47,908  12,932,961  3,436,250  2,297,222  2,586,927  2,747,367  975,806 -889,389
NO. OF I1ARES      SAR Estimate  Ar-tual    Short
R I A U                  21,585     14,370    (7,215)
SMITJH SIZ.'3:           17,000     16,720      (2801
W     MAL   TAN          18,700     16,818     (1,882)
5,,285    47,908      (9,377)
3wlude Ex-/ARP,:                         N,:
Riau            - 90 R.  1986/87        Assistaneo beyond Year 6 per-tains to
South Suwtra   - 975 Ha 1986/S87       tappjng and processing eOquipnt and
West Kaieatan - 117 Ha  1979/80         land titling.
179 Ha  1986/87



US~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
Ct                                                          o -O  4 4            ,,, '_  M  AT  A             ,j
- z %                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I t-.
!!     -   I                         -                         -    -   -s n-n-.-    -4-n-n  -     - *     -   -   -
*vS                           .-                                                                                             I   -4
b        t                                                        _on  n                                                            . I
*     I    -'                      eO                                                                                             I C   COa   o  Co o' o  do o    o  Y  8  Ca
v -    IA                            -                  4 ZA   c             n                                       4P.
Al;   US  _   l   EOF b               -    -4  4   S   S  O  I       O o  nC    .  -C 4  q  t.1 . d . S IS I * . . -. . S  |      -  I 
IA   bIt  IA                         US    US dig US dfl US Sn Uo  'A 55 <  IS )" CZ Ia      a5    AM _  o 494        In U i
0 .                                         C a   C A   C a   o  v     C a   A ;   d :                 1.  g   a c   t* t0  o   C Z n>  
~~~~~~~~~~~~C       =    4:   $0  Zo  O        Ooa 4*     cnOS#a cb    e  Ca   Ln  CP  _ a    _ | 
g     vSX3OO     OOOOOo  CT                                            O                                                                   So{6 cm"
*  A.  I?           4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -.1    4  US  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ US~~~   -  -.    .    .   -S  -*  -5  -5  -S  -SU  SU    S)* - -     -4-so
-    IA    -.            _*5   _S in US In US C  C  *sn oC _4. C 1St US US Cl US US CUi oO na    *a  O O  *  _ASA
.      l                             64        4           , 4 Ca       O     O         $o          O ' US
CV               1.4   10~~~~~~~~~~~~~C rcc   CA-CIO 410 1*, dSU  C  5%CU  to An   tn on og -* US Cb -a 4-
eV                                                                               co   Im  c   "o  C,   Ca   A.  0  'm    -0  A        so        , amooS<oI".  
A.~ ~~~ ~~ A * B|""S  a
-  -                                                                                                                                     IA,                        0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~am e.O  A   -1- m0  1  0&"  4o,41  n4
AS  Al  Cs                        4.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"g   Ca. 1. 44    4-4-I ^A 5 47% U US US US US 43 CZ -4Z USl 40 O.. 4- sk4. 1.b
Sn  5                  US    5.. 1.4 A.~~~~~~~~a   4 -  4- n    US c  C:b CA US, .4: Aa US US US SOM US C .. .I US 0)  40, OS5645U
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s ,,I O  "  eV
as   du~~~~~~~                  O0X to  O  .4  i   nAgmno;w :   n-        n"a   -4
an       SIC 9:b   g..b 115 *4 Sic -4 US                  Cc ni Oa U   I.                              as4
*1    -Is                      US      o  CUSClUSCCClcmIAcm                    ClCCCCC.ClCC . .                                       a- Iz                             0 4  CZ.
IA  A
iS   IS    US               US~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4111   40 US US C"  In U    #'- US US 4.)IS 54  O- . 4 4-5   III) 4C Ift CO4 C. 
in   4l- 4- CO. In 155 US% 05-        SU 40   S   SU   SU C.%    C"tUaSc US. *4 'b  US IS) 54   I -
a                           a      nn ;&  A    4.. 4S 0. C InUS   4* 140 CASi CAC E5U Oi V4   COUSBI6Zr- 14 .b4-             CD    a
a...                                                                                                                I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O% ZC  C  b =1c     .o..  o j.:, C
4n  at.           Sola
-. IA                                                                                                                            9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  t
US 404-   USUS-
Al"jIA
a-
An &J, "a 'a -4)
OMI).~4-SA
4-USUS4-4-         *S       *~~9
93        An-U   45)
OM.2                      -



_ 43 -
IDONESIA Sm&tolda Rubba Denpo-m.e U Noj
Aen1: &am= MooI
Table L Financial Prices of Subs{uked Ferdlkers
AT FARMGATE
1985/86- T t992/93
(In Rupiahs per Kg)
Effective
Date         Urea            T S P          MOP/KCL
1985/86     23 Aug 85           100             100             100
1986/87     11 Apr 86           125             125             125
1987/88      7 Oct 87           135             135             135
1988/89     13 Oct 88           165             170             165
1989/90     10 Oct 89           185             210             210
1990/91     10 NoV 90           210             260             260
1991/92     27 Nov 91           220             280             280
1992/93     12 Oct 92           240             310             350



- 44 -
MONESIA: SMaMoId RIer Denopmot U ?wj=
Annehx 1 Emoume Away*
Table 9. Quautities of Subsldlzed Fertllzers Used
1985/86 TO 1991/92
(TONS)
Ferti-            N{urse-         SRDP It
Year     lizer               ries           Planting          Total
a)               b)
1985/86   Urea                      0                0                0
T S P                    0                 0                0
MOP/XCL                  0                 0                0
1986/87   Urea                  1,295              351            1,646
T S P                  835              756             1,591
MIOPIKCL               665               325              990
1987/88   Urea                  1,082            1,785            2,867
T S P                  704            1,811             2,515
MOP/XCL                549               994            1,543
1988/89   Urea                  1,106            2,774            3,879
T S P                  730             1,381            2,111
MOP/KCL                549               709            1,259
1989/90   Urea                  2,236            1,007            3,243
T S P                1,459            1,278             2,737
MOP/XCL              1,129               593            1,723
1990/91   Urea                  2,926            3,300            6,226
T S P                1,903              675             2,578
MOP/KCL              1,485               448            1,934
1991/9r   Urea                  1,017            8,687            9,704
T S P                  676            4,692             5,368
MOP/XCL                501            3J574             4,075
TOTAL     Urea                  9,661.          17,904           27,566
T S P                6,307           10,593            16,899
MOP/KCL              4,879            6,644            11,523
NOTES: a) Excluding nurseries for partial assistance
and start-up of TCSDP
b) Excluding maintenance of ex-SRDP I and ex-PRPTE



- 45 -
-  DONESM. SmanhoId Rubb. D.wpmct I Ptica
1: Economic Aalys
Table 10. Maintenance Costs to Maturity
(Amounts In Thousand Rupiahs)
Description     Hectares    Total       1992/93     1993/94      1994/95
OTIER INPUTS (RP 000)
R I A U
1987/88      3,272      448,084     448,084        -
198a8/8      5,804    1,474,680     679t852      794,829
1989/90      7,956    2,985,927      964,468     931,926   1,089,534
Subtotal    *17,032    4,908,691   2,092,402   1,726,755   1,089,534
SOUTH SUMATRA
and JAMBt
19a7/88      3,950      540,933      540,933       -
198/8ts      6,921    1,758,488     810,691      947,796       -
1989/90      7,511    2,818,916      910,521     879,801   1,028,594
Subtotal     18,382    5,118,336   2,262,145   1,827,597   1,028,594
WEST KALIMANTAN
1987/88      3,390      464,244     464,244        -
1988/89      5,657    1,437,331     662,633      774,698
1989/90      7,652    2,871,834      927,614     896,317   1,047,903
Subtotal     16,899    4,773,408   2,054,490   1,671,015   1,047,903
Grand Total     52,113   14,800,435   6,409,037   5,225,367   3,166,031
SUBSIDIZED FERTILIZER
(Total Quantities in Tons)
1987/88
U r e a                 2,292        2,292
T S P                        0           0
MOP/KC1                    944         944
1908/89
U r e a                 7,831        3,860       3,971
T SP                         0           0           0
MOP/KCI                 3,327        1,691       1,636
1989/ 9
9r 9  a                13,964       4,115       4,855       4,994
Urea                        0            0           0 
MOP/KCl                6,381        2,196       2,127       2,058
Total
U r e a                24,087       10,268       8,826       4,994
T S P                       0            0           0           0
MOP/KCI                 10,652       4,832       3,763       2,058
FAMILY LAaOR (Rp 000)
(50% of prevailing rate).
1988e58s              1 ,31 661       18,599     633,052
1988/89               2,696,538      992,326     906,037     798,175
Total                 4,414,111   2,076,847   1,539,088      798,175
---- ---=      =  = - -- -------



- 46 -
VC)ONESULA SMOMho1 RubOt Dsopiu I 1*ct
a L Eaouc Amalpis
Table I. Costs or maintenance, Tapping and On-Fam Processing During Production Stage
At 1991/92 PRICES
X OF TOTAL               COST     WEIGHTED
DESCRIPTION          PROOUCTION    UNIT    ESTIMATE       COST
R I A U
Field Maintenance                   Per Ha/Yr   101,500
Tapping Equip & Labor               Per Ha/Yr   106,000
On-Farm Processing: (Note 3)
Latex                           Per Kg ORC
Air-dried Sheet           3.20% Per Kg ORC   162.89        5.21
Mangled Slab                    Per Kg ORC
Thin Slab                96.80% Per Kg DRC    93.26       90.28
Scrap                           Per Kg DRC
TOTAL            100.00%                            95.49
SOUTH SUMATRA AND JAMBI
Field Maintenance                   Per Ha/Yr   101,500
Tapping Equip & Labor               Per Ha/Yr   106,000
On-Farm Processing: (Note 3)
Latex                    59.53% Per Kg DRC    58.18       34.63
Air-dried Sheet                 Per Kg ORC
Mangled Slab              0.04% Per Kg DRC   168.37        0.07
Thin Slab               40.43% Per Kg PRC   111.53        45.09
Scrap                           Per Kg DRC
TOTAL            100.00%                            79.80
WEST KALIMANTAN
Field Maintenance                   Per Ha/Yr   101,600
Tapping Equip & Labor               Per Ha/Yr   106,000
On-Farm Processing: (Note 3)
Latex                           Per Kg DRC
Air-dried Sheet          96.00% Per Kg CRC   162.89      156.38
Mangled Slab                    Per Kg DRC
Thin Slab/Cup Lump              Per Kg DRC
Scrap                    4.00% Per Kg DRC    84.36         3.37
TOTAL            100.00%                           159.75
NOTES: 1. Including farmer labor at 80%
2. At 1991/92 prices
3. Include materials, equipment depreciation and labor



- 47 -
NONESI S.aihoder Rubber Deupmt II Projt
Annex   I    ADc hwia
Table 12. Cureant Ecouomlc Prices of Subsidized Fertllizers
Unit   AC/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
Exchange Rat&-M$1 = Rp    1,125  1,641  1,650  1,731  1,797  1,901 .1,992
URiEA
FOB Europe       S/Ton     136    136    155    155    132    157    173
FOB Indonesia   Pp/JKg     153    223    256    268    237    298    345
Domu Mrk &'Txam             78     78    78      78     78      78     78
Eco Faxmgate               231    301   334    346    315    376    423
T S P
FOB US Oulf    $STon       121    121    158    158    144    132    134
Freight & Ins               43     43     43    43      43      43     43
CIh Indonesia    Rp/Kg     185    269    332    348    336    333    353
DoIm Mr & Tfrans            51     51     51    51    51        51    61
E-o Farmgate               236    320    383    399    387    384    404
MOP/W1
FOB Vancouver   $/Ton       84     84     88     88     99     98    109
Freight & Ins               21     21     21    21      21      21     21
CIF Indonesia   Rp/Kg      118    172    180    189   216    226    259
Dom Mk & TraMrs             58.  S8    58        58    58      58      58
Bco Farmgate               176    230    238    247    274    284    317



IIDOMIESIA: SaMiholder Riber Development It Project
Annex l; Economic Analysis
Table 13.   Coqutation of Econmec Iate of Returm  - Ia 1991 Canstait Prices
(Awits  In Mitlion RWiabs)                                                                                   (P"ae  1)
Osealp. H                Table     mum-       Tebl      TOd          I        2          3         4         5         0         7         t         9         10       1t         t2        1a
not      plbs               Opuettn   1011"/     ISOM?7  19t7*6  t93U1t   4009    10               1091192   10623    1Ot2    10S0          I0SM    t106         107*3
EOONO0O  C09T8
S   AtTt ItPr4eCool                                       442206      +          Ilse    t25"6      414       23154     326       366        t45w       84
2.      Puihlaaterdea                                        1324     -             0         2       114        325      03        314          a         0
2b     Ml atols-WP et-PAPT T"b4                             12033     -             0      343e      2207       2507      2740      0N         ass         a
lo      TC0DP &M-UpAa        d                                00a     -                       a         a         0 O       0                  372       24
24      BCIP Co      a              1 .O                     1425     -                       a 0       0         0                             27      t401
90      OuloWbOddttuOlock-Ead                                2423     -             0                   0         0         0          0         0      24 
Aca  EVedke.                 Tabwa 1s141                                            m 20l     3400      4040      5732               2e20 
PeCOt Of6 udgat  owl4       T1N1 5                                          o       .010     0,473     0.503     0.406     00e       o.3J3                                                            CD
Eqwhuial ttIS                                       79524                   a      O0       14757      i05    23402           0      15277
9cc*nftV"batflh     WL~                    0.60    40540                    a o    550       s013       0o      64206         0      10120
4   F _..U. Gouel:
040.80. tWed (TVo*          Tdl 0
Lk"                                                27505                   0      1646      26?       3879       3243       220     0704       211
lop                                                                                lso0  0 e 501  2515  2111     2737      2570      s6        645
MCi'cL                                             11514                   0       00        1543      12$s      1723      1934      4075      1444
ftnAl Pbal   1:K.           Ta* 6
Uz"                                                                      too        125       135       5s        BS        250       220       20
TSP                                                                       teo       125       435       I7        210       28O       200       260
MopXM                                                                    IC*       125        135       l5        210       200       200       260
Ecosoe Pale. flp%N0         Table2
62.6                                                                     231       t01.      334        340       365       37f       422 
TOP                                                                      230       320       363        300       38?       384       404       361
mOPIC.                                                                   l70       230       236        247       274       204       211       334
TofubMdkt0                                                                  0       704      1353      120       1010      1400      2768
A4uamem 01 _ lb d   Vdb
Adud tEpeoSdw.f
as      ad o.is                     lab s4                 1300      -              0       737      o44       to44      43        3167      1134
Sb       Ndhetn dEqm"M              TbI4                   10273     -              0'      241       750      2135      35se      3102       460
so      Teaklag snd Owah.d          Tab 4                  23041     -              0      1554     2904       310       3285      6a7       4700       105
Ecoaod Valu:
OdWle                                     0.00     1047      4             0        0       1147      1sss      3746      254        o00
Vonds and fa*tionl                        0.85      6732     +             0       205       636       t9t5     30l       2060        350        *0
Tim0" and O b.d                           0o.     16433      +             0      1243      2323      3013      2012      53l       376          04
o   0uk9*feb4**aEbWO2O,E                                    2746     +             0        176       204       435       432       504       17T
SIATOTAL(Cwn-           ,                         t7427                  t55      12034     2314      3346      43        30130     26874      2216
7   AOugMaI1011001 Paoo
EconoIc 040.               Tb  340                                      OA.I      0.5       0.745    06.02       0.650     0.024     law       C04
ADJTEDTStnTOTAL(Cotasa1001s                       207707                 sea?    21047      31110     41324     50310    321        25274       2t02



WOOESIA: S.aliholder Rtber Oevelotpent It Project
Armex 1: Economic Anotysis
Table 13.   Coiutostion of Ecamic Rote of Retun - in 1991 Constant Prices
(Atmnts In Kittion eRufahs)                                                                             (Page  2)
04su 65  Td9t t  MlSl    Tool   tYal  1     2        3       4        6        0       7       0        S                to      2t   H 3         14       a       to
ft     wPIw308(&ASb0&t)'    TU*aIOo un                                                                                          am0      NO      3150
Oz8IpwW,t  0ot10to                          4414    +                                                                    guy      1530     ?9
finuIW bio eCO w lw                 0.00    383     *                                                                     la      tzall    W
QUWts(hm)|             TO*O lta                                                                                          _
19   0AAIW AOO                              33                                          0                                tw       101       0
_2ftlt,q
WOaCimfo.t743                                                                                                                     7       a
Top                                                                                                                       VI      44       413 MACOh3 13t 090
MMCPAC                                                                                                                    397     *14      314
Tow hatm    WI                             136 tw8    +                                                                  04) 4304    Om
-                                   -
.wm                               124
110010                            2136
Oa  U48W*    - "4u            TOWIt   1016    MM7    *                                                                          11tt    236      4M      7WG      72t     3t       1133      75W    t
oh  TqWMS 144- RkWw ~    15d6511    10535   9166           *                                                                    11412    gm6    417       Mt8   766       108      "#1    706       766
Oa  O       taclovOom~    ToOtS
mm             RSDIU*P.OOWO        05"5    5443    +                                                                       643    gm       058     IG       0      21ta  2g16        m       3
9*Sa onWmlet    IWO=I              lo00    own1     4                                                                     IV      370      044    1513    lOS      am                213 g   SW3
IM040mor                             oo00  tap  Vo    +                                                                    Xtt       Al      9t2    Xt        Vtt             203    21% Xt    ^
i0 8lwuhOrd DAOWut0m
ftomw i#"w)Sht Pe l                   006am    5741    *                                                                     301     set      761     38       II1     4        361     61 
T. 0"D OST                                 7      T          107    2197    31119   41214       We    W105    2674    aMa    t1          11                15 2     )3    23106   2404   2 
1         n                                   470413                                                                  0 O0010   low4   mm587    444s    61170    No$            1   Imm  2btt21t
mm                                        03143                                                                           4?4    3894    121    1404    "an0        5m   RAW5   V722   0095
080066,                                   ri7                                                                            5719    437    16574    136l4ll      240t2   36110   St=   OtO    ar6
WKsUIl_                                   401003                                                                          ml    gm        am      1110    t40t    1r01 1r2    3"744    Wm
2  Pnus6mR8Q W1341    1300    1413    1461    1708    177                                                                                                                 p"0       "as0    "as    so4
TOTrL.EOOONO    WITE           29t30O7                          0       0        0       0        0        0       0     4108  t                        l 1775 2           lOUS        0 t t t 18
NOT  OENFIT STREAM.                  att -1807   -21047  -3ttt                              -41t24  -0610  -JtJS  -2374  -15701    -4108  t5Xtt 5                       S7 OW    1tt13   t       103
EC   RATE OF RETURtN                               010



IDIWNESIAs EmmthoWder Rtbber Dhwt   ent 1I Project
Arex 1: Econole Anatysis
Tdite 13.   Computatlon of Ecmmie late of fttum  - In 1991 C stant Prices
(A    st   in I ii hfn O 41ihs)                                                                        (Pope  3)
C36w26u6                ii       is       to      20       21   t 2          23       24       2        20       2        go      a        2
mm    uo0aw         -      I        as      2600 0 67  - mm60W0   60lons  salevo2  6ot0t6t    66t1 20146w    nuns  56    0tm  P W  200
:
* AuuUgwtdhS&2
Top 
MOP 
5m4680 00% 
es  Im   1as - #W"                 "W        3       "W3  Tod,    7W            7=a1    7=6e  7=3  "W              7W6      7z      t 7=3  1,0         73041    Ome  4       2  Ms
6b Top_oE%* - W-                   7el       m l     7eel    rkl    "eal        701    ?61l    mel        imi    enz        7et    1,011l    Wz        ?"I    04o       44N    -a
90 Uun-F2     owC
mm             -mOP         Woo      $104  t12         O                 220      25       O       243      2321    219        0       013l  S45        l$       04n      la
W640(atwil   -FfQD          3NO      3e       3*n372            353r     3001    *W       325   o7*         244      2OW  t   71    gm          2WS2  two        17o0    r 1420
o0 EMr1nwWMhdSh
ftlmtRoob"pi GAR                3es      341      3st      set      341     z07      244      13
,---- -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  ---- ---- -----  --- -- --  -----  -.------  --- --
TOTALECONOWCOU                      94       "541,  a 2516?    24eet  245s 2 2z4  23sr3    23123    225f41    22104   21541   2700             20372    00et  04101       gm         a
ECONOMIC llENEFTrs
I    owlockPIomm(Two              9710  OSIJ    Gr4    9350           SD    oelm       0ss1s  4sio   rr s n9tt  4r742    62=                 00      $6wgole 4n4    447         WM       =W       #1
FROU~ ~ ~ ~~~e 324           $334     3260    31Oo    29        2"z4    2tat    2r43       2tl0    24Wo    22901   2tioe   ism         173a    low4    1401s   13t211    lo=        llt
ONhlbO4                    4044s   4101      49       3M       3o        MO    354n    a3a9       320M     2e8ts   2res    gsem       tatx8    2o id    lw      I2sm    *5as    1X70    oAm
ma4ow                      2410     2 5h10   241s4    233 z    22,3     gll    212M    2wo         12z4  Xbx4       sc27Xb      as,4ttt4 t  3w  t2ra  Ism4  lsolt         Om       son     3
2   F_     tx z gip                    t3s  ss       lotO  Os lm       70?      t70r    1707    17r       tre      *7st    trsr      17e7    trer    tr70      ne7      1rer     it7      U111'    l
ll%zlENEFltaTwelAl                                              l                                               s  eozatt i7  t2Wot2b ssi00t 0041 NM  7111 22                   1;ass  141;      9;;Pta
ScO. RATE OF RETUR"l



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
STATISTICAL TABLES
CONTENTS
TABLS
1.       SRDP II - Actual Planting Compared with Targets per SAR and Budget
2.       SRDP II - Replanting and New Planting
3.       SRDP II - First and Second Hectare Planting (1986/87 to 1989/90)
4.       SRDP 1I - Classification of Field Planting
5.       SRDP II - Total Area Planted and Tapped per Planting Year
6.       SRDP II - Women Farmer Participants
7.       SRDP II - Project Staffing
8.       SRDP II. Summaiy of Staff and Farmer Training
9.       SRDP II - Utilization of Loans
10.      SRDP II - Field Development Costs
1L       SRDP II - Status of Conversion
12.      SRDP II, Average Actual Farmgate and Fob Prices
13.      SRDP I - Income Increment and Household Improvement
14.      SRDP II - Estimated Total Production



-52-
INDONESLA Smlaltbolder Rubber Dcvclopmcnt 1 Project
Anncx 2: Statistical Tables
Table 1. SRDP It - Actual Planting Compared %ithz Targets per SAR and Budget
(1986/87 to 1989/90)
+___  _===___===__--- ~ ~ -- =  _-=      3      _    _ _ = =--=3==_=
:               H e c t a r a g e   % Actl vs., Actual over (Under) vs.
Planting  P: ovince                                                  S AR      D I P
:   Year    :  -             SAR   DIP Actual   Sh          P   Ha       %     H.    X
1936/87      RiaLu      : 5,800  2,500  2,200    38%    88%:(3,600)  -62%  (300)  -12%X
Sum Sel      5,800  5,800  4,384    76%    76% (1,416)  -24%(1,416)   -24%:
: Kal Bar      5,150  5,150  4,374    85%    85%:  (776)  -15%  (776)  -15X'
3         ~.   _                      .~                 . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   : _ _ _ _ _
Subtotal            :16,750 13,450 10,958    65%    81% (5,792)   -35%(2,492)  -19%:
*  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ,                              ,__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
1987/88      Riau       : 5,650  4,250  3,850    68%    91}:(1,800)   -32%  (400)   -9%:
Sum Sel      8,200  4,750  4,647    57%   g98:(3,553)   -43%  (103)   -2%:
,      Bar   6,650  4,000  3,989    60%   100'%:(2,661)   -40%   (11)    0%1:
.  Subtotal         :20,500 13,000 12,486   661X    96%:(8,014)   -39%  (514)   -4%,
Subot-  :2,0   3Ou  246"
1988/89    ' Riau       : 6,500  6,975  6,829    105%   989^   329        5%  (146)   -2%,
Sum Sel    : 7,000  8,235  8,142   116%.  99%: 1,142       16%   (93)   -1Z
::l Bar      6,500  7,065  6,656    102%    94%X   156      2%  (409)   -6%:
'-    Subtotal            :20,000 22,275 21,627    108%   97%: 1,627       8%  (648)   -3%:
1989/90       Riau        6,250  9,360  9,360   150%,  100%: 3,110       50%    0      OX:
-: Su Sel    : 6,250  9,855  8,837    141%   90%: 2,587      41%(1,018)  -10%:
-             Kal Bar    : 6,250  9,270  9,003    144%    97%X 2,753      44%  (267)   -3%1
:     Subtotal            :18,750 28,485 27,200    145X'  95%, 8,450    45%(1,285)    -5X:
70TAL  lCRiau            :24,200 23,085 22,239     92%    96-.:(1,961)    -8%. (846)   -41%
:            : Shnn Sel    :27,250 28,640 26,010    95%    91%:(1,240)    -5%(2,630)    -9%t
*            :a1 Ks.]Bar    :24,550 25,485 24,022    98%    94%:  (528)    -2%(1,463)   -6%:
GrUni Total         t,76,000 77,210 72,271    95%    94%:(3,729)    -5-(4,939)    -6%,
+_ _ ___  ===__ ______-____ = ==_;____ _ -=--_
1. low actual planting in Years 1 and 2 were due to limited buxwooed sadie.
2. EBappeas and ERI did not provide budget for 1990/91 planting to attain
the 76,000 bha target; hence, the shortfall of 5%. Tme planting material
intendled for 1990/91 planting were sold to private estates, other DG
projects anid provincial government projects for village development program.



- 53 -
DIDONESA Saaliholder Rtubber Development DI Project
Annxc 2: Stadstical Tables
Table 2. SRDP II- Replantltg and New Planting
(1986/87 to 1989/90)
.    '              '        ~~~~~~H e c t a r a g e
Planting  :  Province   :
:-  Year                       Replanting New planting   Total
. -             ----__- _-               ___________
: 1986/87  -    Riau                      0        2,200         2,200
- ' Sum Sel        ' I                 -4,384         4,384 '
Kal Bar                  0        4,374         4,374
:                             :                                         :
Subtotal                          0       10,958        10,958
1987/88     : Riau                     50        3,800         3,850 '
Sum Sel      :           0        4,647         4,647
Kal Bar                  0        3,989         3,989 :
*      Subtotal                          50       12,436        12,486
------------------- _-_--   -----:
1988/89       Riau                     12        6,817         6,829 '
I              ' Sum Sel                  0 -      8,142         8,142
Eal Bar                  0        6,656         6,656
I--                                     - -- - - - -- - - - _ _  _  _  _
:      3ubtotal                          12       21,615        21,627
1989/90       Riau                    406        8,954         9,360
:              1 Sum Sel      :           0        8,837         8,837
Kal Bar                  0        9,003         9,003
a      Subtotal                         406       26,794        27,200
-------------------------    - --  --  - ---------------------------a-
TOTAL          Riau                   468       21,771        22,239
:Sum Sel                 0       26,010    - 26,010
Kal Bar      :           0       24,022        24,022
-------------------------    -------   -- - -  - -- -  - - --  - - - -
Grand Total       Ha            468       71,803        72,271
%           0.6%         99-.4%      100.0%O
Remarks:
Replanting hectarage was low because of the reluctance
of farmers to replant due to loss of income.



- 54 -
lNDONESIA SMaUIder Rubber Dvelopmcnt n pU ro
Ari 2: StaMical Tables
Table 3. SRDP 11 - First and Second Hectare Planting
(1986/87 to 1989/90)
:   .            :         H~~~~~~~~~~ e c t a r a   e
Planting     Province
Year                    Ist Ha   7    2nd Ha  X.    Total
1986/87      Riau          1.657    75%   .543   -25%    2.200
Sum Sel       4.244    977.   140     3%    4.384
Kal Bar       2.711    6 2. 1 .663   Z38%    4.374
Subtotal              8.612    79%  2.346    21'.  10.958
- ----------- --                                          ---- --_ _ -
1987/88      Riau        : 2.976    77%    874    235%   3.850
Sum Sel       4.603    99%     44      1%    4.647
Kal Bar       2.477    62'%  1.512   36%    3.989
-, -  Subtotal              10.056   81e. 2.430    19%   12.486 1
1e88e/s      Riau          6_000   88%    829    12%    6.829 :
Sum SEl       8.042   99%    100       1%   8.142 :
Kal Bar    : 5.169    78%  1.487    22'.   6.656:
Subtotal              19.211    89%  2.4146   11%   21.627 '
't'89/90     Riau          7.362    79%  1.998    21%    9.360:
Sum Sel       8.646   98%    191    2%   8.937:
: Kal Bar       8.259    92%    744     8%   9.003 :
Subtotal             24.267    89%  2.933    11%  27.200
TOTAL      , Riau          17.995    81'. 4.244    19%  2-2.239 :
Sum Sel    : 25.535    98%    475      2%.  26.010 :
Kal Bar    : 18.616   77%  5.406    2.3%   24.022
i     Grand Total           62.146    86% 10.125    L4Z   72.271
Remarks:
Farmers did not get 2 ha each, because of the 601 policy
of equitable distribution of land and of benefits from
economic develeopment; thus, nost farmers were given
only 1 ha.



- - 55 -
INDONESIA Snmaflholder Rubber Developmtct H Project
Annex 2: Statistica Tables
Table 4. SRDP 11 - Classification of Field Planting (30 June 1992)
:     1986/87       1987/88        1988/89       1989/90   :      ota.
Provi :oe  Ha  %   Ha      %     Ha      %      Ha      %      H       %a
S~~~~~~~~~~ SQ  '
Class A            1,757   80Q   2,900   75%   4,676   68%  6,279   67:'  15,612   70%:
Class B       :       117    5X     364   9%   1,248   18%   1,722  18X:   3,451   16%:
: ^^lAss C    -.' -    97    4X     179    5%     480    7%     976   IO%:   1,732    8%X
Class D              229   10%      407   11%     425   6%      383   4%:   1,444    6%X
Total            2,200  100%   3,850  100%   6,829  1OCX  9,360  100lX   22,229  100%l
SLIM SEL/JAMB :
Class A            3,203   73%   4,137   89%   7,058   87%   7,452  84%: 21,850  84%:
Class B       '      553   13%      231   5%      666    8%     785   9%:   2,235    9%:
Class aC             215    5%       82    2%     143    2%     327    4%:      767    3%1:
Class D              413    9%r    197    4%      275    3%    273    3%    1,158    4%:
Total            4,384  100%   4,647  100%  8,142  100-%  8,837  100%: 26,010  100-%,
XAL BAR        :                                                                       *      '
:Class A                868   20%   1,121   28%   2,011   30X  3,495   39X:   7,495   31%:
: Class B             1,685   39%   1,495   31%   2,898   44%   3,303   37%:   9,381   39%-
: Class C             1,304   30%      971   24%   1,486   22%   1,943  22%:   5,704   24%:
Class D               517   12%     402   10%     261    4X    262    SX%   1,442    6%
Total            4,374  100%   3,989  100%   6,656  100%  9,003  100X:  24,022  100%:
:TOM'                                                                        
Class A       :    5,828   53%   8,158   65%  13,745   64%  17,226  63%: 44,957   62%:
Class B       :    2,355   21%   2,090   17%   4,812   22%   5,810  21%:  15,067   21-%
class C            1,616   15%   1,232   lOX  2,109   10%   3,246   12%r:  8,203   llX%
Class D            1,159   11%   1.006 8     8%   961    4%    918    3%:   4,044    6%
Total       :   10,958  100%  12,486  100%  21,627  100%  27,200  100X:  72,271  100%l
Field classification 1.as based on number of trees/ha:
Class A     400 or more
Class B     320 - 399
Clas C      200 - 319
Class D     Less than 200



INDOMESIA: Smatlholder Rubber Dewelopmient 11 Project
Annex 2: Statistical Tobles
Table 5.   SRDP tI - Total Area Planted and Tapped per Pltnt1,g Year
(Hectares)
:  t   a  I A u       s         SOUIllSUWIERA           :ESt                              :  l4. AN    O  I A I
Project  :Plantim ::
Year  'Planted Productive tapped   I   :lanted Productive tapp,ed   I   :PIIated Productiv tapped   I   IPlaoled Productive  Tapped    I
....1  ......... . - -,----t----                     --         -    --,----- -- -- -      -      ---   .-----                 -----
PRPJEIRP    19517616   299         2S8     256    96t:   126         1IS     UI1    97:                                  :   424         t}      367      0t'z
: absorbed by' 111N1787    209      209     174    831:    169        169     157    93lt                                       378        370     331     Box:
Stop I I   1:7U79:   9S78          979     781    Q0l:   803         716     545    767:   290        208      295    991:  2.071      1.902   1.611      o1il
:   :9197"180:   UA  4"tS    474    9Sl:                                        63        63      Sl   B17l    561          561     525     :42?
-  ------I- ---------------------------------I-----------------------
Subtotal           . 1.903    I.S3   1.605    952:  1.100       1.000     013    s12'   351        S51      336    961t  3.434      3.334   2.934    8I51
SRWP I     :19080181:  2.12t     1.817   (.63$    9811  1.000        sit    191    91t2    S39        916      750    921t  4.066      3.564   3.376      952:
1901182?  2.000      1.935   1.907    n2t:  1.53I     1.400   1.101    7521: 3.160      1.024   1.7e0    941:  6.6918       .239    .1m      n0:
1992103: 2.135      2.550   2.51S          1.19Ia    1.720   1.39S    I1l  4.241       3.614   2.924    OIl: 0.966        7.962   6.024     062
190/804   2.024     2.024   2.013    992: 2.242       1.929   1.112    6221: 3.541     3.023   1.091    361: 7.807        6.916   4.302     6211
t  19841951  1.911    1.904   1.686    93E    999        064      610    72I:                                 : 2180J       2.668   2.304    08:1
::1983/86:  1.046     1.046     610    601: 2.299       2.051   1.154    561:                                    3.34)      3.097   1.794      Sell
............           -------             -      --  --    - ---------    -------    ------------------ --                        0--
Subtotal         :11.145    11,244  10.586    94     9.9tJ      .195   6.247    70t: 11.891       9.27Z   6.479    N10: 33.591    21.506  23.312       m:E
PRTt6C   :17/0                                                                     :                                 : 
absorbed by, 190Q101:    416       26U     26b   1002:   6S0         419     229    5521                                   1 .104         608     491     m:
SRIIDP I      99112t   *957         560     466    921: 2.445       1.246     170    622:                                    3.302      1.014   1.244      69t:
1:1921531    1199       99      b69    601.  2.637      1.225     641    53tJ  1.134        795     319    401:  4.50       2.199   1.634      54K:
t 1983/04:   209        l8t     162    902:     3          39      308  100:   515          396     120    3021    6S0        615     320    522:
:  1996101     90        90      66    732:                            -                                      :     90         90      66      13:
- ----------- ------- _ -------------- - -- - -          - _      _ - -_------- -- ---------------------- -                 --- ----* :
Subtotal         : 2.621      2.097   1.631    70:  S.178       2.927   1.692    501:  1.649      1.191     439    312: 10.O54      6.205   3.761     611:
SW? If       196/101: 2.200      1.9t1    201    101: 4.304        3.971   1.221    3121:                                t   .594       .942   1.422     241:
*             *                                                                                                                                         I~~~      .............    . ......   .. ..................... ....    ...... .. ...      .....
t   Subtotal         1 2.200      1.9M1     201    1012  4.384      3.111   1.221   S31t        O         0       0     02t 6.54         5.942   1.422     24t:
,                    ,,                  - ,.                          -...........-----
: rand Total    :10.553    17.285  14.103    9212  21.229    16.983   9.973    5921 13.9801    10.819   1.253    6t12  53.663    44.997  31.329     701
1. 4,71  N  delar of 1.5 years in tapping In Nest ialiantan is due to small girth size caused by poor soil snd leas  disease
2. 5,942 Farmers not let trained on tapping



- 57 -
DONMMESIA Smallholdor Rubbet Development n Project
Aanz 2: Statstica Tables
Table 6. SRIIP 1 - Women Farmxer Particpants
(30 June 1992)
No. of Fa8ner   No. of Wen Participants    % of Women  :
Provine  '       FM: PakrticipPntS                 MP  I SRP I    P II      Prticipants
S:'P I SQP II "Farmers uH   Farmers Ha   :SMP I XRDP UII
Riau      1 Taluk Muantan : 5,396   3,219   1,436  1,433  1,874  1,579         27%   58X:
:2 Pasix Pengarian'j          5,121                   750    750      :      is%
:3 Kualu           '          4,413                   722    722 ,           16%
1          :4 Fangkamla Kuras            2,025                   261   261 :            13%.:
:          '5 Tanah Putih                2,146                   323   351
:6 Bserah         :4,507   1,071    594   596   549    580           13%   51X
Subttal                     9,903  17,995   2,030  2,029 4,479  4,243       20-   25%X
-Sun Sel   ,1 Prabunamlih     1 7,182   3,276    386   392   298    299 :    5%    9X:
-.   2 LubukL.i.garj    :8,314                        768   768               9X:
:3 Tanjung Agung   ' 2,279   2,229    303   311    293   295          13%   13%:
:4 Tanjung Raja               2,943                 1,220  1,220             41X:
I5 SekaLu:                    2,657                   327    338:            12%X
:6 Singkut                    6,116                   223    223 :            4%:
a   Subtotal                     9,461  25,535    689   703  3,129  3,143         7 T%   12%:
: K1 Bar  :1 Anjiuapn           3,837   1,241     115   118   144    144         3%   12%X
a          '2 Sbgay"u LAdo    a 3,163   7,5791   241   241   /180   180           8X    2X:
:3 Sosok           :          4,736 :               1,151  1,151 :           24%X
:4 Azibaizang      '  4716   2,377 1  142   142   748    669 :    3%   31%:
:5 Sintang                    2,683 I                 506   521 :            19%X
1   Subtotal                  : 11,716  18,616 :  498   501  2,729  2,665 :    4%   15X:
Grand Total             31,080  62,146   3,217   884 10,337  5,006       10%   17%:
Remars:
1. In Taluk Kuarntan, the wife is mostly the head of family.
2. Other wome participants are either divorced or widow.



- 58 -
RIDONE2SV SnauboI4o Rubber Denopment U Proct
Anne 2 S2atda Tables
Table 7. SRDP UI  Project Stafng
(30 June 1992)
Average 1)
Salaries/Yr
(Rp '000)
____________
Got   Proj   Head  Prov't
Empl  Empi Office Offices P M U s  Total
____  _____  ______         -------   -------
Senior Managers:
Project Manager             960             1                        1
Dept Heads & Int Auditor   720             5                         5
Provincial Managers         720                     3                3
PMU Managers                600                            17       17
Subtotal                                6        3      17      25
Junior Managers:
Sub-Oept Heads              600            3       10               13
Section Heads               480  19ao      10      32      79      121
Treasurers/Cashiers       Z00/360           '       3      17       21
Sub-Unit Heads              480  1980                      52       52
Subtotal.                              14       45     148     207
Supervisors                    360  1740                      127     127
Extension Workers              300  1872                     430      430
Rank and File                  480  1872      55      47     524      626
T 0 T A L                               75      95   1,246   1,416
Government Employees                    51      49      370     470
Project Employee.;                      24      46      876     946
1) Rate per employee in 1991/92; include basic salaries and
allowances paid by the Project



- 59 _
JNDONESL4 Smalholder Rubber Deeopment U Prjec
Annex - St&tLtc  Tables
Table 8& SRDP I - Summary of Staff and Farmer Training
(1986/s to 1989/90)
PARTICIPANTS       MAN-DAYS            AMOUNTS (Rp 000)
FISCAL   --------   ----------------------
YEAR     BUDGET   ACTUAL   BUDGET    ACTUAL      BUDGET       ACTUAL
STAFF TRAINING
1986/87   .   50       793    15,250      7,825     310,271      163,943
1987/88       645       667    15,670    15,456     184,279      173,909
1988/89     2,063       529    36,690    10,971     840,389     472,150
1989/90       850       594    14,839     6,298     997,772     616,008
1990/91     2,099       841    14,715     4,527     670,281     221,234
1991/92     1,439    1,097    16,223      8,984     363,858      332,319
SUBTOTAL   7,846    4,52t   113,387    54,061   3,366,850   1,979,562
FARMER TRAINING
1986/87     4,470    3,796    26,350    22,310      166,750      144,810
1987/88     2,200    2,187    13,200    13,122       60,276       59,727
1988/89     8,143    7,598    47,628    44,898      427,264     326,135
1989/90     7,141    7,331    42,216    42,817      330,144     342,140
1990/91     9,876    8,414    37,716    32,863      493,114     312,259
1991/92    21,395   16,346    74,690    58,915      794,580     560,741
SUBTO.AL  53,225   45,672   241,800   214,925   ,2 27*28   1.745,812
TOTAL     61,071   50,193   355,187   268,986   5,638,978   3,725,375
-==  =    = _ =     _ = - =  = = = =    = = = = =  = = = = =



- 60 -
INDONESI Smalholder Rutber Deopmnt 1 Projet
Annex 2: StatidsA Tabtes
Table 9. SRDP I - utlizatio of Loans
(Up to 30 Juno 1992)
I3RO 2494-INO        BIABRI          CDC 2580/1
Rupiah
Particulars       ,  Total  Credit Comp,  Loan           Pounds   US Dollars
* ($ mill)    (smill)   (RP bill): ( mill)   ($ mlll)
~-_a -._ g j  - j 
LOAN A.MOUNT
,                      .*                                 a:
Original Loan               131.00      86.00 !    45.00         15.00      25.50
Less Cancellations           64.00      44.45                     9.40      15.90
Revised Loan                 67.00      41,55       45.00         5.60       9.60
_          _  _        *    _                _  
j~~~~~~~~ i
LOAN UTILIZATION
b
Up to March 1992             55.80      34.67       17.50         5.37       9.12
b
April - June 1992            10.67       6.9  '     0.02         o.06       0.10
Total                     66.47      41.65       17.52         5.43       9.22
j __         __           _          __________________    I
LOAN SAVINGS                     0.53      (0.10)|     27.48         0.17       0.38
Closing Date                   30 June 1992   j                    30 June 1992
a) Translated at  1.00   USS 1.70 (March 1988)
b) Include financing of the former SECOP (TCSDP Phase 1):
Up to March 1992       US $      10.75  million
April - June 1992                 0.82
Total                US S     11.57  million
c) Loan Cancellations:
14 April    1987       US $      22.00  million
3 February 1990                 20.00
29 May      1991                 15.00
21 July     1992                  7.00
Total               US S      64.00  million



- 61 -
INDONESLA: Stialholder Rubber Devetopment If PrIoect
Annex 1- Statistcal Tables
Table 10. SRDP I - Field Development Cost
(1986/87 to 1991/92) - (in Thousand Rupiahs)
Total              1386/1987          isoijissa           198811989          198911330
Province                                                          - -
Fiscal Year      Total    Per Ha    Total   Per Ha    Total   Per Ha    Total   Per Ha    Total   Per Ka
R I A U              22,239 Ha            2,200 Ha           3,850 Ha            6,829 Ha           9,360 Ha
1386/17       921,402    419    921,402    419         -         -         -         -         -        -
1387/88    2,2538,45    373    392,878    119  1,855,967    485            -         -
1988/82    3,184,419    247    293,441    133    672,970    115  2,218,052    325              -        -
1989/90    6,340,131      285    216,002       38    '31,893      138  1,494,096    219  4,038,140    438
1990/91    2,640,459      119    153,911       70    334,978      8      7144,39    109  1,407,231    150
1991192    2,865,862      122    401,875    183    425,597    110    164,308    112  1,273,482    136
Total   18,211,178  1,572  2,373,515  1,082  3,831,405    935  5,221,405    165  6,TT3,453    124
=_ = :: -:: : :::: _ _ :::~~--_- -:::----:::
SOUTH SUMATRA
A JAXB!             26,010 Ha             4,384 Ha           4,647 Ha            8,142 Ha           8,837 Ha
1986/87    1,618,835    383  1,678,835    382           -        - J;
1987188    2,298,810    255    790,844    180  1,507,966    324            -         -         -         -
1988/89    4,238,712    247    709,862    161    885,173    190  2,643,057    324              -        -
1!989190    6,725,035    259  1,023,572    233    747,031    160  1,403,870    172  3,550,552    401
199OI9      2,022,729      t8    195,583       44    412,721      88    761,252       91    653,173       73
1991/92    4,764,530    183    477,562    108    163,365    164  1,605,182    197  1,918,421    217
Total   21,128,651  1,404  4,876,258  1,108  4,316,816    926  6,413,361    786  6,122,156    691
-__-                     _   ::        __        :-:: - ----         ::: --  ---- :-::::-
VEST UALIMANT       24,022 Ha             4,374 Ha           3,989 Ha            6,656 Ha           9,003 Ha
1986187    t,461,318    335  1,461,318    335           -        -         -                   -        -
1987/88    1,920,268    230    642,051    147  1,278,217    320            -         -         -        -
t188/ag     3,619,106    241    672,373    t54    725,527    182  3,221,200    334             -        -
1989/90    5,634,650    235    581,751    133    5i3,726    139  1,446,415    217  3,052,J45    339
13S/111    2,502,759       104    427,106      98    316,435       7S    104,744    10t  1,053,8S4    l17
1991/92    4,479,719       186    727,51S    166    507,579    127  1,260,910    189  1,983,591    220
Total   19,623,820  1,331  4,518,784  1,033  3,381,484    847  5,633,329    846  6,090,223    676
--_ _   : :: -_----    ::: ------  -                      :=::-:
Grand Total  59,564,249           11,174,55?          11,529,?65         11,268,095          18,991,832
Total Ha          72,271               10,958             12,486             21,621              27,200



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - --
rem L
;q V
----------       ---- ----
----------      .....    ....
----------------------------  -------------
---------          nr% - -----
-----------      --  -    -----
----------
----------------
..........                     U:  ----------    --             12,
- ---------  - i----------- -
W               M:              MCD,
- - - - - - - - - - - -
----------- 1. I
--------- -
lz
-------          --- rM M
--------------
. . . . . . . . . . . .
-------------
C_:             Z.,
3%.
---------------
----------- ---
--------- --                 r
Ot.    00
---------------- -------------
------------
-------------------------------
:.rf . .
is.                               M:q:
-------------
i F i
2:                               Al
-- ----------
r---
M.          2-M                                  2!
-----------------       ---------
PA:
M.                                               itl' -Es' Z_tt=
----------
S-r,    tt
Zi                                                  V:
a:i
m5ast- RE-EE
l_: 14411_4.46UUI__  M._%_        ut.
-1 -Mis
Z9



- 63 -
INDONESIA SaUbolMd Rubber Dewlopment It Pmjca
Annex 2: Staistal Tabke
Tal@e12. SRDP n I Avea  Actual Fangate and Fob Prces
(Ruplabs per kg DRC)
Description        1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92
RIAXJ - Taluk Kuantan
Local FM Price SIR 20     -       -    1,552   1,753   1,326   1,392   1,479
Faxsgate Prices:
Latex                                           -       -       -       -
Air-cdried Sheet                        -       -       -       -     1,314
Thin Slab               _             1,146   1,423  1,166   1,157   1,188
As % Of FOB Price:
Latex                                   -       -       -       -       -
Air-dried Sheet                                 -       -       -      88.8%
Thin Slab               -             .73.8%  81.2%  87.9%   83.1%  80.3%
SCU1  SURA - Prabulih
Local PCB Price iSS I     -       -       -       -    1,575   1,608   1,605
Local FOB Price SDR 20    741    984  1,572   1,748  1,319   1,383   1,470
Farmgate Prices:
Latex                   -       -       -       -/   1,376   1,357   1,425
Air-dried Sheet          -       -      -       _       _       _       _
Mzangled Slab            -       -    1,353   1,551  1,202   1,227  1,193
Thin Slab                660    860  1,434+  1,571  1,171   1,141  1,216
As % Of FOB Price:
Latex                    -       -      -       -      87.4%  84.4%  88.8%
Air-dried Sheet          -       -      -       -       _       _       _
Mtangled Slab            -       -     86.1%  88.7%  91.1%  88.7%  81.2%
Thiu Slab              89.1.%  87.4%  91.2%  89.9%  88.8%   82.5%  82.7%
w1r KALThAKrAN - Aniugan
Local FQB Price SIR 20    743   1,142  1,476   1,739  1,311   1,374   1,460
Farmgate Prices:
Latex                   -       -       -       -       -       -
Air-dried Sheet          730   1,116  1,470   1,473  1,132   1,'023  1,037
As % of FMB Price:
Latex                    -       -      -       -       -       -       -
Air-dried Sheet        98.3%  97.7%  99.6%  84.7%  86.3%  74.5%  71.0%
1.r1E: Selling price less transport, if point of sale is other than faxm



INDONESIA: Smaitholder Rubber Development 11 Project
Annex 2: Statistical Tables
Table 13. SRDP I - Income Increment and lIouschold Itaqrovement
NO.  INC. FROM BIUBERIE   TOTAL INCOM E    tI iousp IOLD IMPROVEMEN(% ol Respontlents) I IEAD OF
PROVJNCE             OF    Avorago IFamily/Yr.  Averago (FamilylYr.  i lolS.    wlith TV    with MoTorcy  wllh Velicles LIVESTK
;w~rQ. th~iore~A ror Jincncr. l2-9jv. n!2oril                      B     Jf foo   efrlef&    nr
_ __ _ __ _ _ slEs^>r) tleforc 2 A!t' r ~~]_! r olor   ncr. t  Vnoro ter_fore Aeforlfa                            Incr._
RIAU                            -----Rp 'ooo---(Times) -----Rp 'ooo---(TIrnes)                                              (Timos)
Pasir Pengarayan          31    860 '.,U0fl   3.4   908 :.2,9R82,  328     77      3    45       3    29       0      0      10.7
Taluk Kuantan            442   811  1,944    2.4  1,007  P 0T6h  236    61         5    39       9    42        1   . 3      2.6
Totaf/Averaqo               473   814 i2tO2.   2.5  l,001  2 4 10'  241      62       5    39       9    41       0      3      3.1
SUtMATEFA SELAl AN                     .' ';.:...-
Prabumulih               354  1,024  P,S98.  2.5  1,1C0  l2,C05    2.6    23       3    46       5    43       0      4      2.4
Sekayu                    20    915  2,11iS'   2.3  1,240  (2,W    2.4    40      15    55       0    25       0      0     14.0
Singkut                   75   679   080    1.4   613  1,174    1.9    48          3     17      3      5      0      0      1.0         -
Tanjung Agung            146   899  $2,40    2.7  1,368  Zs4    2.1    46         3    60       6    33       2      4       1.7
Tanjung flaja             10   366   692    t.9   379   774    2.0   100           0    100      0    90       0    20        4.6
Total/Average              605   937  2,310    2.5  1,130  Z861..  2.4    33          3    47      5    36        1     3       2.5
KALIMANTAN DARAT                         ....
SelAmbawang              90   647   1,)42:'  2.1   687 1  67l  2.1    73           0    43       0     12      0      0      1.4
Anjungan                204   558  1,4 31    2.6   698i 16473    2.1    87         0    33       1    10       0      2      2.1
Sanggau Ledo              71   844  (,059    2.0   968  1,957.   2.0    69         0    48       0     10      0      0      2.9
Total/Averave              37t   610  1'400,.  2.3   746  I,fxB1    2.1    80        0     38       1    10       0     -1      2.1
GRAND TOTALIAVE.          1,449   81t3 '18 i  2.4   089 ., 4    2.3    66            3    42        6    31       0     2       2.6



65 -
INDONESIA: Smailholder Rubber Detvelopment n Project
Annex 2: Statistical Tables
Table 14. SRDP 11 - Estimated Total Production
(Quantities In Thousand Tons)
SRDP I! Only                  Grand To:3
qtl IITotal                                               TcIal
Estizated Praduci,onr  nEst Va                                         E0.   Pr,e   Ymlue                est.   Value
Year         ARP       GOC  SaIo  I             Tctal   UWKI/  (US$,tl!)            Prn:. U9I/(3    iil    .  Pr'.  tUJSSi
(a)    (t)                       (a)    (b)                         b
t  1l             .2        0        1                       o .s:       4                     0.32                         4       s
2 1I8              3        1        5                 9     1.2S       12                     1.22                         9       12
3  1989            1        3       10                15     1.14       13                     1.12                        1        i Is
4  1290            '        4       15                25     1.02       25                     1.                          2' C
5  1991            4        5      22                 32     1.01       3                      101                         32 t2
6  1222            4        5      29                 SE     1.02       3                      1.02                        33      39
I  I9si            4        7       33                44     10         t?                4   1212         4               ti      ''
8  1994            4        a       37                43     1.^0       53               10    2.30       13               65      72
9  1995            4        8       41                53     1.45       17               2L    1.4         -               7^.: 12
to   1235           '        3       44                Si      115       82               45 115           54              101      145
11   1297           4        9      45                 sa      1.45      t4               55    !.S^       55              1i1     1.9
17 199H             4        9      45                 '3     l  t'       c'                    11         93              125      1
13  123.            5        a       45                5-      1.45      5              - 75    1.4.      155              I:      190
14  2000            3        a       44                 5      1.84     1                ,3a  1i.sa       :2                sa3    25i
15  2001            3        8       42                 4      1.54      39 91    1,34                    135              14 2,      i
15  2002            3        8       41                 t      1.84      94               Si   1.8S       113              143     272
17  2003            3        7       39                4i      1.84      21               S3    1.34      15               143     271
18  2004            2        7       38                47      1.94      85               97    1.84      173              14      235
19  2005            2        7       35                44     2.10       33               S4   2.1v       125              t3      2S3
20  2006            2        6       33                41      2,13       8'              Si   2.i       1;c               130      273
21  2007            1        6       30                3?     2.10        7i              53   2.10       155              125      293
22  2008             1       5       29                34      2.1t       72                S   2.13     1Q0              120      252
23  2003             1       5       25                31      2.10       55              82   2.10       112              113      238
2$ 2010             ;        4       24                23      2.        61               77   2.10       163              1GS      223
25  2011            1        4       22                27     2.10       5i               72   2.tQ       151               99      207
25  2012            0        3       19                22      2.10      45               63   2.0        142               so      183
27  2013                     2       15                17      2.10      35               62   2.10       131               79      185
28  2014                     1       10                10      2 .       22               55   2. 1'    1l18                6e      133
29  2015                     0        5                 6     2.10        12              51   2.1L       us                5      119
30  2016                     0        3                 3      2.10        6              47   2210        9i               50      105
at  zo2l                     a                          0     2.10         1              44    L.10       93               45       94
32  2018                                                a      2.10        0              37   2.10        7.               37       is
33  2019                                                0     2.10        0               23   2.10        60               29       60
34  2020                                                 0     2.10        0               15   2.1U       a2                is      32
Total               7t      159      827             1,057             IIS71             1748            3,361            2,805  5,111
Average/Year                                             38                63               62              120
HQTES:  (a) Current internationai prices
(b) Total Value for information purposes only (not for ERR coaput3tiGn)



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
BIBLIOGRAPHY
&Spervision Reports
Indonesia Loan 2494-IND - SRDP U - October 1985 Supervision - Detaied Mission
Finding (3 pages).
Indonesia Loan 2494-IND - Smaflholder Rubber Development Project 1 - Supervision
Report - Date November 15, 1985. From Shearing and Prices.
Indonesia Loa 2494-IND - SRDP II - September 1986 - Interim Supervision - 3 pages and
3 tables.
Indonesia Credit 94IND - SRDP I - June 1986. Supervision - Aide Memoire - 3 pages.
Indonesia Loan 2494-IND - SRDP l - June 1986. Supervision - Aide Memoire - 8 pages.
Indonesia Loan 2494-IND - SRDP H - December 1986-February 1987 Mission.
Supervision Report dated March 10, 1987. From Sheaing includes Spember 1986 Interim
Supervision (3 pages) and an Aide Memoire and Action plan (12 pages) and an Action
Letter.
Indonesia - Proposed Amendments to Estate Project, September 11, 1987. From A. Cole
(5 pages).
bIdonesia Loan 2494-IND - SRDP H - Supervision Report - August 30, 1988. From
Philippe Boyer (14 pages + Attachments).
Indonesia Loan 2494-IND - SRDP H - Supvision Report, June 1989. From Ajit Sidhu,
August 7, 1989 - Aide Memoire (8 pages).
Indonesia Loan 2494-NM  - Supervision Report, March 1990. From Ajit Sidhu, April 17,
1990 (6 pages + Attachments).
Indonesia Loan 2494-IND - SRDP 1 - Supervision Report, October 1990. From Ajit
Sidhu, November 28, 1990. Aide Memoire (3 pages).
Indonesia Loan 2494-IND - SRDP I - Supervision Report, February 1992. From Kheng
Hoe Yeow, AprU 10, 1992 (9 pages).
Indonesia Loan 2494-IND - SmalIholder Rubber Development Project II - Supevision
Report - Date November 15, 1985. From Shearing and Prices.



-67-
Other Rlae    Documents or Reports
Loan Agreement - Loa Number 2494-1ND - SRIDP U, dated 28 March 1985.
Upsrdig of Sub-standard Smalholder Plantings on indonesian Tree Crop Projects -
Tecical, Economic and Social Aspects - A review and recommendations for actions.
Main Report. Agriculture Uni WB/RSI November 12, 1987.
Draft GOI SRDP II PCR, with leter of 2/121M992.
Report No. 3059a-IND  - Staff Appraisal Report - Indonesia Smal1holder Rubber
Development I Project - January 30, 1985.
Report No. 10163 PCR - Indonesia Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V Project (Loan 2007-
IND) - December 13, 1991.
Indonesia - Nucleus Ess and Smallholders Vll Project - Loan 2232-IN) PCR - Part I -
Project Review and Bank's Perspective.
Report No. 10768 - PCR - Indonesia Transmigation IV Project (Loan 2288-IND) - June
19, 19.
Indonesia - Decision Memorandum - SRDP II - February 3, 1984. From Ann Hamilton.
Indonesia - Proposed Loan of US$131.2 million for SRDP II. From Hamilton - Date .... ??
10, 1984 (3+2 = 5 pages Memo).
Indonesia - Extension of SRDP 11, CDC Loan No. 258011. From Sjamsul Anim, Project
Manager - December 29, 1990.
Report No. 10288-IND) - SAR - Indonesia - Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project -
March 27, 1992.
Indonesia - Department of Agricultre - Directorate General of Estates - SRDP U - IBRD
Loan 2494 and CDC Loan 2580/I - Mid-Term Review Report, December 1988.
Study of GCC to determine suitability to be absoretd by SRDP (3 pages).



MAP SECTION



IBRD 17777
r. Pak-b"                   4-                                                                                                                       -Philoaleo             APRIL 1984
!>M'ARAOUCrBQr                             .............   - A  TrJt   f9f                                                                                                                 OACOAABTAN 
=ohonSe           Mueratebo       I  A    M      B .               MBI                                                                                                                                                     IAIAAYA
t           /' - - nSi,4,     ' -'  1";4/                                    ,JA4
-  k           /~,       Me11atem eoiXs_                                       /     -                                                                                                   Ai           '   
NkTembes  ~ ~ ~ A-.BALI
: ATANHR                                                                                                    ungailiat_
Banko{\                                        |                                              \Menlok<>/to              P.ding besar  A                                                                            20
KILOMETERS
-  SAROLANGLIA'    s  s                                                                                                                                                            20    40    60us o< syls  o    EO    80    1X
6   ib   2o   a0   40- s
t.  5 S  M A (T E R AS  S E Z A T A /\f                                       JS                        ) BAiGYAX                                         MILES
* > 4, t ~~~~~~~~Kelu    ntnhapn  \2
Nt                                                                                                                                                                                               flCpBflll Pat  /aI
m MUSI                               Jangkalan Ealai
\   RAWAS   t                u akia                                                   PALEMB LEM ANG"-\|                                                                                        @ tIU
,kMuakeingi           -
-                  I\ LobuGRie~9aU      Mo4I1, LubukIi itiL kG,,                                                   oghlanLandam -\N
rfANGK'LIU UTAIf
INDONESIA
OGAIV KOMERINAG ILIR                           SECOND SMALLHOLDER  RUBBER
X  <   . \        r .        J~~~~~TebingtIfgini , '-Jk    
<<,  I In I                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
> =<' gf $ Muarenim                               tX rJ n; SUMATERA SELATAN AND JAMBI
BENISKULUL            A<    \            LA*/AT   La!                        (Xt Sg/' g                                J                                              (SOUTH SUMATRA AND JAMBI)
PROPOSED PROJECT
--I                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
A     PMU HEADQUARTERS
_4  /                       '        f                                                        PMUGO.I. FINANCED RUBBER PMUs TO BE AGGREGATED AND
REDEVELOPED UNDER SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
06A11v I'ov 15 R                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PREVIOUS PROJECT
Tle. Map has bee, 01,-oerd hY                                                                                         M-ngga-a   PROJECT AREA                                                      CRDT94N
Th. WrbEDBorank' aft# OhI          N      ENGKULU SELATA                                                                                                                A     PMU                  CREDIT IND
foe tU. oooreoc of Me           Manna                                                                                                                                         P
-doeo -d fThe W.eldy                      ', fhR
srted,W-ofnTh. W ?s Ban                                               MuAI /                                                                2 A                               NATIONAL ROADS
and fte kdee,e4ooa Fo,oo
orPdo0dE   r Me -bow  ,f                                                                                           M          U        N     G- PROVINCIAL ROADS
on fee 0,00 do tkI eePtf en y e                                                                                                                                               RAILWAYs
Thr .oBank S                                                                                                              LAMP1AG TENGAH d      B AILW
Of anydtlerrIl.W               ,' an$  *- .                                                                                                                               -   DISTRICT(KABUPATENI BOUNDARIES
" eov-ptance of    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ -                        -PROVINCIAL(PROPfNSI) BOUNDARIES
00011 boocdsoiss. e o_ -E -   = INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
l02"                                                                                                           10 1c oykeoreo                                                                                            Ice     -



IBRD 17778
S o (i  / h   f       h  n a   S  e    Q a e '<aA  
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
/h    Cha  tSe,sM A L A Y S I A
$AMRAS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~fD
01'AIIA                                                  IN-- ->I
2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
rMANAK~M LA SI
v 5    _- (4QJ    S    A         N        G      i. '    .  t   -               ,   _NG
S AKO  S                                                                    (w t     
,   - '/e                       h           -                             =""
<_ KA L I M jA -N4    N               A R A T                l * 7^ ss v   b                    KALI /MANTN N t
~~~-                                                                                  -    PUTSSBAU
PON1IANA,~J /        SANOGrUNGAPH
K E T A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ SNTN
ONTIX <9 ,ANAK   /                                                               INDONESIA
Keli         \XX  SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
KALIMANTAN BARAT (WEST KALIMANTAN)
PROPOSED PROJECT
KETAPAv ,E | =     PROJECT AREA
A,   PMU HEADQUARTERS
_001t. FINANCEO RUBBER MAUS TO BE AGGREGATED
AND REDEVELOPED UNDER THE SECOND
SMALLHOLOER RUBBER OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PREVtOUS PROJECT
t \   4 dSkiPROJECT AREA  C      84 iND
CREDIT98IN
A    PMU HEADOUARTERS
-    MAIN ROADS
OTHER ROADS
RIVERS
0< '                                                        -;  _  DISTRICT (KA8UPATEN1 BOUNDARIES
,V S    t               -   -  PROVINCIAL IPROPINSI BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
J   a   v  a        S   e   -a                        -
'0                   li                                                                               ' 13
4itrcre_adlhil_ ~~~~~~~KttiETRS. -*- w
;                                              tSkt;E~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILS o0  *b0 2ti 4) iD
ttO  llte                  tt2e                      tt3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s



_   _  , 9   z we                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 1?7779>
APRIL ?04
PACIFIC OlE*   - OoEo-                                                             IBRD 1777
177'          A4JA~                                                  RIA U
Gs      .&44t w                   I   4## -4
A L A Y 5 I A          ~~MAIN ROADS
'-~  MALAYSI A      _____  OTHER ROADS
RAILwAyS
RIVERS
-   -  ,                                    -              IAVISTRICT(KABUPATAi BOUNDARIES
N  %~~~~~~~~~ ~PROVINCIALIPROPSINS BOUNDARIlES
- *'-?                                                         -   -  INTERMATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-                    N.<t                                    KILOMETERS
-I                                                               _______~~~~~~s 
)          N~~~PUUdo(                                                                   MILES
BENGKAL/S ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~     ~     s,NAPR
X~~ ~ .~- .                                                                                N
     X   f    TpOl.pIOI                            A   L                            M     O D
-                  K                                             .-   -   - R V R
\ :                 tN          ,                             -                       OSRCTK8PAAIBONAPEKANBARI
| -<   1; -'                                 N.      \     Sox w PROIAU KBOULNARI
r  -                            - r--- tNTERYATIONALBOUNOARIEKA5WA4
j   o B S i  flbuo  -uIU   \>   -       Buuo  Ih                                 -*-.XM
_,,/  Sungi dlnsi.                           IADAGR P fU               /    SINGORAG9t- i'
sunut~~~~~~~~~mlIIn
| PARSAMA  N    >  \\PEA8AU |..-- &
PAA9                TE1A1 -ht/lSzpl _Z                                                              EtViWU
L (MAPUL                                                                         / -UMATEiA
KOT =           p        NR<-q    -o
8ukW1++-P  8     \         /NDttAGtAt Ut/tUY         /     tOfRAGwt>i                                 .
~~0                                                                                               SELA TANi
PADi                                                    \N                                                                    _
S~~~~~~ 9Jh                                                   A 4- ,-\S tj , ' 8-'    
fRAttIAStf98               AS    .-OK
PEIS AW8rFJ                                                       MARIMRU ;-      '
\ SII j   rANGAIb,
\\SE ArAN   \   I                 >-            f         \  S  LA.AN
\ \   iX     \\~~~~~~ - o -    M     ut        U        >.       _  _~~~~~io



