Documfc of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report N.e P-3891-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AMD DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIV DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAhN
IY AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANhCE PROJECT
January 28, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may ;e used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its oatents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoruiation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    Peso (P)
US$1.0 - P 20.00
P 1.0 = USSO.05
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
BUTEL -  Bureau of Telecommunications
JICA  -  Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOTC  - Ministry of Transportation anxd Communications
NTC    - National Telecommunications Commission
PLDT  -  Philippines Long =stance Telephone Company
PPF    - Project Preparation Facility



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  aGi-CT
Loan and Projrct Summary
Borrower:       Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:    National Telecommunications Commission (NTC) within the
Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MOTC)
Amount:         US$4.0 million
Terms:           fayable over 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The Philippine Government has postponed the major elements of
its telecommunications sector investment program until the
macro-economic situation improves. However, iP order to
maintain the momentum of the institutional and policy reforms
for the sector initiated over the past few years, this
technical assistance project would promote and support the
sound regulatory, institutional and financial development of
the telecommunications sector. The project thus provides
consultancy services and equipment for: (a) strengthening NTC
within the MOTC; (b) a tariff study; (c) radio frequency
management; (d) network planning; and (e) reviewing training
needs, plus fellowships. The project would provide MOTC/NTC
with the means to adequately regulate existing sector
operations, lay the groundwork for future major physical
investments once the macro-economic situation improves, and
ensure viable private sector operation, consistent with the
public interest. There are no major risks to the project per
se, but achievement of the potential long-run benefits of thTe
project would be subject to boch political risks and the
possibility of delay in the ecoaonxic recovery.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. [ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost:                                  Local        Foreic      Total
Strengthening of NTC                        90            432        522
rariff study                                90            216        306
Radio frequency management:
consultancy                              130           576         706
equipment and services                   208           700         908
Updating of network plan                    60             72        132
Training                                    60            250        310
Subtotal                                 638         2,246       2,884
Physical contingencies                       -            225        225
Price contingencies                        162            529        691
Refinancing of PPF                           -          1,000      1,000
Total project cost /a                      800         4,000       4,800
Financing Plan:                                Local        Foreign     Tctal
(USS '000)
IBRD                                         -         4,000       4,000
Government                                 800              -        800
Total                                    800         4,000       4,800
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
(US$ M)
Annual       1.0    0.6    0.8    0.8    0.6    0.2
Cumulative   1.0    1.6    2.4    3.2    3.8    4.0
Rate of Return: N/A
Staff Appraisal Report: There is no staff appraisal report.
Map: IBRD Map Nb. 17234
/a   Taxes and duties are insignificant.



REPORT AND RECOMM!ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPKENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PRILIPPINES
FOR A TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $4.0 million, to help
finance a technical assistance project for the telecommunications sector. The
loan would be repaid over 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
*        standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "The Philippines:  An Agenda for Adjust-
ment and Growth" (No. 5258-PH) was distribluted to the Executive Directors
under Sec. M84-1038, dated December 14, 1984. A special report, "The Philip-
pines: A Review of External Debt" (No. 4912-PH), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on November 2, 1984.  Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, the Philippines followed a much more dynamic,
growth-oriented development strategy than in earlier decades. The growth rate
of GDP rose from 5.1% in the 1960s to 6.2% in the 1970s, a rate well above
that of lower middle-income oil importers (5.6%) but lower than that of com-
parable Asian countries. During the 1970s, the agricultural sector grew at
about 4.5% p.a. and manufacturing industry at 7.2%. ManuractarTng, however,
did not play a leading role in the country's economic development. Although
manufactured exports grew rapidly, the greater part of the sector remained
oriented to the domestic market and was affected by severe inefficiencies.
4.        Although economic performance was relatively good in the 1970s,
structural weaknesses held it below its full poteitial. GDP growth was
achieved at a high investment cost - the incremental capital/output ratio
(ICOR) was about 35% higher thaa those of comparable Asian countries.
Although inherently capital-intensive infrastructure investments explain part
of the high ICOR, ineFf:ciency of industrial investment was the more important
cause.  Inappropriate trade, industrial, financial, and exchange rate policies
designed to foster import substitution provided high protection for domestic
manufacturers, and led to investments in which the Philippines did not have a
1/   This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Agriculture Sector/Inputs Project which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on July 17, 1984.



-2-
Llear comparative advantage. External borrowing and imports expanded rapidly
while traditional exports and domestic resource mobilization lagged. This
resulted in a chronic shortage of foreign exchange and increasing external
debt.
5.        Despite satisfactory aggregate growth during the 1970s, the inci-
dence of poverty remained around 40%, income distribution continued to be
skewed, and regional risparities remained pronounced. The incidence of
poverty reached 60-7C7 in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and
lack safe water, basic education, and health facilities. An increasingly
unfavorable man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into
marginal lands, limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and
the sharp deterioration in the external terms of trade put downward pressure
on real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs to
improve directly living conditions of the poor, most of these were implemented
on any significant scale only during the last few years and are yet to have a
marked impact on reducing poverty.
6.        Population growth in the Philippines was reduced from 3% in the
1960s to 2.5% in the early 1980s; the labor force continues to grow at over 3%
per year, reflecting the rapid population growth of past decades. Thus, rapid
population and labor force growth continues to strain available land
resources, aggravate the already serious unemployment and poverty problems,
and burden the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. The Philippines has a family planning program which expanded
rapidly during the 1970s; however, participation in the program is still low
by East Asian standards.
7.        Growth of productive employment, particularly in the industrial
sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the labor force, and consid-
erable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the agriculture and service
sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion of new entrants to the
labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the first half of the
decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-intensive export pro-
duction grew. Overseas employment, especially in the Middle East, increased
rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
Structural Problems and Adjustment
8.        The structural weaknesses of the Philippine economy have become more
apparent in recent years as unfavorable world economic conditions have
exacerbated the balance of payments, debt, and resource mobilization prob-
lems. In the late 1970s, the country's terms of trade deteriorated sharply
due to oil price increases, accelerated international inflation, and depressed
prices for major export commodities. The continued heavy reliance on export
earnings from a few primary products (coconuts, sugar, copper, and timber)
kept the Philippines extremely vulnerable to international commodity price
fluctuations, while continued high dependence on imported oil further
aggravated the balance of payments problem.



-3-
9.        Excessive protection and an artificially low cost of capital led to
low efficiency of investment and stagnant employment in industries producing
for the domestic market. The industrial sector remained a net burden on the
balance of payments; although manufactured exports grew rapidly, their net
foreign exchange earnings were limited due to a high import content. Export
promotion measures induced rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured
exports, e.g., garments, electronics and handicrafts, from S50 million in 1970
to $2.4 billion in 1982. However, export expansion was concentrated on a few
items, and backward linkages were limited by high cost and low quality of
domestic inputs. As part of an adjustment program supported by SAL lending,
the Governnent has initiated major policy reforms designed to move towards an
industrial structure utilizing more effectively the country's comparative
advantage with respect to labor cost and raw material availability and which
is internationally competitive. The program includes major tariff reform,
liberalization of import controls, realignment of industrial incentives and
improved export incentives. The implementation of the program has been good,
despite the international recession which has hampered the adjustment process
in the manufacturing sector and slowed down the sector growth rate from around
4Z in 1980-81 to an estimated 1% in 1982-83.
10.       Financial Sector.  Although well developed, the Philippine financial
sector has not performed adequately in raising private sector savings and pro-
viding investment financing. 4mong the main reasons have been the level and
structure of interest rates which were not geared to mobilize sufficient sav-
ings and encourage longer maturities; their low level contributed to rela-
tively inefficient and capital-intensive investment. Further, the Central
Bank's rediscounting scheme frequently resulted in encouraging over-investment
in some sectors while others were relatively neglected. In 1981, the Govern-
ment introduced far-reaching financial policy changes. The banking system was
given greater flexibility, interest rates were deregulated, and the Central
Bank was given a stronger position in its role as "lender-of-last-resort,t  all
of which produced positive real interest rates (for the first time since 1978)
and a significant increase in domestic savings. Government-owned lending
institutions have made less progress; as a result of insufficient autonomy in
the selection of their portfolios plus a depressed domestic economy, loan
collection rates continue to be very low and substantial government budgetary
support is required. Rehabilitation of several government-owned institutions
is necessary to reduce strains on the budget and to continue important
development banking operations.
11.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  While the performance of ''te
agricultural sector was satisfactory during the 1970s, some policy problems
still remain unresolved. Although the sector has made commendable progress in
food production in the last ten years, it could have made a stronger contribu-
tion to the balance of payments under a more favorable policy environment.
Trade policies have discriminated against agriculture. Similarly, pricing and
exchange rate policies have had a negative impact on agricultural incomes.
The institutional framework for agricultural policy formulation and implemen-
tation suffers from serious fragmentation. Overall, there is a need to deal
directly with the problem of the rural poor, particularly farmers engaged in
rainfed agriculture, coconut growers, municipal fishermen, and landless sugar
workers. Increasingly, investment programs will have to be directed towards



- 4 -
rainfed agriculture and include innovative appro_ches to reaching smallholder
farmers.
12.       Energy.  Since the 1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has
made a considerable effort to reduce its dependence on imported oil. Through
a combination of pricing, taxation, and conservation measures, the Government
exerted downward pressure on commercial energy consumption. Steps to increase
and diversify domestic energy supply, i.e., the development of hydroelectric,
geothermal, nuclear and coal based power sources, have contributed to reducing
import dependence. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in
1979. However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic
energy production still Lonstituted only 232 of total commercial energy supply
in 1983. In response to the second oil crisis, the Government included in its
adjustment program policy measures for the energy sector which aim at further
reducing the country's dependence on oil imports through improving the
efficiency of energy use and increasing the share of domestic sources to
nearly 50% of commercial energy supply by 1987. Pricing policy will continue
to support conservation and revenue objectives.
13.       Public Sector Resource Management.  The weak management of public
sector resources has been a chronic problem in the Philippines, and has been
further aggravated by the current recession. The fiscal stress generated by
the growing imbalance between public investment and public sector resource
mobilization has manifested itself in a number of ways. Government current
expenditures (exclusive of interest payments) have been reduced to only 9% of
GNP, as compared to an average of 14% of GNP in middle-income developing coun-
tries. Implementation of projects has been stretched over longer periods than
is economically efficient. The overall public sector deficit has become
excessively high and has threatened the stability of the economy, particularly
in 1981-1982. A rapidly rising level of public investment and an unsatisfac-
tory financial performance of public corporations contributed towards increas-
ing the fiscal deficit despite a reduction of recurrent expenditures. The
public sector deficit, which traditionally had been relatively small, reached
a peak of 5.8% of GNP in 1982.
14.       As a short-term response, the Government is now implementing a fis-
cal austerity program. To reduce the national budgetary deficit to manageable
levels, the Government has enacted revenue measures and reduced its investment
program and equity contributions to public corporations. However, to improve
the medium-term outlook for public finances, structural problems of the system
need to be addressed.
The Current Economic Situation
15.       The econom±c situation of the Philippines has deteriorated seriously
in the last three years. The global recession, with low commodity prices,
high interest rates on external borrowing, and an increasingly unfavorable
trading climate has stifled economic growth, slowed down export growth,
depressed domestic demand and private investment activity and aggravated the
fiscal and balance of payments problems. Real GDP growth is estimated to have
been only about 1Z in 1983, and -62 in 1984.



16.       During 1979-82, the terms of trade deteriorated, through a combina-
tion of higher import prices, particularly for petroleum, and declining or
stagnant prices for many primary exports, such as sugar, copper and copra
products. Since 1981, the volume of exports has levelled off, reflecting the
stagnation in the world's economy and a serious drought which reduced produc-
tion of export commodities. Despite the severe external situation, the
Government launched a major increase in its investment program in 1979,
designed to make up for deficiencies in domestic infrastructure, expand indus-
try, and reduce the dependence on imported petroleum. As a result the public
sector investment program rose from less than 6% of GNP in 1979 to 10% by
1982. A large portion of the investment program, however, went for large
scale projects with limited economic benefits and long gestation periods.
Projects funded by the private sector often used public financial institutions
for funding and loan guarantees, and when these projects began to fail, the
public financial institutions had to turn to the Government for budgetary
support. At the same time, public sector resource mobilization declined,
producing a large and growing government budgetary deficit. This deficit was
covered in large part by foreign borrowings; in 1982, foreign borrowing
financed 70% of the Government's deficit and over 50% of the deficit of the
public corporations.
17.       The impact of all these factors has been a growing balance of
payments deficit and an increasingly difficult debt service burden. The
current account deficit rose from $2.1 billion in 1980, to $3.1 billion in
1982 and $2.8 billion in 1983 (8% of GDP). The total debt service ratio,
including interest on short term debt, increased from 21X in 1980 to 38% in
1982. During 1983. with growing economic problems, a mounting debt burden and
major debt problems in other developing countries, foreign banks began
reducing their exposure in the Philippines. The Government was increasingly
forced to resort to short-term borrowings to finance the balance of payments
gap, which further exacerbated the debt service problem. While the terms of
trade improved in 1983, a severe drought reduced agriculturaf exports, and
overall export earnings fell. The situation was further exacerbated by
political disruptions, a flight of capital out of the country, and a cessation
of short-term lines of credit from the commercial banks. In October 1983, the
Government announced a 90-day moratorium on debt repayments, a further 21!
devaluation of the peso, and new controls over the allocation of foreign
exchange for imports. Substantial reductions were made in the investment
program, and some new tax measures were announced. As a result of these
austerity measures, the public sector deficit was reduced to 3.7% of GNP in
1983, compared with 5.8% in the previous year.
18.       Discussions with the ITF on a new Standby Agreement began in June
1983, as did discussions with the commercial banks on debt rescheduling. The
agreement with the IMF was delayed by problems involving the accuracy of some
of the basic data, and Government difficulties in reaching agreed monetary and
fiscal targets. The latter problems were caused, in turn, by the need to
provide Central Bank supporc to weakened public and private financial institu-
tions, slower than expected growth in Government revenues, and increased
spending. As a result, the money supply increased 36% between September and
March 1984, and inflation has been averaging about 50% (annual rate). In
October 1984, the peso was allowed to float, and exchange control restrictions



-6-
imposed during the crisis in 1983 were dropped. Price controls on many basic
commodities were also eliminated. In addition, a series of new tax measures
were announced which substantially increased public sector resource
mobilization and shifted taxes on the foreign trade sector to domestic
levies. Agreement with the committee of commercial banks on a package of new
financing and debt rescheduling has been reached, and the IMF Board approved
an eighteen month standby agreement in the amount of SDR 615 million on
December 14, 1984.
Medium-Term Prospects
19.       The medium-term outlook for the Philippines remains difficult.  Even
with the successful completion of the IMF standby agreement and debt resche-                    e
duling, the government expenditures and imports will remain severely
constrained. Except for those new inflows to come as part of the debt resche-
duling exercise, the country is faced with little or no access to fresh
private capital flows. As a consequence, the current account deficit will
need to be reduced from $2.8 billion in 1983 to $1.1 billion in 1985. As a
result of constrained government spending and reduced import levels, GDP fell
65 in 1984 and is likely to be stagnant in 1985. As a result, the unemploy-
ment problem has become severe, and real wages have declined.
20.       A period of low growth is likely to last for several years after
1984, particularly in view of current reductions in the investment program.
The length of this period of slow growth, stabilization and adjustment can be
shortened to the extent that the Government can take the necessary measures to
accelerate exports, increase public and private savings, and use investment
resources as efficiently as possible. The present crisis has increased the
Government's awareness of the severity of the problems and increased its
willingness to adopt the policies necessary to correct the situation. In the
longer term, the combination of increased external assistance and Government
actions could permit a resumption of growth at an average rate of about
4-5%. Over the longer term, therefore, the country remains creditworthy for
new Bank borrowing on conventional terms, despite current short-term difficul-
ties. Because the country faces an exceptionally tight resource position,
local cost financing for selected projects will continue to be justified.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       As of September 30, 1984 the Philippines had received 96 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $4,192.7 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million.  TFC investments totalled
$159.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in total MLT debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 13% and its share in total debt service is
about 15%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 14%, respectively,



- 7 -
by 1988 2/ Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1984.
22.       Bank Group lending to the Philippines expanded from an average of
about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an average of about $460 million in
FY79-83. However, the lending program decreased dramatically in FY84 because
of the current economic situation and the limited scope for traditional
projects. Although the Bank has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy, particular emphasis has been given to agriculture as it is the
dominant economic activity, and the sector has accounted for almost one-third
of total Bank/IDA lending. Lending for industry, transportation, power, and
social sectors followed in declining order of size. With regard to the
future, the lending program is being revised to make it more responsive and
relevant to the country's current needs. During the next two years, the
operations would focus on essential macro-economic and sectoral policy
reforms,and high priority activities that would require little or no budgetary
support.
23.       In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the irriga-
tion system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
The experience with irrigation has been positive with the establishment of a
strong institution and expansion in irrigated areas, although cost recovery is
still a problem. Efforts have also been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for tree-crops, livestock, fisheries, and integrated
rural development projects. Recently the Bank provided assistance under the
Agricultural Sector/Inputs project to support the Government's "Agenda for
Action in Agriculture, 1984-88". This agenda provides for specific policy
actions and institutional reforms to gradually improve production and invest-
ment incentives, strengthen sector management and improve the allocation of
resources. Future lending will seek to continue the policy reforms initiated
under the Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project.
24.       In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has supported
policy reforms under the Government's structural adjustment program. Struc-
tural adjustment lending in 1980 and 1983 ($502.3 million, total), has suppor-
ted a series of reforms of the tariff structure, the system of industrial
incentives, energy pricing and export promotion. The reforms suffered a
setback in the current economic crisis but the Government remains committed to
progress in these areas, which we expect will be resumed and expanded. An
Industrial Finance Loan supported improvements in financial sector policies
including liberalizing interest rates, reducing bank specialization and
increasing the availability of longer term funds. It also introduced a new
institutional concept to broaden the reach of Bank lending by channelling
loans through an "apex" unit in the Central Bank. In addition, the Bank has
continued to provide financial support and technical assistance to small and
medium industries.
2/   These projections are based on preliminary estimates on the debt
rescheduling.



- 8 -
25.       In the energy sector, sector work and the structural adjustment pro-
gram initiated under SAL II provide the basis for future lending operations.
While previous Bank lending focused on the power subsector, the Bank now seeks
to support a broad range of activities; in addition to recent energy explora-
tion loans, the Bank plans to continue assisting the accelerated development
of geothermal and coal, power generation and transmission, energy conserva-
tion, and rural electrification.
26.       Implementation of Bank-financed projects in the Philippines, which
had been satisfactory in the past, has suffered in the last three years. The
disbursement factor (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as compared to
the total undisbursed at 51e beginning of the fiscal year) increased from 15%
in FY82 to 19.6% in FY84 - although this largely reflects the impact of the
Special Action Program (SAP) (see below). The Eas%,Asia Regional average was
20.1% and the Banik-wide average was 21.2% in FY84;- the comparable ratios for
Thails?d and Morocco were 19.7% and 24.5% respectively in the same fiscal
year-   Implementation problems increased in the last few years, reflecting
in part problems caused by inflation, tight budget constraints, and changes in
the scope of the Bank's lending operations (a substantial increase in the
number of projects, new areas of lending, emphasis on institution-building,
and efforts to reach specific target groups and lagging regions). The
Government and the Bank have instituted a process of joint Country Imple-
mentation Reviews. Five reviews have been held since May 1980 and will be
continued on a regular basis. As the country's economic crisis worsened, the
SAP for the Philippines was designed to deal with the financial constraints
affecting high priority projects. A comprehensive program of assistance
measures was formulated and under the SAP, selected projects have benefitted
from increased cost sharing and disbursement ratios, the establishment of
special accounts and in some cases, supplementary financing. These actions
have facilitated project implementation and resulted in significant improve-
ments in disbursement performance.
27.       This will be the second loan to the Philippines to be presented to
the Executive Directors this fiscal year. In addition, loans for an agricul-
tural credit project and a coconut rehabilitation project are now being
processed for Board consideration.
3/   Excludes disbursements under the first and second Structural Adjustment
Loan. If included, the ratio increases to 28.9% in FY84 and 19.9% in
FY82.
4/   Regional and Bank-wide figures also exclude disbursements under SALs.
5/   Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs. Figures also
exclude SALs.



_ 9 _
PART III - THE TELECOM!MUNCATIONS SECTOR
Sector Structure and Services
28.       The telecommunications services in the Philippines are mainly pro-
vided by private companies. These companies operate on the basis of fran-
chises obtained from the Government and permits from the National Telecommuni-
cations Commission (NTC), a regulatory entity within the Ministry of
Transportation and Communications (MOTC). The telephone services are
dominated by the Philippine Long Distance Company (PLDT), a privately owned
company which accounts for more than 90Z of all available telephone installa-
tions in the country. The remaining telephone subscribers are served by some
60 operating companies, which are small local enterprises. The records
services (telex, telegraph) are handled bv a nmmber of competing companies;
there are seven domestic records companies, three data communication carriers
and five international record carriers. The Bureau of Telecommunications
(BUTEL), a government agency, also provides telegraphic and a very limited
amount of telephone services in the rural areas.
29.       There is limited interconnectibility of the privately owned tele-
phone networks, and duplication of telephone, telegraph and telex facilities
in the more profitable areas. Installations are concentrated in Metro Manila
and in other major cities. Smaller towns and rural areas, and even relatively
populous outskirts of the principal cities, have little if any access to
service. Table I illustrates the situation with regard to telephone services.
Table 1: AVAILABLE TELEPHONE LINES, *ESTLMAIED DEMAND, AND
DENSITY AT THE END OF 1982
Telephone
Total                             density
Number of  estimated          Demand            (lines
working     demand         satisfaction lb       per 100
Area                   lines      for lines /a         (Z)            population)
Metro Manila           422,000      614,000            69                6.4
Rest of the country    57,000       594,000            10                0.1
Total Country          479,000    1,208,000            40                0.9
/a   Working lines plus unmet demand.
lb   Working lines as a percent of total demand.
The telephone line density is similar to that of Thailand, where a significant
expansion program is now underway, but inferior to Morocco (1.2), H4alaysia
(3.3) and Korea (6.3).



- 10 -
30.       The limited access to telecommunication services nationwide, com-
pounded by poor service quality and at times long outage and heavy circuit
congestion, renders the services inadequate to support the country's economic
and social development. Given the geographic features of the Philippines,
with 11 major and more than 7,000 smaller islands, an integrated and reliable
communication network is essential for: (i) overcoming co0munication
bottlenecks which at present constrain economic activity and industrial
decentralization; (ix) enabling producers and the business community to
respond quickly to cnanging market conditions; and (iii) facilitating
government administration and social services to remote rural areas.
Currently, efficient management of enterprises in outlying areas is almost
impossible if reliance is placed on the public telecommunications system. The
situation has forced many institutions, in agriculture, irrigation, and other
economic and developmental activities, to procure and install private
telecommunications equipment that is of restricted use and not cost-effective.
Sector Development Constraints
31.       The major constraint to sector improvement has been the lack of a
well-defined institutional and regulatory framework. Operating franchises are
variously issued by the Presidency and provincial and municipal administrative
bodies. Political interference often takes the place of regulation. NTC,
although in theory the central regulatory authority, functions merely as an
administrative body. NTC currently has over 400 employees, including regional
offices, which should be sufficient for regulation of the sector. However,
its middle management is weak and it lacks specialists in telecommunications
law, tariffs, financal analysis and engineering.  It also lacks test instru-
ments and other equipment for monitoring licensees' compliance with regula-
tions or for working on technical standards, equipment approvals, etc.  Conse-
quently, regulatory control over operations of the various private companies
has been weak. The result is that the telecommunications sector suffers from
excessive fragmentation, with duplication of services, lack of scale economies,
low standards of service and virtually no coordination between the companies
in provision of facilities. In addition, little attention has been given to
the need to design an integrated nationwide network. The bigger private
companies have therefore concentrated their activities in the most profitable
areas (e.g. Metro Manila) or on providing the more profitable services (telex
and long distance and international telephone services).
32.       One particular problem area has been tariff setting.  Currently, the
telephone operating companies are allowed to set their tariffs to enable them
to earn a 12% rate of return on total net assets, including revalued fixed
assets in operation. As NTC only monitors the rate of return objective, the
resultant tariff structure is complicated and non-uniform. Furthermore, due
to their small size, high costs and competition, only a few operating compa-
nies produce a return near this maximum, and most of the operating companies
are in poor financial condition. They have lacked the confidence and been
unable to attract the capital to undertake investments to improve their
services significantly and, in particular, to cross-subsidize operations in
initially unprofitable provincial towns. A tariff review be6an in 1983, but
due to the lack of funds the review was limited mainly to identifying the
demand for telecommunication services and the various tariffs currently in



- 11 -
operation. The project would supplement this with a comprehensive study
focusing on future tariff policy.
33.       The management in the Philippines of the radio frequency spectrum is
an NTC responsibility, but NTC has lacked the staff and equipment to do it
properly, which has contributed to slow and disorderly development.
34.       The telecommunications sector has, ia the Dast, been able to recruit
staff with good educational background, benefitting from the comparatively
high standard of education in the Philippines. Both PLDT and the Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) are providing specialized training.
However, due to a large exodus of Philippine specialists to other countries,
there is currently a shortage of adequately qualified staff. This will be
further aggravated in the future by the requirement of staff to cater for an
expanded program, system changes and adoption of new technologies.
Sector Objectives
35.       The MOTC was created in 1979, to, inter alia, facilitate improve-
ments in the sector. In 1982, with the help of consultants, MOTC drew up a
National Telecommunications 'Saster Plan, 1983-2000 (para. 39), designed to
remove the sector constraints, and enable a rapid and significant improvement
of the sector services. The Plan calls for:
(a)  strengthe.aing NTC and giving it the legislative basis both for
adequate sector regulation and for overall policv development
(including tariffs) and planning;
(b) continued private operation of the sector facilities, under such
conditions as will enhance the sector's attractiveness for private
investments and will enable the sector to finance its expansion,
while at the same time protecting the public interest;
Cc) eliminating excessive fragmentation of services, and achieving
optimum utilization of available facilities;
(d) creating an integrated long distance transmission ("backbone")
network with access for all kinds of services;
(e) programmed expansion and new construction of local networks
nationwide; and
(f) gradually modernizing the installations to upgrade the quality of
service to internationally-accepted levels.
36.       These objectives constitute a significant and positive policy change
directed towards improving and rationalizing sector organization and invest-
ments. However, given the current foreign exchange and budgetary constraints
(paras. 15-18), the Government has postponed the major elements of the invest-
ment program. It intends to use the interim period to maintain the momentum
of institutional development, particularly focussing on strengthening NTC.
The proposed project is in line with the Government's objective, as it would



- 12 -
assist in ensuring that the institutional and policy bases, which are indis-
pensable for the sound regulation and development of the sector, are estab-
lished, and that the interim period is used constructively.
Sector Reorganization
37.       Some aspects of the Plan and NTC's institutional deveiopment are
already under implementation. A draft telecommunications and broadcasting
code has been prepared by MOTC, uith the assistance of a consultant from the
International Telecommunications Union, and submitted to the new Parliament,
where it is being examined by a committee. The current regulatory powers of
NTC are defined in the executive order that established MOTC in 1979. The
executive order has been revised to incorporate, inter alia, Bank comments,
e.g. on the need to provide NTC with -jore independence. The status of the
legal framework for the telecommunications sector was reviewed and a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (mid-1986), for the effectiveness of the revisions to
the NTC organization and a comprehensive telecommunications and broadcasting
code were agreed on (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). During ti:e
supervision of the proposed project, this timetable and the develepment of the
legal framework will be closely monitored. NTC's general organization, work
program and procedures will be reviewed to update the rules and regulations,
as required; preparatory work on this would be assisted under the proposed
project (para. 46(a)).
38.       An important part of the sector consolidation process is the inte-
gration of the available intra and interregional transmission facilities into
a principal long-distance "backbone" network with the capacity and coverage
required for the lo...g-distance carrying of all services:  telephone, telex,
telegraph data, and leased channels. Negotiations are underway to merge the
present inland records services operations into one private company operating
cooperatively with BUTEL, which will continue to provide records service to
the rural areas. The international services will be provided as at present by
five carriers. The organization of data maritime and land-mobile sexvices is
still being discussed. The small telephone companies are intended to be
gradually merged into viable regional companies or bought out by PLDT. MOTC
is in the process of preparing new guidelines for NrTC that will encourage
mergers and discourage establishment of new operating companies. This ration-
alization of the network will improve efficiency and provide the basis for
formation of strong operating companies capabale of attracting the necessary
loan and equity capital for system expansion. However, rehabilitation and
replacement of obsolete equipment in the numerous small regional companies
would also be needed to obtain the full benefits from sector consolidation.
This issue should therefore be addressed in connection with future expansion
plans for the sector.
Telephone Investment Program
39.       An invastment program for expansion of the telephone network has
been provisionally established within the framework of the National Telecom-
munications Master Plan. The program calls for the interconnection of all
telephone installations in the country, a significant increase of the traffic
handling capacity of long distance transmission facilities, and provision of



- 13 -
facilities to meet about 80% of the demand for telephone connections both in
Metro Manila and the provinces. The program will be implemented in stages.
Phase I was engineered as a least cost national network with the help of
consultants financed partly by two $500,000 Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advances from the Bank. The first PPF was approved for consultancy services
for initial studies on regulatory and institutional aspects, and detailed
engineering studies for the telephone network in Regions IX-XII (Mindanao).
The Government subsequently requested, and the Bank agreed, that all the funds
be utilized for engineering studies; the preliminary work on the institutional
aspects was then done by local consultants using local funds. The second PPF
advance provided for the consolidation of the regional engineering studies
into a national program, the preparation of tender documents and of a national
training program.    A consortium formed for the purpose was led by Arthur D.
Little International Inc. (US). The current undisbursed balance is about
US$35,000. The proposed project would continue the work begun under the PPF's
because it provides for the updating of the network plan, the provision of
some of the needs identified in the training program, and would improve and
expand on the work done on institutional aspects.
40.       The cost of Phase I (1984-1988) had been estimated at about
USS1.7 billion (in 1983 prices), to finance 600,000 lines. As a result of the
worsening macro-economic situation of the country, Phase I was scaled down to
high priority items to provide about 105,00067ew lines. In parallel with on-
going work (particularly PLDT's X-4 program - and a JICA/Government-financed
program for a regional transmission network in Regions I and II in Northern
Luzon), the cost of this program was estimated at about US$186 million (with
contingencies), including funds for sector strengthening. However, the imple-
mentation of this investment program will now have to wait until the macro-
economic position improves and resources become available.
Bank/Country Sector Lending Strategy
41.       In line with its objective to support structural and policy reforms,
the Bank has stressed the necessity for restructuring the sector and improving
TM'cs regulatory functions.  The original Bank financing envisaged was a loan
for US$125 million, to finance:
-    consultancy services for the development of an adequate institur
tional and regulatory framework, including a tariff structure that
would attract necessary private funds for the sector while at the
same time protecting the public interest, and the design of a least-
cost countrywide telephone network;
-    the balancing equipment in the existing network for optimum
utilization of the available facilities; and
6/   The PLDT X-4 program will establish new electronic exchanges to supple-
ment old exchanges and provide an additional 200,000 main stations by
end-1984.



- 14 -
-    the balanced and cost-effective expansion of telecommunication
services outside Metro Manila.
42.       The worsened economic conditions caused Government to postpone its
original telecommunications investment plans. However, Government recognized
the importance of continuing the work on institutional reforms to assist MOTC
in formulating adequate policies for sector development and to strengthen
NTC's capabilities to regulate the sector. The MOTC has been unable to
identify other untied aid sources besides the Bank to provide the necessary
support during the current hiatus. Without Bank iuvolvement, the momentum of
institutional and policy reforms is unlikely to be maintained, and the efforts
made during the last few years would be lost.
43.       It is also important that some high priority items in the physical
expansion program can be implemented despite the current macro-economic pro-
blems. These investments, e.g. necessary equipment for interconnection and
handling of crucial traffic, are relatively modest, and would address the most
urgent problems caused by imbalances in the telephone network. PLDT is cur-
rently discussing the possibility of utilizing part of the Bank's Industrial
Finance (Apex) Project (Loan 1984-PH) funds, together with its internal cash
generation, to finance such items. (Under Loan 1984-PH which became effective
in July 1981, a special Apex Development Finance Unit was created in the
Central Bank of the Philippines to relend project funds to participating
financial institutions for financing economically viable industrial invest-
ments.) These investments could improve utilization of available facilities,
and thereby help traffic flow and increase revenue.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.       The proposed project evolved during the preparation of a major tele-
communications investment program. W'hen it became evident that the proposed
physical investments would have to be postponed due to resource constraints,
the Government decided that the momentum for improvement of the institutional
and policy aspects should be continued, and Bank support in the form of a
technical assistance project was requested. Negotiations for the proposed
project were completed on January 14, 1985. The Government delegation was
headed by Mr. Antonio Locsin, Deputy Director General, National Economic
Development Authority. Annex III of this report provides supplementary
project data.
Project Objectives
45.       The main objective of the present project is to establish NTC as an
effective agency to help achieve sector goals. In addition, the project aims
to lay the groundwork for rationalizing the telephone tariff structure and
levels, create procedures for the efficient assignment of radio frequencies,
improve network planning based on realistic demand forecasts and available
technology, and expand training to ensure availability of suitably qualified
staff for the long-term development of the sector. Even if no major invest-



- 15 -
ment program is undertaken, the proposed project would bring substantial bene-
fits to the sector in the form of improved regulation and coordination and
reduction of duplicated services.
Project Description
46.       The project would provide the following:
(a) Strengthen NTC's ability to promote sound sector development and
regulation. In the Philippines, with private operation of most
telecommunications facilities, it is essential that NTC develop an
appropriate organizational structure and adequate staff, together
with technical and financial resources, to enable it to act indepen-
dently in safeguarding the public interest as well as that of the
private operating companies. Sixty-six man-months of consultancy
services are planned.
(b)  Tariff study.  This study would aim at: (i) simplifying and stan-
dardizing the current system; x ii) promoting timely tariff adjust-
ments when needed; (iii) making tariffs more equitable; (iv) assist-
ing the operating companies in spreading peak hour demand to less
congested periods; (v) increasing sector revenues for further expan-
sion and to attract private investments; and (vi) providing
incentives for the operating companies to expand service in less
profitable areas and to improve service quality. Forty-eight
man-months of consultancy services are planned to study economic,
engineering and financial aspects of the tariff system.
Cc)  Strengthen NTC's ability to manage the radio frequency spectrum.  A
validation of the actual allocations and assignments and a computer-
ization of the records and the assignment calculations are long
overdue. NTC will acquire a number of remote terminals (a computer
in another entity will be utilized), assistance of outside exper-
tise, finance for the test running of its program, monitoring
vehicles, and various instruments. Ninety-one man-months of
consultancy together with funding for specialized equipment and
program test running will be provided.
(d) Updating of MOTC's telephone network plan on the basis of demand and
technology changes. The plan has to be reviewed and brought up to
date by NTC, using the latest demand/supply targets and other
necessary revisions to the least-cost network design, equipment
specifications, standards, etc. Twenty-six man-months of
consultancy are planned.
(e) Training. The current training needs of the telecommunications
sector have recently been studied by consultants. These studies
should be followed up by a review of the need for more advanced
training in new technologies, e.g. electronic digital switching and
fiber optics. It is also important that MOTC/NTC's specific
training requirement be studied to ensure that its staff is ade-
quately qualified to regulate the operations of the sector. A



- 16 -
significant effort should be made to design course curricula and
provide teaching and learning aids. About f-fty man-months of
fellowships are needed to permit MOTCJNTC staff to stuldy the
operation of sector regulation in other countries. Some local
consultancies will also be provided for training.
Project Costs and Financing
47.       The project cost is estimated at US$4.8 million (in December 1984
prices), of which about US$0.8 million equivalent is in local currency. The
Bank loan of $4.0 million would cover the full foreign exchange cost, and
refinancing of two PPF advances of $0.5 million each. The Bank loan would be
for 20 years, with 5 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
48.       Local consultants would be used to a substantial extent under the
project, particularly in areas where they have already done some preliminary
work. However, much of the consultancy needed under the project requires
specialized skills which are unavailable in the country. Such consultancy
services are expected to be provided by foreign individuals or firms, possibly
subcontracted or in a joint venture with a local firm. US$0.2 million (10% of
base costs) has been allocated for physical contingencies. US$0.5 million
(about 23% of base cost) has been allocated for price contingencies, based
upon projected international inflation rates of 8.0% in 1985 and 9.0% p.a.
thereafter.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       The equipment to be procured ($0.8 million, including contingencies)
is a variety of small items for radio frequency monitoring, each contract
expected to cost less than $100,000. Considering the -elatively small amounts
involved and that most equipment are off-the-shelf items that can be provided
by a limited number of suppliers, they would be procured by prudent interna-
tional shopping, based on at least three quotations. All equipment contracts
above US$30,000 would be subject to prior Bank review and approval. Consul-
tants ($1.9 million) would be recruited in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines. Disbursements would be made on the basis of: 100% of foreign exchange
expenditures on consultancy, training and other services, and directly
imported equipment, and 80% of expenditures for imported equipment procured
locally. All disbursement requests would be fully documented. The closing
date would be June 30, 1989. The projected disbursement schedule is consi-
derably faster than the disbursement profile for technical assistance projects
(Annex IX) because of the $1.0 million in PPF-advances, which are expected to
be repaid as soon as the loan is declared effective, the advanced state of
project preparation (para. 50) and the short duration (up to three years) of
most of the consultancies.
Project Execution
50.       MOTC would have overall responsibility for project execution.  It
has appointed a project manager with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, for the coordination and control of project activities and liaison with
the Bank and with the private operating companies. MOTC/NTC would also pro-



- 17 -
vide counterparts to work with the consultants (Section 3.04(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Draft terms of reference for consultancy services and a list
of goods and other services to be procured has been agreed upon. The terms of
reference are attached as Annexes IV-VIII. The necessary consultants, with
qualifications and experience and on terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, would be appointed by September 30, 1985 (Sections 3.03 and 3.04(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The consultancy services would be for up to three
years and some services may be for only a couple of months. On the basis of
progress reports (para. 51), MOTC and the Bank would assess the project
achievements and make the necessary modifications in the work plan. Upon
completion of the consultancy services, MOTC would consult with the Bank on
the conclusions and recommendations, and take all the necessary steps to
implement the mutually accepted recommendations, in accordance with a time-
table satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
51.       The project manager will prepare quarterly reports on the progress
of the project and transmit these reports, through MOTC, to the Bank within
one month of the expiration of each quarter. Project accounts will be main-
tained by MOTC, and audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Justification and Risks
52.       The proposed project represents a high priority step in Government's
efforts to strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework of the
telecommunications sector. An adequate regulatory framework would alleviate
some of the current problems of the sector (paras. 31-34) and would be a
prerequisite for a much needed expansion of telecommunications services in a
coordinated and equitable way, once current macro-economic constraints are
relieved.
53.       There are no major project risks per se; however, achievement ot all
potential longer run benefits of the project would be subject to several risks.
Implementation of the main physical investments planned for the telecommunica-
tions sector might be delayed by continuing macro-economic problems. Further-
more, the introduction of a regulatory framework in a sector where regulation
has been totally inadequate may be subject to political risk and opposition
from vested interests. But even if physical sector investments are postponed
indefinitely and under adverse political developments, the proposed project
would considerably benefit the telecommunications sector by providing MOTC/NTC
with the means to adequately regulate existing sector operations, to reduce
duplication of services, to introduce technical standards, to improve coordin-
ation between the operating companies, and to introduce a tariff structure
which would attract necessary capital for sector expansion while at the same
time protecting the public interest.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of this loan are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONI
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 28, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                         ANNEX I
TAIL!t 3A                                  Page  1  of 5
pnuIvpn               - SOCIAL DDICATO   DTA SlA
WRiLtPSn uu                                   clous (IlOU IClTD AVQA4S) a
HOST               (HOST R31 KSrDAUTE) lb
uRnWr        H"IDIZ nos             moow INUN
xo1k    197auok      sUmTniL        ASIA 6 PACIFIC        LAT. ANEICA4 CAt
a    (Tiaw S41q. in)
TOTAL                              300.0      300.0        300.0
AGRICULTURlAL                       98.5      104.0        109.9
CGP P  CPIOT  (CUSS)                  150.0      250.0       820.0            1091.2                 2108.6
-OO   minuKPMt   a cAnn
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQVALENT)        109.0      231.0        Z61.0            567.3                  99S.5
POPUTIO  -  VTDAL SUTISTICS
POPUIATION*NID'YEAR (THOUSANSI)   27394.0    36848.0     50740.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OP TOTAL)       30.3       32.9        37.9             34.7                    66.5
POPUILAnON PROJECTlONS
POPULATON IN YEAR :eoo (HILL)                            73.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                             126.7
POPULATION MUIEN3M(                                       1.8
POPULATION DExNST
PER SQ. DI.                       91.3      122.8        165.1            261.9                   35.7
PER SQ. DK. ACRI. LAND           278.1      354.3       450.7            1735.1                   92.4
POPUIATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                         44.6       45S5         43.0             39.0                    39.9
15-f4 YRS                         52.4       51.6        53.7             57.6                    56.0
65 AND ABOE                        3.0        2.9         3.1               3.3                    4.1
POPLULATION CRO0WT RATE (:)
ToTAL                              3.0        3.0         2.7              2.3  -                  2.4
URBAN                              4.1        3.8         3.8              4.3                     3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER T00US)        46.7       44.0         30.8            30.1                    31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOS)         14.6        9.8         6.8              9.5                     8.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4        3.1         2.2               2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLIANINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOS)           1. 91.7              37S.0
USERS t: OF IIARRED  ONna)         ..        15.0 IC    36.0  Id          52.7                    40.3
PWS AID NUIRITrIM
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPtTA
1969-71-100)                      102.0      101.0        124.0            123.0                  114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (: OF REQUIREFIENTS)     99.0      104.0        116.0            114.4                  110.6
PROTrEINS (CRAIS PER DAY)         46.0       51.0        53.0             57.0                    67.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0       20.0         21.0 /e          14.1                   34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATh RATE         13.8        7.9         4.0              7.2                     5.7
LIFE EXPEcT. AT RIRTH (YEARS)       52.S       59.0        64.2             60.4                    64.7
INFANT MOMT. RATE (PER TIDUS)      105.3       75.0        51.3             66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SPoP)
TOTAL                               ..       36.0        43.0 If          37.0                    65.4
URIIAN                              ..         ..        66.0 7f           54.8                   78.:
RURAL                               ,.         ..         33.0 7          26.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       57.0         56.0 /f          41.3                   52.9
URBAN                               ..         ..        76.0 /f          47.4                    67.0
RURAL                               ,          ..        44.0 7f          33.3                    24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          6940.0     9100.0      7970.0           7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSO!              ,.      5390.0      4000.0           Z460.4                   815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                           1210.0      820.0        560.0 /d        1044.2                  367.2
URBAN                            540.0      390.0          ..            651.2                   411.5
RlUAL                               ,,         ,.          ..            2594.6                 Z636.3
AlMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ,.       30.0          ,,             27.0                    27.3
rnU-n
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.8        5.9
URBAN                               ..        6.2
RURAL                               ,.        5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS(R004
TOTAL                               ..        2.3
URBAN                               ,,        2.3
RURAL                               ..        2.4
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             16.5       22.7        36.0
LRBAN                               ..       59.9        82.6
RURAL                               ..        6.7         10.0



- 20 -                                          ANNEX I
TABLE h                                       Page 2 of 5
PUIIIESOCS -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PULFW FINE                          REFERENCEC amOps (IIEINTE  AVERASE) 
MOST                (HST RECWI ZuTmAz)
RECENT     M~IDDLE INCONE        KIDDLZ
1960.1b    1§70t!    EST   ATB      ASIA   PACIFIC         LAT. AI       CAR
ADJUSTED CllOLLNDUi  RATIOS
PRIKAYt  TOTAL                    95.0       108.0        110.0            102.0                    103.4
tmUZ                    96.0         ..        111.0             105.9                   106.3
TEMALE                  93.0         ..        108.0              98.2                   104.5
SECONDRY: TOTAL                   26.0        46.0         63.0             46.0                    43.2
lUZ                     28.0          ..        58.0              U0.7                    42.3
FALEZ                   25.0         ..         68.0              43.1                    44.5
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)         14.3         8.9         33.9 /I          17.5                    33.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDIARY                            36.0       29.0         30.0             31.0                    30.1
SECONDARY                         27.0        33.0         34.0             23.5                     16.8
ADULT LITRACY RATZ (E)              71.9        82.6         75.0 ^           72.9                    79.5
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          3.2         7.6         10.2 /d          10.1                    46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP        21.9        40.7         43.5            113.6                   225.6
TV RECEIVERSITUSAJID POP              1.4       10.9         20.7             50.1                   107.2
N PAPER ("DAILY GENEtAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            17.7       13.6         20.7,            53.9                    63.5
CINENA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      0.6 /h       ..          7.4 7r           3.4                     2.8
Lam FORCX.
WTOAL LABOR FORCE (THWS)          10915.0    13877.0      18101.0
FEKUE (PERCENT)                   34.2        33.1         32.2             33.5                    23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCEhT)              61.0       53.0         46.0             52.2                    31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.0        16.0         17.0             17.9                    23.9
PARTCIPATION RATE (PERCENr)
TOTAL                              39.8       36.6         35.7             38.7                    32.2
MALE                               52.1       48.6         47.9             50.9                    49.3
FEKLAU                            27.6        24.4         23.2             26.6                    15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENuT RATIO            1.2         1.3          1.3              1.1                     1.4
PERCEIT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEVED BY
HICHEST 52 OF HoUSEHLDS            30.1       25.Z1          ,              2L2
NICHEST 202 or MOUSEHOLDS         56.3        54.0           ,              486.0
LOWEST 201 OF HOUSEOLDS            4.2         5.2           ,.              6.4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS           12.0       14.2           ,.             15.5
F     TU   m_S
ESTIKMTED ABSOLUIZ POVER  INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UUAII                               ..          ..        260.0            1U8.6                   288.2
RURAL                               ,,          ,,        195.0            152.0                   184.0
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERT! INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ,,          ,,       266.0             177.9                   522.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       200.0             168.6                   372.4
ESTMATED POP. SEWLN ABSOLUTE
POVETY rInE  LEVEL (z)
URBAN                               ,.          ..         32.0             23.4
RIIAL                               ..          ..         41.0             37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NOTE S
/s  The group averages for each indicator are populAtiow-%elghted arltlmtic means. Coverage of countries a8m   the
Indicators depende on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unlesm otherwie noted. 'Data for 1960" refor to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betven 1969 and
1971; and data for "ost Recent Eatimate' between 1990 and 1982.
/c  1968: Id 1978; /e 1977; If 1975;  A 1979; /h 1958.
JUNE* 198



-ud I'd       -APPA           *i3313333  3333
'3"33  3333  .,Syinj ft3 ftwq_j 33 43 333
-  1-3    A% 3 -3334033 AI-$     33.3' AN        33S=330  3333  33A3=
3331.  331_ 3333 333           2 33.3333.33333333 3M3
331333 .3333   *33*333n313333331-333
333   1333  3  3333    =     .'03   3333333  3333  3.A      3
3333t fr                                                                           53:  30333333533333133  333132                 -33  3*3   3133133
no p- .1.1wPw                                                 I'll 11~~~~~~~~~30-  33333                           ..3 333   3333.3  ...  "dmd 0m zIonR
-~ ~ ~ ~~~~r 3J.33333 333 333  333 3)03  333 33333
20333                                          *333 333  7.  Ma3*;l13343
*3103 33313  3333  5333338) 333333833  3330333    33333 33  31    .33   33333  3 38333 33333  - (3333  33133 333I333.3
333 -(333833  303    33  133333333333 .333 ,.33   T.3 303333                                           S3A33330,...   I   --ARi
IS 3433  333  33 333   333  33  a.4     333'33
333   3  P33039333333333   33333333                  33333.                                  133 3333 3333 330  '(43  133313 -333   --33 3-333  -13   -I33.-
333333 33A33    3  3403 3-303    3033.333  3333 -333303 3.333,3333 ,                                                            3333  33333 Ad      3333   3.33 8  As
I.                  C..,5-.31     (333  333 33) 10332 3333  03.333  3333333  33333               333333  3   333333    (3333   3333                               PAPA 33  3 ) 33333
3- 333   3303  -(333   333)301  333  3.    3333d3313PII                .-33333                                         33    33s   33_3 '4..43333333           AI3333  333
'331.3  33333333333330 33383333  33  3333   03  3 33 3333033   '333  33-3003   333  33-3  3w3
53  33334133  33333331333333333  33313   33333334333  33333333333  3  38                                 I-33333  A3    0   333333
A.   _AA ..  -AAd  _AAA    I33333333  .0330                                              3333    33333  3333  3  3333333jq      AA39  33333 33. A3333 - M3
-,PU 64 F:T-."   Tv-.. p-                                                   'Ad p33333333333333  *3    33  33  3033  33P 33-333 3J3.      33AI 3
33333333%          333 33333333 Y         £4 333333333 .3330   333t F33  33-333M
33 3333333  33333 33 33333333   3330'3.338833  333333 '30333  -3  '33333 33333  33  33333 £3                J- 3 -3'3334333..833  1333- 33
3 333333  333 3.30333 - (3333533330  33333 133.d33 83033   3 ,  333                    333333$ 33   3   3P   -13 -AAP    (43  33    mU3 33303  33- 3v3- 333333
A.      -AMA -..n-    I ..  I                  3133333  3.33                                               33.  30353  3333s 13-333303333333
_ _   1-   -1 _. __I._  -J                 -3.3331-    33ft..   333.3333 53 '3333...P333333333333-33-53 ,-
v   - -1. 9-        (33.33333  2333 A. 3333 33 3q3oq                                     343  3    '33330303  3333333-a".33                      3333   .3 £3333
33333  933 (4  33 6   Ir  33 3~s- .  3333234  -P 3333  a33333    3303                        33334   33   33333*8.   33  3A.I£dd0303  33  3
4  .53331 33 3.oi        '3333333333333   33333   333   33333                       333333333333333333 'IN                        3333 3  3 0 Z,333 -'33i3833
33 3330333331 - 3303333 -2313  33333 - 33333333 033  33303-,333*3                                                                                    '3333..  -A1    -.1M-s-
'33  33  33-*3  30'333 -3333  .-qu.                                    MAI 0.3   333333313353
3333'333 3333  333333333 3.3330333   333333333 '43033333  423:.I3  3.33333333334 (3333   333mi333
333 333333330 '33333333333 '33353 3    33333f     I"X33    (3A33   4333                 3.   3033   333   33333   8  333  3333   333   3333
3333 333303*33  '433 133333 5333  33333 33 03303 .3r33 333333             "33  3333   333333 -30           . 33333    '333  33"_ 3333333    3330
333  303.   .333   -133033333333- 3343333  333                   A3l _3333                   IO 333 331333  '33333330             433333  33            133-33
P-."-  I--"  ftip-           .111-10  M."   -1433.33333                             333 'S    333  33333303333333  33.3333
A33333   3333  3333433333   3s~p3a3 
'33333333333         334333 f3    I---333   - 33333   d3333  J3 3333333  33333-Ad      133333  3333
33 030  33  3 03   334  -3333) 33 3353333  33333 33- 33                              33.333   333333        _ 33. 301  _ 33333333.03333333343343
333353.334    3 333'333  '~33AL                                                             -P333430  33M3333333  3  '33'30  33 333.   .3-33p    *-'-3     333.' 3333  333333
0333333 08   - (33333333 3333333   P33M33334333                                  3333333333   33333  33  33333  03335 3   33-33 333
'333333 33"ft              A-133              -  AMP333333338333333033  333333-33             3  333333333333333)3333330333333333333033333
33333030321           dM    --   . 30333  33333  33333333333  333 333333 p-33333                                                    333333'333'3.                  4333
3313343331303   3 (33303  33"3333   335333.30-5  3   333333333-P                                                                33-(30333333333   38
O  _61, is,        33333-3333 -333333333w33  3333'30  333  33333  33-
3033333 33333303 33333413 333333330333 333 33331_33033  33 ' 323                     133 -P  33333 303333  33  33333   1- (334  333033383  33
3333-3333_dMQ 3333333333333333  3333  3333  33333333-33333,333   303330 .3333    (3332333333383.3333
335. U33333333  3033  333t      - 33303303  33033    333) 3333033  3333                                               33-   333    P3-33  '333(3 Ms3 333333,   30.3
'333343 033333  5333333 3332333333   1q4 -3331 -(33443) 3333An3 -3333333,
- *33333          -` IS3331333 . ft 333  43  33343d111   33    333J33                                                   A     333   *3333'30   333133.3
3333   3338  333033 -rP  33333333n -313333   3333333                                          33333   033333   33   33333)330   (33
_IPMPPI                   Am~~~~3433                              33'*333~  333*3.)33333333333   333350333333
A                             T AMA  -s t-i    - z~~~~~~~~~~~~~'333 3.13  3033333343
3PM   -333(   0333333    33   33 A               33- 03A. .033  3                     33 -I333    303 333333  33333-13333383                             '33
33 3333333333  33333333Jk         023333    - 33333) -333443030333   33.3                                                      .3333 3J3.333'4333333
'3333333333333   33334  33 31333333333  33333333  33-.J. '3333
AM3 33 33-333331- 30 33303- £4  -333333 330f1 £33533333  03333333                                                                                    33(303  333333333
33 10333   031  3333   £3f-0  533  0333  - 33 113 333433.d333                                                                                  '33333333 '3800 P4.  -   .--
'3333303   833.3  3333333333333333333                                                    .34. .3d33        . 330333333333 A3.33  4333 330  3333  "3303P-
3m3.3333- 1333  03333=          3       '33333  3334338333                                  33  'a9 3334 -U3 3 d 3333333  333 32333333333F."3333  33.33334
030333    3033333333303   33333333303333                                               33  3. 33333313. news333  33333   .33333L                       33m  g,3
P-    dn                1-i-~'53333  3333333S05                              - 333'i31a33..q                     ~ 3033333343   33333    3833 -3
33    333 3334323 1P  3  3 --* j13 3333   433-33.3Ms3.                           1333 133333334An     3333 333 3133  303 -333333  333 3333 333353p4d
33-3    330  333  33331133333 'It-    I      33333* '3333333 333033                          0333         ) 33 AP3S3 333333d3 303 3333)33  33333-    330`    33333
%  !%:  .::   3333333  3333033'3333  313333333 333  333333 31.1033533333330  '33
3333 333333333             33   333  333333  3  3 '33pi33333333333433  3-
'0    30   33333  3333333333   333333  333        433  333333  333333333333~3..33                         - 3  '3333334333
1338433  3133412303310333333   301.33333 333330            34 33 333333  3333                   ".33333a J3 '3383333 333 33  333
338  .33.33. 43333  3   43~  3033333 33 333333333353               3333333  P-3  333033 333 '.333.333        4 33333   '3323333338
33.350  33333W  335.3333 43333333 333333333333  30.3333033-  J.                                  3033l   3333333  33A 533333333333333333331
S!331=    33333303  3333  o333  33333   333    ''L%..J31,333.%3L 333333T                                              0331  '53333   3't330 p333333    33
030    0333 3333 -333333133333033)3333                                   '.-3  31333   33A -4333043333
~~dLws,,ddn s333341333333 1                                                    .3  333 3...    333  33   033£333133  03333333-3 .I33A
033   3333   533333333   3133333   '3133333 Is            333
j..U.WM  -A PI.P.3533  3340  333 0A3 3  3 Eno33  4313333b 3366 333333133333
.3 P".1-1  'o3. A      1 - AP 3 333323  38"         0*33   '3333333.                            33-3-    33303  333  338 3333333                 1     30 '
02.33333333330 33033  3333333303  3331*323310 33333333333                 (333 3    I3333333 As  3333M 033 A.50  3333....133I3
- 3333   0I333    33              M313*3383   333033   334333£30333313.3  333d"                                                         33303  33   3333333
3*33031.3 331~3 33331  0  '3333 313 33    3333 03833 3                3333 - -_33 P.3    333333  333333  3333333             MA 13I03I3.-
I-I:: 0a. 3Al      3  3   33   '33333WP.p' 3   --33 83   3333-  33a 033333333                      1.)33I-Ti1I314I051                          -    m  .
qIl"d'"" 'dAn    1'33333333             "t- 333333333533033                                                    '3333P0'A3'33    3313333
33 3.M. 1M    3 -I-w d21iL    ..i"s -333    3   8331   3333   '333  33333  3333  33-333333330331333344  3   333333  133833333m
swi            333 3   3333933  33333  3333 53333 Ai3333233333  3333333-383 33 33333   333333 33- 33333                                                        Al33 3  M.38
333    I-l"0         s-..P   I--. i*33-.-P3333  3- 33333 I33 A3333333 zm p33--39A     P_ vP                                                    A     M-(n)vJ
INS""  A.      .1   . M  P-PSi-                                        *.3        '333 '40333 33(3P33
*I3333RI33  -       33 7    3333                                                                                                           In03l v" (aWUt
~ 1333    3333333 33 3~   33304   J33333333130(*3-333                                                                         '3333 3333  0  '._33
Im = 81"Us           33333333.3533333533333833'33  333338Snows03333   33333343    3333333333333053
0  333130333333333433 3333  33331 ('33.'333333  '3333  '3~333333           333333  .333333  0  33  333333  '33333333 '31 '3.       0  3333 33833  333s3
0Z33         0333333   0    ft333331-"P30     0 333333         4.     PA    .3   P1- 33 3433333  33333   333333333        333033  33333 ..".M              334)03
39333 IM (3333   33 'iZ'3  3333333   8333   M433  -         .r'3 ''r1.r"g--.d                                    ..1-    ...  d O -                      t
'3333)  3333334 - 33       '3333'3333      3333   1-04 Id-A     U                 1-1VVL-t           -OWUfIIO - 3333333                   '333  3333 0ss     333
'33333 43333          Mt.3333ft 3333333  30 3    3hR Iti!!!d!l3.UO   '333  3....   03 3                       331 All33333333IPAP.33,. 03333  33304n 333
33313333  3333.3£4  353333333333 - 3  33 3 33 33            ILq'3  5333m33
0    80   3    33  31   333353    3333333  33333    333   33333383   33    343a    333333  333333    *3333    333
333I30'3333333033]M                                334333  3333433333533333"3333)34333   3   33 'T33333  3333   338



AI3Ia I
-22 -                                                               Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINbS - CONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US5 at                        Annual growtb ratem CZ) (conctant price)
current prices)                Actual                  lot.                      Projected
Indicator                              1983           1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1934    1985    1986    1987    1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Croa. domestic product               34.266          5.9      4.9      3.8      2.9      1.0    -6.0      0.8      2.2     3.5      4.5
Agriculture                         7.388          5.3.    5.0       3.6      3.1    -2.1      1.0      2.0      3.0     3.5      3.5
Industry                           12,364          6.7      3.5      4.7      2.4     0.7    -8.0    -2.0        1.0     3.5      4.5
Services                           14,514          5.5      6.3      3.0      3.5     3.5    -7.9       2.5      2.7     3.5      5.0
Consumption                          26,959          4.8      4.8      4.0      3.5     2.6    -2.8    -0.3        0.6     0.7      2.5
Groas  investment                     9.151          7.4      1.0      2.3    -2.9    -4.4   -25.5        1.1      4.2     9.1      7.6
Exports of CNFS                       6.650          7.4    16.0       1.6    -2.6       1.7     4.9      5.1      6.0     6.3      6.7
Imports of CNFS                       8,382         10.3      3.7      -.9      1.5    -2.0   -24.0       0.2      1.5     2.1      2.6
Crose national saving.                7,400          7.7      3.4      3.1    -6.5    -3.1        -        -        -       -        -
PRICES
CDP deflator (1972 - 100)                          249.4   286.9   317.3   343.5   380.4          -        -        -       -        -
Exchange rate (USSI -   )                            7.4      7.5      7.9      8.5    11.1       -        -        -       -        -
Export price index (1980 - 100)                     98.9   100.0    99.4    87.9    92.0         98      103      113      123     134
Import price index (1980 - 100)                     81.6   100.0   112.7   101.6    95.0         99      105      114     125      136
Terms of trade index (1980 - 100)                  121.2   100.0    88.2    86.5    97.0    101           98       99      98       99
Share of CDP at market prices (M)-                         Average annual increace (2)
(at current prices) /a                                      (cenet out prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990         1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Cross domestic product               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            5.1         6.1        5.q        1.2        4.0
Agriculture                         28.1    27.8    29.0    23.2    24.3    22.0            4.5         4.3        4.8        2.1       3.5
Industry                            25.8    29.6    33.5    36.9    36.1    38.9            6.0         8.6        7.6       0.2        4.5
Services                            46.1    42.6    37.5    39.9    39.6    39.1            5.2         5.4        5.7        1.8       4.0
conaumption                         85.3    79.2    75.8    73.8    79.0    76.0            4.8         5.5        5.2        1.9       1.9
Cross investment                    16.3    21.5    31.0    30.5    21.0    22.0            8.2        11.5        6.5      -4.7        6.5
Exports of CNFS                     10.8    19.4    18.5    20.1    23.0    25.0            5.8         3.2       10.0        4.4       6.7
Import, of GNFS                     10.6    19.7    25.3    26.4    21.0    22.0           6.8          6.8        8.0      -3.2        2.4
Cross national savings              16.2    20.5    25.3    22.1    18.0    19.0            7.4         9.7        5.8         -          -
As Z of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1900    1983                   Labor force in 1983         Millions       (1)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                               Agriculture                   9.8          48.8
Current revenue                     9.8      9.5    15.0    13.1    12.1                   Industry                      9.3       ) 46.2
Current expenditures                9.6    10.9    13.2       9.3      9.6                Services                )                )
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)          0.2    -1.4      1.8      3.7      2.5                Unemployed                     1.0           5.0
Capital expenditure                 2.3      1.9     3.2      5.Z      4.5
Foreign financing                     -      0.1     0.3      1.5      2.0                    -Total Labor Force        20.1         100.0
1960-70         1970-75         1975-40          1930-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (Z)                                         5.1            6.1             5.9              1.2             4.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (2)                             2.0             2.7             3.2             -1.1             1.7
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)                          7.4            6.2             4.2              0.7             4.0
ICOR                                                               3.7            4.3             5.2             23.8             7.1
Marginal savings rate                                             0.29            0.33            0.26             0.35            0.62
Import elasticity                                                  1.33           1.12            1.20           -1.3              0.6
/m   Projected years at constant prices.
East Asla and Pacific Region
October 1984



23 -                                         Pge 5 of S pages
PHILIPP S - UATASZ OF PAMOOMS AN  mAL CAPrL AND DD8T
(S  illio   at current prices)
Actual                  Ret.                    Projected
1979     1980     1981      19        983      1984    1985     1986      1987     1988
Sarr of °a1ance of Psuents
Exports of goods and services         6,177    7.863    8,624    8.004    8.132    8.755   8.891   10,101   11.572   13.336
Of Whichc  exports of goods         6.602    S.788    5.722    5,021    5,005    S.300   6.097    7.059    8,212    9,56S
;mports of goods    * services        8.108   10.348   11.389   11.611   11_361    9.547  10.490   Il.535   12,658   13.922
Of ubich:  a-ports of goods         6,142    7,7J7   7,946    7.667    7.487    S.787   6,236    6,919    7,738    8.709
Transfers (ne:)                         355       434      472      486        72      250     450       480      S0        550
Current Account Balance            -1,576   -2.051   -2.'3   -3.121   -2,757   -1,560  -1,149         -954     -586      -36
Direc  Investment (net)                  99        45      407       112      -20
MLT loans (net)                       1.091    1.032    1.382    1.721    1.392
Official-source loans (net)           449       375      691      434    I.177
Privare-source loans (net)            642       657      691    1,S27       215
Other capital Coet) la                 -193       593      -56       146     -739
Overall RaLance /b                   -579     -381      -560   -1 S142   - Z1Z
International reserves (e=d-year)Lc  2.43    3.155    2.707    2,543         903
Reserves as montbs of imports           3.6       3.7     Z29        2.6      1.0
External Capital and Debt
Cross disborasente                    2,13      1,887    2136    2,693
Concesaional oans                    185       168      Z12       176
BLSateral                           T113  1-T          T_        5-9
IDA                                   3         2        7        8
Other moltilateral                   69        59        7         9
Nonconcessioosl Loans               1929      1_719    1.924    2,518
Off ical export cedits              152         8       58        66
IMD                                 210      2Z29      641      251
Otber miltilateral                     81        83      119       It5
Private sources                     1,506    1,3"      1,306    2,076
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbLrsed      7,204    8,415   10.148   12.145
Official-souree                   2.286    2,730    3.355    3.971
Private-source                    4.918    5.685    6.793    8,174
'Tndisbarsed debt /d                3.645    4.W86    4,546    3.999
Debt Service
Total service payments /e           1,480    1,013    1.560    2,048
Of wihch:  interest                 488       568      806    1,076
Payments so : of exports of goods
and services le                    24.0      12.9     18.1     26.1
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-soaurce                        5.5       7.4      7.7
Private-source                         10.5      14.3     15.5 15.4
Average maturity of new loona
Official-source                        23.4      20.2     20.9  {
Private-source                         11.1      10.1     10.0  (   9
Is  Non.onetary short-term capital, monetixation of gold, allocation of SDR*, and errors and omissions.
lb  Equals change In net international reserves. plus arrears.
7%  Cross reserves of the Central Bank (-Internstional reserves,- IFS).
T   Public and publicly guaranteed only.
7e  Includea prepaysents of $401 million in 1978, S492 million in 1979 and $92 million in 1980.
Note: Since the Philippines Is In the process of rescheduling Its debt, It is not poasible to project capital inflow figures
in detail.
East Asia and Pacific Region
October 1984



*uII
A 1 e 
-24-                                              Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF MMN COP O0giff11=  IN MME P3XIPPX11Z
A. STAT  OF Or Ma  W S AND rDA cnDfls /n
A of Septeebr 30. 1984
iT. 2r
credt                                                                               Autmt Clem cancellations)
nb_r   FI   3Drrer                                                                  Sunk     ID       Wgiehrue
Forty-fle loms Ad three credtts fully disbursd                                     1,339.18    32.22         -
1227-P     1976  Pop. of the Pilippineas    aco Irrition                              S0.00      -          3.7J
1272-T-PH   1976                             nwa  Urban                               10.00     -          0.10
12825-P    1976                              WAILa Urben                              22.00      -          0."
1353-PH    1977                              ThIrd  ighmys                            95.00     -          9.61
1367-P     1977                              Jalaur Irriation                         15.00      -          0.11
1414-P     1977                              Nat. Irrig. S"tm Improvmnt               50.00      -         15.65
1l6-PR     1977              -Sral DEw. Land Settlemet II                             15.00      -          2.60
1460-PR    1978  Nat±omsl Power Corp.        Seventh Poemr                            .d.00     -          6.70
1506-PR    1978  Sup. of the Philippines    SeithoLder Tree &mimg                     3.00       -          4.33
I526-PR    1975                              Nat. Irr. Syem  Impraevmt II             65.00     -         30.67
790-PH     1978                             D Sural Infrastructure                     -      28.00       13.26
1567-PH    197S              -               MSgat II   -                            150.00     - -        4.8
1572-PH    1978              _               InastrSal Investment III                80.00       -         8.S3
1615-PR    1979                              M a-nila Weter Supply II8 ss.o                     -         29.03
1626-PH    1979              -               Natioinl Extension                       35.00      -         19.45
1639-PH    1979              -               Sugat RSier multipurpose                 21.00     -          0.43
1646-PH    1979              -               S  ll Parser Dev. (Lmad Sunk)           16.50      -          2.85
1647-PR    1979              -               Second Urban Dwelndment                  32.00      -          5.26
1661-PR    1979                               lgbmys IV                              100.00      -         36.60
1710-PR    1979                              water Supply Ii                          16.00     -          16.00
920-PR     1979                             w ater Supply II                           -      22.00       ItOS
9Z3-PR    1979              -               Population II                              -      60.00       29.37
1772-PR    1980              _               Ser Island nral Development              27.00     -          17.27
1786-PR    19W                                         Training (Educ. VI)            38.00/c    -        27.71
1809-PR    1980              -               Idti-Scale Irrigaion.                    71.00      -        53.99
1814-PH    1980                              Wails Sewerage & Snitation              63.00      -         34.68
1:85-PR    1980              -;hinfed Agrie_  Dew. (nollo)                            12        -           7.41
1821-PR    1980                              Third urrb                              72.00      -         39.56
1855-PR    1980                              Tbi  Ports                               67.0o     -          34.39
1860-PH    1980                              R ral Roads IWraesent                   62.00      -         36.68
1890-P     19;81             -                _tered  Snegemnt                       38.00       -        22.37
1894-PR    1981                              7 Third Livestock &    nishers.         45.w       -         24.43
1903-P     1981              -               Structural dslcmnt                      200.00     -          0.53
1984-PH    1981  Central Sunk of the Phil. ludatrial  nance (CApex)                  150.00     -        123.22
2030-PR    1981  ]*P. of the Philfippins   Elementry Educ. Sector Leoa               100.00                9303
200-P      198                               Agric. Su"ort Serie                      45.00     -          43.62
2067-R      1982             -               Urbea hglinering                          8.00     -           1.95
2127-PR    1982      -                       Texte Sector Restructue                 157.40      -        113.91
2156-PR     1982                             NatiOn  Pieries Development              22.40      -         22.03
2169-PR    1982              -                 i inl                                 132.00     -         110.24
2173-P1    1982                              Camal Irr1gacn -                         71.1O     -         60.77
2181-PR    1982   estionel Poer Cbrp.        Coal Exploration                         17.00     -          13.46
2200-PR     1983  Rcp. of the Phillppines    Zdmcation VlII                           24.40      -         21.34
2201 -PH   1983  Philippins Net. Ol1 Co.  Petroleum Exploration Promotion              9.00      -          3.37
2202-PR     1983             *               Petrolem Exploratlon Prmotton            24.00      -         18.67
2203-PR    1983              *               Geotl -s_l Explorstlon                   36.00      -         30.50
2206-PR    1983  3*p. of the Pbllippines   Watet Supply nd Senitation                 35.50      -         27.26
2257-PR    1983                              Regienal Cities Dewelopment              67.-1      -        65.S1
2360-PH    1984                              Central Vtaayas S1gional Developeent    Z5.60       -         22.63
1282-1     1984              '               Psail Urban Dewelopmeut Supplement       10.50     -          10.47
1639-1     1984              *               Stgat Rtver fNltipurpose Suppleeunt       5.10     -          4.26
2418-PH    1984              -               Highys V                                102.00      -        101.75
2435-PR/b  1984                              Mmatitpal Developent (Second)            40.00      -
2469-PR    1985              -               Agricultural Sector lnputs              150.00      -          -
Total                                                                  4,192.68   122.22    1,630.81
of  iblch a b en repaid
(Dsnk and third parties)                                               435.13    0.46
Total now outstendlng                                                  3.757.55   121.76
Amount sold                                           31.94
Of which ha been  paid
(third parties)                                     26.37                5.57      -
Total now beld by Sunk and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                 3.751.9t  121.76
Total udLurned                                                         15773    53.38    1,630.81
la  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bnk/lIDa-fianced projects
In teetion. wichb it updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors oan pril 30 end
October 31.
lb Not yet effectlve.
7   Includes $7.6 millio  NAD fuAd.



AMNEX II
-- 25 -                          Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1984
Fiscal
year                 Company                             Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Dev. Corp. of the Philippines        15.0     4.4    19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                       8.0      -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                 -      4.0     4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.        3.7     0.8     4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                  0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.            -      2.2     2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation              6.2     2.1     8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial Corp.       15.0      -     15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                1.9     0.3     2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation         1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.6      0.6      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation              1.2      -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial Corp.         7.0      -      7.0
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                    2.6     0.2     2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                    2.3     1.2     3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5      -      3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.    2.1       -      2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                   4.0     1.1     5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                      9.S     0.2    10.1
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business              -      0.3     0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.           4.5      -      4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. f-r SMSE                18.5     0.6    19.1
1981         Philippine Assoc. Sme cing & Refining Corp.  -        5.0     5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                     16.0      -     16.0
1982         NDC-Guthrie Plantations                      11.0      -     11.0
Total Gross Commitments                     136.3    23.4   159.7
Less sold, acquired by others,             89.1    14.5   103.6
repaid nr cancelled
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC            47.2     8.9    56.1
Total Undisbursed                            14.48    0.02   14.50



- 26 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: 1imetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of presentation to the Bank:       July 1980
(b)  Date of identification mission:         May 1982
(c)  Date of preparatory mission:            April 1984
(d) Date of appraisal mission:
Ce)  Completion of negotiations:             January 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          May 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank mission starting Janulary 28, 1985 to finalize arrangements for
recruiting consultants.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Through appropriate legislation and in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower will ensure that NTC
possesses the full powers to regulate and administer the sector and
that an updated and comprehensive telecommunications and broad-
casting code will be brou-ht into effect (para. 37);
(b) the necessary consultants would be appointed by September 30, 1985,
(para. 50); and
(c) upon completion of the consultancy services, MOTC would consult with
the Bank on the conclusions and recommendations, and take the neces-
sary steps to implement the agreed recommendations in accordance
with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para. 50).



ANNEX IV
- 27 -                             Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF THE NATIONAL
TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (NTC)
A. Objectives
1.        NTC, a unit within the Ministry of Transportation and Communications
(MOTC), is charged with regulating and planning for the telecommunications
sector. One of its tasks is to see to it that the policies set by the Govern-
ment in the National Telecommunications Plan are applied by the sector
entities, mainly private operating companies. The Plan envisages a rapid
improvement and expansion of the sector services, with a concomitant growth in
employment. It also affects in a significant way network facilities, infra-
structure, finance and program planning.
2.        The project described in these terms of reference aims at developing
the capability of NTC to regulate and coordinate the telecovmunications sector
operations and to plan for its expansion. NTC should be given such statutes
as would allow it sufficient autonomy to consider and, in its decisions, take
account of the rightful interests of all parties. It should also be finan-
cially self-reliant.
3.        The specific objectives of the project are to:
(a) review the overall sector organization and make appropriate recom-
mendations in view of NTC's role in the proposed expansion of
telecommunication services;
(b) inventory the tasks of NTC set out in the Plan and elsewhere, and
draft the legislative acts that may be required additionaUy for NTC
to carry out those tasks properly;
(c) develop an organizational structure and a staffing, manpower and
training plan for NTC; and
(d) propose such arrangements for the clients' payment of fees (includ-
ing clients in the Government) as will make NTC financially self-
reliant.
B. Background and Rationale
4.        NTC was organized in July 1979 under Executive Order -:o. 546 creat-
ing the MOTC. Its predecessor agencies were the Board of Communications and
the Telecommunications Control Bureau (successors of the defunct Public



ANNEX IV
- 2B-Page 2
Service Commission and Radio Control office respectively). Under Executive
Order No. 546, all the franchising, regulatory and radio licensing functions
of the two agencies were merged into NTC. NTC has adopted the practices of
the defunct Public Service Commission in the exercise of its regulatory and
quasi-judicial functions.
5.        Two studies of NTC have been carried out by local consultants in
collaboration with NTC staff:
(a)  Carlos J. Valdes in 1982, on the "systems and organization" of
NTC. The study concentrated on the improvemert of office procedures
for the filling of an application for a radio frequency assign-
ment. In most instances, the licenses for radio stations were eval-
uated and granted, with a minimum of cross-reference to the records
of the previous regulatory units. The study recognized the need for
external assistance for NTC through the engagement of foreign
experts with experience in private telecommunications administration
as well as knowledge of the rules and regulations procedures of the
US Federal Communications Commission and other similar regulatory
bodies; and
Cb) SyCip, Gorres, Velayo and Co. (SGV), completed in April 1984,
comprehensively describing the system and nature of NTC's quasi-
judicial processes.
6.        The consultancy staff to be engaged in the present project will have
access to the reports of these two studies and to relevant legal and other
documents. It will also have the full collaboration of NTC and its staff.
C. Project Organization
7.        The project will be executed by a team consisting of both expatriate
and local consultants.
8.        The project staff will be formally responsible to a project manager
to be nominated by the Minister of Transportation and Communications and be
retained within the MOTC.
9.        A working Committee will be set up within NTC to coordinate details
of the project work, to review progress and discuss draft reports. It will
determine its own procedures and be composed of representatives of NTC, the
expatriate consultancy staff and relevant local consultants.
10.       A Project Steering Committee shall be appointed to advise the
Project Manager. The composition of this committee will be communicated
later.



ANIE 1V
- 29 -                            Page 3
D.  Scope of Work
11.       The consultants are to undertake whatever tasks they deem required
for the timely and substantive meeting of project objectives. Among others,
the following tasks would be essential:
(a) review and evaluate the existing NTC legal bases and its organiza-
tional structure, development function, information systems, plans
and programs, and linkages with other sector and government
institutions;
(b) determine the strengths and weaknesses in areas evaluated, and
recommend short-term improvements or courses of action which can be
implemented rapidly;
(c) develop a cost/effective organization plan which will include the
identification and definition of specific tasks (in law, rates and
tariffs, financial analysis and engineering) and functions of the
organization units and subunits;
(d) review the qualification and experience of the available staff of
NTC and its capability to undertake the tasks dete-mined under (c),
and propose appropriate measures. It is important that the qualifi-
cations of future NTC staff at least equal those of the private
operating companies, clients of NTC. The consultants would propose
measures for staff strengthening. If required, a reinforcement in
the form of consultants hired on a retainer basis could, for
example, be considered; and
(e) review of the cost of various elements of the NTC's work and
proposals for more cost-effective methods and procedures, and con-
sider feasible measures whereby NTC could cover its total costs of
operation by such revenues as license and franchise fees.
E.  Expected Outputs
12.       The following outputs are expected, in addition to periodic progress
reports:
(a) preliminary findings based on the review undertaken by each expert
and on the discussion in the working committee of issues and find-
ings (six months after the commencement of the project);
(b) recommendations based on the evaluation of existing organizational
structure [four months after output (a)];
(c) financial forecasts (funds flow statements) for the next ten years
of NTC's operations, with budget for the next FY and proposed
detailed arrangement for the earning and collection of revenues
[simultaneously with (b)];



- 30 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 4
(d) organization manual that would outline the general structure,
specific function and tasks of each unit, manpower resources and
corresponding job descriptions (one month before project comple-
tion);
(e) planning manual that will provide guidelines for planning activities
and project preparation (simultaneously with (d)I;
(f) manpower development program that will provide a training program to
improve and develop NTC's available manpower resources
[simultaneously with (d)]; and
(g) manual for charging license and franchise fees and for the collec-
tion of charges [simultaneouslT with (d)].
F. Project Resources
13.       Expatriate Consultants.  A total of 36 manmonths of expatriate con-
sultancy services are estimated to be required for the project. The
expatriate consultants would prepare and establish methods and procedures for
the timely meeting of project objectives, and provide overall direction for
the work of local counterparts.
14.       Local Consultants.  The local consultants (30 man-months) are
expected to provide servicing facilities and personnel for the project. They
will assist the foreign consultants in terms of logistical support, personnel,
equipment sourcing, liaison with other government agencies, and the provision
of data/information necessary for the project. Moreover, the local
consultants will provide administrative support to the foreign consultants in
terms of in-country transportation, vehicles, accommodations, supplies and
materials, office space, etc.



ANNEX V
- 31 -                            Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
TARIFF REVIEW
A. Objectives
1.        The determination and regulation of telecommunications tariffs in
the Philippines is one of the tasks of the National Telecommunications Com-
mission (NTC), in the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MOTC).
The structure and functioning of NTC is the purpose of a separate study,
likely to propose significant measures for NTC's strengthening. The regula-
tion of telecommunications tariffs is a "'ital tool towards the promotion of
government-set objectives for the telecommunications sector. One of these
objectives is that telecommunications services be provided by private operat-
ing companies with such financial viability as will enable them to provide
services of internationally acceptable quality, to expand access to services,
and to attract private investment capital. In the long term, the sector
should also become a good source of Government revenue. The MOTC recognizes
the need to undertake an in-depth review and evaluation of present tariffs to
make them responsive to financing, development and equity requirements of the
national telecommunications system. In order to help remedy the present
shortcomings in regard to the telephone services, a study is being launched
to:
(a) review the principles and procedures guiding the present tariff
setting, particularly the rate base evaluation concept and the
retention of a ceiling of rate of return on assets used, and propose
amendments as called for; and
(b) review the financial situation of the telephone operating companies
as against the objective indicated above and propose required
changes in the structure and level of the tariff system; special
attention should be given to the consequences of a gradual introduc-
tion of local call metering and timing.
B. Description
2.        The project will consist of a number of short-term interrelated
activities. The principal tasks of the study are the specifications of a
tariff structure consistent with sector objectives and with the institutional
structure of the telecommunications sector, identification of the cost of
principal telecommunications services, determination of the demand character-
istic for telephone services, and a financial analysis of the impact of
tariffs on the cash generation needed for expansion and rehabilitation of the
sector.



ANNEX V
- 32 -                             Page 2
C. Potential Benefits
3.        The benefits to be derived from this program would be, inter alia:
(a)  improved incentives for the private sector operations to expand and
upgrade their services, both in profita'ole high demand areas and in
initially less profitable areas;
(b)  a rate structure that is realistic and responsive to the needs of
industry and the public, and that will enihance aocial, economic and
political development;
(c) an equitable toll sharing scheme which will minimize cutthroat com
petition and enhance cooperation among operators; and
(d)  increased fiscal benefits to government and increased foreign
exchange earnings of the sector.
D. Inputs from the Philippine Government to the Consultant
(a)  all data pertaining to recent studies on tariffs, rate regulation
and structure (e.g.: Study of Tariff Structure and Rate Sharing
Arrangement, April 1984, Sy Cip, Gorres & Velayo, Inc. (SGV);
(b)  one or more local counterparts to work with each of the expatriate
experts; and
(c)  office space, equipment, facilities and support services.
E. Scope of Work
4.        The scope of work in the project will be, inter alia to:
(a)  review all material available in legislation, previous studies and
files;
(b)  discuss and clarify the telephone subsector objectives with the
Project Manager and with other local officials;
(c)  identify and define the strategy for the development of the sub-
sector;
(d)  review, evaluate and recommend alternative approaches and method-
ologies for the tariff study;
(e)  provide overall direction to, review and assess the performance by
various consulting groups;
(f)  prepare a consolidated report of the tariff study; and
(g)  train local counterparts in tariff setting.



ANNEX V
- 33 -                            Page 3 T
F. Organization
5.        The project will be executed by a team consisting of both expatriate
and local consultants. The project staff will be formally responsible to a
project manager to be nominated by the Minister of Transportation and Communi-
cations, and will be retained within the MOTC. A working committee will be
set up within the NTC to coordinate details of the project work, to review
progress and discuss draft reports. It will determine its own procedures and
be composed of representatives of the NTC, the expatriate consultancy staff
and local consultants. A project Steering Committee shall be appointed to
advise the Project Manager.  The composition of this committee will be com-
municated later.
G. Expected Output
(a)  policy recommendations for a revised tariff structure; including
peak and off-peak rates, cross-subsidies, level of subscriber
investment plan, toll sharing, metering and timing calls and others;
(b)  evaluation of the currently applied rate of return formula, and
recommendation; and
(c) development of a computer assisted tariff evaluation system, and the
corresponding tariff structure manual.
H. Resources
6.        About 18 man-months of expatriate and about 30 manmonths of local
consultancy services will be provided. The consultants will conaborate with
staff of the MOTC, the NTC and the private operating companies. To the extent
that instruments will be required for the measurement of traffic flows and
similar tasks, such instruments will be provided by the operating companies,
as coordinated by the Project Manager.



34 -                            ANNEX VI
~~ 34      ~~~~~ Page I
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
RADIO FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT
A. Objectives
1.        The project is specifically directed towards the planning and imple-
mentation of an effective frequency management for the National Telecommunica-
tions Commission (NTC). The study aims to develop a national frequency allo-
cation plan and system using a computerized data base for the effective and
efficient management and control of the frequency spectrum.
2.        Specifically, the objectives of the project are to develop:
(a) standards for spectrum management;
(b)  an efficient and effective electronic data gathering and processing
system for radio frequency spectrum planning and management;
(c) a computer based frequency assignment process for existing and
future users of the radio frequency spectrum;
(d) the capability to provide assistance in the engineering of frequency
assignment; and
(e) accuracy and timeliness in the preparation and submission of
materi9l for the International Frequency Registration Board (IFRB)
reports.
B. Description
3.        The study will update technical regulatory standards and norms for
the transmission in any mode of national and international telecommunication
of any kind over radio circuits so as to cater for a most economic use of the
allocations to the Philippines of portions of the universal radio frequency
spectrum.  The study will, moreover, recommend effective means for controlling
such technical standards and norms, including inter alia the monitoring of the
intended and anticipated use of the electromagnetic spectrum. It will also
include all facets of frequency administration and related electronic data
processing aspects.
C. Justification/Rationale
4.        In the recent past, interference in the adequate use of frequency
spectrum has grown to alarming proportions. This has not only made the
frequencies reserved for private, government and commercial use unavailable,
but it has also created harmful distortions on the co3mmon carrier bands, the



ANNEX VI
- 35 -                             Page 2
military band and the marine and navigation bands, in contravention to
international commitments of the country.
5.        The NTC has started the modest installation of regional monitoring
stations. Carlos J. Valdes and Co. has been engaged to assist in the creation
of a reliable record on frequency assignments, using an already installed
large service computer owned by another Philippine institution. However, a
plan remains to be prepared, that will implement this program in an integ-
rated, coordinated and cohesive manner. The local consultants and the
government personnel on the project need to be reinforced by assistance from
foreign experts.
6.        The completion of this project will inter alia ensure:
(a) effective and efficient use of the frequency spectrum;
(b) effective and efficient management of licensure, financial and
administrative functions of the NTC;
(c) dependable and healthy growth of telecom and broadcast sectors to
the extent such growth is dependent on the use of radio trans-
missions; and
'd) accurate and timely compliance with IFRB's report requirements.
D. Scope of Work
Foreign Consultancy
7.        The foreign consultant engaged for this project shall undertake the
following assignments:
(a) establish methods and procedures for carrying out the field surveys;
(b) establish the accuracy of the data file previously developed from
available national records;
(c) provide the necessary software specifications for propagation models
and analysis programs to establish a computer-based frequency
assignment process; and
(d) provide the NTC with the essential specifications and staff training
for the establishment of a national monitoring resource including
station location and design together with equipment specifications.
Local Consultancy
8.        The local consultants will provide the servicing facilities and
personnel to maintain the data collection and dissemination required for the
completion of the project outputs. In particular, the local consultants will
provide:



ANNEX VI
- 36 -                            Page 3
(a)  all logistic support required by the foreign consultants;
(b) the field survey staff required to ensure that target dates of
completion are met; training required for specialized activities;
(c) all mobile and electronic equipment required for carrying out the
surveys together with the maintenance and calibration of these
equipments;
(d) local liaison with the computer processing for coordination of
specification and program development; and
(e) other equipment as required.
E. Organization
9.        The NTC shall establish a working team consisting of representatives
from the Commission, foreign consultancy staff and local consultancy staff.
Likewise, a Steering Committee shall be created, composed of senior officers
from the Ministry and the Commission who shall monitor the progress of the
study, evaluate reports submitted on the project and approve recommendations
presented.
F. Expected Outputs
(a) a system of radio frequency management and licensing procedures;
(b) standards for radio frequency spectrum management;
Cc) training of personnel for the various areas of expertise required by
the project:
(d)  an automated information system to support the radio frequency
management and licensing procedures; and
(e)  documentation of all the above activities in the appropriate regu-
latory format.
G. Resource Requirements
10.       Thirty-six manmonths of foreign consultancy services and computer
experts for 12 manmonths are required. Foreign consultants will be assisted
by local counterparts (43 man-months).



- 37 -                           Page1I
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICKTIONS - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
UPDAIING OF THE TELECO(MUNICATIONS NETWORK DEVELOPMENT PLANS
A. Objectives
1.        To continuously maintain and update plans and directions for the
development of the Philippine telecommunications network, in coordination with
the private operators. The plans and directions will serve as the parameters
for the preparation of expansion and/or upgrading programs by the private
operating entities.
B. Description
2.        The master plan for telecommunications development needs to be
maintained and continuously updated. The demand forecasts and supply targets
need to be validated and adjusted annually, based on the prevailing economic
conditions. A local counterpart team, composed of representatives from the
government and the private operators, assisted by local consultants shall
undertake the maintenance and updating of these plans. Foreign expertise will
be required, from time to time, to provide advice and guidance to the local
experts.
C. Justification
3.        In 1981, the government engaged the services of A.D. Little, Tele-
consult and Sy Cip, Gorres, Velayo & Col (SGV) to jointly prepare with govern-
ment and the private operating companies a broad total master plan for
telecommunications development. In 1983, the same consultants were again
contracted together with DCCD Engineering to prepare a specific national
telephone program, within the parameters of the master plan.
4.        In the course of these studies, local expertise has been developed
viz, the local consultants (SGV/DCCD), the operating company (PLDT) and the
government counterpart personnel. Computer models have been developed, using
microcomputers, for the least cost network design, traffic forecasts, and the
economic and financial analyses. The capability of the local consultants to
update these plans and programs need to be supplemented by foreign expertise,
as required from time to time.
D. Expected Output
(a) updated plans and programs for the upgrading and expansion of tele-
communications services;
(b) suggestions and directions on the use and application of the data,
as generated by the computer models;



- 38 -                       ANNEX VII
Page 2
(c) priority lists of projects that may be implemented; and
(d) revised least cost network design, equipment specifications and
standards, data on demand and traffic, and on fi.ancial and economic
viabilit".
E. Methodology
5.        Local consultants with the aid of foreign expertise, shall review
and revise the existing plans and programs for the network. Specifically, the
following items shall be reviewed and modified as necessary. To the extent
required, the existing relevant microLamputer models shali be revised as
needed.
(a) Integration Plan. General review of systems architecture. Review
overall central operations, maintenance, administration and billing
processing systems.
(b) Future Demand Study. Recheck demand using data gathered in past two
years.
(c) Future Demand Annex G. Amend as required, depending on national and
local economic conditions.
(d)  Transmission Plan.  Updatit_, to include consideration of fiber
optic systems, cellular mobile radio and paging services. Recheck
possible utilization of DOMSAT.
Ce) Switching Plan (Voice). Review in light of new CCITT recommenda-
tions and new switches added/to be added to the network in the
former RETELCO area, Visayas and Northern Luzon.
(f) Switching Plan (Data). Updating to include local and wide area
ne-works (LAN, WAN). Investigation of new options based on recent
technologies (Broadband/Baseband, Lans, etc.).
(g) Routing Plan. Review and revise to include data gathered in recent
traffic studies and demand forecasts.
(h)  Numbering Plan.  Updating, to incorporate changes made subsequent to
original plan.
(i) Synchronization Plan. Original plan was tentative, needs to be
finalized.
(j) Signalling Plan I. Revision, especially of digital subscriber
standard (144 k bit/s).
(k) Signalling Plan II. Review.



_ 39 -                            ANNEX VII
- 39 -                   ~~~~~Page 3
(I) Outside Plant Plan. Expand, taking into account the availability
and suitability of fiber optics.
(m) Outside Plant Plan, Annex ES. Review and revise as needed.
(n) System Cost Study. Cost and cost functions require to be updated in
accordance with revisions proposed in (a) through (a).
F. Resource Requirement
6.        The services of foreign experts for about six (6) ianmonths is
required. The foreign experts will be assisted by local counterparts
(20 man-months).
Note:     The review and general updating of plans will take into account and
incorporate the revised CCITT recommendations resulting from the
GENEVA 1983 Plenary Session.



ANNEX VIII
- 40 -                          Tgg-e 1T
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
TELECOMMUNICATIONS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Objectives
1.        The project will contribute to develop and improve the in-country
capability and competence of the available manpower resources in the telecom-
munications industry. It is also designed to take into account the emerging
additional requirements of a rapidly dev_.oping and expanding telecommuni-
cations technology. The manpower development program is a necessary component
of expansion programs formulated within the framework of National Telecom-
munications Master Plan.  The need to promote and enhance the skills and
capabilities of personnel in the planning, installation, maintenance and
operations of telecommunications facilities and services as well as in the
related marketing, management and administrative tasks must be fully recog-
nized. The manpower development is necessary to meet the future demand for
trained manpower, in both the public and private sectors, taking account also
of the likely continued emigration of trained Filipinos.
B. Description
2.        The telecommunications manpower development program is envisioned to
provide the couLatry with highly qualified and trained technical and management
personnel in sufficient numbers to staff both the government agencies and the
private operators of the sector. The training program within the present
project will center on updating of earlier manpower development studies and
applying the results to rationalization of ongoing training programs, as well
as provide fellowships or on-the-job overseas training of local engineers,
technicians, planners and management staff.
3.        In addition to the previous JICA grant which provides on-the-job
training for certain categories of technical personnel, this project will
provide more opportunities and exposure to more advanced, practical training,
specifically in the application of modern technology, vis-a-vis, electronic-
digital transmission, satellite communications, telex/data communications and
other advanced telecommunications technology. Subsequently, the trainees who
have undergone on-the-job training in advanced systems will develop the
confidence, skill and expertise in handling modern equipments.
C. Justification
4.        The project will upgrade the present level of service and perform-
ance of telecommunications personnel resulting in overall efficiency in plan-
ning, management and operation of the system. The U*ational Telecommunications
Master Plan aims at fast, reliable and efficient telecommunications services
widely available to more parts of the nation than at the present. The



- 41 -                           ANNEX VIII
Page Z
expansion of telecommunications infrastructure, facilities and services will
require better qualified and adequately trained personnel who bave relevant
exposure to modern telecommunications technology. The project will update
earlier studies and embody these aspects in the curricula and also provide the
training for selected higher level technical and management personnel for
telecommunications work. The trained personnel will, subsequently transfer on
to the local level the technology acquired from their training experience.
D. Methodology
5.        Local consultants will be hired to review available manpower devel-
opment programs in the sector. Moreover, the Ministry and the National
Telecommunications Commission will undertake technical cooperation agreements,
or bilateral agreements with foreign regulatory agencies and operating compa-
nies for the exchange of personnel who will undergo on-site training in
required areas of specialization. This will allow, as well, the staff to
avail of foreign expertise in required specialized areas.



- 42 -                             age  IX
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Disbursement Projections
Disbursement profile for
Estimated cumulative             technical assistance
project disbursements            projects Bankwide
Z of
FY/Semester           US$ million       total               Z of total
/a           lb
FY85
2nd                      1.0             0                0
FY86
Ist                      1.3            10                7
2nd                      1.6            20                10
FY87
lst                      2.0            33                17
2nd                      2.4            47                27
FY88
Ist                      2.8            60                33
2nd                      3.2            73                43
FY89
lst                      3.5            83                53
2nd                      3.8            93                63
FY90
1st                      4.0           100                70
2nd                                                       77
FY91
1s t                                                      83
2nd                                                       90
FY92
1st                                                       93
2nd                                                       97
FY93
1st                                                      100
/a Including $1.0 million reimbursement to the PPF.
/b Excluding $1.0 million reimbursement to the PPF.



IBRC6   17234
e         I S%%IF   Asilo I"%.)I PR.%I %4 I             120'                                                      12 4-                                                    J.U:E Id3
H5S *.I-.IH XlIFII '.1 Rl 1.l!*%S
NCR       i&rlo\SL      I    lfl .lIl.I
I ILth1.s                Vl sI '11 R        "V
PHILIPPINES
20.                                                                                                                                                                                      20'
Voil O'..itntc
viii    %I5                                                                                         r~n.lB.,d,.
Il   RSLi 1. IN       IX    iIl R% Ij%11! s,                                                                  .
IV  -Y r nd! K%.e, 1.  -S.,                                                                                             Nd
!-..c...- *s                   a n.? ...e.i
Vlll~     ~ I                                         I  I   }\
*,.,-.*, cc......                                                                      0     50o   100   Ir   1200   250   300
MILES.
*1-                                                                            C          50         100        15        200
XI ~E~              Io 
:c.e .. .->.. ..,o., -S.,
t~~~~~~. r  c :r. ?_                                   '0                                                                                              N
R-!.- ZSe.--                                               
3"'4                   XII V.I,EI:.\,                                                z 
IV 
12- jr.u-                                                                                                                                                                    12 __|s >5f.rn-U-   \ ig  1
VI                                                  Tcoa
t e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..b.                                           f        ICTORbd,1
e.,                - iX-  s                   _.                         cco,.               /         cZ           5           00        10 
.W^:otOcc.c-fJi  ~ s~E -~-             I | t  1' ,, rn<2 ccn      .
01B1 [ IPPINFS
120' n2' 1S






