Doeunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL ISE ONLY
Report No. 9609
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
*                       ''TELECOMMIUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2495-PH)
MAY 31, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Technical Department
Asia Re ional Office
This document nas a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -    Peso (P)
US$1.00            -    P 20.00 (SAR)
P 1.00            -    US$0.05 (SAR)
US$1.0             a    P 23.5 (Project Composite)
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DOTC     -       Department of Transport and Communication
MOTC     -       Ministry of Transport and Communication
NTC      -      Na*ional Telecommunication Commission
OECF     -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PPF      -       Project Preparation Facility
SAR      -       Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OmCIAL UE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Omce co DMetfw.Gc~l
Opeitrmms it '.alt"1M
May 31, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Philippines
Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2495-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Philippines - Telecommunications Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2495-PH)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of t'ne
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
'~~
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2495-PH)
PRCJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background .1...  .  .      .e......t: .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objective~s end DescriptLon ..  # .       .  .    . . . ..   .       2
Project Design and 0Organization   .            ......  .......              2
Project Implementattin  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .     3
Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .                     4
Project Sustainability .... . . . ...                                        5
Bank Perforaance .nc. . .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  5
Borrower's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 6
Project Relationship.. . . . . .....                                         6
Consulting Services   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  6
Project Documents and Data. . .                        .     .. . .  .       7
Part II of the PCR ....  .           ........          ....... .             7
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . .                 8
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . .                        10
Related Bank Loans ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  10
Project Timetable   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .    .  10
Loan Disbursement .................... .                                   11
Project Cost and Financing  .....   ...........  .                         12
Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..           .    . . . . . . .  .      13
Status of Covenants. .                         . .                .     .    14
Use of Bank Resources  .......   ...... ...  .15
A. Staff Input . ..... .. .....         .. .. .                        15
B.  Missions ...... .   .   . . ........                              16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2495-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Telecommunication
Technical AssistanceeProiect in the Philippines for which Loan 2495-PH in the
amount of US$4.0 million was approved on February 19, 1985. With the
cancellation of US$45,065.31, the loan was closed on December 3, 1990. The
last disbursement was made on November 29, 1990.
The PCR, excluding Part II was jointly prepared by the Indtustry and
Energy Division of Country Department and the Industry, Trade and Finance
Division of the Technical Department, both of the Asia Regional Office.
Part II was prepared jointly by the Department of Transportation and the
National Telecommunication Commission.
Preparation of this PCR was started in March 1990 after return of the
final supervision mission. The report is based on, inter alia, the
President's Report, the Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports, correspondence
between the Bank and Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATION TECHNICAL ASSISTAi.CE PROJECT (LOAN 2495-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
1.       The project's objectives were to:  (i) improve the regulatory
framework and strengthen the National Telecommunication Commission's (NTC's)
organizational structure; (ii) lay the groundwork for rationalizing the
telephone tariff structure and levels; (iii) develop procedures and facilities
for the efficient management of radio frequencies; (iv) improve network
planning based on realistic demand forecasts and available technology; and
(v) expand training to ensure the availability of qualified staff (Part I.
para. 3.1).
Implementation Experience
2.       Project implementation was well planned, but a gap between the intent
of the terms of reference and the reality of NTC's underlying problems,
coupled with unforeseen difficulties and delays, especially during the early
part of the implementation cycle, reduced the effectiveness of the project.
The disruption caused by the change in government left the consultants without
adequate support to properly perform their assignments. This was exacerbated
by somewhat misdirected efforts of the consultants (Part I, para. 4.2). The
impact of the disruptions was particularly severe on the frequency management
study. The consulting firm selected for this study was appointed in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines and awarded a contract in December 1985.
The new tovernment was intent on cancelling the contract, but ultimately let
it stand rather than lose Bank financing of the study. As a result, the study
was set back by two years. In time, progress was made in avoiding and
resolving such difficulties, and project implementation improved
correspondingly (Part I, paras. 5.1 and 5.2).
3.       The project revealed that NTC needs to improve its project management
performance. Basically, NTC must assign a well qualified, experienced and
full-time manager given the responsibility for carrying out future projects.
NTC should also begin training staff to meet its needs in this area which is
of fundamental importance to successful project executions (Part I,
para. 5.3).



- iii -
Results
4.       Taken as a whole the project can be considered a success.  Two of the
project components were only modestly successful: (i) the recommended
organizational changes to NTC have not been implemented and improved
regulatory legislation is still being prepared; and (ii) the final phases of
the tariff study have not been carried out, but useful results, such as a
tariff manual have been achieved (Part I, para. 6.2).
5.       The remaining three project components were successfully completed:
ti) NTC now has the essential elements to effectively manage the frequency
spectrum throughout the Philippines; (ii) the Government is implementing the
National Telephone Program with the help of OECF and bilateral support; and
(iii) selected NTC staff received technical and managerial training under the
project, and additional training is to be provided und-r a Japanese grant
administered by the Bank (Part I, para. 6.3).
Sustainability
6.       NTC's capacity to monitor and manage the radio frequency spectrum in
the Philippines has been enhanced with the help of the computer facilities and
other equipment supplied under the project. The existence of a well managed
frequency spectrum will bring positive benefits to the users through better
reception, less interference and similar improvements. For these benefits to
be sustained, NTC must put in operation and properly maintain its new fre-
quency management facilities and keep up a strong interest in the monitcring
and managing of the radio spectrum. This endeavor is to be supported by a
Japanese technical assistance grant which should help sustain the benefits
(Part I, para. 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.       The project highlights the need for technical assistance operations
to go further than simply identify the major areas of organizational operation
that require strengthening--and then require borrowers to engage consultants
to strengthen those areas. This project did identify the areas of NTC's
operation that required most development. However, the consultant's efforts
fell short of realizing the improvements vlsualized at project inception.
While the change in Government that took place early in the project was
certainly a contributor to loss of project effectiveness, deficiencies in
project design was another. The consultant's inability to muster full NTC
support for their efforts and recommendations that were unable to be
implemented by NTC are indicators of that deficiency (Part I, para. 6.2-6.3).
8.       The lesson is:  To achieve meaningful results and begin a change
process that would be a catalyst for continued development, the preparation of
TA projects should consider carefully the local environment, culture,
absorptive capacity and the readiness to change of the organization under
study. Also, any legal or external administrative impediments to change need
to be known. The project design, including its implementation strategy, must
then be crafted taking these characteristics into account (Part I, para. 6.4).



PH:LIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOA-N 2495-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
1.       Proiect Identity
Project Name:                   Telecommunications T.A. Project
Loan No:                        2495-PH
RVP Unit:                       Asia
Country:                        Philippines
Sector:                         Communications
Subsector:                      Telecommunications
2.       Background
2.1      The Philippine telecommunication sector appraised by the Bank in 1984
comprised mostly private companies which had obtained franchises from the
Government and operating permits from the National Telecommunication
Commission (NTC), the sector regulating body within the Department of
Transportation and Communication (DOTC).1/ Although some improvements were
starting to be instituted, the sector as a whole was still being badly
administered and regulated.  There was excessive fragmentation with dupli-
cation of services, lack of any economy of scale provisions, low service
standards and virtually no coordination of the facilities furnished by the
private companies. In addition, little attention was given to the provision
of a nationwide network. The private companies with the capability con-
centrated their activities in the profitable areas (e.g. Metro Manila) and in
providing the more profitable services (long distance and international
telephone and telex).
2.2      MOTC was established in 1979 to carry out improvements in the sector.
In 1982 it drew up, with the assistance of telecommunication experts, a
National Telecommunication Plan (NTP) covering the period 1983 to 2000. The
main initial objectives were the intercotmection of all telephone installa-
tions in the country. a significant increase in the traffic handling capacity
of long distance transmission facilities and the provision of facilities to
meet at least 80 of the demand for telephone connections. The plan was to be
implemented in staged phases. Phase I covering the period 1984 to 1988, was
developed with the financial assistance of two US$500,000 Bank project
preparation facilities (eventually included under this loan) and carried an
estimated price tag of US$1.7 billion. The deteriorating economy caused the
1/ Prior to the change of Government in 1986 and the subsequent reorganiza-
tion, DOTC was the Ministry of Transportation and Communication (MOTC).



- 2 -
plan to be scaled down to US$186 million, but worsening economic conditions
forced the Government to postpone completely all further investments in the
sector.
2.3      The project under review evolved out of the preparation of Phase I of
the NTP. When it became apparent that sector investments had to be completely
curtailed, it was agreed with the Government that the Bank would support a
technical assistance project which would focus on institutional and policy
improvements. Negotiations for the project were completed on January 14,
1985.
3.       Project Obiectives and Description
3.1      The main objective of the project was to strengthen NTC to enable it
to more effectively ,egulate the sector. In that regard, the project sought
to ti) improve the regulatory framework and strengthen NTC's organizational
structure; (ii) lay the groundwork for rationalizing the telephone tariff
structure and levels; (iii) develop procedures and facilities for the
efficient management of radio frequencies; (iv) improve network planning based
on realistic demand forecasts and available technology; and (v' expand
training to ensure the availability of qualified staff. It was viewed that
even if no major investment program was undertaken, the project would bring
substantial benefits to the sector through improved regulation resulting in
greater coordination of effort by the various telecommunications operators.
3.2      The project provided consulting services and equipment for:
(a) strengthening NTC's ability to promote sound sector development and
regulation;
(b) carrying out a tariff study;
(c) strengthening NTC's ability to manage the radio frequency spectrum;
and
(d) updating MOTC's National Telecommunications Plan (NTP) on the basis
of demand and technology changes.
Funds were also provided for carrying out a comprehensive training program.
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.1      The project was conceived as the best mJnimum cost alternative to the
sector investment program which was abandoned because of the prevailing
economic crisis. In this context, the project was desigr.ed to bring about
institutional and policy reforms which would bring maximum benefits to the
sector in the absence of the previously planned sector investment. The
Government and the Bank were fully agreed on the scope and objectives of the
project.



4.2      Project preparation and organization was generally satisfactory,
although it was deficient in one important respect. The project's scope and
content were incorporated in clearly defined project components.
Implementation responsibility was assigned to DOTC which appointed a project
manager with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The role and
responsibilities of consultants were set forth in terms of reference prepared
by Bank staff. These arrangements should normally have resulted in a
relatively trouble-free project. However, the project design was deficient in
not having made an adequate assessment of NTC's institutional capacity and
underlying organizational culture or constraints contributing to its poor
performance. The problem was, of course, exacerbated by the change in
Government which disrupted the project, and this could not reasonably have
been foreseen.
5.       Project Implementation
5.1      Project implementation was initially well planned but the unforseen
change in Government disrupted the process and contributed to delays. This,
plus the effect of superficial terms of reference diluted the anticipated
benefits of some components. Initially two foreign consultant firms were
selected in a timely manner, in accordance with Bank guidelines, to undertake
the project studies. The first firm began work on December 15, 1985 but
encountered implementation problems with regard to the institutional
strengthening and tariff components of the project. The change in Government
and resultant changes in key NTC and DOTC staff left the consultants without
the strong support needed to properly perform their tasks. Also, without
approval of the Congress, NTC was unable to implement organizational changes
recommended by the consultants, and attempts to obtain that agreement were not
successful. The tariff study component was adversely affected when earlier
recommendations by local consultants were rejected by the Government and the
industry and resulted in the need to redefine the terms of reference for the
foreign consultants which reduced the intended effectiveness of their work.
5.2      The change in Government and subsequent changes in management in NTC
and MOTC also affected the work of the second firm. This firm was selected in
December 1985 to undertake the frequency management study, but approval to
proceed was deferred for two years while the incoming Government sought to
reverse the previous selection decision. Finally the Government agreed to
proceed with the originally selected firm which was able to start work in
January 1988. This delay necessitated an extension of the loan closing date
and was an indirect factor in the breakdown of contract negotiations with a
local consultant counterpart and the subsequent inability of NTC to complete
this project component by loan closing. A further factor was the poor
communication between NTC and the consultant.
5.3      The task of project m4uager was assigned by the Government to MOTC
which in turn assigned this task to NTC, the implementing agc .y. Day-to-day
responsibility for project management within NTC varied over he project
period but was usually vested with a Deputy Commissioner, the Commissioner
retaining overall responsibility. On occasions when a separate coordinator
was appointed, with more time to oversight the project, project management



- 4 -
improved. In retrospect, the appointment of a project manager whose primary
responsibilities were concerned with management uf the project could have
improved project implementation
6.       ProeLtRe s
6.1      In general, the project was successful although individual components
achieved mixed results.
6.2      The first two project components are unlikely to fully achieve their
intended objectives. The first component, a study aimed at strengthening NTC's
regulatory capacity, has been completed, but NTC has been unable to implement
the consultant's recommendations on a revised organizational structure because
of the lack of government approval. However, as legislation to strengthen NTC,
currently under consideration by Congress, requires a review of NTC's organiza-
tional structure, it is likely that changes based on the consultant's recom-
mendations will eventually be implemented. It is less clear whether the con-
sultant's work under the second component, a rationalization of sector tariffs,
uill manifest in any tangible improvements. Under this component, foreign
consultants were to participate in Phases III to V of a six phase study being
lead by local consultants. It was intended that this scudy develop a plan to
rationalize the sector tariff structure. Phases I and II recommended the
restructuring of the sector structure and implementation of new tariff arrange-
ments, but these recommendations were not accepted by the Government or the
industry; and Phase III, a study on the application of Usage Sensitive Pricing,
intended to be undertaken jointly with the foreign counterparts, was completed
beforehand by the local firm. In the light of these events the foreign
consultant's efforts were redirected (with Bank agreement) to developing a
tariff manual to provide NTC with the necessary operational tools for the proper
evaluation and formulation of tariffs under the existing structure. This work
was completed. Under Phases V and VI local consultants were to conduct a final
review of the tariff process and help .ITC develop a data base and computerized
tariff evaluation system. These phases have yet to be completed.
6.3      The three other project components were more successful.  The third
component, which was aimed at improving frequency management, has provided NTC
with:  (i) a computer system to help streamline the issue of licenses;2/
(ii) the methodology for rationalizing the f-equency spectrum and improving the
efficiency of future frequency allocations; and (iii) equipment and procedures
for monitoring and cleaning up the frequency spectrum in and around Manila.
Although at loan closing NTC was still working to finalize the computer system
and put it into operation, once this system is working NTC will have the es-
sential elements needed to properly manage the frequency spectrum in Manila, and
the procedures to improve spectrum management throughout the Philippines. The
fourth component, revision of the NTP, has been completed. The DOTC has used
the revised plan as the basis of their National Telephone Program which is
designed to provide improved telephone coverage in the areas of Regions III
through XII lacking facilities. The Government is implementing this plan with
the help of OECF and bilateral support. The fifth component, the training
program, has provided selected NTC staff with training over a range of
2/  With reference to the borrower's comments in Part II, pera. 96, the project was designed to
lift the stp dard of NTC's frequency management In Metro Manila through training and
provision of basic facilities. Apart from not completing the computer system, the project
provided the necessary training and facilities to meet its objectives. The horrower
correctly points out, however, that far more needs to be done to enable NTC to provide, to
an acceptable standard, frequency management throughout the Philippines.



-5-
appropriate technical r. I managerial areas. One shortcoming of this program
was that courses provicz%g training on regulatory processes appropriate to NTC
staff could not be found. To overcome this limitation it was proposed that
specialized training, to meet NTZ's specific needs, be developed and presented
through a range of seminars in Marila. This arrangement had to be postponed,
however, due to late changes in key Commission staff and pending legislation
which promised further management changes. It is now proposed that training
of this type be provided under technical assistance funded through a separate
Japanese grant administered by the Bank.
6.4      Overall, as indicated earlier (pars. 4.2), insufficient attention was
given during project preparation to what would in reality be achieved in view
of NTC's institutional constraints and fundamental organizational weaknesses.
While the consultants' terms of reference focussed on key problem areas, they
did not take adequate account of NTC's underlying problems. Consequently, the
consultants' expectations if NTC's performance were unrealistically high and
their unfamiliarity with the local culture masked many of the underlying prob-
lems causing a lack of effective communication between the two and further
masking the causes. Thus, some of the consultant's recommendatioans were not
immediately appropriate, or were not implementable in the short term.
7.       Project Sustainability
7.1      NTC's capacity to monitor and manage the radio frequency spectrum in
the Philippines has been enhanced with the help of the computer facilities and
other equipment supplied by the project. The availabil'.ty of a well managed
frequency spectrum will bring positive benefits to the users through better
reception, less interference and similar improvements. For these benefits to
be sustained, NTC will have to put in operation and properly maintain its new
freqtvncy management facilities and keep up a strong interest in the monitor-
ing and managing of the radio spectrum. This endeavor is to be supported by a
Japanese technical assistance grant which should help sustain the benefits.
8.       Bank Performance
8.1      Although the Bank had received earlier requests from the Government
to help develop the country's telecommunication sector, it was 1982 that a
Bank identification mission first visited the PhA.ilppines. The Bank then
concluded that the time was appropriate for addressing the telecommunication
sector's technical, institutional and policy issues. With this objective, the
Bank devoted a considerable effort into shaping an investment program designed
to promote its sector aims. The Bank's performance during this period was
constructive and to some extent essential to the development of a modern and
efficient telecommunication system.
8.2      However, because of severe resource constraints, the investment
program had to be abandoned and a stop-gap technical assistance project
substituted instead. It can be seen in retrospect that possibly because of an
urgency to salvage some of the institutional and policy aspects of the



investment program, the Bank's preparation of the technical assistance project
lacked thoroughness in defining its content and execution. This deficiency
was further compounded by ineffective Bank supervision, both in terms of the
number and duration of the missions and their staffing, during the critical
first two years of the project. In particular, the Bank did not at any time
field an expert on regulation, although such an expert should have played a
key role in supervising the project early on. From 1987 on Bank supervision
improved in all respects, and this was reflected in the implementation of the
project. In fact, it was the belated but strong Bank supervision effort which
can take credit for a good share of the project progress during the ensuing
years.
9.       Borrower's Performance
9.1      The borrower's performance was affected to a large degree by the
unforseen change in Government and resultant changes in key DOTC and NTC
management and staff. As the project had been prepared under the previous
government, the new administration lacked ownershii of the project and this
impacted negatively on project management. Without a strong attachment to the
project and faced with more serious policy problems, the new management was
unable to take timely decisions on many of the consultant's recommendations
and this sometimes reduced the effectiveness of the consultant's ongoing work.
Also, while staff were appointed to manage the various project components in
the early stages man7 lacked the background and skills needed to address the
complex issues that evolved during day-to-day interactions. Following changes
in NTC management late in the project, project management improved markedly
thereby enabling urgent actions on the frequency management component to be
taken which significantly advanced that component almost to the stage of
completion by loan closing.
10.      Proiect Relationships
10.1     The Bank's current good working relationship with Government and NTC
officials has had a positive impact on the quality and pace of project
implementation. This relationship was slow in developing, a natural
consequence of the fact that the project was the Bank's first lending
operation in the telecommunication sector and the disruptive policy and
personnel changes which accompanied the change in Government. NTC's
relationship with consultants appears to have followed the same course as the
Bank's with a similar impact on project implementation.
11.      Consulting Services
11.1     Consultants assigned to the project carried out their assignments
satisfactorily within the constraints noted earlier (Part I, paras. 5 and 6).



7-
12.      Proiect Documentation
12.1     The project's legal documents were definitive and well drawn up.
There was no Staff Appraisal Report, but the President's Report gave a good
account of the background, evolution and objectives of the project. As noted
in para. 8.2, the Bank could have been more precise in preparing the project,
but this was not a major deficiency; it could have been corrected by a more
active and properly directed supervision effort in the early stages of
implementation. Draft terms of reference prepared by the Bank were effective
in defining the duties and responsibilities of the consultants assigned to the
project.
12.2     The Borrower's quarterly reports were too infrequent to be of much
help in following the project's progress. On the other hand, the Bank's
supervision reports were generally comprehensive and informative. However, it
should be noted as a general comment that the format and content of both
supervision and periodic progress reports should be expanded to include the
statistical data required for Part III of the PCR. A statement defining the
statistical data requirement should be included in the reporting requirement
for all future projects. Ready access to the pertinent statistical data would
simplify and possibly also improve the quality of PCRs.
13.      Part II of the CPR
13.1     Part II of this PCR was prepared jointly by DATC and NTC.  The views
they express in Part II are in general agreement with the Bank's evaluation of
the projects execution. Some clarification is needed, however, with regard to
the disbursement difficulties noted in para. C of Part II. The Borrower's
difficulty in the disbursement of funds amounting to less than US$20,000 was
mainly due to the following:
(a) approval to open a Special Account for the project was initially
withheld pending resolution of differences with the Bank over a
consultant appointment (para. 5.2);
(b) su'jsequently, when a Special Account could have been opened, NTC
chose not to do so; and
(c) in accordance with Bank policy, the minimum size of loan withdrawal
applications is US$20,000 equivalent, although a number of
applications less than this amount were processed for the project,
especially final payments to suppliers.



PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2495-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II
(As prepared by NTC, the implementing Agency)
A.  Confirmation of the Adequacy and Accuracy of the Factual Information
contained in Part III of the Project Completion Report.
Borrower confirms the adequacy and accuracy of the factual information in
Part III of the Project Completion Report (PCR).
B.   Comments on the Analysis in Part I
1. We (Borrower) fully agree with the objectiveness set forth in the PCR
Evaluation Summary.
2. Implementation Experience
We fully agree with the content.
3.  While we fully agree with the analysis made, we want to add that not
only a well-qualified, experienced and full-time manager is needed to
be assigned to carry out future projects, but also one will have a
fixed tenure of service (removable only for cause) and should be
supported by a staff which should also be given a fixed term of
office and most important, a funding support not only from the
foreign source but also from local source as counterpart funCes.
4. We would like to consider, as a whole, the project as fairly
successful. As stated, the recommended organizational change to NTC
have not been implemented, the final phase of the tariff study had
not been carried out and the recommended regulatory legislation to
lstrengthen NTC is still undergoing public hearing in Congress.
5. We fully agree to comments (ii) and (iii) (para. 6.3 of Part I], but
we want to disagree with (i). NTC still lacks some essential
elements to effectively manage the frequency spectrum throughout the
Philippines. The reasons is that the essential element needed for an
effective Frequency Management such as nationwide   Radio Frequency



- 9 -
Monitoring System, technical standards laboratory for type-
acceptance/approval test of radio communication equipment and
computerized systems and procedures for automated frequency
managemeiut analysis are not yet completed.
6.  Sustainability
While we agree with the observation made hereto, we would like to
stress the need for additional technical assistance grant to bring
into existence a well    aged frequency spectrum in the Philippines.
7. Findings and Lessons Learned
We fully agree with the analysis made.
C.   Evaluation of the Bank's Performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned
that maybe relevant for the future.
The Borrower encountered difficulties in disbursement of funds costing
less than $20,000. Furthermore, we cannot provide Philippine counterpart
funds for goods and services to be acquired within the country due to
financial constraints and unavailability of such funds locally.
D.   Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned
that may be relevant for the future.
The Commission's inability to manage various projects are affected by
frequent reshuffling of personnel and the lack of pernanency of the head
of agency. Timely decisions cannot be fixed due to lack of juris-
dictional authority of working staff for a certain project. It is
recommended as far as practicable the designation or assignment of full-
time project managers be made for future projects.
E.   Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Relationship between the Bank and
the Borrower during the evolution and implementation of the Project.
There existed a good working relationship as both Borrower and the Bank
experts executed all efforts to effectively carry out its goals and
objectives in spite of all the constraints enumerated.
Aloysius R. Santos
Project Manager



- 10 -
PHILIPPINES
TELECOMMUNICATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2495-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III
1.       Related Bank Loans
(None)
2.       Project Timetable
Item                  Date Planned          Date Actual
Identification           May 1982              May 1982
Preparation              November 1983         April 1984
Appraisal Mission        April 1984
Loan Negotiations        December 10, 1989      January 1985
Board Approval           January 1985          February 19, 1985
Loan Signature           March 1985            April 2, 1985
Loan Effectiveness       May 1985               July 1985
Loan Closing             June 30, 1989          September 30, 1990
Project Completion       June 30, 1989          Sept. 30, 1991 (est)



- Ul -
3.       Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD fiscal year              Actual            Appraisal      Actual as X
and semester             disbursement         estimate       of av2raisal
1986
December 31, 1985            1.00                1.3               8
June 30, 1986                1.27                1.6              79
1987
December 31, 1986            1.38                2.0              69
June 30, 1988                1.95                3.2              65
1988
December 31, 1987            2.19                2.8              70
June 30, 1988                2.19                3.2              65
1989
December 31, 1988            2.42                3.5              69
June 30, 1989                2.69                3.8              77
1990
December 30, 1989            3.15                4.0              79
June 30, 1990                3.27                4.0              82
1991
December 31, 1990            3.96                4.0              96
Closing Date:                9/30/90              6/30/89
Final disbursement: November 29, 1990
Cancellation: US$45,065.31 undisbursed balance on December 3, 1990.
4.       Project Implementation
See discussion in Part I.



- 12 _
S.       Pro1ect Cost and Financing
A. ComDarison of SAR and Final Proiect Cost
(Us$ '000)
-Appraisal Estimate--    -----Final Cost-
Local  Foreign  Totat    Local  Foreign  Total
Strengthening of NTC              92      432      522      92       432      524
Tariff study                      90      216      306      90       216      306
Radio frequency management:
Consultancy                    130      576      706      70       752      822
Equipment and services         208      700      908      90    1,115   1,205
Updating of network plan          60        72     132       60      149      209
Training                          60      250      310       5       192      197
Subtotal La            638    2,246   2.884       407    2.856   3,263
Physical contingencies             -      225      225        -        -        -
Price contingencies              162      529      691        -        -        -
Refinancing of PPF                 -    1,000   1.000         -    1,099   1,099
Total Proiect Cost           80Q    gQ        "Q 6Q                   A43
La Local final costs are estimated.
B. Project Financing
(US$ '000)
Appraisal Estimate           Actual Funds
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
IBRD                               -    4,000   4.000        -    3.955   3,955
Government                       800         -     800      407        -      407
Total                       Ag    LAQ    jjgg         Q        2



- 13 _
6.       Project Results
(See discussion in Part I).
Studies
Purpose as Defined
Study          at Appraisal                   Status             Impact of Study
1.       Determine appropriate    Partly completed.  The         Moderate.  When
organizational structure study proposed changes        implemented
and recommend legisla-   to the staffing and           will provide a
tive changes to            organizational structure   foundation for
strengthen NTC's           of NTC.  The recommend-    improved NTC
capacity to regulate.    ations have been ac-          operation.
cepted in principle but
not implemented (see
Comment below).
2.       Review NTC's tariff set- Four of the six phases        Minimal.
ting principles and        of the study have been
their effect on opera-   completed.  Consultant
tors and recommend im-   recommendations were not
provements.                fully accepted by the
Government or industry.
3.       Update the National        Study completed and used   High.  Expected
Telecommunications         as the basis for Govern-   to result in
Plan.                     ment development plans.    provision of
about 128,000
lines of new
telephone ex-
change equip-
ment in poorly
served provin-
cial areas.
4.       Make Recommendations on, Study completed and            Potentially
and assist NTC in, im-   recommends methodology        high.  Impact
proving the management   for improving efficiency   will depend on
of the frequency           of frequency alloca-        NTC's comple-
spectrum.                  tions.  NTC has accepted   tion of the
most recommendations.       computer system
and implementa-
tion of consul-
tant's recom-
mendations.



- 14 -
Comment: The consultant's terms of reference did not require their
preparation of draft legislation for improvement of sector regulation as
originally intended by the project. However, because in the course of the
project various legislative proposals for strengthening the NTC and clarifying
the sector's policies were drafted separately through political initiatives,
the Bank did not push for compliance with covenants on this point. At loan
closing the legislative proposals were in various stages of review by
Congress. Specialist regulatory advice in relation to those initiatives was
provided by consultants engaged under an Asian Development Bank Technical
Assistance project implemented on the basis of the World Bank's
recommendations to DOTC.
7.       Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement
_    Section                         Covenant               Comnliance/Comment
3.02 (a)    The Borrower shall appoint in MOTC not later    Complied
than May 31, 1985 a qualified project
manager.
3.02 (b)    Borrower through appropriate legislation          Not complied.  See
ensure (i) that NPC  possesses the full           Comment under
range of functions and powers to regulate,        'Studies", Section
supervise and administer the telecommunica-       6 of Part III.
tion sector and (ii) that existing legisla-
tion, decrees and regulations are updated
and incorporated into a comprehensive
telecommunications and broadcasting code.
3.04 (a)    The Borrower shall ensure that MOTC enters        Complied but not
into contracts for consultants' services on       as originally
or before September 30, 1985.                     scheduled.
3.04 (b)    The Borrower shall consult with the Bank on       Complied.
the conclusion and recommendations made by
the consultants and shall implement such
recommendations in a manner and in accord-
ance with a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 15 -
8.       Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Task                            Input (Staffweeks) /a
Project preparation
Project appraisal
Loan negotiation                                5.8
Loan processing                                 5.0
Project supervision                            53.0
Project completion report                       4.9
Project administration                          4.5
TOTAL                               73.2
la Excludes staff input prior to FY85. Data for prior years is unavailable.



- 16 -
B. Missions
Stage of
project   Month/   No. of   Days in   Speciali-   Performance   Type of
cycle     year      persons  field La  zation Lb    rating /c    problems /d
Through appraisal
05/82       2         8        E,FA            -              -
02/83       1        15        LO               -             -
06/83       1        2'        E                -             -
09/83       1         7        E                -
11/83       1        12        E                -              -
04/84       2         7        E,FA             -             -
Through effectiveness
01/85       1         3        CON             -              -
Supervision
11/85       1         3        EC               -             _
05186       1         5        E               1              -
11/86       1         3        EC              3             OS
02/87       3        15        E,FA,EC         2             Os
07/87       3         7       E,FA,EC          2             OS
11/87       3         4        E,EC,EC         2             OS
06/88       2        21        E,FA            2             OS
11/88       2        16        E,FA            2             Os
04/89       1        16        E               2             OS
09/89       1        11        E               2             Os
03/90       1        13        E               2             Os
07/90       1        14        E               2             OS
La   Includes time devoted to other operations in the country.
/b  E - Engineer, EC - Economist, FA - Financial Analyst, CON - Consultant,
LO = Loan Officer.
/c   1 - No or minor problems, 2 - Minor problems, 3 - Major problems being
taken care of.
It OS - Overall status.



