Document of
The World Bank                           co
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2842-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 4, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bnk authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it has
fluctuated around Mex$22.60 to the US dollar since mid 1977. On May 21, 1980,
the peso traded at 22.80 per US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
ACF       -    Average cost of term funds to multipurpose banks (excluding
checking and savings accounts) which stood at 19.8 in April, 1980.
CENAPRO   -    Centro Nacional de la Productividad
(National Productivity Center)
CONACYT   -    Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
(National Science and Technology Council)
FIDEIN    -    Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales
y Centros Comerciales
(Fund for Industrial Estates and Commercial Centers)
FOGAIN    -    Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequeina
(Fund for Guarantees and Development of Medium and Small-
Scale Industry)
FOMEX     -    Fondo para el Fomento a las Exportaciones
de Productos Manufacturados
(Fund for Export Development of Manufactured Products)
FOMIN     -    Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
(National Fund for Industrial Development)
FONEI     -    Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
(Industrial Equipment Fund)
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
IMIT      -    Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnol6gicas
(Mexican Technological Research Institute)
INFOTEC   -    ServLcio de Informaci6n y Tecnologia
(Information and Technology Service)
NAFINSA   -    Nacional Financiera, S.A.
SAHOP     -    Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Piblicas
(Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:             United Mexican States
Beneficiary:           NAFINSA in its own right and as trustee for FOGAIN,
FOMIN and FIDEIN, Federal Government trust funds
created to serve the needs of small and medium-scale
industrial enterprises.
Amount:                US$100 million equivalent
Terms:                 Seventeen years, including four years of grace, and
interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
Project Description:  The project aims at expanding the production capacity
and improving the efficiency of small and medium-scale
industrial enterprises by means of a comprehensive
program of technical and financial assistance. Special
emphasis would be given to meeting the needs of enter-
prises located outside the main urban concentrations.
FOGAIN would provide credit through financial inter-
mediaries and guarantee credit from financial inter-
mediaries to finance fixed assets and associated working
capital; minority equity capital and financial assistance
with equity features would be provided directly by FOMIN;
factory buildings, common service facilities and equipment
leasing services on industrial estates would be provided
through FIDEIN; technical assistance would be provided by
Nacional Financiera and other specialized institutions.
The project faces a moderate level of risk; some compo-
nents may develop more slowly than others.
Relending Terms:       FOGAIN would lend in local currency through financial inter-
mediaries. Interest rates to final borrowers would
initially be the following:
…---------------…% per year…------------------
Small              Medium Enterprises
Enterprises   Priority Activities  Non-priority
Zone I (areas of development)       14                15                 18
Zone II (States of priority)         14               17                 19
Zone III (areas of controlled
growth, 2Iexico City, etc.)       21                22                 22
Rest of Country                      17               19                 21
Interest rates would be adjusted at least once a year
so that their average would be one percentage
point above the average ACF over a 12 month period.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipitnts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Total Cost of Subprojects (in millions of US$ equivalent)
Foreign    Local    Total
Imported Equipment                           79.6         -       79.6
Local Equipment                              18.5       43.0       61.5
Construction                                  6.4       57.4       63.8
Working Capital Increases                     5.0       45.2       50.2
Technical Assistance                          3.1       12.4       15.5
Guarantee Fund                                 -         2.0        2.0
112.6      160.0     272.6
Sources of Financing (in millions of US$ equivalent)
Bank      Local
Financing  Financing   Total
Beneficiary Enterprises                       -         54.5       54.5
Financial Intermediaries                      -         22.4       22.4
Financing under Project                    100.0        95.7      195.7
of which:  FOGAIN                    (70.0)      (59.3)   (129.3)
FOMIN                    (16.0)      (13.1)   ( 29.1)
FIDEIN                   (12.0)      ( 9.8)   ( 21.8)
Technical Assistance    ( 2.0)       (13.5)   ( 15.5)
100.0       172.6     272.6
Disbursements:          The loan is expected to be disbursed as follows:
…------- US$ millions----------
IBRD Fiscal Year       1981      1982      1983     1984
Annual                  15        50        32          3
Cumulative              15        65        97        100
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:  2947-ME of May 30, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) with the guarantee of United
Mexican States for the equivalent of US$100 million to help finance a Second
Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development project. The loan would bear
interest at 8.25 percent per annum and would have a repayment period of 17
years, including 4 years of grace. US$70 million of the proposed loan would
be onlent to industrial enterprises through FOGAIN, a trust fund managed by
NAFINSA for the Federal Government, in pesos at fixed rates of interest
averaging at least one percentage point above the average cost of term funds
(ACF) to multipurpose banks over a twelve-month period. NAFINSA would carry
the foreign exchange risk.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is now preparing its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was very
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP growth exceeded
6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than 5 percent per
year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the peso, fixed in
1954, was maintained until 1976.  The Government's economic role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. The incomes of poor farmers and marginal urban
dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have been
lagging behind. There was therefore little reduction in contrasts within
the Mexican economy. While land redistribution has continued, most of the
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Apatzingan Irrigation Project (Report P-2766-ME of May 9, 1980).



- 2 -
peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as they received only limited benefits from infrastructure, credit and
technical assistance. Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of almost
3.5 percent per year by the mid-1970s, made social equity even more difficult
to achieve. Even Mexico's sustained economic growth was not sufficient to
absorb the rapidly growing labor force in productive employment and by the early
1970s some 50 percent of the labor force was either relatively unproductive
and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight and
a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped to less
than 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced since the mid-thirties.
On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the fixed exchange rate of
12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged since 1954 and let the
peso float; since then it has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating
around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following the devaluation, Ifexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation.  High
inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing foreign indebtedness
and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a need for economic
stabilization. However, the situation also called for more expansionary
policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment was
virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world prices
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the only way
to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming
years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleun
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable
levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector were important
parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 18 and 20 percent
in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost 30 percent
in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments peaked
at $4.2 billion (or 6 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined to $1.9 billion
(equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil prospects and
increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in imports reflecting
both the resolve to reduce protectionism and the growing demand for capital



- 3 -
and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the economy depends.
The current account deficit increased to US$2.9 billion (or 3.1 percent of
GDP) in 1978 and further to an estimated US$3.8 billion (under 3.5 percent
of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 6 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered at a strong pace. GDP growth is estimated
at about 7 percent in 1978 and 8 percent in 1979 as compared to less than
1 percent in 1977.
9.        The growth outlook for 1980 continues to be favorable and the
economy should increase at about 8 percent, but inflation will remain a
problem, essentially as a result of investments which are increasing at a
rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. These investments call
for continued increase in imports of capital and intermediate goods. The
import program will put a severe strain on the existing infrastructure
capacity, especially ports and rail transport in which bottlenecks already
exist. Additional strain on the transport system is likely to come from
the large imports of grains as a result of a bad crop this year.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in reducing inflation
below 20 percent may come from the wage area. The recently agreed increase in
the minimum wage of about 21 percent, after three consecutive years of decline
in real wages, while not automatically reflected in the total wage bill, is
likely to establish a floor in union bargaining within the modern sector and
contribute to a cost push which might be passed on to consumers.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits. The cumulative increase in the consumer
price index in 1980, through March 31, of about 9.5 percent, resulting in
part from seasonal factors and in part from the newly introduced value-added
tax, may adversely affect expectations about inflation. At the same time,
the need to expand public investment in the key infrastructure sectors and
to maintain in real terms the current programs in the energy sectors, leaves
relatively little scope for significant adjustments in the level of public
expenditure.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mexico has the institutional and natural resources necessary to
attain her ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
acute short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s
have been brought under control; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are
estimated at about 50 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976; the stated goal
of the Government is to reach a production level of about 2.5 million bbl/day
by end of 1980, and more or less maintain it at a level that will enable
exports of 1.1 million bbl/day. This is a limit the Mexican Government is
unwilling to exceed for fear of becoming increasingly a classical "oil producer
country" with the economic and social tensions that would ensue. But even at
this production level, the challenge is how Mexico can mobilize its resources--
its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--to help resolve its
long term development problems. The most serious of these relate to poverty,
unemployment, stagnation in agriculture, and urban-regional imbalances.



13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have unevenly participated in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.4 million households (22 percent of the total)
lived in absolute poverty, while at least 2.8 million (25 percent of the total)
had incomes less than one-third the national average. The root causes of
this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally employed),
and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs.
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent at the present time. The
program is being further strengthened by the present administration, with the
ambitious goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982
and to 1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in
regard to rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new
tax incentives have reduced the anti-employment bias and efforts to stimulate
employment will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output
should also create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however,
the still rapid growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor
force (at 3.7 percent p.a.) made unavoidable by the high percentage of children
in today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a difficult
goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its consideration
several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be short-term
palliatives and preempt resources which would otherwise be available for more
investment in employment creating activities or for improving educational or
health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 8-9
percent and 40 percent of a labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a., the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
taking into account an increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms,
the present levels of under employment and unemployment are therefore likely
to remain.
16.       An Employment Development Plan was published early this year.  It
calls for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector
both in the urban and the rural areas. To increase the productivity of those
employed outside the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a
major effort will be required in the area of vocational training. Technical
assistance programs are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured
forms of activities, especially in the services sector. While there is no
doubt that the authorities are concerned about unemployment, and underemployment,
and while the institutional structure to carry out some important programs
already exist, a concentrated effort will be required to take effective action
and make better use of human resources by substantially reducing the level of
hidden and open unemployment.
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown little
growth since the mid-1960s. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive
new large-scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity
(and income per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present



-5-
administration has re-organized the parts of the Government that deal with
agriculture in order to design and implement a new strategy. This strategy
emphasizes production increases through a balanced development program.
Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration,
and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential.
Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation serving nearly one million
ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but with
a smaller portion of budget resources than in the past. The banking
system is being encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural
production and processing programs. These initiatives should lead to an
acceleration of production growth, more equal development opportunities
for Mexico's farmers, and an improvement in the living conditions of the
rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world) and other areas in
the dry, densely populated central plateau, and (b) retarded development,
poverty and great difficulty in providing either better jobs or adequate
public services for the one-third of all Mexicans who live in towns of less
than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has taken many positive steps
to confront these problems, including an administrative re-organization,
elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of a strong package of
incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon to reduce poverty and unemployment. Industry
will be a leading sector in expanding domestic production and exports. A
National Industrial Development Plan was published last year and it reflects
the serious effort of the present administration in identifying the long-term
prospects of the industrial sector and its implications for the employment
picture. Industry has the potential for considerable expansion in many areas,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products. The
Mexican Petroleum Company (PEMEX) has already started an ambitious investment
program to produce a variety of primary petrochemicals on a large scale for
both domestic consumption and exports and an equally vigorous expansion is
expected in investment for the production of secondary petrochemicals.
Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.
20.       A National Development Plan has just been published.  This Plan
marks the final step in the planning activities which the current administra-
tion has undertaken in order to obtain a more structured picture of the
economic and social problems facing the country. In the past two years,
a National Urban Development Plan and the already mentioned Industrial
Development and Employment Plans have appeared; the National Development
Plan aims at formulating a national development program reconciling the
sectoral targets and making them consistent with the general economic and
social strategy of the Government and with the availability of domestic and
foreign financial resources.
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed external debt service ratio has
been increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1978-79.
This high ratio reflects the low level of exports relative to GNP and the



high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP is average for middle-income countries. The
public debt service ratio is expected to decline to around 40 percent in the
early 1980s, not only as a result of rapid increases of petroleum exports but
also as a function of repayment of a part of debt contracted at the least
favorable terms. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 2.8 percent of
public debt service in 1978; this ratio is projected to remain about the same
during the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 5.5 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
22.       As of March 31, 1980, Mexico had received 62 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$3,635.9 million net of cancellations and terminations;
of these, 36 loans totalling US$1,710.4 million were fully disbursed. On
March 25, 1980, the Executive Directors approved a US$40.0 million loan to
assist a Small- and Medium-Scale Mining Project and a US$160 million loan for
the Apazingan Irrigation Project was approved on May 29, 1980. An agricultural
credit loan of US$325 million is now under consideration. The Bank presently
holds US$3,029.2 million of which US$1,238.0 million have not yet been disbursed.
Some 38 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development
(20 loans for US$1,356.4 million), 20 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8
million),19 percent for transportation (13 loans for US$666.7 million), and 17
percent for industry (9 loans for US$647.5 million); the remaining 6 percent
has been for water supply (US$130 million), tourism (US$114 million), and
urban development (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
23.       As of March 31, 1980, IFC had made investment commitments in
19 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$250.8 million, of which US$168.5
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments as of March 31, 1980, is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the bene-
fits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly or in-
directly, significant contributions to output and employment; and (iii) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances. Therefore, the Bank is preferentially
supporting projects of high social priority that help the rural or urban poor,
projects that promote higher levels of employment and production and those
that help to decentralize economic activity.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Apatzingan Irrigation Project (Report P-2766-ME of May 9, 1980).



- 7 -
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation rehabilitation and on-farm improvements; second, to impiove the pro-
ductivity of small farmers through programs for (a) rural development,
(b) rainfed agricultural development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid
tropics under cultivation; third, to complement infrastructure investments
with general support services including agricultural extension and marketing
programs and provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment
opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
The Bank has made eleven loans in FY74-79 totalling US$1,012 million, for
irrigation, rural development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock
credit programs. Several projects for water control and irrigation, rainfed
agriculture, rural development and support services are in preparation.
26.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) promoting
greater employment in the sector by supporting medium- and small-scale
industry; (b) helping decentralize industrial activity away from the major and
increasingly congested urban areas; and (c) supporting the Government's
efforts to promote manufactured exports and strengthen public sector enter-
prises in industry. Production of fertilizers is being increased by two Bank
assisted projects which the state-owned fertilizer company (FERTIMEX) is
carrying out. Loans for projects to promote the development of small- and
medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support an industrial equipment
fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-79; they offer
support to a broad range of industrial enterprises in the private sector at a
time of rapid expansion and job creation in manufacturing industry. The
Executive Directors recently approved a project in support of small and medium
mining enterprises which up to now have received insufficient resources from
the financial system. Two capital goods industry projects are under discussion
for possible Bank support.
27.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76) water supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A highway sector project was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79. A medium-size cities water supply project and a Fourth
Railways project have recently been appraised and are scheduled for presenta-
tion to the Executive Directors in the coming months.



- 8 -
28.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional frame-
work to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic
activities in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has adopted
a National Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional develop-
ment priorities in operational terms, and several projects are now being
prepared to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to
provide key regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such
project, to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area
on the west coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and
another project for the southeast part of the country has been appraised.
29.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$2,148 million to December 31, 1979. Over sixty percent of this lending has
gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance for
transportation, industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1979, the IDB
approved five loans totaling US$251 million for industrial credit, irrigation,
human resources, highways and export promotion projects. The IDB and the Bank
have worked in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and the
Bank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale Agricultural
Infrastructure, the Investment Program for Rural Development (PIDER), agricul-
tural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries, and hotel
development. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is
processing a rural development project in the state of Oaxaca which was
appraised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL- I AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
30.       Over the last several decades, manufacturing industry has grown
rapidly in Mexico and today plays important roles in employment, in the
balance of payments through import substitution and exports and, because of
its size, in the economy as a whole. Throughout the 1960s and early 1970s
its rate of growth was consistently above the rate of growth of GDP; by 1975,
its share of GDP was 23 percent and it employed over 17 percent of the labor
force. Rapid growth was briefly interrupted in the 1974-77 period when
conditions for investment were perceived to become less favorable by indus-
trialists: the growth rate in output declined to an average of 4 percent
annually during this period, as compared to 8 percent annually during the
1960s and early 1970s. However, recovery was rapid as the Government carried
out its stabilization program in 1977-79 and set conditions to encourage the
private sector to play an important role in investment and job creation,
particularly in industry. The strategy is aimed at reducing Mexico's high
1/   A full review of the industrial sector of Mexico may be found in "Mexico:
Manufacturing Sector - Situation, Prospects and Policies," dated May 1,
1977, Report No. 1671-ME.



_ 9-
rate of unemployment in the economy as a whole, and at absorbing the rapidly
increasing labor force in urban areas, which results from migration from rural
regions where slower growth in agriculture has limited employment opportuni-
ties.  This strategy has been successful.  Employment in industry, both private
and public, increased at over 6 percent in 1978 and over 7 percent in 1979,
substantially exceeding for the first time in many years the rate of increase
of the labor force as a whole and the rate of increase of the urban force
(about 4.7 percent annually). Growth in manufacturing output since 1977 was
induced by strong consumer demand, as well as by demand for inputs for public
sector investments in petroleum, petrochemicals, power and other fields.
31.       Growth in manufacturing output has followed a pattern which is common
to several other large developing countries. Import substitution is almost
complete in both durable and nondurable consumer goods, less so in intermediate
goods and is least well advanced in capital goods. Based on an international
comparison of prices, industrial efficiency measures well with other develop-
ing countries which have adopted import substitution strategies for industrial
development and in which protection has been considerably higher, but less
favorably with countries in East Asia which succeeded in shaping more open and
specialized economies. The import substitution approach to industrialization
used in the past depended heavily on quantitative import controls, with generally
moderate tariff levels. From 1976 the Mexican authorities sought to improve the
efficiency of the industrial sector by liberalizing imports. The number of
products subject to import licenses was reduced, and by early 1979 less than one
third of the 7,400 items in the customs nomenclature were subject to prior import
licenses. Though this proportion was further reduced to less than one fourth by
the end of 1979, the value of items still subject to licensing accounted for 60
percent of imports during that year. A significant proportion of these imports
were for public sector projects (e.g., in the petroleum and power sectors);
there have been no delays in granting import authorizations.
Industrial Development Plan
32.       The Government announced in March of 1979 a new plan to develop
industry. Its objective is to expand employment opportunities and provide a
minimum level of income to the bulk of the population. The announced strategy
is to: (i) emphasize the production of basic consumption goods required
by the majority of the population, (ii) develop priority subsectors to increase
exports and substitute imports efficiently, (iii) develop lines of industry
which process domestic primary materials or provide needed inputs -- such as
machinery and equipment -- for other branches of industry, (iv) decentralize
economic activity by encouraging investments in resource rich coastal, border
and other regions, and (v) reduce concentration of industrial ownership by
promoting medium and small-scale industries. According to the announced plan,
public sector investments in oil, power, primary petrochemicals, fertilizers,
transport and other subsectors, would provide the main thrust of an industrial



- 10 -
and economic expansion in the early 1980s. The private sector would partici-
pate by providing many of the inputs required for the expansion of public
sector enterprises -- including capital goods -- and would benefit from energy
and petrochemical inputs at favorable prices if new plants are located in
areas designated for industrial development.
33.       The package of measures adopted in support of this strategy includes
both direct measures to be taken by the Government itself and incentives for
the private sector to invest. They consist of: (i) investments by the
Government and public sector enterprises in important sectors of the economy
(e.g. petroleum, petrochemicals, power and transport infrastructure),
(ii) energy and some industrial inputs at preferential prices for industries
located in areas of high priority, (iii) fiscal incentives, (iv) credit
support to the private sector, and (v) the liberalization of imports mentioned
above. The package of benefits gives clear preference to new enterprises
located in priority geographic regions and to small-scale enterprises.
Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises
34.       In 1975, when the last comprehensive industrial census was carried
out, 95 percent of the industrial and mining enterprises in Mexico employed
less than 250 workers and could therefore be considered small or medium-sized.
They accounted for 49 percent of employment and 39 percent of the value added
in these sectors. A large proportion of them were located outside the main
urban concentrations of Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey, where large
firms predominate. The Government is encouraging the further development of
small and medium-scale industries as part of its strategy to increase employ-
ment and the output of basic consumer goods required by the majority of the
population. Moreover, it recognizes that such enterprises are likely to form
a seed-bed from which efficient industries develop by specializing in the
production of components for larger firms, and that their development would
lead to a desirable broadening of the ownership base of industry.
35.       There has been a strong surge of investment in small and medium-
scale industries since 1977. Many projects which had been postponed during
the earlier period of recession have now been carried out (e.g. in the machin-
ery, pharmaceutical and footwear, leather and plastic articles subsectors) and
plans for further investments are now being drawn up or are under execution
(e.g. in the foodstuffs, machinery, glass products, paints and varnishes and
building and construction materials subsectors). Over half the enterprises in
a sample of 363 small and medium-scale firms surveyed in August 1979, reported
operating at 80 percent of capacity or more, and one third indicated that they
had insufficient capacity. Continued investment by small and medium-scale
enterprises and rapid employment creation in the sector can therefore be expected.
The constraints to further growth are likely to develop in transport, where
bottlenecks are already affecting the movement of raw materials and finished
products, and in agriculture, where slow output growth has restrained supply to
industries processing agricultural products. The Government has already prepared
an ambitious investment program to relieve bottlenecks in the railways subsector



- 11 -
which the Bank is appraising for possible support. This program, and similar
projects in the highways subsector, should relieve internal transport con-
straints over the next two or three years. Shortages of agricultural inputs
should likewise be overcome as the various programs which the Government is
undertaking to improve agricultural output are carried out; in the interim,
imports would relieve shortages.
Technical Assistance
36.       The two main ingredients in the strategy for promoting small and
medium industries are technical assistance and financial support. There are
several organizations providing technical assistance to industrial enterprises
in Mexico. Some of the more important ones are:(i) Servicio de Informaci6n
Tecnol6gica (INFOTEC) a Government organization whose function is to provide
technical information and in some cases technological assistance. INFOTEC
does not have regional representatives and would rely on the industrial exten-
sion service being formed under the proposed project to increase its contact
with industrial enterprises, (ii) Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
(CONACYT) an organization that seeks to improve technology in various branches
of industry and which has established regional service centers for specific
industries, e.g., leather and footwear in the shoe manufacturing center of
Le6n, (iii) Centro Nacional de la Productividad (CENAPRO) which was established
to improve the productivity of industrial enterprises by providing training
courses for personnel, including accelerated vocational training courses, and
(iv) the Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnol6gicas (IMIT) which
carries out research and development work to help improve products and produc-
tion processes. The proposed project would seek to direct more small and
medium-scale industrial enterprises to the services of these institutions.
Industrial Financing
37.       The Mexican banking system comprises some 150 financial intermediaries,
including several Government-owned banks and private and mixed-ownership banks.
In recent years, the authorities have encouraged the formation of large
multipurpose banks which can offer a full range of financial services through
a network of branch offices, and this type of intermediary now predominates.
Foreign banks, which may not accept deposits, also provide credit to the
private sector. Domestic loans to industry are moving towards longer terms,
though the trend is constrained by the short-term nature of banking resources.
As of September 30, 1979 some 46 percent of bank loans to industry were for
one year or more, as compared to 39 percent in 1978.
38.       Private banking is largely concentrated in a few large domestic banks
which are associated to a great degree with important industrial groups.
Moreover, credit allocation has traditionally been on the basis of collateral,
with requirements normally in excess of loan amounts. These factors have
tended to make credit more readily available to larger, well established
enterprises. In order to improve credit allocation, the banking authorities
recently abolished official minimum collateral requirements and have set
limits on the amount of credit which may be granted to a single client.
However, smaller firms still have an insufficient share of the credit available



- 12 -
from the financial system. Although small and medium-size industrial enter-
prises account for about 39 percent of the value added in industry, they
received less than one quarter of the credit outstanding to the sector in
1979. It is estimated that up to two-thirds of the total number of enterprises
in the small and medium-size category have never used institutional credit,
which has constrained their growth prospects, and an even higher percentage
has never received technical assistance.
39.       Recognizing these limitations, the Government devised in 1977-78
an integrated program of assistance to small and medium-scale enterprises
combining a newly established industrial extension service with a reinforced
program of financial assistance through the specialized trust funds discussed
below. The first phase of this program was financed by a US$47 million loan
(Loan 1552-ME of May 4, 1978) approved by the Executive Directors on April 27,
1978 (R78-82). The proposed project is the second phase of this program.
40.       To encourage the allocation of financial resources on appropriate
terms to activities of high priority, the Government has, through the years,
created a number of trust funds (fideicomisos), many of which operate through
the banking system. Although these trust funds only provided about 6 percent
of the total resources made available by the financial system in 1979, they
accounted for the bulk of medium and long-term financing, since most of the
credit granted by banks with their own resources is of a short-term nature.
The most important trust funds dealing with the industrial sector are: the
Fund for Guarantees and Development of Medium- and Small-Scale Industry
(FOGAIN), the National Fund for Industrial Development (FOMIN) and the Fund
for Industrial Estates and Commercial Centers (FIDEIN),all three administered
by NAFINSA; and the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) and the Fund for Export
Development of Manufactured Products (FOMEX), both administered by the Bank of
Mexico. As in the case of the first project, the proposed project would
support the activities of the first three trust funds in an integrated program
to assist small and medium-scale enterprises. The Bank has previously granted
four loans to FONEI in order to support larger enterprises with export poten-
tial, the last such loan (Loan 1712-ME) being approved by the Executive
Directors on May 31, 1979 (R79-117).
Past Experience in the Sector
41.       After an initial period of delay, the First Small and Medium-Scale
Industry Development Project has made satisfactory progress. As of May 30,
1980, US$24.8 million or 53 percent of the Bank loan was committed and
US$17 million, or 36 percent, had been disbursed. Paragraphs 46 to 60 discuss
progress of the project's various elements.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The integrated program of assistance to small and medium-scale
enterprises 1/ has the following objectives: (i) to foster a more rapid
growth of irnustrial output and employment by providing financial assistance
to such enterprises to increase their production capacity; (ii) to promote
decentralization of economic activity and regional development by making
financial and technical assistance more readily available to firms located,
or wishing to locate, outside the main urban concentrations; (iii) to
provide a more comprehensive and effective system of technical and managerial
assistance by coordinating the activities of existing technical assistance
institutions so as to make their services more readily available to small and
medium-scale enterprises.
43.       The proposed project was first discussed with the Bank in October
1979. There was a preparation mission in December 1979 which reviewed progress
of the first project. Appraisal took place in February 1980, and negotiations
were held in May 1980. The Mexican negotiating team was headed by Mr. Pedro
Galicia of NAFINSA, and included Mr. Tomas Gonzalez Hinojosa, Director of
FOGAIN and Secretary of the Project's Coordinating Committee, Mr. Sergio Luis
Cano, Director of FOMIN, the Deputy Director of FIDEIN and officials of the
Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2947-ME) is being distrib-
uted separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III provides supplementary
data on the project.
Project Description
44.       A brief description of the project may be found in the Loan and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report. The proposed project would
build and expand on the accomplishment of the previous one, and would include
the following elements:
(a) loans, and guarantees for loans, to finance the cost of investments
in fixed assets and permanent increases in working capital. Such
loans and guarantees would be provided by FOGAIN through the banking
system;
(b) minority equity investments and financial assistance with equity
features to enterprises carrying out investment projects, such
operations to be made by FOMIN;
(c) facilities in industrial estates -- including factory buildings,
common service facilities (e.g. warehouses, maintenance and
repair shops, etc.) and equipment leasing services -- to be
provided by FIDEIN; and
1/   FOGAIN's definition of small and medium-scale industries would be used
for the FOGAIN and FIDEIN components. Small enterprises have an equity
capital of between Mex$50,000 and Mex$5 million (US$2,170 to US$217,000)
and medium enterprises have an equity capital of up to Mex$40 million
(UJS$1.7 million). For FOMIN, the maximum equity capital would be Mex$150
million (US$6.5 million).



- 14 -
(d) a technical assistance program to provide, by means of a network
of industrial extension officers throughout the country, technical
and managerial assistance and advice on project financing.
Depending on the nature of the technical or managerial problems
presented, the extension officers would refer industrialists
to the specialized technical assistance institutions mentioned
in para. 36.
Project Implementation
45.       In order to carry out the project, NAFINSA has created a Coordinating
Committee which is headed by the Director General of NAFINSA and includes the
heads of each participating trust fund and representatives of several branches
of the Government concerned with industrial development. This Committee
determines policies and priorities and monitors and evaluates operations.
A Committee Secretariat has been created within NAFINSA to be responsible for
administering technical assistance, for industrial promotion and for coordin-
ating all participating institutions. It is also responsible for keeping
NAFINSA's accounts for the project. The Secretary of the Coordinating Committee
is the head of FOGAIN, but a separate staff has recently been established for
purposes of the project. Since experience with the integrated program is
limited, NAFINSA has agreed that it will carry out a review of it by
by June 30, 1981 (see Section 3.11 of the Draft Loan Agreement). NAFINSA in-
tends to assess the appropriateness of organizational arrangements, as well as
the effectiveness of the industrial extension service and the credit guarantee
scheme discussed below.
The Credit Component
46.       FOGAIN is the oldest and, in terms of volume, the largest organiza-
tion serving the needs of small and medium-scale industry. It functions as
a second-tier institution, rediscounting credits made by banks, credit unions
and other financial intermediaries with such institutions taking the credit
risk and being responsible for initial project appraisal. FOGAIN may also
provide guarantees to credits granted by financial institutions to small and
medium-scale enterprises, but this type of operation has not developed much.
FOGAIN's highest decision making body is its Technical Committee, which is
headed by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and includes other high
Government officials and representatives of private sector organizations. The
Committee establishes policies and procedures, determines budgets and approves
all credit operations in excess of Mex$3 million. FOGAIN's staff reviews all
credit applications to determine eligibility in the light of regional and
industrial development priorities. Given the small size and large number of
applications (FOGAIN approved over 2,300 investment credits in 1979, with an
average value of Mex$ 1 million or US$43,500) only those applications for
credits above Mex$ 3 million (US$130,500), are tested by an economic rate of
return criterion. In order to reassess and refine its criteria for project
appraisal, FOGAIN has agreed to carry out ex-post examinations in 1982 and
1983 of a representative sample of projects it has financed (see Section 3.11
of the Draft Loan Agreement).
47.       From the time that it was initiated in 1954, up to year-end 1979,
FOGAIN has assisted about 17,000 enterprises with more than 34,000 loans.
The volume of its operations has been increasing rapidly; in 1979, the number



- 15 -
of loans granted increased by 30 percent and the value by 60 percent. This
reflects both higher levels of investment in industry and the program's
efforts to establish better contact with small and medium-scale enterprises.
In 1979, about 84 percent of FOGAIN's credits, accounting for 61 percent of
its lending volume, went to enterprises with less than 50 employees. About
80 percent of the loans granted in 1979, accounting for abou. 69 percent of
the total value of loans, were for enterprises outside Mexico City and its
surrounding areas. The manufacturing activities it has supported are rela-
tively labor-intensive: their average asset cost per job was equivalent to
US$12,000 in 1979. In order to cope with a larger volume of operations and to
reinforce its efforts to support enterprises outside Mexico City, FOGAIN has
begun to decentralize its operations; it has already delegated some credit
evaluation responsibilities to two regional offices and plans to open three
more such offices in the near future.
Lending Interest Rates
48.       Since 1974, financial institutions in Mexico have increasingly
been adopting the index of average cost of term funds to multipurpose banks,
published by the Bank of Mexico, as a base to determine their lending interest
rate for medium and long-term loans. This index (the ACF), which excludes
the cost of checking and savings accounts, stood at 14.3 percent per annum
in the last quarter of 1977 and rose to 19.8 percent in April 1980. Since
it is the Government's announced intention to adjust interest rate ceilings
for borrowing instruments so as to ensure that term resources continue to be
attracted to the domestic financial system, the ACF is a reasonable indica-
tor of the cost of mobilizing resources in Mexico and a suitable reference
rate for onlending under the proposed project.
49.       In agreement with the Bank, FOGAIN introduced in September 1979 a
structure of interest rates which gives preference to small enterprises, those
located in outlying regions and those engaged in priority activities (e.g.,
food processing and basic wage goods production) while charging higher rates
to larger enterprises and those located in established centers of industrial
production. The structure of twelve interest rates averaged one percentage
point above the August 1979 ACF. FOGAIN also introduced margins which are one
percentage point wider for intermediaries dealing with small-scale enterprises
than for those dealing with medium enterprises, in recognition of the higher
cost of handling small accounts. More recently, the authorities decided to
increase FOGAIN's interest rates in the coming weeks so that their average
would be one percentage point above the average ACF for a 12 month period
up to and including April 1980. They would range from 14 percent for small
enterprises located in regions selected for industrial development, thus
partly compensating for higher transport and labor training costs and
insufficient social infrastructure and public utilities, to 22 percent for
medium enterprises located in the established industrial centers. The Loan
and Project Summary at the beginning of this report shows the interest rates
which would be charged to industrialists. The authorities have further agreed
that FOGAIN's interest rates would be revised once a year to reflect changes
in the average ACF over a preceding 12 month period (see Section 3.03 of the
Draft Loan Agreement). In the event that there should be substantial changes
in the ACF during the year (i.e., levels differing 3 percentage points or more
for three consecutive months from the base used for the last adjustment) the
Bank and NAFINSA would consult and consider further adjustments.



- 16 -
Credit Guarantees
50.       In order to further assist small industry, FOGAIN intends to activate
its credit guarantee operations under the project. Guarantees would be made
available to small-scale industries only (i.e., those with equity capitals
of up to Mex$5 million) which do not have sufficient collateral to obtain
loans by normal means. Guarantees would not exceed 75 percent of the value of
loans, with the financial intermediary taking the risk for the remainder so as
to ensure that an adequate appraisal of the risk is made, and there would be a
maximum limit of Mex$1 million to each guarantee. The fees which would be
charged to the borrowing enterprise would generate sufficient resources to
cover possible losses under the scheme.  The credit risk would be evaluated by
FOGAIN's staff with the advice of extension officers.
The Risk Capital Component
51.       FOMIN was established in 1972 as a Government trust fund administered
by NAFINSA to strengthen the equity base of medium and, in some cases, small
enterprises by subscribing to up to one third of their equity capital, and to
promote the development of the capital market. Its equity investments are
intended to be temporary and are normally sold once companies have achieved
satisfactory results. FOMIN frequently serves to bring together groups of
investors, enabling enterprises to have access to larger volumes of capital
and permitting them to operate at larger and more economical scales. FOMIN's
participation frequently helps firms start the transition from closed family
enterprises to a more widely owned corporation with professional management.
52.       FOMIN's governing body is its Technical and Funds Disbursement
Committee, chaired by the Director General of NAFINSA and includes represen-
tatives of several Government ministries and of private sector organizations.
The Committee is responsible for establishing operating policies and priorities
as well as for approving specific investment proposals and setting conditions
for FOMIN's participation in enterprises. FOMIN's day-to-day operations are
managed by an experienced Director General, who is assisted by 23 capable and
well motivated staff members. FOMIN's appraisals of projects are thorough and
include satisfactory analyses of the market, financial, technical, administra-
tive and economic aspects of projects.
53.       FOMIN's portfolio has grown significantly during the past two
years and as of December 31, 1979, it had made commitments to invest in
76 enterprises for a total value of Mex$410.3 million. Firms in the metals
and food processing and chemical fields predominate and the average cost per
job created has been between US$12,000 and US$15,000. More than half of
the enterprises it has participated in are outside Mexico City. Of the 76
enterprises in which FOMIN has made commitments to invest in, 26, representing
45.6 percent of its total investments, were operating profitably; another
25, representing 33.6 percent of FOMIN's portfolio, were expected to operate
profitably in the not too distant future; five firms were in the preoperating
stage, and the remaining 20 firms, representing 9.3 percent of the portfolio,
were not operating. Investments in the latter category are being sold, are
expected to be written off in the next two years or reorganized under new
management. On the whole, and considering that it is investing in many new
enterprises, FOMIN's operations to date and the quality of its portfolio are
acceptable.



- 1 7 -
54.       For the future, FOMIN intends to continue expanding the volume
of its operations, emphasizing whenever possible enterprises located in out-
lying areas. It also intends to, in certain cases, acquire somewhat more than
one third of a firm's equity (but not more than 49 percent) in order to better
capitalize projects, and to continue to promote the use of convertible
debentures aad preferred shares so as to increase its own return on projects
at an early stage. FOMIN also intends to review its disinvestment policies
and to offer its equity investments to third parties more frequently than it
has in the past.
The Industrial Estates Component
55.       FIDEIN was created in 1970 as a Government trust fund administered
by NAFINSA to plan and promote a national system of industrial estates as
part of a program to decentralize industrial activity and foster regional
development. Its highest decision making body is a Technical Committee headed
by the Minister of Human Settlements and Public Works, and includes representa-
tives of various other branches of Government as well as of the private
sector. FIDEIN acts in cooperation with the Ministry of Human Settlements
and Public Works (SAHOP) and local trust funds created at the State level in
carrying out the national program of industrial estates. After FIDEIN has
assisted in establishing suitable locations for estates by preparing market
and feasibility studies, land is either bought or donated by Federal or State
governments. Construction is carried out by SAHOP, which installs the necessary
infrastructure facilities for industries to operate and passes the industrial
estates on to the local trust funds for administration. Promotion of the
estates, and the sale of land in them, are the responsibility of the local
trust funds, which are advised by FIDEIN.
56.       The industrial estates program has been gaining momentum.  The
number of industrial estates in operation increased from 12 in 1977 to 16
on December 31, 1979, while the number of industrial enterprises operating
in such estates more than trebled, from 63 to 219. Moreover, the number of
companies with factories under construction in industrial estates increased
from 72 to 211 during the same period. Two new estates are expected to be
inaugurated in 1980, and three more are under construction. Most of the
enterprises which have located their plants in the estates are medium sized
and the average investment cost per job created has been around US$15,000
equivalent. To date, over 30,000 new jobs have been created on the industrial
estates built under this program.
57.       At the time the first Bank Loan was negotiated, it was visualized
that FIDEIN would undertake new functions to assist small and medium-scale
enterprises which had insufficient capital to acquire all the assets needed
for their operations. FIDEIN was to: (a) finance the construction of factory
buildings on industrial estates to rent, lease with option to purchase, or
sell with deferred payment, to industrial enterprises, (b) construct and
lease common service facilities to groups of enterprises on estates (e.g.,
warehouses, maintenance and repair shops, etc.) and (c) lease equipment and
machinery to enterprises within industrial estates. These services were to
be provided by FIDEIN directly or through appropriate intermediaries, includ-
ing the local trust funds. Progress in providing these services has been



- 18 -
slow, however, mainly due to management and staff constraints and because
FIDEIN has lacked sufficient working capital. NAFINSA has recently taken
steps to strengthen FIDEIN's management and staff, and additional resources
have been provided to it by the Government. It is expected that FIDEIN'S
performance in providing the new services will improve under the project.
Since between 25 and 30 industrial estates are expected to be in operation by
1981-82, there would be a large number of small and medium-scale enterprises
eligible for assistance, and demand for new services can be expected to be
strong.
58.       In pricing these services, FIDEIN or its intermediaries would set
fees and rental charges to include a cost of capital of at least the ACF plus
one percentage point and operating and maintenance costs where applicable
(see Section 3.05 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
59.       The technical assistance service for small and medium-scale indus-
try initiated under the first project has been in effective operation for less
than one year and has made a good start. After rigorous screening, forty
extension officers were selected and their already considerable qualifications
were reinforced by a six-week training course specially designed for the
program. These extension officers have now been assigned to 14 field offices,
the location of which has been chosen in the light of regional priorities, the
number of enterprises in the area and local potential for industrial develop-
ment. Extension officers assist mainly by diagnosing problems and referring
cases to one or more of the financial and specialized technical institutions,
as required. While the overwhelming majority of referrals in 1979 were
for FOGAIN loans, an effort is being made to broaden referrals to FOMIN's
and FIDEIN's services. A system of "parallel" extension officers, working out
of the local branches of banks, has also been developed and an equal number
of officers have been trained for this purpose. Since there has been little
experience with the extension service so far, NAFINSA intends to review it
in-depth as part of the review mentioned in para. 45.
60.       Under the proposed project, the Bank would finance the foreign costs
of training extension officers and NAFINSA staff in the integrated program as
well as the foreign cost of equipment (e.g. audio visual aids and equipment for
technical information centers) required by extension officers and specialized
technical assistance institutions.
Resource Needs and Bank Financing
61.       On the basis of the outlook for investment by small and medium-scale
industry, the pipeline of projects which FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN have, and of
their capacity to process projects, NAFINSA estimates that the equivalent of
US$196 million would be required to finance subprojects with total cost of
US$272.6 million equivalent over the next two years. Beneficiary enterprises
and domestic financial institutions would contribute about 28 percent of
subproject costs on the average. The Government has requested that the Bank
finance the foreign exchange cost of the project, estimated at US$100 million



- 19 -
equivalent. A breakdown of the estimated aggregate cost of subprojects and
the proposed distribution of the Bank loan between the various project compo-
nents are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.   It is proposed that the
equiivalent of US$8 million of the Bank loan be unallocated and subject to
allocation to FIDEIN or FOMIN at a later stage, as their services evolve.
NAFINSA would provide resources to finance the balance of pru_ect costs.
62.       The Borrower would be NAFINSA, which would transfer the Bank's
resources in pesos to the participating trust funds through a separate account
for the project and at terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A
condition of disbursement of funds to each trust fund would be that agreements
on the terms of transfer be concluded to the satisfaction of the Bank (see
Sections 2.02(d) and 3.02(a) of the Draft Loan Agreement). NAFINSA would
carry the foreign exchange risk and repay the loan. For the previous project,
FOGAIN and FIDEIN were allowed an interest margin of 2 percent per annum to
cover their operating costs. FOMIN repays the net amounts recovered from its
investments into the separate account, plus half its capital gains and the
equivalent of 2 percent per annum of dividends received. Similar arrangements
would be made for the proposed project. On recovering project resources,
FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would repay amounts received into the separate account.
Bank funds accruing to NAFINSA as trustee of FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would be
used for purposes similar to the project (see Section 3.02(b) of the Draft Loan
Agreement).
63.       FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would carry out their part of the project
according to their respective Operating Regulations, which have been reviewed
by the Bank and found acceptable. As in the case of the first project,
changes in the Operating Regulations materially and adversely affecting the
project would be an event of suspension and default of the Bank loan (see
Section 5.01(b) of the Draft Loan Agreement). In view of the large number and
relatively small size of subprojects financed by FOGAIN, no prior approval of
them would be required by the Bank, but withdrawal requests would be reviewed
at the Bank's discretion. Due to limits on lending to a single enterprise
in FOGAIN's Operating Regulations, the maximum Bank loan to a single enterprise
would be about US$290,000 equivalent. All FOMIN investments requiring more
than US$250,000 equivalent of Bank funds would require prior Bank approval.
In the case of FIDEIN, all factory buildings with an area of 2,400 square
meters or more, all factory buildings without a firm contract for lease or
sale, the first two common service facilities and the first two equipment
leasing operations would require prior Bank approval (See Section 2.02(c)
of the Draft Loan Agreement). All Bank funds for technical assistance would
require prior Bank approval since the exact nature of these expenditures will
be determined during project implementation.
Procurement
64.       As in the first project, the Borrower and the staff of FOGAIN, FOMIN
and FIDEIN would ensure that the goods and services procured by industrialists
under the project are competitive in quality and price and are appropriate for
the needs of enterprises. FIDEIN intends to procure construction services and
equipment for factories by advertising nationally and prequalifying contractors
and suppliers; foreign contractors and suppliers would be eligible. These
procedures are satisfactory, given the relatively small size of FIDEIN's
subprojects.



- 20 -
Disbursements
65.       Based on the experience of FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN in a sample of
subprojects financed under the first loan, the foreign exchange cost of the
project is estimated to be at least the equivalent of 55 percent of the
financing provided by the trust funds. In view of this, the Bank would
reimburse 55 percent of disbursements made by FOGAIN, FOMIIN and FIDEIN to
finance the cost of machinery, equipment, civil works and associated working
capital for qualified subprojects. For technical assistance, the Bank would
disburse 100 percent of the cost of foreign goods and services, or 70 percent
of the cost of such foreign goods if purchased in Mexico, or 25 percent of the
total cost of domestic goods and services (the estimated foreign exchange
cost).
Auditing
66.       The account kept by NAFINSA for purposes of the project and the
accounts of FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would be audited yearly according to
standards acceptable to the Bank.
Project Benefits and Risks
67.       The proposed project would strengthen the integrated program for
assistance to small and medium-scale industry initiated under the previous
project, and enable the continued expansion of an innovative system of tech-
nical assistance, while improving the coordination of existing financial
institutions that serve smaller industrial enterprises. The credit guarantee,
factory and equipment leasing components, which are also innovative features
under the integrated program of assistance, would continue to evolve and be
strengthened, enabling small-scale enterprises to have access to productive
assets for expansion. The project's focus on the needs of enterprises in
outlying areas would make an important contribution to the Government s
efforts to decentralize economic activities, helping increase employment
opportunities in new poles of development as well as other regions outside
the main urban concentrations, which are already suffering from serious
environmental and congestion problems.
68.       As many as seven hundred enterprises are expected to benefit through
the credit component and some ninety would be assisted by FOMIN's risk capital
program, while FIDEIN's factory building and equipment leasing operations
would benefit up to eighty enterprises.  The credit guarantee program would,
when successfully established, benefit a large number of small enterprises and
the technical assistance component could make important contributions toward
improving the long-term efficiency of numerous firms. Based on experience
under the first project, it is expected that the average cost per job created
will be about US$13,000 and that some 20,000 new job opportunities would
result from the investments supported through the proposed project, the bulk
of them in small enterprises.



- 21 -
69.       The main risk is the difficulty of coordinating the several diverse
elements of the integrated program of assistance, and of obtaining sustained
cooperation among the various institutions involved. However, since all the
principal participating institutions operate under the wing of NAFINSA, the
risk can be considered acceptable. There is also the risk that progress of
some proje.L components -- FIDEIN's factory building and equipment leasing
operations in particular -- may lag behind others, but the steps taken by
NAFINSA to strengthen FIDEIN should prevent further excessive delays. On the
whole, the project presents a moderate level of risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and NAFINSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III; special conditions of disbursement are described in para 62. A
special condition of effectiveness is that NAFINSA sign agreements with at
least one of the participating trust funds along the lines described in
para. 62 to transfer Bank resources for purposes of the project.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 4, 1980



ANNEX I
- 22-                                                Page I of 5
TABLE 3A
MlXIC0 -  0CIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEgT
ZIESIENUz GROU1I7 (ADJUSTED AnIjACES
LAND A         llZA  ThQum$ - zm±-                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIlATE) -
197Z.5                                                          NEXT~~~~~~~Sf  MG iir hIGHER
TOTAL.                                                                SAME        S -C     .    NCZ
AC,SCULTLTAL     944.9                                 MUST RECUN      GEZOGRAPIC   INCOME        INCONC
1960  Lb   1970 /I ESTIMATE Lb       R7EGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
GNP PtR CAPITA (CSS)                 380.0        710.0    1290.0           1124.4     1097.7      1942.6
ENERGY C0NSW4PTIO0  PER CAOITA
(EI7loGIS OF  COAL EQUIVALRA)      770.0       1047.0    1227.0           943.1       730.7      1646.7
P0PULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POpLaION,MI-TA  (MLLIONS)            36.4        50.3      63.3
URB   PoPULATION (PERCEN  OP TOTAL) 50.3         59.3      63.2            59.3        49.0        51.2
tOPULATION PIOJcrCIONS
POMULATION rN TAr  2000 (MILLIONS)                      116.0
STATIONALY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        204.0
YWt STATIOAItY POPULATION IS RUCE D                    2015
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. DI.                       18.0         26.0      32.0            23.5       44.6         28.2
PER SQ. DI. AGRICULTRAL LAD       36.0         52.0      67.0            80.5       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AC2 STRUCTMRZ (PECENT)
0-14 nS.                          45.6         46.5      45.9            40.9       41.3         35.4
15-64 YIS.                         51.0         50.0      50.6            54.4       55.3         56.3
63 Y1s. AND ABOVE                   3.4          3.5       3.5             3.9        3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROUT RATE (PIRCT)
TOTAL                              3.1          3.3       3.3             2.4         2.4         1.7
URBAN                              4.9          4.8       4.6             3.7        4.5          3.0
CIUDE BIRTH RATE (PCR THOUSAND)     45.0         42.0      38.0            32.8        31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATZ (PER TSHOUSAND)    12.0          9.0       8.0             8.5         9.2         9.1
GCOSS REPIODUCTTON RATE              3.2          3.1       3.0             2.4         2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOIS, ANNlUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        25.1     608.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..      21.0            17.7       34.7
FODo AND 8CTIRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          87.5        100.0      96.1            99.4      104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIESERCNTS)                 107.0        105.0     117.0           107.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          63.0        65.0       66.9            60.4       64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       29.0        28.0/f   27.5              28.3       23.5         31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) 8DRTALITY RATE     14.0          9.8       6.0             6.7        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIF2 EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.0         62.4      64.7            63.6       60.2         65.6
INFANT M8RTALITY RAT (PER
THOUSAND)                           78.0         74.0        ..            76.1       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAF2 WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         54.0      62.0            63.4       60.8         69.4
URBAN                               *-         71.0      70.0            79.5       75.7         85.1
RURAL                               *-        29.0       49.0            38.6       40.3         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DtSPOSAL (PERCENT
or POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..            58.8       46.0         70.1
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..            77.8       46.0         88.3
&URAL                               ..         13.0      14.0            24.5       22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PtYSICIAN          1700.0       1440.0        *-          1841.9     2262.4       1343.2
POPULTIOTtN PER SURSING PERSON        ..      1570.0         ..           933.7     1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
-5TAL                           1900.0       930.0      860.0           563.4      453.4        197.6
URBAN                                        780.0      770.0           279.4      253.1        260.2
iWRAL                                -       1310S.OA  1090.0          1140.9    '732.4        1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..            25.7       22.1         17.3
HOUSINGC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
-OTAL                              5.4          5.7        ..             5.0        5.3          4.7
UR BAN                             3.7          5.7        ..             4.8        5.2          4.4
RULRAL                             5.2          5.8        ..             5.3        5.4          5.1
AVIRACE SUNBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
O7AiL                              2.9          2.5        ..             1.3         1.9         1.1
ORSAN                             2.6          2.2        ..             l.3         1.6         1.2
RURAL                              3.4          3.2        ..             1.5        2.3          ..1
ACCZSS  0 -ILECTRICITY (?ERCINT
OF 14ELLINCS)C)
m7A_.                                         59.3         5. 4.3                   50.0        64.0
URRA4                               ..        ao0.         ..            a0.1       71 .7        85.1
RCR.A                                .         28.0                      i4.2        17.3



-23 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MIXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
MazcO                   8tEFERENCE (0oUPS (ADJUSTED A5RArES
-                                                - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOST RECE1IT ESTIMATE) -
SAE         SAME     NEXT RICtER
MOST RECENT     CEOCRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GlOUP 1d   GROUP /.
EDUCATION
ADJUSTID QltOLLlENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                60.0       104.0     116.0           107.3      102.5       101.7
MLE                  82.0       107.0    L16.0            109.1      108.6       110.0
FEMALE               77.0       102.0     114.0           107.4       97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        22.0      37.0            40.5       33.5        51.2
MALE                 14.0        27.0      40.0            40.4       38.4        56.4
DALZ                  8.0        17.0      34.0            39.0       30.7        43.7
VOCATOtAIL ENOL. (1 OF SZCOUDAZT)  24.0         24.0        *-            18.5       11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TRACZ RATIO
PRIMARY                           44.0        46.0      46.0            37.1       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                         13.0        14.0      17.0            17.9       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITORACY RATI (PERCENT)       65.0        74.0      76.0            77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PU THOUSAND
POPULATION                        14.0        24.0      41.6            29.1       13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIvES PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        95.0       276.0    301.0            172.1      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS Ptl THOUSAMD
POPULATION                        19.0        59.0      84.0            67.9       38.3       102.6
MESWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
IrNEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 79.0          *-        *-            76.1       40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PEl CAPITA 10.0         5.0       4.2             4.2        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11300.0     13000.0   16600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        17.4      18.5            21.5       25.0        24.5
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             55.1        39.4      34.0            30.2       43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.5        22.9      25.0            23.8       21.5        30.6
PA9TICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.2        28.8      28.8            30.9       33.5        33.8
MALE                                51.1        47.4      46.8            47.3       48.0        51.3
FEMALE                               9.2        10.1      10.7            13.3       16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.9       1.8             1.5        1.4         1.3
INCOME D'STRINUT IN
?ERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF dOUSEEOLDS   28.7/h      27.9      23.9            23.7       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCZ3T OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.8/h      58.3      54.4            58.7       52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT 01 HOUSENOLDS    3.5/h       3.4       2.9             2.9        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.37ih     10.5      10.4             9.9       12.6        11.0
POVERTY TAKG^yr 1;KoUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UkRAN                               ..          ..    270.0            265.6      170.0
1URAL                               ..         ..    216.0             185.1      183.3
ESTlMA-ED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UBAN                                ..          ..    332.0            396.3      282.5       550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    332.0            308.1      248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION RELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY iNCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
118AN                               ..          ..        ..            35.2       20.5
RURAL                               .           ..        ..            46.6       35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
;a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
,el.es of the indicator and :he nosL -oulated country in each group.  Coverage .C ,   tcries mong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless ocher.1.se aoted, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Escimate, between 1974 and i'77.
'c  Latin America S Caribbean;  /d  Intereediate Yiddle Incoe  (5551-1135 per capt,, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income (51136-25O1) per capita. 1976);  /f  Av. 1964-66;  /   DOata refer to rural health centers only;
lb 1963.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-24-                                                                     ANNEX I
nroon of owl" MIains                                                                  Page 3 of5
fl9g,Athogh   e dte  s. in    romsoprees garely Judge  the meet athoritatve'aS AMrelable, it shsult ale. heontod that they ww not ho interns-
Millyo :sre ble henes  of th  leek of etUadard1od d4finitiome sad Oemepte tee  by differant  oantrlso in collectng tCo data. Th. date ar,setelses.,
usdhL to describe order  of seattud, indioate treed., em  habeetsrias cartels majok differences botosen ost,uais.
The 60liafst.n.A~MgAfor o-h Indicator or  popslatiom.-Sepeutd geetria    -,e neoladieg the extra   mInce of the idistotr sad the matpopoaton
oomAFnAWTV       p. L   to lash of data, proop everga of al indloatoro for Capital Parpla  Oil  portero sad of indinatoes of AMoose  o Water and Eacr.ta
Diepoesi, 8lsing, Income M5.t4ihutle and Sao"rty for other carry Sromps ar  poV1eutioe-eeighted gossmtrto  masse  ithost snolatto  of the etr   raL.es sad
tht  c   opltdomty    ui,m seof-Stie    m    heidotoega.opaalhiiyo  dt        e  o   nfer.ooio    attoa                                                          die
hareatOfaterage  of~i   mao inloaot  ant. or.f              eL=  1b easi.t-o   a.M          jetoon                       eeomC              t         00o
o 1mtr at a t        I        0005U  00  reforence posace.
M r(thousand eqbmx.)                                                             Adoesee tobret., Dissl~ (te   st of ,oo,uitios) -talurnad rurl-
-tota ml eursc  area eomprieiog lead area and blend eaters,mhro  pol   toa, uhn,ad rura) srvod by  ort   ip                                              a
Phe atrl-    .t roosnt sotimato of-em ira haeaoed tewpraril.y                  per...tagoe of their rospoctire poPhlatioos .berets. dispoa.si say looods
or permanently for orope, pmetoree, maket and hitchen gardens or to                   the co11otcon and disposal, otth or oLthcot treateat, of hommnme soreta
lefallo.                                                                            and  ossotrby sats-horse sy.tom  or tho u-  of pit prise  sad similar
GU  MCAPTA (MS)- OP per capitasenaste. at current market prices,                    Potlteo.Poplutio- diidedby oeber of practiolog phys1ioash
booatoysaacoeco  atbd                  World Bamk Atlao  (1975-77 haste);       - T      2 S       Hfa              at   ivrity is-I.
.1960, 1970, sad 1977 data.                                     -Pslto e  tarin  person -VPeoltbc jdivided by  .nter of praotioi.g male
U  - Aomaal conse~~~~~~tiom  of omenlal  ~~~~~~        ad falst!   paate maee, practical mnsu, ad assistant nurse.s
o      te,    -  ma, natural gas- asnptl   ofcmarcla   mer,goe              P_alalnto    ootlRd - total. arhen. end rurl - PopalAtion (total,  ften,
19T0, end 1.976 data..sumltprcrttl                                                      pahlio sod private geoera  sAd  pcae  hoetpital end rehabilitation ceetere.
ftapits.l.sare eteblishomects perveseently etaffed by at least oo. physician.
~~N~flW...AflYUAk.n~~~~fl tICS                                     Zogtohllshmats providing principally custodial car  Are wot icladed  Rural
MCtfW MiiiiEI7h             RiF illiae) - AS of July 1; 1960, 1970, ad                   hospitals * hwevr, inclde health and modloal canters sot permmwneatly staffed
1977 dt..                                                      ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~by!a physician (hut by a medical aseistent, our-e, mideife, etc.) ehioh of fer
lihnPMolto  (cnit o  totl  - Ratio of urhan to total popua.tleA;                     inpts   osdtico  and provide a hlmted reng  of madloa  facilitte.s
different defiiton  ofote   ras--  fet c"pr'hility of data                            esl 4~~9a,rBopital     - Total oumber of  dedelse.os  to or diechargee free
enhag cuthes; 1960, 1970, and 1973 data.                                              hdipitIld             ddf hunter of teds.
Po W poIN:IM WptE..1   C-Crrt Wposletlos projactions are based os                 I0uSm
.9¶0tiljpopflation by egs and  em  and their artatlity and fertility           Arser  Sie  f H-oacetld (rsrep erhueol)-toa,uba.-  en -rrci -
rae.  Projection p-remore for Sortallty rate  eapriec of three                       hoseol oeists of a gvu   tlolitel   h   haelvn   qoerters ad
level  assuming life sopstanoy at birtb hicresuing siCh coutry's                   their  .ia meal., A hoarder or lodger map or may  ot bs incloded in the
per osit. iooms Ie.sI, and feem    life aepeeteny etbillslog at                     ohoueehod for statistical purposee.
77.5 Y-ao   The pase"'tere for fertility rate Also have three level              Aerese sorer of ocrlmene        ro  -&toal,ur e.and rural - Average tibr
assuelat deoline io fetnility scording to incom  level end past                     of Poro_, e  ro P-          urbn,  n   ua   cuidcoetoallsloe
sal ly esing performnc. taP   -atry is the ansigeed one oftnoes                    reepeti,ely,  Nallings occlude son-prmeast struturs end unoccuied pane.
Sine cotineations of aortlity sod fertility trads for projection                 Access to Electricity (pS co  ofdeies  - total, urban  andrrl- Con-
P.P.....                                                                            vattonal deellog  ct  elecricty f.d 10 lirtog quarters aS. Pervetee ofc
StatIc           tico - in a stationay Ppoplation there is no growth                  total, urban, end rura  dooIligs repectively.
dine>hEbrh  at   So qual to the death rate, and ale  the age
Structure r-i.. cotant. This ie aniteved osly' aftr fertility ratesc..              TO
decline to tins replast leve  of unit tot repr-dtiot rats, ohe                                         PaImetRtios
each gsertion of oca  replaceo Z_teef e-tly.  The etationary popsa                   rmc   ccltt7             aeadfol  -    stotal, sale sod reale enroll
ltioosicsoaseetiatod on tbe basis of th. procetod obattri,tivsoomn oftalagss  the ptrIer   evle  peoos                                       frs tive priao-.
ofth  poplatico in the fear 2000, and the rate of md.ics of ferility                sohool-age popultions; tor-lly  -Icldes otilre   aed611 ferbu
rtet  reylacement level,                                                           adjusted for different lengths of prisery oduatiot; foy o-utries clth
fear btationaro cilatlon I.o reached - hm year  bs stationar  popeation                 oivrs   education  -aolmeet say ocosed 130 P.-cc   itce som  pupils
Sloe ban bee. raced                                                                   ar   oo or above the ofrola  sobool age.
Poultion D...oity                                                                     Secondary s ico  -total, male sd -fml    '. bop-d So shove; seodary
perso., in       id-year population P.r square ollmtr  lid0 hotsre) of                   edotc  rq.o  at least roar yea.rso  spyrvo.ed Pr'.-rY  t-rc tiot:
total araproides gearal voanl   r teacher trislog iostruoti-  for ppils
Per os. be. svoltriLo-Copted as shor  for ogrioltural land                              -sualy of 12to 17 fears of age; oorrespuadsce oc.ree. are gosraLly
only.                                                                                 occlded
P.MWl tlo. die Structure  cerceet) -  hlre(0-14 fear), ecrko-age                        ocatiocal mnroiMet crce1tt of soost  -  oaloli.stit=io   inclu. Ide
(15h Year), and retired .bS ya.re and ovr) as percentage. of mid-year                  techical, inusrii oots   oge   och oPerate todopedesoly or as
Rpopulation; 1960, 1970, ned 1977 Oats.                                                 dopartesote of secondesy  Wntitutio-s
Poo,altlon  roeth  nto  prcet -ttl - nAaa1 oroeh rates of total mid-              Puoll-teacher ratio-   r~   act secohndr    Total  todeots strlled it
year  opoleiocsfor 150-6, _ ;270  anS9h     7.                                    rmr od  scodrylees              tIided by oumoreo  teachers it the ocn-
Peulatlo  rot  Rtt-ect --urha- A..dcuL grovth rates of urban                              spnding levels.
populatlos  for 195060, 1500-0, sod 190-5                                  AdultIltoacoY rte   ecs -Iterato  aduts  able to road sod oto. aS
Crude  it  Ra       Ite   o   hosed) - A-.oLI lve births P.r thosand of aid-              apretage o tota  adul popuatict aged 15 Y-a  sod over.
yea  poultio; 1.0  1977, and 19_ lets
Crude Death Rate  ocer thoucend) - Renta  deaths par thousad of  id-year             UPII
popultios; 1500, 19771, and 1977 lets.                                               Pasne     pas'er thoteed P.Pulatiot) - Pasec.e. car  oerre  chtor  ar
Iroes Reroductit. Rat-Ovrage oub-r of l"btorts e            ilc   boar            sotig  se  than eiht pereone; -ocld.e amulances, tea-o  and ebi~tsry
to her cerel  reproduct ive PIroo  if eta  -operiesc       P .s.pesetgMe-             vehicle.
,petirt  fertIlity rates; ueully fiv-year averages edndg In 1960,                  Redlo Receivero  nPer thoe      pi colthtion.  - All types o~f v-ilvra for radio
1970, and 1975.                                                                      broadcasts to genra   pbIc pe -huad of populotice; .o.ludee  -eit-oed
F!.511  P1500 he    cesos   sul -           Scnads) _- Aoul soho f                      reeier  inconrisn  is fear  uhe. r_gietti.0  of radio sets0.5o
scpor  of birth-costrol  o-tose ucde    ePlonofttioa  ra.I cmily                   efet; Oats for veoot Year  may not be comparable  ;oce mastoccre
pileing proffran.                                                                     aholiehed licens.Ing.
taltly Pleig-Uesoroto   are   tn       e cntge  f earnd                               IV Receivers  pr thousand coculatlos) - Ty receiver  ror broadcat to generar l
n   f obild-bero   ag     5-44 yernetus  birth-contro  devices                    pbipethuAndpuatico  occludes ucllc-od IV receives-                          ere
to all. merrisd =pa  in smage poop.                                                   end in years eta  registration of -0 sot  sa . Isffect.
toennepo  Ctrvoition  0e  obousad  _crinic) - Shoes the avrge .     olto
FOOD AIM NIIP!CTINogdiygnrlotre   esae  ,  eftted asaperiodical pbtllotics
coon of root rrodcoico per Caclta1960-f iS) - tadn of per capita              devoted prosarily to recording amoeral tos.   itte   -nider-d to ins "bil1t
anulprodctio  of      f.odte.Poocisicue   edad                                    if it appers St least fou  tiasucoso..k
feed and is -a -aldr fear basie.  bomedltie  cover primary7 goads                  Clam  Anu l Atednspe Cait or  ea  t  ased os the umber of tickets
(e..g. eugarene instea.d of sugar) ohich are edible and ...atal  sutrients           soddrn   h   erloldo   dlest   riv-' ioobes- acd masile
(e.g.cffee sod teaar  oclded). Aggregate pr-datio  of each coana                    units.
is hand on nat ..Iona 2aerge  rdcrpiecihe
Per omits suIoY o   aois' to of rosast)-C.utnd from                              LAMO  FUCI
energy equialt  fet-  rodepie   ellei  onr  per capita,                            oa  ao  FoP~rce-  thaendi) - iconomloLly activ  persons,  .ocldlu  ormed
per day.  Available etoppilee comrise domestic poduction, ipmpot  lees              foosaduepoyed hut ...loding hb.u.o.ij-e, etuscts. etc. Dofoolti.ce
oports, sad otages iStootch.  Net supplies occlde animal feed, seeds,               in  arou  ccnre   r  sot comparable.
qonstities used is food proceSsing, ad losses L. dl4trtbutio. Require-            F.-.j,,~p-p t) - Female Isbor rf-  aS peroentage of total lahor force.
aneteeon estimated by Phi based os paysiological need  for cormal5S._ 9g44~pmroeoot   lao   oc   nfoa                               frsry, bunting nod
activity ned b-vith considering onvironestal temperatur, hody veigt.,               fIhcijr tg              f total labor fc.-
age sd t-  distriRotione of population, and a11oing 10 peronc  for                Ly=j5t7i,fl13t) -labor forto is 111g el        ...ocoto-utos, msfacturig ned
ut   thousehold lovo1.                                                         ebcrct,ttrad gSS aS perstage of total labor fore..
Per osoita  upoly of 9rhtein z          oc   e)-  rti  cotnta  of per               Partiobotioc pat  o et-tta,ml,nd ae-PricPaino
caita ne  spply of food perda. got sploffdideosasetotraeae    uednttl,me,edfaLe"lbo  forc  aspr-
hove .Rquiremaate for all  -stries o-tibl1eked by USDA provide for a.                -ta    of total, saeL and fais  Popul1oics of all1 uecoeptoor
eloimame ai_cec  of hO gres  of total Protein per dy sad 20 pea  of                 1960 . 19f0 and 1975 data. These are Ibis .particiPation rates refloitio
animal mad pulse protein, of eliot 10 pans ohold h.eaniIma  protein.                age-secstrut"re of the population, end long time trend.  A few estimates
TheSe standards are  eer then those of 75 pea  of total protein ad                  aefeti  natiomalesea
23 gra  of "aleal Protein an an   -rgs for the oprld, proposed by PAl                                  Re..ti.9 .A   - RatIo of pop.altio under 15 ad t( and Ove  tO
in the Third World Food Survy.                                                     thINFUR7A96UiWiiiSroup of 15-6o yer.-
Per osit& troutei suIn from sa          - d stIes - Protein supply of food
icrvo  fro   hiae.1  aedpiesi pea  orrdy
Child_tanee 1-u) a rtall ty Rate ce  thosd-    .ooldah   e  hued                      prssmepuaelc    bt  ncn   a  tied) - Recived by richest
in ago orup1   years, to children iu this age  r-oP; for suet dave1-                R  PMra,rcet0  pr ,poet2  perenmt, and poro   0 p-ven
eigoarisdata derived fro  life tablan.                                       of  sol.
~flfl  opeotecy at  irth )vaare)- Averge niahr of years of life              Ieneddslat   ovryboms lavl 350pe  O p, its,  -uban eno rural
raising   t birth;19b0, 1970, and 1977. data.                                    Abenluts povert  income leve  Is that inca  loylG beowohch a alimal
Infant ?totlity Pate  ow  huso)-he           -lbths of ienfto uad- O..                  stritionclly odesute diet Plu .e....otal1 non-food r-quir,stente toth
Yea~r oage per ttousa  liv  births,                                                   affordable.
A,cs tSaeWtr eretoocualn-ttlura,a tol-                                                Esatimated RelativePeryIcm  Leve  5Z  per caita) - urha  ad  -ua-I
MUsber of people  total,  bura, an -ua1 oo   esnbl   cest                             Rurallrelative Povrt  In loi l u-hr   faeaeprcpt
safe ontr supply (includes treated siofar  eaters or un.trtd toct                     parom_.L ionsh of the coutry. Urba  lo-e  ter Se-cd fro  the rura  level
uaonomudut-  ontr such as that fro  protected horehoso, opriag,                       etC, "Wedjusuna  for  ,,-r coat of  lv  ing t  uban area.
an Sanitr7 aills) aSS prtentagsa of their rsepative populations. In               isltd  0plti"Bl7_boue  oet ltabvl,ret(-ubnsad
en schem  area a pnhiio fountain or staodpoet leated eat Sare then           ~        rrl-Preto   ouainubnadrrl  eho ar  PE ahelufte poor
ester  from a. hcsas  myr he ooeiderd an belag oithis reaom... ambaccess
of that hoesee   Ca -rurl armarenmaleaoe wald imply *at the
h."-cIf. or amedr. of Ce. bhasohoid Se am have to epd a disprope-                                                           tOnmSic  sad Social Data lliiioc
tionato part of the d.y in fetching Co.    .l"ey' tinie  eede.                                                         Roooic Ana1yots ad Protetions  epart-t



9..ll    --ol    M ..o
3977   2935           ~~~~~     ~~19771  38973      17      '       T 9 3 '5 9 ' 1191175                                     39577       57978        197         19812
0.19. 77.05.7.. 05 7..d.        91,9          595.5          474.7          399.1         1,112.0        1,355.5        1,375.5        4,555.1           49.5       .17.2 0      53.7       7.2         10.7        1,0
4709. 30.9955  270=9         97,06.7        45. 995.0      51, 334.5       5,55.7         15593.:         0,71.4        33,15.5        15,475.0,55                     3.7         9.2H30.0             100.0        00.
5..07.779 1.3                             753.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:'  :7.3)5.  55.        205.2          2.5          -970           -734           . 4,7.0                       445          .          79          0.5        ..
51.2d 33*999                                            ,159.3       1 70,26.9        9,55.         009).          77,59.5        14,355.        79,93.         044972              5.0          7.7        75.2      79.5         95         0.
07... 33...36o8.slob.                     54~~~~~~~~~~.-14.  89,797...  9,337.7       10,973          26.15.        35,555.1        35,200.5       25,532.0            3.           :62       153       753         7.2          20.
1.... 9935000743*369g.                   ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~5,964.6  3,597.7  9,305.3       9l,509.9      7,9.            3973          5,9.5          0,4..                             .          35       1.          17.0        02.9
39359993. 90521,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~311.                      5A2,63.          7f..O       105M           "66,2,M,                                     1,1.                20.4         3.0        00.1     700.0       250.7       700.
9.30                                        74.6          143.0          535.0          659.3~~~~~~~~~~~1  7567      ,11.          7399            7,7,5             4.          1.           7.2.                  6.2         5.
9*55019997 799 57.4615.                    5~~~~~~~~~12234.  394.3l      127.01        1~116 57.0        21190...5.. 2000              0.0           37.             2.         .7             5.       .6           1.L0.
535.. Good.                  2,229.4        5,979.7         5,262.7        3,399.6       10, 725.9      74,077.2       70, 959.5      35,747.)           21.5         3.0         29.3      65.5        35.9        30.
800.7*5377 3..olo..                       1,064.7        1322.3         3,994.3        2,375.2        3,273.7        1,759.7       2 6,136.5       9,979.9            10.7         55         07.-1     33.2        22.4         27.3
9990953. 05521,                                      2 765.4        5,551.7          2291411,6!~                  1 ,,p!:.5    l32,i20?.      fl01:6 2.                                       32         V4       20.          0.           0.
3.1.05*0 0j060025749*6 50909               7~~~~~~~~~31.6  3.           ,3.            ,0.            ,5.            ,5.             ,2.            ,3..                         197         39.3      25.         359          3.
-...*43.1.      .                                        244.            42.4           44.5           53.9           32.            9377         4,419          1,0.47.6                        79         27.~6      5.I.3,.
909,999307 997.1599                      0~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~,997.7  2,033.7  3,10.5       9,970.2        5,.135         6,157.4        5,5.5         7,359.              17.3        9.           23       5.          39.6        0.7
555073 5717s lOdgo              93.4          475.5           151.3          273.9          055.5          344.0          200.'          901.0            19.9         5.7        19.94 3 QS.,  5M.
lp.9 e39.5d.                                      55.0           14.6.           17.            79.            22.            20.            230             3977.6                        .7         07
597.* .9 57.0.                           ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~103.  396 110.0        107.9          720.1          745.5          14.            74.-. 3.4                                 7.9
571.977                                 ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~1,139.  :14,3.  4,759.   4,345I          1,049.9        5,4.            ,054.3        5,62.4             7.           .           .        1293                     7.2
3.09.7                                               0247.           6,5.           3,35.1          0,2.          211,0.          4005          2,4,9990.                         6.          5.          9.        3.          3.          9.
20,9473.5      27,574.5       73 932         23,457.7       5105.          34,403         4,979           7,9.3               5.           .           .        52         54.1        34.2
799*1 74351                              95,9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70.  43,515.5  50.99,5     5,0.            3 791.        536971         5,670.         94,955.7             1.6         3.           .       5.          0.          0.
0077   ..p.5,5.-,0.-0,7.                                                                             7350          12501          7,,            11,52.3        71,257.            105:.7                    9.       14.:7       23.:4       3.
0077993 5*5970333979.                    9,923.9        9,424.7        9,939.9        3,355.0I       10,191.4      11,65,0         1362.          7775.163                        54          93        06         7.9           74
5.907...  .  5*09                                      7,6121.           354.         729.           0075           2,7.           055.           3749           3977             .4           3.4          1.        49           5747
Z909.9732,37.5                                                         58.05,         0,19979        507.            0.1          5,556..7       3,6514.        99553.1                        71          27         31          9599
3903019 1N.t7  666.3         4,237.3        2,009.2        2,984.9        7,454.5        7,775.0        4,539,5        5,933.5           44.9       .17.1         71,2       1.9         5.4         5.9~~~~~~~~~~~:1911  -1.1  121  ,-  ':~
21,500*0109 0? 10533 9011,30 350753 95P0303595503                                                                                                                                            0*S.oO.95 of Sot.l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:"  , 1    ~    ':
5799799                                          5,334.9        6,501~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.3  7,519.2                                                               32.0                               00.23  :
77.7799099 .794 02773000607.                            0,746~~~~~61.~  " .3      1,1.3.  7,330.0      ,8.                                          ,3.                         -91.3         12                    5.3           :
5035 -.57                                                        4,00.5          6294           4,51.                                                                                      5.                                2.6      -
1o2.stn                                             7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,675.19  2,2.0  ,376.0                                                                         z.5.                                9.5
S..             871  ..799                                             ,922            ,26.          3,46.                                                                                     .9.9                               59.9
Ooo.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,23.0                            7,449.         725.7                                                                                      4.1                                6.9
T                                                                        63-49.          73.3           51.6                                                                                   .54                                  .
9o5.3                                              i2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,1.!Ao  22,451~.3  24,594.6                                                                      7.9                             200.0
59500900 1906000535                                                                                                                      73339        75028    08399~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15  516 780
09996991 5.,30.. 79310                              0.71           9~~~     ~     ~~~~~          ~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~.06  5.1I .9  0.45                   .34         5.23      0.6
0*10. 93.   . 9..  197329...
5    09  69 5 .9 7ot.3      1567.1977h 4a      110           17- 
0*759003607*                                                55.5        39.2        .0.5               539.9         995.7            54.:4  513    35.64.
19.69:          23.3          3.              ,469.9       4,34.             34.           1450             53
8903*                                                   93:     6.3       35.         3 17.7        4.2            7.220,9       4,044.8           183.6         342.0            2.5
789l                                                  53'      7.         0.         7.             .               L.             4.              0.            5.3              I.,



- 26 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYNNTE  EXE8AL ASSISUTANCE AND DENT                                                     F.S  5 of 5
1US$ nil ion et torrent prices
A.tt.l                           Prelifi-.ry E.tiet.s                               Proj..tion.
_970             1975           1976            1977                1978                1979            1980            1982           1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
E.port. (Inolodig NFS)                              2,745.4          6,081.7        6,836.3         7,795.1            10,036.5            14,089.6        21,062.1        29,945.0       46,962.6
Inport. (including YPS)                              3,416.9          8,636.7        8,421.7         7,855.0            10,589.7            14,676.7        19,571.5        29,090.3       46,845.1
Re.Iorce SBlnce                                      - 671.5         -2,555.1       _1,585.4         -  59.9             - 553.2             - 587.1         1,490.6           854.7           117.5
I.tereet, net 1/                                     - 307.0        -1,266.5        -1,551.2        -1,811.0            -2,311.8            -3,236.5        -3,738.6       .4,505.1        .5,765.1
Direct I-v..te,t Income                              - 267.5          - 657.5        - 666.7         - 401.4             - 677.4             - 572.9         - 687.5         - 907.5       -1,275.0
Worker.' Reeitt.nce.                                   122.7            174.6           239.6          251.0               277.0                332.4          398.9           574.4           807.0
Current Trmn.fere Net                                   55.3            123.4           156.0          168.5                192.3               230.7          276.8           365.4           513.4
Cerevnt Account Science                             -1,068.0        -4,181.2        -3,407.7        -1,852.8            -2,873.1            -3,833.4        -2,259.8       -3,618.1        -5,602.2
Priv-t. Direct Invet.e.Mnt                             322.8            748.8           626.2          555.9               530.0               636.0           763.2         1,099.0        1,544.0
Public Med. end Long Tero  Lon., net                   258.6          3,565.8        4,265.5         3,937.3             4,079.0             3,237.4         2,588.3         3,296.4        4,808.8
(Di.bur.e.o,nt.)                                    (821.3)        4,418.6        (5,417.9)       (6,232.3)           (8,343.3)          (10,142.4)       (8,629.7)      (9,812.4)    (13.299.7)
(Repeyeent.)                                       (-562.7)         (-852.8)    (-1,555.4)    (-2,295.0)             (-4,264.3)          (-6,905.0)      (.6,041.4)     (-6,516.0)    (-8,490.9)
oth.r Capitel                                          588.7             31.7       -1,801.9        .2,136.2            -1,513.4                110.0          132.0           174.2           244.7
(Public Short Ter.)                                 (139.6)          (842.8)        (879.5)        (-950.0)          (-1,490.2)             (160.0)
(Other Cepit.l, t.e.i.)                             (449.1)        (-811.1)    (-2,681.4)        (-1,186.2)             (-23.2)             (-50.0)
Chonge in Re.erve.  (-. incr...)                      -102.1           -165.1           320.9         -504.2              -222.5              .150.0        -1,223.7          _951.5         -995.3
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS                               862.5          4,864.5         6,192.7        8,194.5             9,208.9
IERD                                                   146.8            310.0           410.0          162.0               554.5
IDA                                                     _-                               -               -                  -
Other MIltil.terel                                     112.4            121.8           171.72          122.0               152.2
Gover-nentt                                             79.8            335.8           318.1          165.6               385.3
Suppli-r-                                               69.7            156.8           135.7          133.6                97.5
Bonk. ed Finenclal Inetitution.                        453.9          3,799.9        4,836.5         6,322.8             7,983.2
Bond.                                                   -               140.3           321.3        1,288.5                36.4
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                                                          EXTERNAL DEBT
Phblic Debt Ott-tndinsg  nd Dieb.r-ed                3,316.7         11,809.6       16,607.6        20,381.2            26,970.4                                  9ot.t.ndine end Di.bursed
(end of peri.d)                                                                                                                                    on D... 31, 1978
Intere-t on Public Debt                                222.1            855.0        1,138.6         1,388.2             1,853.1
Repeytent on Public Debt                               479.8            799.6        1,264.3         2,463.3             4,675.7                                   SNISlion.          Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                                -                -               -               -                  -                Public M 6 L.T.
Totl1 Debt Seroite (net)                               701.9          1,654.6        2,402.9         3,851.5             6,528.8                  Loons
B-rden  on Eport E.roig. 2/  (7.)
,.  Public Debt S-rvice                               24.5             26.4           34.0            47.9                63.3             IBRD                  1,480.9              5.5
b. Tota  Debt ServIce                                 24.5             26.4           34.0            47.9                63.3             Other Meltilct.e-l    883.9                 3.3
c.  Totel Debt Servioe ed Direct                                                                                                           Go-ernente            1,123.0               4.2
Inve-t-ent Incoe.                      33.8            37.0            43.4           52.9                 67.9            Supplier-                635.3              2.4
Aver-e  Tersof PubIlc Debt                                                                                                                   Bond.                  2,698.8              0.0
e.  Intere-t on X of prior ye r'. D.O. nd D            7.4             10.2             9.6            8.4                 9.1             Other Finenciel
b.  A- orti-etion .. % of prior yeor-.                                                                                                        Inetitetiun.      20,148.4              74.7
D.o. end D                           16.1              9.5            10.7           14.8                22.9             Totel                26,970.4             100.0
IBSD E.po..re
e.  IBRD D.O. aed D. ec S. of Publin D.O. ed D   17.5                   9.5             7.4            6.7                 5.5
b.  IBRD Debt Service  o 7. of Public
Debt Service                           7.7             7.0             5.5            3.9                 2.8
IDA Enposure
_  Not eppli.eble or .v-il.ble
1/ Inclode Intere-t on eho-t-ten- privet. end public debt
2/ Include. worker remitt-ncee



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1980)
Loan                                                       Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower             Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
36 loans fully disbursed                        1,710.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                    Water Supply            90.0        28.4
968      1974  NAFINSA                    Roads                   90.0        20.5
970      1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              47.0        31.0
1022      1974  NAFINSA                    Airports                25.0         6.0
1053      1974  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        39.5
1110      1975  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         110.0        14.0
1111      1975  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              50.0        44.1
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry                50.0         5.9
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply            40.0        29.8
1205      1976  NAFINSA                    Industry                50.0         6.3
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0        53.0
1420      1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 42.0        36.7
1462      1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        85.4
1524      1978  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 50.0        24.9
1552      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry                47.0        37.1
1553      1978  NAFINSA                    Agriculture             56.0        54.9
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development       16.5        15.4
1560      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry               100.0        63.7
1569      1978  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  200.0          69.2
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              25.0        12.6
1643      1979  NAFINSA                    Small-scale Agri.       60.0        60.0
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                   Highways               120.0       120.0
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry                80.0        72.6
1706      1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              92.0        92.0
1712      1979  NAFINSA                    Industry               175.0       175.0
1820 1/   1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Mining              40.0        40.0
TOTAL                                            3,635.9 2/ 1,238.0
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               605.2
Total now outstanding                            3,030.7
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        90.8                 1.5
Total now held by Bank 2/                        3,029.2
Total Undisbursed                                            1,238.0
1/   Loan approved by Executive Directors March 25, 1980, but not yet signed.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANINEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTIENTS (as of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                                IJS$ Million
Year           Obligor                    ,ype of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/            Industrial Equipment       0.8      --     0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                    A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5             0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/          Twist Drills               0.3      --     0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
66/68      Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.            Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
MIexico, S.A. 1/           Steel                      0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                    Sodium Sulphate            0.7      --     0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                       Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,        Iron Ore Ifining           1.5      --      1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.    Textiles                     12.0      --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                       Pulp and Paper              2/       2/      2/
1973/79    Cemento Veracruz              Cement                    15.9      --    15.9
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel          Tourism                    1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78   Mtexinox, S.A.                 Steel                     12.0      3.2   15.2
1978       Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.    Pulp and Paper                9.0      2.6   11.6
1978       Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                       Petrochemicals            19.0      --    19.0
1979       Empresas Tolteca de
Mexico, S.A. 3/            Cement                   100.0      --   100.0
1979       Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.               Tourism                             2.3    2.3
1979       Conductores Monterrey,        Electrical Wire
S.A.                         and Cable               18.0      --    18.0
1980       Industrias Resistol, S.A.  Particleboard                25.0      --    25.0
Total Gross Commitments                               218.9    31.9  250.8
Less Cancellations, Terminaticns, Repayment
and Sales                                           146.4    22.1 168.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                      72.5      9.8  82.3
Total Undisbursed                                      87.9      0.6  88.5
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed during 1980. The Executive Directors
have agreed to amend the Project Description to include new works
which would serve the same objective of increasing bulk water
supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area (R79-307).
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1 Rio Panuco Irrigation Project; $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been post-
poned by the Government because of interim improvements of the
existing airport carried out by the local municipality with its
own resources. At Campeche, the Government has decided to
construct a new airport with its own funds instead of improving
the existing airport. Loan proceeds allocated to Guaymas and
Campeche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project. One of the six
airports has been completed and works in the other five airports
are proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is
underway to adjust for these delays. The closing date will be
extended accordingly.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule. After an in-depth
mid-term evaluation in early 1979, project implementation is
being strengthened. PIDER management is taking steps to ensure
proper operation and maintenance of earlier PIDER investments.
Emphasis is also being given to improved cost recovery, invest-
ment analysis and programming, monitoring, and rural industries.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: J,ly 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity, and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The Bajio Urea Plant has been completed and the Pajaritos Urea
Plant is expected to be completed by October 1980. The Parathion
Plant has also been completed. The project is, on average,
2-1/2 years behind schedule. Most of the commissioning work
will take place during the next 6-8 months, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with five cities, where
construction has begun. Three additional subprojects (which
would fully commit the loan funds) are being reviewed by the
Bank. Several positive measures have been taken by the Mexican
authorities to accelerate project execution, including the
preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the Special Project Unit in
charge of project execution. Construction in three cities is
on schedule.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  August 30, 1976.  Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to partial cancellations in some subprojects, $1.5 million
are available for further commitment.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project has had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabilization
period) was inadequate. The traffic took an upward swing in
1977, continued to rise in 1978, and 1979. As a result, the
operating and working ratios improved significantly. The
railway has prepared a revised investment plan on the basis of
which new financial targets and a revised list of goods have
been prepared and accepted by the Bank. Due to delays incurred
in 1976-1977, the project will be completed in late 1980, about
two years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto is also under construction.
Project implementation is slightly behind schedule. An outline
for the ecological and environmental study is being reviewed
in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic as well as
North American tourism and the economic study of tourism have
been completed. Overall, progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. Progress
of commitments is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty
extension agents have now received full training and have
been assigned to 14 regional offices.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank;
the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. After initial
delays in project execution, project authorities are making
excellent progress in the agricultural development program of
each pilot project. The applied research programs are proceed-
ing on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress on institutional and on some work related aspects
of this project has been good, though disbursements are behind
schedule.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. US$86.3 million of the Bank loan have been committed
to date and projects requiring another US$9.5 million are
under examination.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date:  june 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1980, 18 months ahead of
schedule.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Several livestock projects have been approved by the Bank.
Submission of irrigation and drainage subprojects has been
delayed. The Government is now accelerating sub-project prepa-
ration to avoid further slippage.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979; the 1980 budget is
adequate.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: Octobr 31, 1982.
Project completion is delayed by about 12 months, to July 1982,
due to a revision of foundation requirements made after a severe
earthquake in the project area in March 1979. Preliminary
estimates indicate cost increases of about 20 percent. Civil
construction work is progressing satisfactorily. Basic engineer-
ing is about 95 percent complete, and detailed engineering is
about 50 percent complete. At end 1979, the equivalent of
approximately US$90 million were committed, of which US$52
million were for equipment and supplies.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
STS$46.6 million of the loan have been committed to sub-
projects to date, and additional subprojects requiring
US$17.4 million are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1980. The
Loan has not yet been signed.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: about 6 months
(b) Project prepared by: NAFINSA
(c) First Bank mission: December 1979
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: January 28, 1980
(e) Negotiations completed in: May 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
A review of the integrated program for assistance to small and
medium-scale industry will be made with NAFINSA in early 1981 (paras. 45
and 59).
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) interest charges to final borrowers on loans granted by FOGAIN to average
at least one percent point above the average cost of term funds (ACF) to
multipurpose banks over a 12 month period and to be adjusted once a year
to maintain this relation with the ACF (para. 49).
(b) FIDEIN fees for rental and leasing services of factory buildings and
equipment would include a cost of capital of at least the ACF plus
one percentage point (para. 58).
(c) the conclusion of agreements satisfactory to the Bank on terms and
conditions of transfer of Bank funds to FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN
would be conditions of disbursement of Bank funds (para 62);
(d) changes in the Operating Regulations of FOGAIN, FOMIN or FIDEIN
materially and adversely affecting the nature of the project would
be an event of suspension and default of the Bank loan (para. 63).
(e) Bank approval would be required for: FOMIN investments involving
Bank resources of more than US$250,000, all FIDEIN factory buildings
with an area of 2,400 square meters or more, all factory buildings
without a firm contract for lease or sale, the first two common service
facilities and the first two equipment leasing operations and all Bank
resources for technical assistance (para. 63).



