Document of                  IL l      C
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2947a-ME
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1980
Projects D,epartment
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docunient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (Mex$)
US$1     =  Mex$22.80
Mex$1    = US$0.044
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
Acr          Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
BANAMEX     Banco Nacional de Mexico
BANCOMER    Banco de Comercio
CANACINTRA  Camara Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion
CENAPRO     Centro Nacional de Productividad
CEPSE       Centro Empresarial de Perfeccionamiento Socio-Economico, A.C.
CFM         Comision de Fomento Minero
COMERMEX    Banco Comercial Mexicano
CONACYT     Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
CONCAMIN    Confederacion de Camaras Industriales
FIDEIN      Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques, Ciudades Industriales y Centros
Comerciales
FIRA        Fondo Instituido en Relacion con la Agricultura
FOGAIN      Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FOMEX       Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados
FOMIN       Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FONATUR     Fondo Nacional de Turismo
FONEI       Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FONEP       Fondo Nacional de Estudios de Preinversion
FOVI        Fondo de Operacion y Descuento Bancario a la Vivienda
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
1DB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMCE        Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior
IMIT        Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
INFONAVIT   Instituto de Fomento Nacional de Vivienda para los Trabajadores
INFOTEC     Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica
IPADe       Instituto Panamericano de Alta Direccion de Empresa
NAFINSA     Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PAI         Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
SAHOP       Secretaria de Asentamiento Humano y Obras Publicas
SEPAFIN     Secretaria de Patrimonio Nacional y Fomento Industrial
SFBs        Standard Factory Buildings
SMI         Small and Medium Scale Industry
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO: SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND PERFORMANCE OF SMALL
AiND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY ...............................1..... 
A.  Recent Economic Developments ....1......................                 I
B.  Performance of Small and Medium Industry ...................             2
C.  Industrial Policy Issues .. ... . ...                                    4
Industrial Development Plan          ..                                 4
Import Liberalization..                                                 6
Export Competitiveness ... . .........                                  6
Employment ..                                                           7
D.  Perspectives for 1980-82 ....... .................        ........       7
II.    THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM AND SMI FINANCING ..................     ......         8
A.  Institutional Structure              .................... .   . *        8
The Banking System. . .                                                 8
The Trust Funds 9... .9
The Securities Market .... . . . . . . . ... .9
B.  Credit Availability and Interest Rate Policy            . ...           10
C. SMI Financing                            ........                        11
D. Outlook..  12
III.   THE INTEGRATED SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM (PAI)...  12
PAI's Coordinating Committees and Secretariat   .         .13
The Industrial Extension Service.                                      14
Specialized Technical Assistance Institutions ..17
Allocation of Technical Assistance Funds        .       .19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Mexico
in January/February 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. N.V. Santiago, C. Joseph,
(Ms.) A. Velarde (LCPI2); J. Levitsky, C. Goderez (IDFD); D. Sarfaty and M. Fierro
(Consultants). Mr. P. Glaessner (Assistant Director, LCP) participated in final
mission discussions. Mr. I. Baskind (LCPI2) assisted in the preparation of this
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ban1K authorization.



-2-
Page No.
IV.    PRINCIPAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTING SMI ENTERPRISES ............      ...      20
A.  Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
(FOCAIN) ....................................................          20
Organization, Management and Staffing of FOGAIN    .............        21
Operating Regulations and Policies ........... ..       .............   22
Interest Rates and Margins to Intermediaries ................           22
Participating Intermediaries  .....        ..........................   24
Project Appraisal and Supervision .....        ......................   24
Procurement and Disbursement .         ................................  26
Past Operations and Impact ..................................           26
The Credit Guarantee Scheme .................................           27
Past Financial Performance ..................................           29
Accounting Procedures and Auditing Arrangements ..........     ...      30
Operational and Financial Projections              . . . .              30
B.  Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN) .31
Background and Objectives.                 .      ............         31
Organization, Management and Staffing           .    .     .32
Operations                  ...32
Portfolio Quality                . . .37
Project Appraisal and Supervision       .       .                     38
Procurement and Disbursement             . . .38
Accounting Procedures and Auditing            . . .39
Financial Position and Projections           .      .     .39
C. Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales,
y Centros Comerciales (FIDEIN) .40
Background and Objectives .40
Organization, Management and Staffing .41
Development of Industrial Estates .42
Interaction with the "Fideicomisos Especiales" .44
FIDEIN - Status and Performance of the Industrial
Estates Subprogram .45
FIDEIN - The Proposed Subprogram .47
Project Appraisal and Supervision .48
Procurement and Disbursement .49
Accounting, Control and Auditing .49
Operational and Financial Projections .50



-3-
Page No.
V.     THEI PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN          .......................    51
A.  Allocation of Program Resources under the First SMI Project             51
B.  The Project and the Proposed Bank Loan .52
Size of the Program and the Proposed Loan .............                52
Description of the Loan Components                                     53
Channeling Arrangements, Repayment and Capitalization of
PAI's Special Account  .................... ..oo.****                55
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing   ........ ......               55
Approval Limits ..       .................. ,........... *.. ...... .  57
Project Benefits and Risks  ..............................             58
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....... ..................            59
A.  Agreements and Understandings Reached ....................              59
B.  Recommendation           ...........................................    60



-4-
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   The Average Cost of Funds (ACF) Index
2.   Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
3.   FIDEIN's Plan of Action
4.   FIDEIN's Pricing Criteria
5.   Technical Considerations,  Construction Schedule and Capital Costs of
FIDEIN's Factory Building (SFB) Component.
6.   Supporting Tables:
Table 1: Gross Domestic Product, by Sector of Origin, 1965 and 1970-78
2: Annual Rates of Growth of GDP by Sector of Origin
3: Manufacturing Sector, Structure of Value Added, 1970-78
4: Indices of Industrial Production, 1970-79
5: Indices of Employment in Manufacturing, 1970-78
6: Gross Fixed Investment
7:  Number of Industrial Establishments, Employment and Value Added by
Manufacture, According to the Number of Employees, 1970 and 1975
8: Structure of Manufacturing Industry, 1970-75
9: Exports of Manufactured Goods by Sector: 1972-79
10: Composition of Imports, 1977-79
11: Summary of Principal Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Investment
12: Regional Distribution of Industrial Activities, 1970-75
13: Liabilities of the Banking System by Type of Institution
and Instrument
14: Mexico's Largest Banks (October 31, 1979)
15: Indicators of Financial Development and Efficiency of the
Banking System
16: Trust Funds Financing Outstanding Balances on September 30, 1979
17: Geographical Distribution of Deposits and Credit
18: Lending Terms, 1978-79
19: Selected Rates of Interest in Mexico, USA, and London Interbank Rates
20: Banking System Credit by Sectors, 1976-79
21: Organization Chart of FOGAIN and PAI Secretariat
22: Existing and Planned Regional Offices of PAI as of year-end 1979
23: Integrated Small and Medium Scale Industry Program (PAI)
Financial Statements
24: Classification of FOGAIN's Operations by Financial Intermediaries
(April 1954 - December 1979)
25: Analysis of Total Credit Operations of FOGAIN from Inception
through 1979
26: FOGAIN's Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1977-79
27: Past and Projected Income Statements of FOGAIN
28: FOGAIN's Projected Sources and Application of Funds for the
Period 1980-84
29: Organization Chart of FOMIN
30: Summary of FOMIN's Investments



(List of Annexes, contd.)
- 5-
Table 31: Economic Activity of Firms Supervised by FOMIN, 1978-79
32:  Analysis of FOMIN's Authorized Projects by Number, 1977-79
33: FOMIN's Equity Investments Held
34: FOMIN's Portfolio Development
35: Revenues of FOMIN's Disinvestments 1976-79
36: FOMIN - Audited and Projected Balance Sheets, 1977-84
37: FOMIN - Audited and Projected Income Statements, 1977-84
38: Resource Needs to Support FOMIN's Expected Level of Operations,
1980-84
39:  FOMIN's Sources and Applications of Funds, 1980--84
40: Organization Chart of FIDEIN
41: Investment in Acquisition and Land Development of Industrial
Estates as of December 31, 1979
42: FIDEIN Operating Results of the Industrial Estates as of
December 31, 1979.
43: Consolidated Balance Sheet Summary for the Fide:icomisos Especiales
as of December 31, 1978
44:  Status of FIDEIN's Industrial Estates Subprogram as of March 1980
45: FIDEIN's Industrial Estates Subprogram Construction Chronogram
with Committed Factory Buildings for 1980
46:  FIDEIN's Industrial Estates Subprogram Execution Schedule
of the Allocated PAI Funds for the Proposed Project Loan
47: FIDEIN - Unaudited and Projected Balance Sheets, 1977-84
48:  FIDEIN - Unaudited and Projected Income Statements, 1977-84
49:  Resources Needed for Support of FIDEIN's Expected Level of
Operations, 1980-84
50:  Government/Private Sector Complementarity
51: Estimated Breakdown of Technical Assistance Component by
Institution for the Proposed Project Loan
52: Computation of the Foreign Exchange Cost Content of Program
Financing
7.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.
MAP






I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND PERFORMANCE OF SMALL
AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY
A. Recent Economic Developments
1.01      The period since the end of 1977 has witnessed a resurgence of
dynamism in the Mexican economy after four years of slow growth which had
followed almost two decades of virtually uninterrupted economic expansion.l/
GDP rose by 7.0% in 1978 and 8.0% in 1979 after averaging 3.9% p.a. during
1974-77. The principal factor has been the substantial increase in output
in the industrial sector, defined in Mexican statistics as mining, petroleum,
petrochemicals, manufacturing, construction and electricity. Among these
components, petroleum extraction has been the most buoyant since 1974, with
annual rates of increase well above those of GDP, averaging 13%Y in the period
1974-78 and provisionally estimated at 15% for 1979. The increase in value
added in manufacturing in real terms, after averaging less thani 4% in 1974-77,
rose to 8.8% in 1978 and the provisional estimate is 8.5% in 1979 (Annex 6,
T-1 and T-2).
1.02      The focus of this growth has been the petroleum sector, where real
output expansion, combined with rising prices, has led to subsltantial increases
in export earnings. Moreover, the new large hydrocarbon discoveries have led
to highly optimistic expectations regarding future local demand for goods and
services and the capacity of the Mexican economy to finance accelerated
growth. As a consequence, there has been a strong surge in industrial invest-
ment by the domestic private sector; foreign capital inflows, for investment
in and long-term lending to industry, have also been substantial. Finally,
government expenditures on current and capital accounts have exceeded
budgetary forecasts, and in spite of sharply rising revenues, the public
sector deficit for 1979 is provisionally estimated at about 6% of GDP, un-
changed from 1978. As a consequence of the growth in both public and private
investment, gross fixed capital formation in 1979 apparently wils about 50%
higher in real terms than in 1977 (Annex 6, T-6).
1.03      Within the manufacturing sector, a large number of enterprises were
reported to be working at close to full capacity at the beginning of 1980. In
some instances, output growth was constrained by tight raw matierial supplies,
due to transport bottlenecks and, in the case of agro-industriles, to shortages
of domestically produced inputs.
1.04      The main weakness in the economic outlook has been tlhe relatively
poor performance in the agricultural sector. Inclement weather adversely
affected recent harvests of some key commodities and output growth rates have
lagged behind the rate of population increase since the mid-1960s. As a conse-
quence, industries drawing their inputs from agriculture have not performed as
well as the rest of manufacturing. Moreover, the lack of growth in real
income in the rural areas (representing 40% of the population) comparable to
1/ In each of the four years 1974-77, GDP growth rates fell below 6%; during
the entire 20-year period 1954-73, the annual rate of growth fell below
6% in only five years (averaging 6.9%) and only once in two consecutive
years (1961-62).



-2-
that being achieved in other sectors has similarly influenced industrial
subsectors providing basic consumer goods. Thus, from the point of view of
establishing conditions necessary for maintaining accelerated income growth
and avoiding social unrest, the solutions to the problems facing the agricul-
tural sector remain a high government priority.
1.05      Exports of manufactures rose sharply in the early 1970s in response
to a major export development program but fell during 1975 and 1976, due to
both external recession and the domestic inflation which resulted in a sub-
stantially overvalued peso.  Following the sharp peso devaluation of September
1976 and other measures taken during 1977, manufactured exports resumed
their upward trend, and in 1978 exceeded in real terms the 1974 peak level.
In 1979, the value of this trade was some 15% above the 1978 level, signifying
very little change, if any, in the total volume (Annex 6, T-9).  Of particular
importance was the shift in composition, reflecting substantial declines in
exports of many items (e.g., construction materials and durable consumer
goods) where domestic demand expansion has put some pressure on supplies.  On
the other hand, exports of refined petroleum and petro-chemical products and
motor vehicle parts have expanded sharply. For the petroleum derivates, this
represented the coming on stream of a number of new installations which are
expected to export a substantial share of output. For motor vehicle parts
manufactures these exports reflect in great part the export commitments made
by domestic vehicle manufacturers as part of their overall expansion plans
established under the government's special program for the automotive industry.
1.06      In spite of the substantial rise in export earnings, particularly
from the petroleum sector, the deficit in the trade balance has widened
in recent years as a result of even larger increases in imports. The main
element in this growth has been the expansion in imports of capital goods
as well as of intermediate goods used in construction (including for rail-
roads and refineries) (Annex 6, T-10).  In 1979, there were also important
increases in food imports (particularly grains), due to the shortfall in
agricultural output.
B.  Performance of Small and Medium Industry
1.07      Indications are that small and medium industry 1/ (SMI) has been
able to participate in the recent growth and that a number of former SMI
enterprises have moved into the category of large industry during this period
of expansion.  Sample surveys undertaken by Banco Nacional de Mexico (BANAMEX)
and the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Pequena y Mediana (FOGAIN)
in late 1979 indicate substantial increase in sales and in the physical volume
of production, relatively high capacity utilization (except in some non-durable
consumer goods industries) and a large number of firms experiencing difficul-
ties in obtaining adequate supplies of domestically produced raw materials.
Most plants had undertaken expansion programs in the current or previous year
or were planning such investments for 1980. In connection with lower levels
of output from the non-durable consumer goods industries, production may be
adversely affected by the imposition of price controls for basic wage goods,
particularly the relatively inexpensive items, as well as by less buoyant
demand from the rural population.
1/ Establishments with between 6 and 250 employees.



- 3 -
1.08     The 1975 industrial census provides data summarized in Table 1.1,
which suggest important changes in the size structure of industry. In common
with other industrializing and industrialized countries, there has been a
tendency towards increasing the average size of industrial establishments. _/
The growth patterns among the groups classified by numbers of workers suggest
that the process has been dynamic, with many enterprises moving up from the
smaller to the larger category. The total number of enterprises which employed
6 or more workers 2/ declined slightly between 1970 and 1975, dlue to reduction
in the number of small scale enterprises with 6 to 50 employees. While the
number of medium sized enterprises with 51 to 250 employees rose slightly
there was a relatively substantial growth of large enterprises employing
more than 250 workers. As a consequence, large industry increased its share
in overall employment in organized industry from 49.4% to 51.2%' and from 56.1%
of total value added to 61.2% between 1970 and 1975.
Table 1.1: CHARACTERISTICS OF INDUSTRY CLASSIFIED BY SIZE OF ESTABLISIefENT
Number of                                     Value acAed
===i=-       ~~~~~Est=bih::nts         EmnloYment  __(in millict-: Pesos~
1970  2   1975  %      1970  2     1975  z    1970  2     1975  '
6 - 50 workers  17,820   76.9   17.525    75.9  291,832   21.1    277,244    18.3    10,598   13.3  19,773   11.1
S1 - 250 workers  4,288    18.5    4,347  18.8  459.992    33.3    462,781    30.5    24,340    30.6  49,021   27.6
Over 250 workers  1,065    4.6  1,215  5.3  630444   45.6    776.331   51.2    44,700    56.1   108,700   61.2
TOTAL     23,173  100.0   23,087    100.0   1,382,26/   100.0  1,516,356  100.0    79,638   100.0   177,494  LOO.0
Source:  Induetrial Census for 1970 and 1975.
1/  The group of enterprises with up to 5 employees has been omitted from
these comparisons. About half of the employees in this group are
unremunerated family members.
2/  The discussion on size is based on census data which included mining
and manufacturing activities.



-4
1.09      Within SMI there have been significant changes in output structure
(Annex 6, T-7 and T-8). Between 1970 and 1973, the share of the traditional
consumer goods industries in the total value added by SMI (excluding mining)
declined from 41.3% to 35.8% for food, beverages, tobacco, textiles, clothing
and shoes. The share of the metal products and engineering industries rose
from 23.3% to 29.7% between the two years. While this trend is typical for an
industrializing country, these changes within the SMI grouping were more
marked than those of industry as a whole (Annex 6, T-3). As a consequence,
the share of SMI in total output of the metal products and engineering indus-
tries (as measured by census data) rose slightly from 1970 to 1975. This has
important implications for future growth patterns, since these branches will
be the most dynamic as the industrialization process accelerates.
1.10      SMI has received considerable attention from the government in
recent years. As described in para. 3.01, an Integrated Assistance Program
(PAI) was organized in 1978, supported by Bank Loan 1552-ME, and has made
substantial progress in expanding both technical and financial assistance
services to SMI. The financial activities of FOGAIN within this program
increased 30% in number and 60% in nominal terms in 1979 as compared to 1978
(para. 4.17).
1.11      In addition, the government recently initiated a nationwide system
of subcontracting exchanges, whose benefits are expected to accrue especially
to the SMI sector. The first clearing-house has been established in Guadalajara
for metal fabricating industries and some 10 or 12 additional subcontracting
exchanges are expected to be opened shortly.
1.12      The principal function of these subcontracting exchanges is to dis-
seminate information, through such measures as publications and exhibitions,
about potential subcontractors and contractors, including their relative
capacities and specialties. Recent reports on the structure of Mexican
industry 1/ have pointed out that the sector appears to be excessively
vertically integrated as compared to other countries in a similar stage of
development and that the growth of subcontracting, which would involve many
SMI firms, could play a major role in improving efficiency in production.
C. Industrial Policy Issues
Industrial Development Plan
1.13      At the beginning of 1979 the government issued the National Indus-
trial Development Plan for 1979-1982, a related National Urban Development
Plan, and a series of presidential decrees which established the mechanisms
for implementing the objectives of these plans. Regulations governing the
application of the specific measures contained in the decrees were issued by
mid-1979. The industrial plan 2/ does not provide the basis for a specific
1/ See, for example, Bank Report No. 1671-ME, Mexico - Manufacturing Sector:
Situation, Prospects and Policies (May 1, 1977).
2/ The industrial plan and the relevant presidential decrees are described
in more detail in the Staff Appraisal Report for the Fourth Industrial
Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project, Report No. 2473b-ME, dated May 10, 1979.



allocation of resources, but rather indicates the growth potential of the
sector in the new economic environment based on the ample availability of the
hydrocarbons.  The plan also SeLS the basic sectoral objectives of the govern-
ment, providing the rationale for using specific policy tools.  The objectives
include accelerated generation of employment opportunities, risiLng real
per capita incomes, improved regional distribution of industry, a stronger
outward orientation for the industrial sector, and the stimulation of tech-
nological growth.
1.14      The major measures to achieve these objectives include public sector
investment in infrastructure and in certain basic industrial subsectors (e.g.,
petrochemicals and steel) and an elaborate set of special pricing arrangements
and fiscal incentives for the private sector to channel its investment into
priority regions and industrial subsectors, to promote employment and to
increase labor use.1/ Additional incentives are provided to small industries,
defined in this context as enterprises whose fixed assets do not exceed 200
times the annual minimum salary for the Federal District (presently equivalent
to US$400,000).2/
1.15      Along with the focus on employment opportunities, the main objective
of the reg:Lonal decentralization effort is to achieve a better spatial dis-
tribution of industry and to control the growth in the main cities, in parti-
cular Mexico City, where the burgeoning population has already created serious
social, economic and ecological problems. Top priority is given to the devel-
opment of four "industrial ports" (Zone IA), embracing the areas around Lazaro
Cardenas, Salina Cruz, Coatzacoalcos and Tampico, and selected other areas
(Zone IB) whose development has been considered important within the nation-
wide Urban Plan. The second group of areas (Zone II), which are considered
state priorities, are specified in agreements reached between the federal and
state authorities. Growth in the Federal District and its immediate environs
(Zone IIIA) and other nearby regions (Zone IIIB) is to be controlled 3/ and
investment in those areas is practically excluded from receiving incentives,
except for expansions of existing enterprises in Zone IIIB. Finally, as
regards thie rest of the country (i.e., the areas not specifically included in
Zones I, II or III), the incentives to be offered to investment are lower than
for the two priority areas (Zones I and II), (Annex 6, T-ll).
1.16      It is too early to assess the impact of the incentives, particularly
in view of the general buoyancy of investment demand. Also most of the
incentives granted through December 1979 were related to the rebates offered
for the purchase of domestically produced capital goods, thus reflecting
projects which had been largely formulated prior to the establishment of the
1/ A table summarizing the principal characteristics of the fiscal
incentives is presented in Annex 6, T-11.
2/  This definition is approximately the same as that used by FOGAIN for small
enterprises under the proposed loan. Based on FOGAIN's lending experience,
it would cover mostly enterprises with up to 25 workers.
3/   The intention of the Plan is to channel 70% of new industrial invest-
ment away from this area of concentration which currently accounts for
about 50% of manufacturing output.



- 6 -
incentive system. Nevertheless, the appraisal mission found that many indus-
trialists, in considering the location of new facilities, were taking into
account the new set of incentives offered to promote investment in different
regions.
Import Liberalization
1.17      Among the goals which the present administration has established is
that of opening the economy through import liberalization, mainly by reducing
the number of imported goods which are subject to prior licenses. Consider-
able progress has been made since the initiation of the liberalization program
at the end of 1977. By the beginning of 1979, slightly more than two-thirds
of the 7,400 items in the customs nomenclature were no longer subject to prior
licensing procedures but the goods still under license accounted for about 65%
of total imports in 1978. During 1979, further items were removed from the
list but the remaining items, although less than one-fourth of the total in
the nomenclature, still represent about 60% of imports. With present condi-
tions of strong local demand and continued high levels of international
reserves, further progress in this direction could play an important role in
containing inflation and in improving the international competitiveness of the
Mexican industry. In this connection, the government has delayed its decision
to join the GATT while it continues to assess the overall impact of its entry.
In announcing this decision, the President indicated that entering GATT at
this time would limit the country's use of its oil and other national resources
as instruments of trade policy and of national independent development.
Export Competitiveness
1.18      From the level of more than 30% in 1977, domestic inflation dropped
substantially in 1978 and 1979, and it is now around 20%, which is still
above international inflation levels. However, there appear to be disparate
price trends among product groups. While a large number of food items for
basic consumption have been subject to price controls and subsidies are also
being provided to keep the prices of many of these items from rising, price
increases for many manufactured products have been substantial. Whereas the
national consumer price index rose by about 22% between January 1979 and
January 1980, food prices increased by 18%, i.e., well below the prices of
clothing and shoes (36%), furniture (35%), and electric domestic appliances
(23%).
1.19      These price changes largely reflect the pull of rapidly expanding
domestic demand as well as increases in costs of production. Many of the
items which experienced declines in export volume in 1979 are those for which
domestic demand has been particularly strong (para. 1.05), and the extent to
which competitiveness of these exporting subsectors has been adversely affected
by rising costs is unclear.  For example, in the August 1979 BANAMEX survey of
SMI, about one-fourth of the respondents had undertaken exports and, within
this group, three-fourths considered their prices still competitive in export
markets. Nevertheless, the continuation of these price cost trends in the
absence of an exchange rate adjustment would severely reduce the long-term
competitive position of Mexican industry and endanger the goal of the author-
ities to increase the external orientation of manufacturing.



-7-
Employment
1.20      The recent increases in industrial output have had a particularly
beneficial impact on increasing employment opportunities. The annual increases
in employment in manufacturing from the mid-1950s through the 1960s averaged
about 3%, more or less equal to the percentage increase in Mexico's total
labor force. Industrial employment increased sharply in 1977-79 (Table 1.2).
According to the Industrial Plan, it would be possible to raise that growth
rate to 5% and help to reduce the high level of unemployment in the country.
The 1977-79 experience suggests that the recent pattern of indLustrial growth
may provide more employment than in the past. This trend will have to be
monitored to determine whether it is, in fact, sustainable in the long run, or
whether additional measures are required to increase employment generation in
the industrial sector.
Table 1.2: AVERAGE ANNUAL INCREASES
Index of
Industrial       Manufacturing   Value Added in Manufacturing
Employment        Production        (Based on Constant Prices)
1970-74           3.6%                8.2                       7.3
1974-77           1.3                 3.7                       4.3
1977-79           6.2 1/              9.2 1/                    7.0
1/  For 1979, January-October data compared to January-October 1978.
Source: Annex 6, T-5 and T-7.
D. Perspectives for 1980-82
1.21      Industrial growth in the medium term can be expected to maintain the
8.6% p.a. increase recorded in the past two years. AdditionaL capacity in
a number of subsectors is expected to come on stream in 1980 as a result of
the quickened pace of investment starting in 1978, while further capacity
increases reflecting the recent accelerated pace of investmentL will be opera-
tional beginning in 1981. The main constraints to output growth could arise
from certain bottlenecks in infrastructure facilities, especially transport,
causing delays and backlogs in the movement of goods, particularly of imports.
1.22      The longer-term capability for sustained output expansion will
continue to depend heavily upon the government's ability to prevent severe
inflationary pressures. With both public and private spending expanding at a
rapid rate with little financial constraint, there is increasing competition
for goods and services. There is, therefore, an urgent need for the public
sector to establish budgetary priorities and to avoid excessive expenditures.
Of particular importance is the need to focus on the agricultural sector, whose
output is critical for a number of industrial branches. Perhaps more important
in this context, however, is the role that expanding rural incomes could play
in bringing about a more balanced income and demand growth (para. 1.04).



1.23      The continued improvement in the quality, as well as expansion of the
resources devoted to SMI support as envisaged in the proposed loan should
permit these establishments to play a major role in output growth during this
period. In particular, with investment requirements per job created in SMI
well below that in the larger-scale resource-based development projects (para.
5.14), the sector can make an important contribution to more rapid employment
generation and thus to achieving the more balanced income demand growth essen-
tial to the longer-term expansion of the Mexican economy.
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM AND SMI FINANCING
A. Institutional Structure
The Banking System
2.01      Mexico's banking system comprises about 150 financial intermediaries,
including Banco de Mexico (the Central Bank), several public banks, and banks
of private and mixed ownership. In 1979, the private and mixed banks accounted
for 58% of the financial system's liabilities, while the public banks had 30%,
and Banco de Mexico 11% (Annex 6, T-13). Foreign banks, which may not accept
domestic deposits, provide an estimated 40% of the private sector's credit.
Credit unions have also been increasing in number and importance, but their
participation is less than 1% of total financing. Credit unions have been
active, however, in SMI financing, particularly in the channeling of funds
from FOGAIN, the principal government trust fund providing credit to SMI
enterprises (see Chapter IV).
2.02      Traditionally, Mexican financial institutions were specialized as
deposit and savings banks, financieras or investment banks, and mortgage
banks. In recent years, however, as part of the financial system reform
(para. 2.04), the authorities have encouraged a large number of mergers which
have made the multipurpose bank (multibank) the dominant type of financial
institution. Multibanks can offer a full range of financial services through
their branch offices and provide a fairly broad regional coverage of the
country.  As of November 1979, 29 multibanks accounted for 95% of the private
and mixed banking sector's liabilities (Annex 6, T-14).
2.03      Relative to Mfexico's level of economic development, its banking
system is not yet well developed. The system experienced a rapid deepening
from 1967 to 1972, when the non-monetary liabilities of the banking system as
a percentage of GDP reached 40%. This trend was reversed when the economic
uncertainties that ultimately led to the massive peso devaluation in 1976
began to manifest themselves, causing significant capital flight; the ratio
now stands at 34% (Annex 6, T-15). Other structural weaknesses in the finan-
cial sector also became apparent, such as the traditionalism in credit allo-
cation, with collateral requirements normally far in excess of loan accounts.
The system is also highly concentrated, with several of the large banks being
associated to a great degree with the important industrial groups, which tends
to distort credit allocation. Both of these characteristics make it difficult
for SMI enterprises to obtain financial assistance from the banking system.



- 9 -
Administrative expenses of banks are also high, exceeding on the average 6%
of deposits in 1979 (Annex 6, T-15).  Finally, due in part to the liquidity
preference of savers, liabilities of the banking system are highily skewed
towards short-term obligations, making it difficult for banks to provide
long-term project financing.
2.04      The authorities recently have taken steps to strengthen the Mexican
banking system, including the previously mentioned formation of multibanks,
which is expected to raise the efficiency of the system over the long term
through the economies of scale, increase competition by strengthening the
financing capacity of the smaller banks through mergers, and improve the
access to the full range of financial services for clients outside of the
biggest cities. Official minimum collateral requirements have also been
abolished, and overall exposure limits per client have been set.
The Trust Funds
2.05      rhe government, over a number of years, has set up a number of trust
funds, mostly operating through the banking system, to promote the economic
and social development of the country, by allocating credit on appropriate
terms to priority activities (Annex 6, T-16). These funds derive their
resources principally from the legal reserves of the banking system, although
several have also received loans from other local and international sources,
including the Bank. Although the government trust funds had a share of only
about 6% of the banking system financing in 1979, their share of medium and
long-term financing is much higher due to the aforementioned concentration of
banking system assets in shorter term financing. The most important among the
trust funds are those administered by Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA) and Banco
de Mexico. The former include FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN, all ofi which parti-
cipate in the Programa de Apoyo Integral (PAI) to support SMI iLndustries and
which would participate under the proposed project (see Chapter III). Among
the latter is FONEI (Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial), which provides financ-
ing for industrial clients larger than those normally financed by the three
aforementioned NAFINSA trust funds. FONEI has been the beneficiary of four Bank
loans totalling US$360 million. The other important trust funds of Banco de
Mexico are FIRA (agriculture), which has received several bank loans, FOMEX
(manufactured exports) and FOVI (housing). FONATUR, a trust fund for tourism
facilities managed by NAFINSA, has also received support from the Bank. It is
estimated that about 10% of trust fund credit was made to SMI enterprises as
of year-end 1979.
The Securities Market
2.06      Mexico's securities market is still relatively small and has not yet
developed into a sufficiently important mechanism to finance industrial firms.
Comparatively few and mostly well-established large companies are listed.
However, due to a series of reforms taken by the government over the past few
years and sharp increases in share prices, the market has grown rapidly, with
the total value of shares traded reaching Mex$94,000 million in 1979, compared
to Mex$30,300 million in 1978. Part of this volume of shares trade consisted
of new public offerings of Mex$12,100 million in 1979, up from Mex$6,900 million
in 1978. Another Mex$97,000 million in 1979 was accounted for by trading of
debt securities. Recognizing these problems, the government created the Fondo
Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN) in 1972 to help in the creation and ex-
pansion of SMI firms through direct investment, using equity and quasi-equity



- 10 -
instruments on a temporary basis as a minority shareholder. FOMIN has had
a useful, though still relatively minor, impact on SMI equity financing
(para. 4.38). Steps are being taken under the proposed project to increase
FOMIN's activities and improve their focus.
B. Credit Availability and Interest Rate Policy
2.07      During 1977 and 1978, as the economy recovered from the 1975-76
crisis, the financial sector expanded rapidly. While in late 1978 infla-
tionary pressures prompted the government to slow down the rate of
expansion, growth began to accelerate again in 1979. Bank credit increased
in nominal terms by 36% in 1977 (5% in real terms),. 15% (-2%) in 1978 and 30%
(12%) in 1979. Credit to the manufacturing sector, which reached Mex$132,000
million in September 1979, has retained roughly the same share of about 17% of
total financial system credit since 1970. Like industrial value added,
industrial credit was also very heavily concentrated in the Mexico City
area,l/ although there seems to have been a slight decrease from a share of
57% of total credit in December 1978 to 54% in September 1979 (Annex 6,
T-17). Priority areas designated by the National Industrial Development Plan
registered small gains in their respective shares of credit, a trend which is
expected to continue in the future and which would be encouraged under the
proposed project.
2.08      Aided by the widespread application of adjustable interest rates
(para. 2.09), loans are moving slightly towards longer terms, though banks
are still constrained by the high liquidity of their liabilities. As of
September 30, 1979, private and mixed banks had only 46% of their loans and
32% of their deposits at terms exceeding one year (Annex 6, T-18). However,
this is a marked improvement over 1978, when only 39% of loans by these
institutions were made for terms longer than a year. Monetary authorities have
taken measures recently to improve the term structure of liabilities of the
banking system by eliminating the highly liquid investment and mortgage bonds
and by increasing interest rates on 12-24 month certificates of deposit. The
authorities have periodically adjusted interest rate ceilings on time deposit
interest rates to boost domestic savings (Annex 6, T-19).
2.09      Since 1974, financial institutions in Mexico have been adopting
increasingly a variable interest rate system for term lending operations.
The change from the previous practice came after the inflation rate accelerated
in late 1973. By 1977, practically all term loans were made at floating
interest rates, using as an index the average cost of funds (ACF) to invest-
ment banking departments of intermediaries (Annex 1) 2/. Since the trans-
formation of the banking system from specialized banks to multipurpose
institutions has been substantially implemented, the Banco de Mexico announced
in December 1979 that the ACF index calculation would be based on the average
1/   Mexico City and the Mexico Valley.
2/   The index is a weighted average of interest rates paid on bonds, notes,
and certificates of deposit and excludes checking and savings account.



- 11 -
cost of all term resources of the Mexican banks, making the index base
broader and a better indicator of the cost of term funds in the Mexican
financial market. In connection with the first Bank SMI project, FOGAIN and
FIDEIN agreed to link their interest rates to the ACF, a policy which would
be continued under the proposed project, and which would be expanded to cover
lending rates implicit in FOMIN's operations as well.
2.10      Bletween the last quarter of 1977 and April 1980, the ACF index
rose from ].4.30% to 19.83%. The margins that banks charge their clients over
ACF generally range from less than 2 points for prime clients with reciprocal
business, to about 7 points for marginal clients (generally SMI enterprises),
implying current lending rates of about 22% to 27%, on average several points
above the rate of inflation of less than 20% estimated for 1979. Under the
formula agreed in connection with this proposed loan, FOGAIN's interest rate
structure on average would be one percentage point above the average ACF for
a 12 month period up to and including April 1980 (para 4.10). This structure
of interest rates gives preference to small enterprises, those located in
outlying regions and those engaged in priority activities (e.g., food process-
ing and basic wage goods production) while charging higher rates to larger
enterprises and those located in established centers of industrial production.
Given the government's announced intention of setting interest rate ceilings
sufficient to sustain a healthy growth in financial savings, the ACF should
continue to be a reasonable indicator of the cost of mobilizing resources in
the Mexican financial market in the future, and a suitable reference rate for
onlending under the proposed project.
C. SMI Financing
2.11      Although bank credit has been available to industrial firms that
banks judge to be reasonable credit risks by virtue of their size, reputa-
tion or coLlateral they could offer, smaller firms generally have had
difficulty in securing adequate credit. SMI's share of banking system credit
has been increasing in recent years, but remains low relative to its share
of manufacturing value added. The manufacturing sector received close to
17% of total bank credit in 1979, but it is estimated that SMI enterprises
received about 3.8%, or less than one-fourth, of the credit going to the
sector (Annex 6, T-20), although their share of manufacturing value added
was estimalted to be close to 40%. FOGAIN estimates that possibly as much as
two-thirds of small scale enterprises in Mexico have not utilized banking
system credit, which has prevented them from expanding more rapidly and
contributing more significantly to industrial output and employment. Enter-
prises survieyed by FOGAIN also cited the lack of technical assistance services
as one important factor constraining growth.
2.12      The government is aware of the difficulties facing most SMI enter-
prises in obtaining credit, and has devised several mechanisms to improve
this situation, including increased financial support to the trust funds
participating in PAI. Banco de Mexico has also required banks to allocate
an amount equal to at least 2% of deposits to be lent to SMI enterprises.
In addition, ongoing efforts aimed at improving the efficiency of the banking
system, over the long run, should help to improve access of SMI enterprises
to credit. Some banks such as BANAMEX, have already established special



- 12 -
programs to assist small enterprises. However, problems in increasing the
share of SMI financing are likely to persist over the next few years. The
proposed project contains several elements designed to assist SMI enter-
prises, including the improvement of FOGAIN's credit guarantee mechanism
to aid small enterprises with sound projects but insufficient collateral
(para. 4.23), and the expansion of the industrial extension service
established in connection with the first SMI project, which aims at
establishing, inter alia, stronger links between banks and SMI enterprises.
D. Outlook
2.13      The financial sector is now in the process of returning to a period
of stability, after recovering from the crisis of 1975-76, and as the impact
of the reorganization of financial system is consolidated. Inflation has
been kept at or under 20% during 1978-79, but the outlook for the future
will depend to a great extent on measures to be taken by the government on
several fronts (para. 1.22). It is expected that interest rate policies would
continue to be set taking into account international financial market trends,
domestic inflation, and the need for a more adequate term structure of domestic
savings. However, credit to SMI enterprises is likely to remain in short
supply for the next several years. The proposed project would help to alle-
viate the scarcity of financial and technical assistance to SMI enterprises
and help to strenghten the institutions established to assist them.
III. THE INTEGRATED SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PAI)
3.01      Recognizing the importance of promoting the growth of small and
medium scale industrial enterprises, and the need to strengthen and integrate
institutions serving SMI, NAFINSA created PAI with the support of the Bank.
The program makes full use of and integrates the existing institutional
framework in Mexico, and is aimed at providing a comprehensive and effective
system of support for SMI by: (i) coordinating closely the activities of
financial and technical assistance institutions; (ii) improving the access
of SMI to these institutions; and (iii) expanding the volume and range of
services that financial and technical institutions provide. At the same time
the program attempts to improve the orientation of the institutional support
to SMI towards the achievement of national industrial development goals such
as creation of productive employment and increasing regional decentralization.
3.02      PAI is implemented principally through NAFINSA-administered trust
funds dedicated to support SMI, and comprises four components: credit and
guarantees to be provided by FOGAIN via commercial banks; risk capital
(including debt instruments with equity features) to be provided by FOMIN,
financing for industrial parks facilities and equipment leasing through
FIDEIN, and technical assistance through extension agents hired and trained
by PAI, and by specialized institutions such as CENAPRO (management and
vocational training), INFOTEC (technical information and advice), IMIT (pro-
duct and process development) and FONEP (feasibility studies). PAI, which
provides assistance to SMI enterprises as defined in the operating regulations



- 13 -
of the respective trust funds 1/, incorporates several features (e.g., credit
guarantee mechanism) to support small enterprises with equity up to Mex$5.0
million. The following provides a description of PAI's overalL organization,
including the extension service and participating technical assistance insti-
tutions. The operations of the three principal participating trust funds
FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN are described in Chapter IV.
PAI's Coordinating Committees and Secretariat
3.03      The highest governing body of PAI is its Program Coordinating
Committee headed by the Director General of NAFINSA, which includes the
heads of the participating institutions, and the representatives of the
Ministry of Finance (Hacienda), the Ministry of National Patrimony and
Industrial Development (SEPAFIN), and Banco de Mexico.  The duties and
responsibilities of the Committee include the setting of policies and
priorities of PAI operations, coordinating activities of the various par-
ticipating institutions, and reviewing the results of PAI's operations in-
cluding the general characteristics of subprojects submitted for financing.
The committee meets periodically and has been effective in providing policy
guidance and direction to PAI. In addition, the Technical Coordinating
Committee (Comite Tecnico de Coordinacion), composed of working level
representatives of all participating institutions and headed by a senior
official of the PAI Secretariat, was set up recently, and has lbegun to meet
regularly. This working level committee coordinates the effortis of the par-
ticipating institutions, focussing on subprojects requiring assistance
from more than one institution, that are generated by the extension service
or by the participating institutions themselves.
3.04      To provide the administrative mechanism necessary to implement PAI,
NAFINSA created a secretariat which reports to the Program Coordinating
Committee. The secretariat is responsible for the execution of the technical
assistance and promotion subprograms, for linking up with other institutions
that provide services for SMI, and for processing subprojects for PAI financ-
ing. Initially, the Secretariat was based in NAFINSA. It was later moved to
FOGAIN, the largest of the PAI participants, with the Director General of
FOGAIN as Technical Secretary, in order to improve the linkage between the
Secretariat and the operating units participating in PAI. This move succeeded
in launching PAI's operations by mid-1979, after long delays connected with
the change in heads of FOGAIN and FIDEIN and the resolution of an interest
rate issue involving FOGAIN (para. 4.08). While these organizational
arrangements had some shortcomings, the structure was considered acceptable
during the transitional phase necessary to establish the program. Since the
initiation of the program, some improvements have been made. For instance,
PAI and FO)GAIN operations previously had been carried out by the same group of
officers, making it difficult to distinguish the activities, objectives and
interests of PAI as a whole from those of FOGAIN, and client referrals by the
extension officers up to year-end 1979 were made almost entirely to FOGAIN
(para. 3.13).
1/   Enterprises with total equity between Mex$50,000 and Mex$40.0 million
(for FOGAIN and FIDEIN) and Mex$150 million (for FOMIN).



- 14 -
3.05      A reorganization aimed at introducing some degree of separation
between the PAI secretariat and FOGAIN was initiated last January (Annex 6,
T-21, contains an organization chart for the secretariat and FOGAIN). The
secretariat and FOGAIN would each have a deputy director reporting to Mr.
Tomas Gonzalez Hinojosa, the dynamic and well-qualified Director General
of FOGAIN and Technical Secretary of PAI. An officer who used to head the
PAI promotion subprogram, Mr. Pablo Rhi, has been appointed Deputy Director,
responsible for the secretariat, which would have three principal depart-
ments--promotion, technical assistance and operations. In addition, there
would be seven field departments overseeing the regional offices of PAI
throughout the country. The heads of the promotion and operations depart-
ments have already been appointed and report to the Deputy Director of PAI
but the head of the technical assistance department, a position which was
left vacant after a highly qualified senior officer left, has not yet been
named. It is possible that the Deputy Director would perform this function
as well until the extension service expands further, perhaps up to year-end
1980. This arrangement would be acceptable.
3.06      Due to the newness of the reorganization, it is not yet possible
to determine its full impact on PAI. It appears to be a step in the right
direction, although some uncertainties remain. As of mid-February 1980,
several administrative, budgeting and financial management functions of the
secretariat still remained with the FOGAIN wing of the organization and the
heads of the regional departments would still be responsible for both tech-
nical assistance and credit activities. W4hile the present organization
is acceptable at this stage of development of PAI, a much greater operational
separation of the PAI secretariat and FOGAIN is desirable in the future,
leading eventually to two different organizational entities with different
heads. In order to ensure sufficient coordination among the participating
trust funds and the secretariat, the Technical Secretary would be given a
rank within NAFINSA above those of the heads of the trust funds, and could
be made a member of the Technical Committee (Board of Directors) of all
participating trust funds.
3.07      Due to its short period of effective operations, an in-depth
evaluation of PAI would be premature (para. 3.15). However, it would be
possible to determine, inter alia, the impact of the recent reorganization on
PAI's operations and assess the need for greater operational separation of
the secretariat and FOGAIN by mid 1981. Agreement has been reached during
loan negotiations on an in-depth review by NAFINSA in consultation with the
Bank of (i) the progress of PAI as a whole; (ii) the appropriateness of the
organizational set-up for the secretariat; (iii) the results of the technical
assistance program (para. 3.15); and (iv) the experience with FOGAIN's new
credit guarantee scheme (para. 4.28). The results of the review should be
made available to the Bank no later than June 30, 1981, with a view towards
discussing changes in the structure and operations of PAI that may be con-
sidered necessary.
The Industrial Extension Service
3.08      One of the most important developments regarding PAI has been the
creation of an industrial extension service to provide technical assistance
directly and indirectly to SMI enterprises and to implement an active strategy
in support of industrial decentralization and employment creation in priority



- 15 -
activities. The extension agents provide direct technical assistance mainly
in diagnosing problems of the firms concerned and, whenever required, refer
cases to one or more of the financial and specialized technical assistance
institutions. During the initial period of operation of each local unit,
extension officers attempt to establish contact with as many SMI enterprises
as possible directly, using banks, industry associations, and advertisements
in the local papers, to make them aware of the range of institutions and
assistance available through PAI. As a second step, extension officers are to
develop strategies and specific programs of activities for their particular
regions on the basis of an analysis of existing SMI and potential for devel-
opment. This involves activities such as seminars on industrial management
using modules developed by CENAPRO (para. 3.19) and on PAI activities and
services for industrialists and commercial bankers alike.
3.09      After some initial delays in implementation, the extension service
started operations in June 1979, following the training of 20 extension officers
in a six-week program designed and implemented with the assistance of CENAPRO
and IPADE. 1/ A further 20 extension officers were trained in a second course
in August/September 1979, and by early October, 40 qualified officers had been
deployed to 14 offices throughout Mexico (Annex 6, T-22).   Great efforts were
made to be selective in choosing candidates for the extension service.
Candidates chosen had advanced qualifications (Masters Degree or equivalent)
in either industrial engineering or business administration, and most had
experience in banking, industry or government. Rigorous tests were used to
screen candidates, and as a general policy preference was given to local
persons to work in their respective regions.  By all accounts, the standard of
the extension officers is good, but due to the high entrance qualifications,
the service also has high administrative costs. Due in part to high start-up
costs, expenses of the PAI secretariat (a big percentage of which are accounted
for by the extension service) are estimated to reach Mex$113 million, i.e.,
close to 9% of projected average total disbursed Program resources (PAI assets)
for 1980. While this percentage would be expected to decrease gradually as PAI
assets increase, a reasonable relationship would have to be maintained between
administrative costs of PAI and the total financial and other assistance made
available through PAI for SMI enterprises. While PAI suffered a net loss of
Mex$48 million in 1979, which was covered by the government's contributions to
PAI equity, this was largely due to its still low volume of operations (Annex
6, T-23). The government would also service the proposed Bank loan (principal,
interest ancl commitment fee) in order to capitalize the PAI account and help
finance its technical assistance subprogram (para. 5.06).
3.10      The expenses of the secretariat, including the extension service,
are intended to be fully covered by the margins and commissions from the PAI
funds utilized by FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN. However, this is virtually
impossible at the present and expected level of costs, and alternatives for
lowering the costs of the extension service while fulfilling its basic
objectives are being considered including: (a) reexamining the program to
ensure an appropriate balance between the growth in the number of offices
and personnel and the overall growth of PAI; (b) containing the cost of
the promotion subprogram; and (c) using a number of extension officers with
lower qualifications (and lower costs).
1/   Instituto Panamericano de Alta Direccion de Empresa, a private business
school.



- 16 -
3.11      A reasonable objective being considered by PAI would be an ex-
tension service which would reach about 200 extension officers located in
26 offices by year-end 1983. About 70 of these officers would be of the
highly qualified type and the rest would have adequate qualifications
(e.g., Bachelor's Degree). Each office would have a group of some five to
eight extension agents, to reach a "critical mass" of whom one or two of the
highly qualified officers would be expected to have supervisory and training
responsibilities. This would ensure more efficient utilization of the highly
qualified personnel of the program, while maintaining the quality of overall
service provided.
3.12       In order to reduce administrative costs, the original plan was to
locate extension officers in NAFINSA's 13 regional offices. However, this
concept had to be changed to reach designated priority areas. The distribu-
tion of the extension personnel and the priority of their postings have been
based on a satisfactory analysis of criteria--zonal priority, the number of
existing SMI enterprises in the area, and the assessed potential for creating
new SMI. Annex 6, T-22 shows 49 major locations throughout Mexico ranked on
the basis of these criteria, the distribution of the 40 extension officers
operating at the end of 1979, and of the 90 expected to be on location by the
end of 1980. All in all, it appears that an overwhelming majority of SMI
enterprises can be served from the 26 offices in existence or being planned
for 1980 (see map).
3.13      The PAI extension service is planned as a decentralized organization
operating with only a small headquarters group (senior officers plus eight
extension officers) to provide support to, and monitor the progress of,
regional staff, and have overall responsibility for the setting of goals
and objectives, staffing and budgets. Detailed targets are set for each
of these regions for (i) the number of technical assistance and promotion
seminars to be held, (ii) enterprises to be visited, and (iii) targets for
referrals to institutions participating in PAI. 1/ The preliminary client
referral targets for 1980, compared with 1979 (six months) are shown below.
The four-fold increase in referrals is quite ambitious, but achievable
given the increase in the number of extension officers projected. How-
ever, more emphasis should be placed on the quality of these referrals.
1980             1979
(6 months)
FOGAIN                            2,547            384
FOMIN                               143              4
FIDEIN                              134             11
INFOTEC                             783             60
CENAPRO                             314              9
FONEP                               274             26
IMIT                                 63              2
Others                               56             10
4,314            506
1/   On the basis of visits by extension officers.



- 1 7 -
While the above figures are preliminary, certain conclusions can be drawn.
The overwhelming majority of client referrals made during 1979 were to FOGAIN
for credits, with little identification of suitable cases for FCIMIN equity or
FIDEIN financing. FOMIN recently worked out a promotion program with the PAI
secretariat in order to make increased use of the extension service (para.
4.50), and FIDEIN is considering a similar program. Projections for 1980
show large increases in client referrals expected for FOMIN and FIDEIN.
This focus would appear satisfactory, but should be monitored by NAFINSA
and the Bank in the future as to the nature of clients referred and
compliance with targets set, to determine the effectiveness of t:he exten-
sion service in promoting all three major participating trust fumds.
3.14      PAI is also helping to build up a system of "parallel" extension
officers employed by commercial banks, and for this reason, extension train-
ing courses have included a substantial number of representatives of the
major banks and credit unions. Several multibanks--BANAMEX, Banco del
Comercio, Blanco Internacional--have nucleus SMI assistance units, and some
have individuals in major branches to help refer SMI clients to other insti-
tutions for help. These parallel services could effectively complement those
provided by PAI itself, even taking into consideration that banks might tend
to concentrate on enterprises which are already their clients, and should be
encouraged as a way of interesting major banks in SMI financing.
3.15       Since the extension service has been in effective operation for less
than a year, an in-depth evaluation is not yet possible. However, PAI has made
a very good start and is building up the service in a serious and competent
manner. Preliminary results indicate that the program will make a positive
impact on small enterprise development and on industrial decentralization,
although some of the uncertainties mentioned above remain. In connection
with the olverall review of PAI in early 1981, the extension service would be
evaluated to determine:
(a)  the optimal size, number of regional offices, and budget
size of the extension service, taking into consideration
a reasonable relationship of its overall costs to the
total financial and other assistance available through PAI;
(b) the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the system as
regards the number of SMI enterprises assisted, quality of
the technical assistance provided by the officers and by
the participating agencies, and comprehensiveness of
assistance being provided, impact of help given, relation-
ship between direct assistance and referrals, experience
with collective as against individual assistance; and'
(c) the extent to which PAI has been able to make effective
use of a "parallel extension service" by the banks and
credit unions.
Specialized Technical Assistance Institutions
3.16       The original proposal to involve in the implementation of PAI all
the various specialized technical agencies assisting SMI in Mexico has now
been implemented, on the whole, although with varying degrees of success.
The experience involving each of the institutions is discussed below.



- 18 -
3.17      INFOTEC.  (Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica) has probably been
the most successful example of collaboration. This institution, which concent-
rates on programs and projects related to technical information services, has
expanded and developed rapidly and at the end of 1979 employed a staff of over
70 persons as against 38 in August 1978. It is anticipated that INFOTEC's
staff will approach 100 by the end of 1980, and will grow to some 120. While
referrals from PAI extension services currently account for only a minor
percentage of the total number of inquiries handled by INFOTEC, it regards
PAI's extension officers as important elements in making available its services,
especially since INFOTEC does not have any regional representatives. INFOTEC
has also been the most active in utilizing funds allocated for technical
assistance under the first SMI project for and has plans to use additional
funds to purchase information and patent retrieval services (mainly from the
USA), and documentation equipment such as microfilm readers as well as books
and journals for use in providing services to SMI. INFOTEC is expanding its
activities to include not only the provision of technical information, but
also direct technological assistance in the field through plant visits. Eight
of the cases referred to INFOTEC by PAI in 1979 resulted in a continuous
relationship with the client, with INFOTEC helping the firm to overcome
technological problems. During the implementation of the proposed project,
INFOTEC is expected to play a major role in providing technological information,
advice and assistance to SMI.
3.18      During the past two years, CONACYT (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y
Tecnologia), which is the national body coordinating science and technology
policy, has developed several more regional service centers for specific
industries, including a center for leather and footwear in Leon, a service
center at Chihuahua, mainly for mechanical industries, and a similar center
at Queretaro. The older centers at Guadalajara (jewelry and handicrafts)
and Oaxaca (food processing) have continued to operate despite some difficul-
ties in staffing. Relationships between PAI and these centers have been
developed on an informal basis, and have evolved satisfactorily in several
cases, such as Leon, where PAI has had an active office since June 1979. As
CONACYT's program for the regional service centers develops further, PAI's
secretariat intends to develop closer working relationships on a local basis
between the industrial extension agents and the centers.
3.19      CENAPRO (Centro Nacional de Productividad), which was established
in the 1960s with the objective of improving the efficiency of Mexican firms
through appropriate training programs, played a key role in the initial devel-
opment of PAI staff and activities by helping to design and by participating
in extension officers' training programs, and by developing modules for SMI
management development which were utilized by extension agents for this
seminar. CENAPRO is also responsible for ARMO, a project for brief but inten-
sive vocational training. There has been some demand, stimulated by PAI's
extension activities, for introducing such programs in a number of SMI firms.
CENAPRO will develop some training centers or workshops--partly financed under
the first Bank project--at different provincial locations which would be
especially designed to focus on the training problems of smaller enterprises.
While the number of referrals to CENAPRO through the extension service are
still modest, there are several indications that the collaboration of CENAPRO
with PAI will increase as the extension service expands its activities.



- 19 -
3.20      IMIT (Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas) is a
government supported, independent institution carrying out research and
development work to help improve products and production processes. IMIT is
a highly respected and sophisticated institution operating main:Ly with larger
industries. It has prepared a substantial number of project appraisals under
the Bank's industrial credit operations through FONEI. Although IMIT has
expressed an interest in and willingness to participate in the P?AI program,
and has even offered to provide 1,000 man hours of work free of charge in
connection with the first project, so far there has been little demand for
its services. As the extension service spreads into a wider field in its
promotion and diagnostic activities, particularly among some medium-sized
enterprises, demand for IMIT's services should increase. Meanwhile, IMIT
benefited from technical assistance funding under the first SMI project,
and would receive another small allocation under the second project to
equip it better to serve SMI.
3.21      There have been a number of referrals by the PAI extension
service to FONEP (Fondo Nacional de Estudios de Preinversion), a NAFINSA-
administered trust fund which helps to finance preinvestment studies for
enterprises of all sizes. FONEP does not actually carry out the studies
itself, but helps to locate and hire suitable consultants, and finances
the cost. FONEP has helped to pay the costs of a few preinvestment studies
for SMI firms referred by PAI extension officers. However, the costs of
preparing a preinvestment study by the type of consultants who work with
FONEP are generally beyond the limits feasible for small-scale and even for
medium-sized firms. The PAI secretariat is exploring possible special arrange-
ments with FONEP for preparing more basic investment studies at costs accepta-
ble to SMI firms.
3.22      Some other institutions have been brought in on an ad hoc basis
to help in PAI's program, such as the CFM (Comision de Fomento Minero) 1/
to assist small scale mining activities, CEPSE (Centro Empresarial de
Perfeccionamiento Socio-Economlco, A.C.) an entrepreneural development
program, and IMCE (Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior) for promoting
exports.  As the number of clients in need of technical assistance identified
by PAI's extension service increases, there should be more scop,e for using a
wider range of specialized institutions.
3.23      The agencies involved in PAI are able to provide comprehensive
assistance in a wide variety of fields, expect for some areas of management
and marketing. In the near future PAI intends to arrange for this type of
assistance (e.g., improving accounting and control procedures, plant layout,
marketing advice) on a regional basis through extension officers with the
help of regional consultants.
Allocation of Technical Assistance Funds
3.24      Of the US$2.0 million allocated under Loan 1552-ME for technical
assistance, only US$110,000 has been committed by PAI for INFOTEC so far,
due to a misunderstanding as to eligible expenditures under the loan.
1/   A US$40 million Bank loan to CFM and other institutions supporting
small and medium scale mining enterprises in Mexico was approved in
March, 1980.



- 20 -
However, as previously mentioned, plans have now been drawn up by several of
the participating technical assistance institutions for utilization of these
funds, which are provided as grants and which have been tentatively allocated
as follows:
Mex$ millions
PAI Extension Service               23.0             50
INFOTEC                             10.0             22
CENAPRO                             10.0             22
IMIT                                 3.0              7
46.0            100
The PAI allocation would be used for audio visual and specialized equipment
for extension personnel. Although several of the above institutions received
funds for their activities from other sources, it is the aim of PAI to
encourage them to orient their activities increasingly towards SMI enter-
prises, which the comparatively small sum allocated to these activities
under the first loan has helped achieve. These activities deserve continued
support under the proposed loan according to projections presented in Annex 6
Table 51.
IV. PRINCIPAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTING SMI ENTERPRISES
A. Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
(FOGAIN)
4.01      FOGAIN, the oldest and best known of Mexico's institutions support-
ing SMI, was established in 1954 as a government trust fund administered
by NAFINSA. It has the largest volume of operations of the institutions
participating in PAI. FOGAIN functions as a second-tier institution,
rediscounting credits made by banks, credit unions and other financial inter-
mediaries to SMI enterprises to improve their productivity, expand capacity
or restructure debt. FOGAIN's Operating Regulations (see Project File) also
authorize it to provide partial credit guarantees to banks for SMI loans and
to subscribe to bonds issued by SMI enterprises through financial intermediaries.
However, the latter possibility has practically not been used, due mainly to
lack of interest among financial intermediaries. In connection with its partici-
pation in PAI, FOGAIN's credit guarantee scheme is being revised to make it
more attractive to intermediaries, and a more effective tool for improving the
access of small enterprises to the banking system (para. 4.23), and FOGAIN
modified its Operating Regulations to provide greater support to industrial
decentralization and priority subsectors in accordance with the National In-
dustrial Development Plan. SMI enterprises, as defined under PAI (para. 3.02)
are eligible for FOGAIN's financing.
4.02      Under the first SMI project (Loan 1552-ME), Mex$1,122 million in
Bank and local counterpart funds were allocated to FOGAIN to implement the PAI
credit and guarantee subprogram, of which US$22.6 million had been committed
as of May 30, 1980. FOGAIN was also expected to play an important role,
which is gradually being realized, in promoting the activities of other
institutions participating in PAI, since likely candidates for PAI assistance



- 21 -
involving additional equity funds, new factory buildings and specialized
technical assistance were considered likely to have utilized or to request
FOGAIN's assistance as well.
Organization, Management and Staffing of FOGAIN
4.03      FOGAIN's highest decision-making body is its Technical Committee
(comite tecnico), which is headed by a representative of the Miniistry of Finance,
and includes representatives of the Ministry of National Patrimony and Industrial
Development, NAFINSA, Banco de Mexico, Confederacion de Camaras Industriales
(CONCAMIN), Camara Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion (CANACINTRA),1/
FOMIN and CENAPRO.  The committee, which takes an active interest in FOGAIN's
activities, decides matters related to policies, procedures, financial plans
and budgets, and approves credit operations requiring more than Mex$3.0 million,
on the basis of recommendations by FOGAIN's staff. FOGAIN's Director is autho-
rized by the Technical Committee to approve on credit operations of up to Mex$3.0
million.
4.04      F'OGAIN's Director, Mr. Tomas Gonzalez Hinojosa, has headed FOGAIN
since late 1978, having held a senior position with a large bank prior to
joining FOGAIN. In the relatively short period of time that he has been with
FOGAIN, he has introduced a comprehensive reorganization, as recommended by
the Bank under the first SMI project, aimed at greater delegation of authority
to middle management, consolidation of related functions and responsibilities,
streamlining of procedures, upgrading of key middle management staff, and
increasing geographic decentralization of staff (see organizational chart,
Annnex 6, T-21). While FOGAIN's old structure was adequate for the level
of past operations, it was clearly incapable of coping with a rapid
growth in activities, particularly outside of Mexico City. Most key
positions have now been filled, but a few vacancies, such as analysts
for supervision activities remain. Salaries have been generally adequate
to attract qualified staff, but FOGAIN has been constrained by lack of
office space in the hiring of additional staff, which will be eased soon
when it moves to new facilities. As mentioned in Chapter III, FOGAIN is in
the process of separating staff handling its credit and guarantee operations
from those involved in the PAI Secretariat's operations. The combined FOGAIN
and PAI Secretariat staff numbered around 220 by year-end 1979, of whom close
to half were professionals. About 130 of this total number were dedicated to
FOGAIN's operations, and the rest to the PAT secretariat, including extension
officers. The newly designated Deputy Director in charge of FOGAIN operations,
Mr. Juan Quiroga, is well qualified for the position. He has been with FOGAIN
for about a year.
4.05      FOGAIN has also begun to locate its credit staff in regional offices,
starting with Monterrey and Guadalajara. It plans to extend this policy to
cover Leon, Torreon and Villahermosa before the end of 1980, with the object-
ive of decentralizing to some degree the evaluation and approval of credit
operations, giving regional credit representatives the authorilty to decide on
FOGAIN's small operations (e.g., up to Mex$1 million). The FOGAIN credit
representatives would be reporting to the regional department directors of
the PAI secretariat, who would also be responsible for FOGAIN operations in
I/   Chamber of industries representing SMI.



- 22 -
their area. The management of FOGAIN is aware of the possible difficul-
ties which could arise from the organizational structure being considered,
and is trying to device reporting systems that would separate one activity
from the other, so as not to mix, among other things, promotion and credit
evaluation. Eventually, a complete operational separation of the PAI
Secretariat and FOGAIN activities would be desirable (para. 3.06), and steps
to be taken by NAFINSA to accomplish this have been discussed at negotiations.
Operating Regulations and Policies
4.06      FOGAIN's operating regulations 1/ allow it to rediscount three types
of credit, i.e., for working capital financing of up to Mex$5 million with terms
of up to three years, for fixed asset financing up to Mex$7 million with terms
of up to six years, and for debt consolidation for up to Mex$9 million with terms
of up to 10 years. In practice, few loans are made with terms of over seven
years. The total amount of credit that FOGAIN can grant any single enterprise
is Mex$16 million. FOGAIN normally rediscounts 100% of individual bank subloans
to SMI, but has been considering for some time the possibility of decreasing
this percentage (e.g., to 80%) in order to shift at the margin some banking
system resources to SMI enterprises and in order to spread FOGAIN's resources
over a greater number of enterprises. Such a mechanism could be implemented
selectively, taking into account the propensity of intermediaries to lend to
larger clients, e.g., allowing up to 100% rediscount for small enterprises but
only up to 70% for medium size enterprises.
Interest Rates and Margins to Intermediaries
4.07      In connection with the previous SMI project, FOGAIN agreed to set its
average interest rate at a level equal to the average cost of funds to financiera
departments of multi-purpose banks in Mexico (ACF),2/ plus one to three points,
with the exact structure of interest rates left open. The agreed system 3/
was a significant improvement over FOGAIN's old structure which utilized fixed
interest rates (12-14% p.a. depending on geographic zone) with little relation-
ship to the cost of mobilizing funds in the market. The ACF, has been a reason-
able measure of the cost of raising domestic resources in the past and is now
widely used as a reference rate for loans by the banking system (para. 2.09).
4.08      Subsequent to the signing of Loan 1552-ME, the management of FOGAIN
changed and a long discussion regarding interest rates began. Finally,
FOGAIN proposed a complex interest rate structure varying from ACF minus two
points to ACF plus five points depending on the location, size and industrial
activity 4/ of enterprises. Margins to financial intermediaries were also
varied in accordance with the criteria mentioned above, as previously suggested
by the Bank. The Bank agreed to the aforementioned structure shown in Table 4.1
below which was considered to be substantially in line with the objectives
of the project.
1/   Information contained in the project file.
2/   See Annex 1.
3/   Rates under the new system are fixed once a subloan is committed, but
the commitment rates vary with the ACF index.
4/   In accordance with the priorities established in the National Industrial
Development Plan.



- 23 -
Table 4.1: FOGAIN'S INTEREST RATES TO FINAL BORROWERS AND MARGINS
OF INTERMEDIARIES IN EFFECT SINCE SEPTEMBER 1979
Small Enterprises            Medium Scale Enterprises
Priority Activities       Other Activities
Geographical          Interest             Interest                  Interest
Zone             Rate       Margins  Rate          Margins      Rate      Margins
I               ACF - 2      3.5    ACF - 2          3.5       ACF + 1       3.0
II              ACF - 2      3.5    ACF              3.0       ACF + 2       3.0
III             ACF + 2      3.0    ACF + 4         2.5        ACF + 5       2.5
Rest of the country ACF            3.0    ACF + 2         3.0        ACF + 4      2.5
4.09      According to the agreements reached under the first SMI project,
FOGAIN's :interest rate is to be adjusted (i) once a year to reflect changes
in the prevailing rate, and (ii) whenever the ACF varies by mcore than one
point consistently for three consecutive months compared to the level of the
ACF prevailing at the time the interest rates were set. However, this formula
would be discontinued to reduce the impact on the ACF of such factors as the
recent sharp fluctuations in the international money market. It would be
replaced by a formula using a twelve month moving average.
4.10      During negotiations of the proposed loan, it was agreed to increase
FOGAIN's interest rates on July 1980, so that their average would be one
percentage point above the average ACF for the twelve month period from
May 1979 to April 1980. It has been further agreed that FOGAIN's interest
rates to final borrowers will be revised once a year to reflect changes
in the av,erage ACF over the preceding twelve month period. Furthermore, there
would be a review of rates of interest whenever the average prevailing interest
rate diff,ers by three or more percentage points for a period of three consecu-
tive months from the twelve month average of the prevailing interest rate used
for the last adjustment. The proposed interest rate structure (Table 4.2
below) which is acceptable to the Bank, is reasonably in line with the cost of
mobilizing resources and the expected rate of inflation.
Table 4.2: FOCAIN'S PROPOSED INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE
(PRESENT RATES SHOWN IN BRACKETS)
Small
Geographical Zone                      Enterprises         Medium-Scale Enterprises
Priority    Non-Priority
I - Poles of Development                   14 (14)          15 (14)         18 (17)
II - State Priorities                       14 (14)          17 (16)         19 (18)
III - Areas of Low Priority                  21 (18)          22 (20)         22 (21)
(Mexico City Metropolitan
and surrounding areas)
Rest of the country                          17 (16)           19 (18)        21 (20)



- 24 -
Participating Intermediaries
4.11      All of Mexico's about 150 financial intermediaries are eligible to
rediscount loans with FOGAIN, and almost all have channeled FOGAIN's funds.
Participation by type of intermediary is shown below:
Table 4.3: PARTICIPATION IN FOGAIN'S REDISCOUNTS BY TYPE OF FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY
Amount Discounted (Mex$ million)
Cumulative
1979         %         (1954-1979)          %
Government banks                576         12            1,270             8
Mixed banks                     692          15           2,227            13
Private banks                 3,168         68           12,186            72
Credit unions                   230          5            1,146             7
4,666         100          16,829           100
The figures above show a relatively wide distribution of FOGAIN's rediscounts
among types of intermediaries, including credit unions, due to some extent to
FOGAIN's efforts to encourage the use of its funds by a large number of finan-
cial institutions. In terms of individual institutions, the largest share on
a cumulative basis was held by BANAMEX (15%), the second largest multi-purpose
bank in the country (Annex 6, T-24). BANCOMER, the largest multi-purpose bank,
had 11%, Grupo COMERMEX had 8%, while NAFINSA had a 7% share. The discussion
in Chapter II and the tables on the financial sector provide some background
on the intermediaries' overall operations.
Project Appraisal and Supervision
4.12      Intermediaries evaluate the creditworthiness and prospects of client
enterprises before submitting subloan requests for FOGAIN's financing.
FOGAIN's analysis of subloans focusses on: (a) their eligibility for FOGAIN
financing; (b) the expected economic impact of the credit taking into account
employment generation, geographic location, and sources of technology;
(c) technical and marketing aspects of the firm, especially when fixed asset
financing is involved; and (d) the amount of the credit and the financing
terms required. All requests for more than Mex$3 million (creditos mayores)
require presentation of both historical statements and financial projections
of the firm which form the basis for financial rate of return calculations.
The economic rate of return (only for creditos mayores) is calculated
simply by adding back taxes paid to the cash flow of the enterprise. For
credits below Mex$3 million (creditos menores), only financial analysis is
made, based on historical figures. Given the generally small size of FOGAIN's
credits (92% by number and two thirds by amount is accounted for by credits
of US$130,000 equivalent or less) and the need to process them speedily, the



- 25 -
procedures mentioned above are acceptable overall. However, in order to
supplement its appraisal data and to continually assess the ex post impact
of its operations, FOGAIN should analyze annually a representative sample of
its operations (about 50 subprojects would be analyzed during the first year
of the project implementation) to determine the economic rates of return
(using shadow prices), employment impact, regional effect and other indicators
of enterprises and projects supported.  This could be related to its overall
supervision efforts (para. 4.14) and the analysis periodically carried out by
FOGAIN's economic studies department. An understanding was reached with
FOGAIN during negotiations regarding this point. This would be done in
addition to the reporting requirements for Bank-financed subprojects under the
Subproject: Data System (SDS).
4.13      In order to expedite processing of credits for amounts up to Mex$1.0
million, FOGAIN is in the process of opening "lines of credit" to financial
intermediaries. 1/  The amount of the line of credit would be determined
on the basis of FOGAIN's prior experience with the intermediary concerned.
In order to utilize the line of credit, a financial intermediary would
submit the normal credit documentation required for FOGAIN's approval of
"creditos menores." If FOGAIN does not reject the credit within a certain
period of time (e.g., one week), the intermediary can automatically utilize
the line of credit to disburse the subloan without the need for separate sub-
loan contracts to be signed each time. FOGAIN intends to use this mechanism
to promote in particular its financing of small enterprises and for those
located in outlying areas.  FOGAIN's experience with this new mechanism would
be followed closely by the Bank to consider the need for possible changes in
the mechanism and its possible replicability elsewhere.
4.14      Responsibility for follow-up of FOGAIN's credit rests primarily
with participating intermediaries. The intermediaries engage in supervision
with varying intensity, covering, inter alia, utilization of funds and prog-
ress of projects and enterprises financed, but concentrating mainly on loans
in arrears. On balance this approach has yielded satisfactory results.
FOGAIN's economic studies department periodically carries out some analysis
of a sample of FOGAIN-financed enterprises to determine client characteristics
and needs more precisely. However, FOGAIN has not thus far implemented a
systematic follow-up of a sample of individual projects to compare performance
with anticipated results. A coordinator of supervision activities was hired
recently, and concrete plans have been made for supervision, including a
calendar of visits to intermediaries and client enterprises. FOGAIN is
presently strengthening its supervision staff by two more analysts and this
should enable it to perform field visits. Present plans call for supervision
on a sample basis that covers clients of several intermediaries located in
various regions. Aside from verifying the utilization of FOGAIN's funds, such
supervision is intended to provide FOGAIN with some feedback on the economic
impact of projects it has been financing (para. 4.12). FOGAIN's planned
supervision scheme was reviewed during negotiations and found satisfactory.
Its execution should be followed up closely by the Bank.
1/   This system has existed for some time but had to be revised due to pre-
viously cumbersome procedures which discouraged banks from utilizing it.



- 26 -
Procurement and Disbursement
4.15      Due to the nature of FOGAIN's clients and its relatively small ave-
rage loan size, it is often not practical for FOGAIN to insist on price quota-
tions from several suppliers. However, as part of its evaluation, FOGAIN takes
steps to ensure that the prices paid by client enterprises for goods and
services acquired using FOGAIN's financing are reasonable. Where necessary,
especially in the case of its "creditos mayores" involving fixed asset purchases,
FOGAIN requests additional information from the borrower on the justification
for the selection of the particular equipment and the corresponding purchase
price. For working capital loans, FOGAIN normally requests additional justi-
fication if the firm's level of working capital is significantly above industry
averages. These procedures are satisfactory, given the nature of FOGAIN's
operations.
4.16      The participating intermediaries are held responsible for ensuring
that FOGAIN's financing is used for the purposes intended. Disbursements are
made by FOGAIN to a participating intermediary once the intermediary certifies
that it has in its possession purchase invoices, import documentation, certi-
ficate of construction completion, or, if required, the report on a plant
visit. Based on a sample of financial intermediaries and clients visited at
the time of project preparation and appraisal, disbursement documentation
for subprojects appeared to be generally acceptable. However, FOGAIN needs
to incorporate disbursement checks on a sample of intermediaries and subpro-
jects as part of its supervision program. Agreement has been obtained at nego-
tiations that, for Bank-financed projects, FOGAIN would have in-house copies
of subproject disbursement documentation accounting for at least 70% of each
subloan amount disbursed. Typically, the remaining 30% consists of a large
number of low value items.
Past Operations and Impact
4.17      Between 1954, when it started operations, and year-end 1979,
FOGAIN assisted about 17,000 enterprises with more than 34,000 credits
amounting to about Mex$16,800 million (Annex 6, T-25). FOGAIN provided an
estimated 14% of total banking system credit to SMI in 1979. FOGAIN's
operations have increased sharply in recent years as shown below.
Table 4.4: SUMMARY OF FOGAIN'S OPERATIONS
1977        1978           1979
No. of enterprises            3,061        3,545          4,420
No. of credits                3,430        4,052          5,390
Amounts disbursed             2,079        2,858          4,666
(Mex$ million)
Operations in 1979 increased by more than 30% by number and 60% by amount
(in nominal terms), reflecting the continued high level of investments by the
Mexican manufacturing sector, particularly SMIs, and the successful promo-
tional efforts of FOGAIN and PAI's extension service.



- 27 -
4.18      Most of FOGAIN's assistance was focussed towards small enterprises
with up to 50 employees, which accounted for 84% of credits by number and 61%
by amount oi- FOGAIN's operations in 1979. This is satisfactory considering
that small enterprises are estimated to account for less than 30% of value
added of SM.[ enterprises (see Chapter I, Table 1.1).
4.19      FOGAIN's operations have also supported the government's goal of in-
dustrial decentralization. An estimated one-half of industrial value added
in Mexico comes from enterprises located in Zone III. However, in 1979, about
80% by number and 69% by amount of FOGAIN's credits were made to enterprises
located outside of Mexico City and its surrounding areas (Zone III), reflecting
the success of the measures taken by FOGAIN to increasingly diversify its
lending activities.
4.20      The industrial activities most often supported by FOGAIN are metal
working and machine fabrication (mostly capital goods), which accounted for
21% by amount of 1979 operations, food products (14%), and manufacture of
footwear and clothes (13%). These manufacturing activities tend. to be rela-
tively labor intensive, and are also in line with the subsectoral priorities
established in the National Industrial Development Plan (i.e., industries
producing capital and wage goods, and agroindustries). Firms suipported by
FOGAIN in 11979 had an estimated assets/job ratio of about US$12,000, which is
satisfactory. About 60% of enterprises supported by FOGAIN in 1979 used its
credit facilities for the first time, indicating the success of its promotional
activities.
4.21      FOGAIN has increasingly emphasized fixed assets financing in recent
years to expand the scale and productive capacity of SMI firms, and complement
the shorter-term financing available through the banking system. Fixed asset
financing accounted for 52% by amount of 1979 operations, compared to a 38%
share in FOGAIN's prior operations (1954-78). Debt restructuring, which used
to account for more than 7% by amount of FOGAIN's operations, dropped to about
4% in 1979. The remaining amount was accounted for by working capital loans.
4.22      In shifting its activities towards priority areas, FOGAIN has relied
on (i) its new structure of interest rates and curtailment 1/ of- lending to enter-
prises located in Mexico City, (ii) a new system of margins to .intermediaries
favoring lending to small enterprises, to enterprises located in preferred
regions and to those engaged in priority activities, and (iii) the initial
efforts of the PAI extension service. The success of FOGAIN in reorienting
its operations towards priority activities is a significant element in ensuring
the future impact of PAI. It also reflects to some degree the initial results
of PAI's extension efforts which have added a new and active dirmension to the
operations of the participating institutions.
The Credit Guarantee Scheme
4.23      An important goal of PAI is to increase the number of efficient small
enterprises eligible for credit by helping to provide collatera:L to satisfy the
banks' requirements. FOGAIN estimates that only about a third of small enter-
prises in Mexico presently have access to bank credit. Although FOGAIN has been
operating a guarantee scheme from the outset, it had been little used for several
1/   Working capital loans are made only to enterprises in priority activities.



- 28 -
reasons. First, the guarantee coverage was severely restricted regarding both
risk coverage and loan size, which effectively limited guarantee coverage to
no more than Mex$200,000. Second, FOGAIN's past management was cautious in
promoting and using its guarantee authority since it had not been provided
with sufficient allocations to cover possible losses.
4.24      At the request of the Mexican authorities at the time the previous
project was being prepared, the Bank made available a consultant to examine
the existing guarantee scheme and suggest improvements. Based on the
consultant's recommendations and subsequent discussions between PAI and the
Bank, a new credit guarantee program has now been designed. However, due to
the delays in initiating PAI operations, the elements of the guarantee program
were defined only recently and it is now scheduled to be launched by June 1980.
4.25      The principal characteristics of the program would be:
(a) only small enterprises as defined in para. 3.02 would qualify;
(b) the guarantee would not exceed 75% of the value of a credit,
which could not exceed Mex$1 million;
(c) the premium would be 1.5% p.a. of the guaranteed amount outstanding,
to be paid by the borrower;
(d) 133% of the amount of the guaranteed portion of a credit would
not be eligible for FOGAIN rediscounting;l/ and
(e) repayments will apply pari passu to the guaranteed and un-
guaranteed portions of outstanding credits.
Several legal points relating to how and when the guarantee scheme will become
effective are still being defined. FOGAIN's timetable for implementation of
the guarantee scheme would be defined at a later date according to limits to
be approved by the Ministry of Finance.
4.26      As under all of FOGAIN's credit operations, the participating inter-
mediaries are expected to evaluate the merits of each credit proposal before its
submission. The staff of the guarantee fund would then review the application,
relying whenever possible on the advice of the PAI extension service regarding
the clients concerned.
4.27      Regarding the specific features of the program, it appears that the
75% guarantee coverage is acceptable from the point of view of achieving the
purpose of easing the collateral burden on new small enterprise borrowers, while
leaving sufficient risk with the lending institutions. Under the first project,
Mex$10 million of PAI funds have been assigned to capitalize the guarantee fund.
1/   For example, if Mex$100 of a Mex$150 credit is guaranteed by FOGAIN, only
Mex$17 could be rediscounted.



- 29 -
Additional funds of about Mex$45 million would be provided by the government
under the proposed project (para. 5.04). The premium of 1.5% p.a. is expected
to cover fully the fund's guarantee losses. However, it may take about five
years to build up sufficient reserves and obtain sufficient operating experience
to calculate more precisely the adequate level of premium.
4.28      The program described above constitutes a marked improvement over
the previous one. However, in a situation of credit scarcity, there may still
be limited demand for the guarantee mechanism if guaranteed credits cannot be
rediscounted. FOGAIN's management is aware of this and is prepared to modify
the conditions on the basis of the experience with the actual utilization of
the program.  The natural market for the scheme appears to be dynamic, medium
size credit institutions which could use the fund to attract and develop small
enterprise c:lients. However, in order for the program to be a success, it
would have to be promoted among the larger banks as well. Given the impor-
tance of the credit guarantee program for achieving the objectives of PAI, the
review of the progress of PAI prior to mid-1981 would place special attention
on evaluating the results of FOGAIN's credit guarantee program (para. 3.07).
Past Financiial Performance
4.29      FOGAIN's assets have grown at an explosive rate of over 40% to
Mex$5.95 billion in 1979, reflecting its rapid growth in operations (Annex 6,
T-26). FOGAIN's assets at year-end 1979 were financed mainly by certificates
of participation (50%), which are credit instruments issued by Banco de Mexico,
equity (17%), the Inter-American Development Bank (about 15%), NAFINSA (7%),
PAI (6%), 1/ and accruals (5%). FOGAIN does not incur any credit risks
vis-a-vis its subborrowers in its operations, with the exception of its
guarantee operations which will have earmarked reserves, since the financial
intermediaries are fully responsible for principal and interest payments on
discounted credits. However, it is exposed to the full exchange risk on past
IDB loans, which are denominated in a basket of currencies, and which resulted
in significant exchange losses at the time of the peso devaluation in 1976.
4.30      F()GAIN has been following the accounting practice of deferring its
foreign exchange losses, which amounted to Mex$473 million at year-end 1979,
and amortizing them as principal repayments as the IDB loan become due. In
keeping with generally accepted accounting principles, the external auditors
noted this in their 1977 and 1978 audit reports. In part to offset these
losses and strengthen FOGAIN's equity position, the government has been making
annual contributions to FOGAIN's equity amounting to Mex$92 million in 1977,
Mex$97 million in 1978, and Mex$391 million in 1979, and a government budgetary
contribution of Mex$1,000 million is planned for 1980.  Even if the deferred
charges are netted out of FOGAIN's equity, its debt/equity ratio of 9.0:1 would
still be within the present 10:1 limit specified in its operating regulations.
Given FOGAI]N's position as a second-tier institution and the level of
support that it has continued to receive from the government, its financial
structure is, on balance, acceptable.
1/   Of whiczh about 2% came from the Bank.



- 30 -
4.31      Due to the amortization of exchange losses (Annex 6, T-27), FOGAIN's
income statements show losses which amounted to about 0.7% of average portfolio
in 1979 and are expected to be offset in the next few years by upward adjustments
in FOGAIN's level of interest rates, which would also increase its average spread.
Administrative and general expenses as a percentage of average loan portfolio
amounted to 1.3% in 1979, which is low considering FOGAIN's relatively small
average loan size. This percentage would rise somewhat if the expenditures of
PAI directly relating to FOGAIN's operations were taken into account.
4.32      Reflecting its position as a second-tier institution, FOGAIN suffered
virtually no losses on its loan portfoio during its many years of operation.
At year-end 1979, arrears on loans correspond to less than 0.3% of total
portfolio involving delays in payment by four credit unions.
Accounting Procedures and Auditing Arrangements
4.33      FOGAIN maintains an adequate internal accounting and control system,
which has been computerized to prepare it for FOGAIN's projected rapid growth.
The internal auditors of FOGAIN are Mancera Hermanos y Asociados, S.C., an
established Mexican auditing firm of acceptable quality. Other than the
exception noted before (para. 4.30), audit reports have been otherwise
unqualified. The external auditing arrangements are satisfactory.
Operational and Financial Projections
4.34      FOGAIN's operations are projected to expand sharply in the next
few years, with disbursements in 1980 increasing 65% to Mex$7,690 million,
and with projected increases of 50% annually in nominal terms up to 1984
(Annex 6, T-28). Over this period, FOGAIN intends to orient its assistance
increasingly towards (i) regions outside of Mexico City and its surrounding
areas; (ii) fixed assets financing, particularly to small clients who would
be using FOGAIN's services for the first time; and (iii) manufacturing sub-
sectors designated as priority areas in the National Industrial Development
Plan. In addition to its internal mechanisms (e.g., differentiated margins
and interest rates) FOGAIN intends to rely heavily on the extension service
in order to help to focus its operations on priority activities. FOGAIN's
projections are quite ambitious, but should be achievable, given the
continued buoyant expectations and demand for financing of the Mexican
industrial sector for the next few years. However, continuing attention
will be required to orient operations towards priority activities and to
build up FOGAIN's organizational structure (particularly its credit evalua-
tion and supervision departments) in line with the growth in operations.
4.35      FOGAIN presently has limited resources that are expected to be
utilized in 1980. As of year-end 1979, only some Mex$446 million equivalent
of PAI funds had been disbursed, leaving a balance of about Mex$665 million,
which FOGAIN expects to commit and disburse in 1980. FOGAIN also recently
signed its eighth loan with IDB for US$50 million, which is expected to be
available by the second half of 1980. This amount almost equals the total
US$51 million equivalent made available to FOGAIN under the previous seven IDB



- 31 -
loans. FOGAIN also expects to obtain some Mex$1,000 million in budgetary allo-
cations from the government in the form of equity, a loan of Mex$1,400 million
from Banco de Mexico (certificados de participacion) and from NAFINSA of
Mex$1,560 million (of which Mex$400 million has been disbursed).
4.36      For the period up to 1982, FOGAIN would require some Mex$19,500 million
in additional resources to finance its projected increased level of operations.
Excluding the above-mentioned funds expected to be available for 1980, FOGAIN
would require Mex$14,300 million, which it expects to obtain as follows:
Mex$ millions             %
Government (budget)             3,000                 21
Banco de Mexico                 5,000                 35
Other sources                   6,300                 44
Total                    14,300                 100
About Mex$2,900 million of the Mex$6,300 million expected from other sources
would be covered through PAI resources to be provided in connection with the
proposed second loan, consisting of some US$70 million equivalent in Bank funds
and some Mex$1,300 million in local counterpart funds. The remaining amount
from other sources is expected to be provided by lenders such as IDB.
4.37      The projected income statements (Annex 6, T-26), show acceptable
growth in income and a reasonable level of administrative expenses, permitting
FOGAIN to continue amortizing its foreign exchange losses while earning a
modest return on its portfolio. These favorable profitability projections
would not materialize in the unlikely event that significant exc'hange rate
movements occur in the future to offset possible differences between Mexican
and internaltional inflation rates. However, if this occurs, FOGAIN would be
expected to adjust its interest rates, and thus maintain a sound financial
structure ovier the next few years.
B.   Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN)
Background and Objectives
4.38      FOMIN was established in April 12, 1972, as a government trust
fund ("Fide:Lcomiso") administered by NAFINSA to assist in the implementation
of national plans for industrial diversification and regional development.
Its role is to stimulate the creation of new SMI enterprises or the expansion
or strengthening of existing ones by subscribing up to one-third of the
equity capital required, and to promote development of the capital market.
At present FOMIN is awaiting the Ministry of Finance's clearance for its
board-approved decision to raise its equity participation limit to 49% of
share capital in eligible enterprises. This enlarged equity participation,
which would also include debt instruments with equity features, will permit
greater flexibility in designing investment packages. Its investments are



- 32 -
intended to be temporary and to be sold once the investee company achieves a
satisfactory financial position. FOMIN thus serves to bring together groups
of investors, enabling enterprises to have access to additional capital
permitting them to operate on a larger and more economic scale. Its partici-
pation frealitntly helps firms start the transition from a closed family
enterprise to a more widely owned corporation with professional management.
Organization, Management and Staffing
4.39      The governing body of FOMIN is its Technical and Funds Disbursement
Committee ("Comite Tecnico y de Distribucion de Fondos"), formed by repre-
sentatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of National Patrimony and
Industrial Development, NAFINSA, Banco de Mexico, plus two representatives
from the private sector selected by the main industrial associations CONCAMIN
and CANACINTRA. The Director General of NAFINSA is the chairman of the Committee.
The Directors of FOGAIN, FIDEIN and FONEI and outside experts, as appropriate,
are invited to participate in meetings to assist in reviewing particular invest-
ments or problems. The committee meets periodically to approve operating
programs and budgets, set investment policies and guidelines, consider specific
investment proposals and set conditions for FOMIN's participation.
4.40      FOMIN's day-to-day operations are managed by an experienced Director
General, Mr. Sergio Luis Cano Luebbert, who has been in this position for over
five years. He has been delegated authority by the Committee to approve small
investments up to Mex$500,000 after consultation with the Committee's chairman.
An indicative organization chart of FOMIN is presented in Annex 6, T-40.
4.41      FOMIN has a relatively young but capable and well-motivated staff
with adequate skills to ensure FOMIN's success. In December 1979, FOMIN
had 45 employees (including 23 professionals). This number is expected to
increase by three additional professional during the current year.
Operations
4.42      Eligibility.  While FOMIN may finance larger enterprises, only SMI
enterprises with total equity ranging from Mex$50,000 to Mex$150.0 million 1/
would be eligible for financing under the PAI subprogram, which aims at
implementing projects involving investments in (a) new or expanded existing
productive capacity, or (b) relocation of productive capacity in accordance
with national decentralization policies. Most of the firms selected would be
those requiring, or likely to require integrated support involving assistance
from one or more of the other elements of the overall program i.e., credit,
facilities on industrial estates or technical assistance.
1/   Contrary to FOGAIN and FIDEIN, FOMIN evaluates in each case whether there
is need to revaluate the assets of the firm where equity participation is
being considered. Since this revaluation takes place before presentation
to FOMIN's board, PAI confirmed that, for eligibility purposes FOMIN
would consider the value of the firm's equity at the time of request for
risk capital participation.



- 33 -
4.43      Investment policies.  FOMIN has gradually developed over the past few
years a set of investment policies(see Project File) reflected in its operating
regulations, which incorporate recommendations of a study carried out by private
consultants 1/ in connection with the appraisal of Loan 1552-ME. These policies
have enabled FOMIN to achieve a better portfolio diversification and more
selectivity in its investments. Under the present administration, FOMIN has
overcome excessive bureaucracy and deficient appraisal of new investments,
which hampered the institution's performance dtring its early years, thus
enabling FOMI]N to define its investment policies more precisely.
4.44      The most important elements to FOMIN's policies are currently
those concerning: (i) the achievement of financial goals (para. 4.45);
(ii) the impLementation of new investment instruments (paras. 4.46 to 4.48);
(iii) supporting the industrial growth process in line with the new
decentralization law of 1978 by setting differentiated return on equity
criteria depending on each firm's location, and (iv) adopted policies to
diversify its portfolio to achieve the proposed financial goals. Among
other policy measures, it has established 10% of FOMIN's equity as the maximum
exposure (including investments through equity as well as other instruments)
in a single fEirm and 15% of FOMIN's equity as the total exposure in two or
more firms belonging to the same industrial group.
4.45      Financial goals.  During 1979 FOMIN's total income, including
dividends and capital gains on the sale of equity participation, the return
on short-term investment on available liquid funds and interest from sales
of investments on credit terms, 2/ covered for the first time its operating
and administrative expenses. 3/ FOMIN achieved breakeven if stock dividends
are added at par value to its overall revenues. For 1980, it intends to
maintain for the first time the value of its equity portfolio in constant
prices. FOMtN intends to build up a diversified portfolio, in which risk of
losses would be more than compensated for by possible gains.
4.46      Investment instruments.  FOMIN aims to encourage the creation or
expansion of economically sound and financially viable SMI enterprises by
making risk capital available, primarily in the form of subscriptions to
common and/or preferred shares. 4/ Until December 1976, FOMIN's investments
1/   Alan Patricof Associates, Inc.
2/   Current credit terms of equity sales include an annual interest rate of
18.5%.
3/   Operating expenses of FOMIN include fees charged by NAFINSA for its
services and financial costs.
4/   In emergency cases, FOMIN can make a temporary advance for projects
approved by the technical committee, where the documentation of the
investments is still not complete. This advance without interest
considers already the final share participation of FOMIN. Itf the
investment is not carried out due to investees' fault a penalty is
charged by FOMIN.



- 34 -
were mostly in the form of new issues of common stock. Since then, FOMIN has
increasingly used preferred stock as well. Preferred stock allows FOMIN to
project a guaranteed minimum return on equity portfolio, depending on the
quality of the investments, and adequate timing and negotiation of its equity
sales.  Furthermore, compared with common stock, preferred st^^k has the
advantage of receiving priority in liquidation. Common stock exposes FOMIN
to the full risks of loss and usually does not reward FOMIN satisfactorily
when the firm is successful, given the nature of companies it invests in.
However, a disadvantage is that preferred dividends 1/ are not tax deductible;
thus, the net cost to the investee of financing through preferred stock is
higher than of common stock or of using FOGAIN's credit to SMI enterprises.
4.47      As a result of recommendations made in connection with the first
SMI project, by mid-1980 FOMIN intends to start experimenting with the
use of debt instruments with equity features (e.g. subordinated and/or
convertible 1*oans) to broaden the range of its potential customers, design
investment packages tailored to the particular characteristics and needs
of individual enterprises, and improve FOMIN's own income position.
Institutions making risk capital investment in other countries, even with
more developed equity markets, have found it advantageous to use a wide
variety of subordinated and convertible debt instruments in addition to
common and preferred shares. The Ministry of Finance approved the use
by FOMIN of these new risk capital instruments and, if successful, FOMIN
plans to extend their use to a substantial portio of its operations.
These new instruments would permit FOMIN to earn a higher and more constant
income from its portfolio, as well as negotiate better terms of sale.
FOMIN would be pioneering these instruments in Mexico, before a more
elaborate legislation is introduced based on FOMIN's experiment.
4.48      Both instruments currently under study would consider terms not
exceeding 7 years (including a grace period of up to 2 years). FOMIN will
keep the exclusive right of exercising the option to convert under pre-
determined conditions, while interest rates for these convertible debt
instruments would be slightly lower (up to three points below the ACF index)
than average rates to SMI enterprises. This would be compensated for
by prospective additional yields when FOMIN exercises its option. FOMIN
intends to utilize common stock purchase primarily in those cases where
the prospects for eventual divestiture appear particularly favorable.
4.49      While FOMIN's staff has no practical experience with these new
instruments, various staff members have received special training in
institutions suggested by the Bank that are operating in highly sophisticated
capital markets and have experience in issuing debt instruments with equity
1/   Preferred dividends are negotiated depending on the industry's
location and destination of output. For industries located in
(i) Zones IA/B and II -- dividends of 9.75%, except for 8.75% for
export-oriented industries and, (ii) Zones III A/B (Mexico City
and surrounding areas) -- 10.0% for any small SMI and 10.25% for
expansion of medium-large or medium-sized SMI's (no support is
provided for new enterprises).



- 35 -
features and design of investment packages for individual enterprises.
Furthermore, FOMIN intends to engage an experienced consultant during 1980
to provide on-the-job direct technical assistance to FOMIN's staff inter alia,
in the implementation of debt instruments, in matters such as the detailed
design of the parameters of the debt instruments, appropriate investment
packages, conditions for equity participation, supervision of portfolio,
and accounting, and internal control of transactions. FOMIN intends to
present to the Bank the financial criteria to be applied in designing debt
instruments with equity features and contracts for exercising option.
4.50      Past performance.  FOMIN's policies give priority to investments
in SMI enterprises located in less developed areas. Although FOMIN has made
some progress in supporting regional development, results are still unsatis-
factory, due primarily to its location in Mexico City. Presently about 39%
of FOMIN's total amount invested is in 23 operating enterprises located in
Zones IIIA and IIIB (Mexico City Metropolitan and surrounding areas), the
remainder is distributed in Zones IB and II, accounting respectively for
51% (23) and 10% (5) of its investments. A larger portion of thle new
investments made by FOMIN during 1979 and all five companies und'er construc-
tion or in preoperating stage are located in Zones IB and II, reflecting that
FOMIN is shifting its emphasis to regional development (Annex 6, T-32).
FOMIN's equity portfolio, including investment commitments, is expected to
double by 1980. Substantial growth of operations should occur, particularly
in the regions, due primarily to an intensive promotional prograLm being imple-
mented and to the close support FOMIN is receiving from PAI regional offices'
extension agents. The promotional program of FOMIN would be oriented towards
attracting financially sound SMI enterprises with good growth prospects and
good entrepreneurial leadership. A promotional campaign has been discussed
at loan negotiations aiming at selected firms that have these characteristics.
4.51      About 39% of the Mex$410.3 million portfolio held by E'OMIN in
December 31, 1979, is concentrated in metal processing; the remainder accounts
for food products (19%), chemicals/pharmaceuticals .(16%), wood products (8%)
and a large number of other industrial sectors (18%). The current status of
the portfolio indicates its emphasis in supporting capital goods and agro-
industrial activities (Annex 6, T-31). FOMIN expects its operations to grow,
mainly in the field of consumer goods such as textiles, apparel and leather goods,
deemphasizing its participation in areas of lesser priority 1/. FOMIN intends
to avoid investments in activities where medium sized firms would be unable to
compete with the marketing machine of large international firms (such as in
pharmaceutical laboratories) or which are excessively dependent on large govern-
ment institutions as purchasers. Industries supported by FOMIN present an
estimated average cost per direct job created in the range of U;S$12,000-15,000
equivalent, reflecting relatively high employment impact of these enterprises.
1/   Industrial activities not included in the National Industrial Development
Plan.



- 36 -
4.52      FOMIN's portfolio has experienced significant growth during the past
years, according to the following status of authorized equity participations:
Table 4.5
Disbursement
FOMIN's Investments                         Increases
Authorized    Committed    Committed    Disbursed         Year-by-Year
Year        (No.)         (No.)           (Mex$ millions)                 %
1976         8              5            48.6           21.0
1977        10              8            60.8          41.0             95
1978        17             15           128.0          95.9            134
1979        35             28           276.8         162.4             69
Utilization of the equity investment component of the first Bank loan has been
constrained somewhat by the fact that many firms need to use equity for working
capital financing, rather than in connection with a specific investment project.
However, FOMIN expects that the promotional campaign will help to overcome this
limitation by influencing eligible SMI enterprises to seek its support under PAI.
Investments for working capital financing are usually less desirable, since
they often serve the purpose of offsetting existing debts without increasing
productive capacity. Also, SMI enterprise often incur cost overruns due to
bad planning or to drastic economic changes which force them to obtain working
capital financing when the new or expanded project goes onstream or even
during its preoperational stage. However, in some cases these investments
help to increase permanently the utilization of existing capacity and reach
a higher output level. FOMIN intends to study working capital financing
thoroughly on a case-by-case basis to screen out those that do not achieve
an effective increase in productive capacity or permanent output. As a general
policy, FOMIN does not invest in firms to help them reorganize financially,
except for some of the SMI enterprises held currently in its portfolio, which,
if rehabilitated, would have good growth prospects. In its effort to rehabilitate
individual investee firms, FOMIN's staff would seek support from institutions
involved in providing technical assistance (such as CENAPRO, IMIT, INFOTEC and
others) through PAI's extension agents stationed in the regions. Cost and
risk factors, along with certain provisions of its charter, generally preclude
FOMIN from having a significant role in financing very small firms. Therefore,
as expected, most of FOMIN's assistance is focussed towards medium enterprises.
Also, medium-large firms are increasingly interested in FOMIN. Investments
by FOMIN in working capital financing and larger firms (not eligible within
the Bank loan) are being suported by additional funds provided by the
government. FOMIN's resources under PAI are expected to remain roughly
equal to those investments not eligible within the Bank loan (Annex 6,
T-38, gives a breakdown of FOMIN's resource needs).



- 37 -
Portfolio Quality
4.53      FOMIN's equity portfolio has grown by 35% from a total of Mex$303.5
million as of December 31, 1978, to about Mex$410.3 million by year-end 1979,
when FOMIN owned shares of 76 SMI enterprises (Annex 6, T-33). Along with
portfolio increases, quality has improved substantially during the last
three years, due primarily to the improvement of FOMIN's appraisal capability
and greater selectivity compared to the past when FOMIN assigned relatively
little significance to financial viability of investments.
4.54      As of December 31, 1979, 26 companies representing 45.6% of FOMIN's
total investments were operating profitably, compared to 20 companies accounting
for 41.0% of FOMIN's portfolio in September 1977, when the first SMI project
was appraised. Twenty-five firms operating with losses during 1979 accounted
for 33.6% of the total portfolio, mostly involving recent investments in firms
considered to have satisfactory prospects and some investments 'in earlier years
which were unable to overcome serious difficulties. Out of the remaining port-
folio, 5 firms accounting for 11.5% are under construction or in preoperational
stage, and 20 firms representing 9.3% of the total investment are presently
not operating (Annex 6, T-34). FOMIN is in the process of selling three of
these non-operating firms, with the remainder intended to be either liquidated
(and/or wriLtten off during 1980/81) or reorganized and rehabilitated under new
management.
4.55      I't is FOMIN's policy to turn over its portfolio as soon as conditions
permit. Although FOMIN would like to broaden stock ownership by selling some
shares to outside investors, due to the types of companies it invests in and
to present capital market conditions, it usually has little alternative but
to sell to existing majority shareholders. Few, if any, of these investee
companies could be expected to be quoted in the stock market in the near
future. FC)MIN usually intends to sell out when an investee firm is operating
profitably, but is prepared to sell earlier if requested by the other share-
holders or, if necessary, to liquidate a firm.
4.56      Results of equity sales have improved substantially during the past
few years ('Annex 6, T-35). Out of 26 firms sold by FOMIN, only 3 resulted in
capital losses if investments are valued at historical costs. HIowever, if
time value of money is considered, FOMIN has been unable to accrue net
gains from its risk investments, due partly to the long gestation period
and relatively small yields on investments. In determining the sales
price FOMIN has usually considered the book value of shares as a starting
point for dlivestiture, since SMI enterprises do not have an easiLly measurable
market valtue. This price plus a premium reflecting asset revaluations is
the basis for negotiations.  Since the finally negotiated premium has
been too mcdest for its profitable investments, FOMIN intends to base its
asking price for common and preferred stock more on the firm's expected
future earnings, goodwill, market value (if applicable) and the yield to FOMIN
of the stocks sale over and above FOMIN's investments (variation in ACF index
times original investment). With the implementation of debt instruments with
equity features which will guarantee a fixed return for its investment port-
folio, the return on investments is expected to meet FOMIN's financial
goals (para. 4.45). A substantial portion of FOMIN's sales of equities has



- 38 -
been on credit terms, which is expected to decrease in the future through more
appropriate design of investment packages, utilizing debt instruments with
equity features.
Project Appraisal and Supervision
4.57      FOMIN's project appraisals are carried out competently under the
supervision of a well-qualified and motivated team of ten analysts/supervisors.
Two more professionals are expected to be contracted during 1980, to deal with
the anticipated increase in workload over the near term. All investments are
subject to FOMIN's thorough appraisals which analyse satisfactorily the market-
ing, technical, economic, administrative and financial aspects of the projects
in which FOMIN intends to participate (Annex 6, T-30). Economic rate of
return calculation is prepared for all investments using more than US$250,000
in Bank funds and often for projects below this obligatory limit. FOMIN's
appraisal work needs to be strengthened further by giving more emphasis to
evaluating the cash-generating ability of investments.
4.58      FOMIN's supervision is carried out by the same analysts in charge
of project appraisal. While there is some feedback in following up firms
they have evaluated, this system is insufficient to provide adequate portfolio
control. Therefore, FOMIN's director intends to hire a well-qualified pro-
fessional to carry out independent portfolio control on a continuing basis,
responsible, among other things, for a financial analysis of the portfolio
(including ratio and trend analysis), identification of the possibility of
earnings capitalization to be distributed in the form of stock dividends
to shareholders, distribution of cash dividends and share value for dis-
investment purposes.
4.59      NAFINSA appoints at least one voting member to participate in
the general meeting of shareholders of investee companies, and FOMIN the
shareholders' representative in each firm it invests. The shareholder's
representative is always one of the analysts/supervisors from the Appraisal
and Supervision Department's team. This practice enables FOMIN to keep
informed of the developments within each SMI investment enterprise.
Although, as a minority shareholder, FOMIN cannot always correct problems it
identifies, it attempt to influence the main shareholders after analyzing
options for a solution.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.60      Disbursement policy provides for the first 20% of FOMIN's investment
to be disbursed when the firm has met all formal conditions set by FOMIN. The
remainder is disbursed against a schedule agreed with the firm, which provides
that FOMIN's subscriptions are made at the same pace or sometimes only once
those of the other shareholders have been made. The program reimburses FOMIN
for qualifying investments for purchases of fixed assets and associated
permanent working capital against proof of acquisitions of the shares or any
debt instrument with equity features. The description of each project includes
a list of goods and expenditure schedules for disbursement purposes. Under
PAI's equity investment component, fixed assets and associated working capital
would be supported through equity and debt instruments with equity features.



- 39 -
Operations made for debt substitution and working capital financiLng not
combined with investments in fixed assets would not be financed under the
program. FOMIN's procurement procedures were discussed at negotiations. As a
general policy, FOMIN obtains price quotations from several suppliers and
focus more on quality and technical adequacy of purchased equipment. When-
ever necessary, FOMIN intends to use the technical assistance of specialized
institutions participating in the program.
Accounting Procedures and Auditing
4.61      FOMIN maintains a satisfactory accounting system which permits an
adequate analysis of its performance. In the past, FOMIN adopted the practice
of recording stock dividends received as income, which could lead to a sub-
stantial overstatement. Currently, FOMIN presents stock dividends adequately
under a separate heading under special accounts ('partidas extraordinarias')
after operational margin. In addition, FOMIN's proportionate share of revalued
assets and capitalized earnings distributed in the form of stock dividends by
investee companies is credited to income and added to the cost of equity
investments. These practices are in accordance with generally accepted account-
ing principles in Mexico and permit adequate analysis of the income statement.
4.62      For the past three years, FOMIN has been audited by Despacho Garcia
Coronado, S.C. During 1979, the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting assigned
Elizundia, Charles y Asociados to audit FOMIN's accounts. FOMIN's audit reports
have not contained any qualification. NAFINSA separately assigns Mancera
Hermanos y Asociados, S.C. to perform an annual audit of FOMIN. Annex 6, T-36
and T-37, presents summarized year-end audited balance sheets and income state-
ments of FOMIN for the years 1977, 1978, and 1979 unaudited.
4.63      For the purpose of enabling FOMIN to maintain an adequaLte standard
of accounting procedures and internal control, it has assigned an independent
auditing firm to each equity investment, in agreement with its pa,rtners.
These audit firms are requested to forward, for shareholders information, a
report on internal control and accounting procedures for each of the enter-
prises, together with the annual certified financial statements. Satisfactory
auditing arrangements for FOMIN and its investee companies have been discussed
at negotiations.
Financial Poisition and Projections
4.64      Up to year-end 1979, FOMIN depended completely on financial resources
provided by the government in the form of contributions to FOMIN's equity
capital. For 1979, FOMIN was assigned a budget of Mex$120 million, compared
to a budget of Mex$100 million for 1978.  FOMIN is required to submit annually
to SEPAFIN, for approval, its proposed investment and operating costs, in
order to jusitify its budget allocation for the following year. F'or 1980, SPP
has authorizted an additional budgeted capital contribution of Mex$170 million
to FOMIN. Since Loan 1552-ME will start to be disbursed during this year to
support eligible SMI enterprises, all of the government resources outside of
PAI are going to be used to provide risk capital for larger enterprises (as de-
fined in para. 4.42), and for working capital investments not covered under PAI.



- 40 -
4.65      FOMIN's risk capital component of US$10 million under Loan 1552-ME
is expected to be fully committed by the first quarter of 1981, as reflected
in the proforma balance sheets and income statements of FOMIN for 1980 to
1984 (Annex 6, T-36 and T-37). Under the proposed project, allocations to
FOMIN's subprogram would be set at US$12.0 million or 55% of the total esti-
mated investments in eligible enterprises of US$21.8 million, which is ex-
pected to be committed in two years. In addition, FOMIN may commit, by late
1982, part of the US$8 million unallocated portion of the proposed loan
(para. 5.04).
4.66      After incurring losses in preceding years, FOMIN's 1979 revenues,
including share dividends at par value -- see para. 4.45, covered, for the
first time, operating and administrative expenses of Mex$26.9 (US$1.2 million
equivalent). W4hile stock dividends represented about 6.0% of the total equity
portfolio for 1979, 1/ only about 1.1% of which represents capital gains gene-
rated by capitalized earnings. The difference is made up by revaluation of
fixed assets and adjustments of book value. Increased net revenues on sales of
equity are expected to be generated by FOMIN's portfolio. Although FOMIN's
return on equity sales has increased substantially from 15% in 1976 to 36% in
1979 (in current terms), there is still room for improvement. Annex 6, T-39,
shows the impact of internally generated funds which are expected to play a
substantial role in FOMIN's cash flow during the projected years. In 1984,
FOMIN's net operational income (including stock dividends) is projected to
cover administrative and operating expenses. Operations do not involve
unusual risks regarding the attainment of its projected growth, if the
promotional program develops according to expectations. However, further
attention needs to be put by FOMIN on increasing capital gails of its equity
portfolio.
C. FIDEICOMISO DE CONJUNTOS, PARQUES, CIUDADES
INDUSTRIALES Y CENTROS COMERCIALES (FIDEIN)
Background and Objectives
4.67      FIDEIN was established in December 3, 1970, as a government trust
fund administered by NAFINSA to plan, promote and implement a national
system of industrial parks, as part of a comprehensive program of industrial
decentralization and regional development. At the time of appraisal of
Loan 1552-ME, FIDEIN was principally a central promotional and advisory
institution to the "Fideicomisos Especiales", i.e. the legal entities owning
and operating the individual regional industrial estates.
4.68      As part of the expansion of its role in implementing the
Industrial Estates Subprograms under PAI, FIDEIN allocated resources to
finance directly or through loans to the "Fideicomisos Especiales"
(a) the construction of factory buildings on industrial estates for rent,
lease with option to purchase or sale to SMI enterprises, (b) construction
and lease of common facilities to provide services to groups of SMI enter-
prises on the estates (for example, warehouses, maintenance and repair
1/   No cash dividends were declared by investee companies.



- 41 -
shops, quality control and material testing laboratories and restaurants),
and (c) equipment and machinery leasing to SMI enterprises operating in
these industrial estates (para 4.85). These directly managed activities of
FIDEIN are designed to support both new productive enterprises as well as to
serve the expansion and/or relocation needs of existing SMI (as dLefined in
para. 3.02) through the provision of the physical assets mentioned above at
reasonable cost.
4.69      Loan 1552-ME assumed that factory buildings would be financed mostly
by FIDEIN loans to the Fideicomisos Especiales. However, FIDEIN has opted
for direct contracts between FIDEIN and the client firm, operating under the
Industrial Estate Subprogram as a first-tier institution, financing directly
sales, rent and lease operations to SMI enterprises of all physical installa-
tions other than developed land, which is the responsibility of the Fideicomisos
Especiales, i.e., the second-tier institutions. The Fideicomisos Especiales
sell to FIDEIN the land designated for construction of factory buildings and
they participate actively in the promotion of factory buildings in the market.
Organization, Management and Staffing
4.70      FIDEIN's overall policy-making body is its Technical Committee,
headed by the Minister of Human Settlements and Public Works (SA[OP).  The
Committee irncludes representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Commerce,
Agrarian Reform, and National Patrimony and Industrial Development (SEPAFIN),
National Institute for Workers Housing Development (INFONAVIT), NAFINSA, plus
two representatives from the private sector selected by CONCAMIN and CANACINTRA.
The directors of FOGAIN and FOMIN are also invited to attend committee meetings
to improve overall coordination of PAI. The Committee meets periodically and
is responsible for all decisions on policies, procedures, financiLal plans and
budgets. Operational control is also a function of the Committee, since it
approves all subprojects financed.
4.71      Mr. Alfredo Navarrete Romero, FIDEIN's Director General, is respon-
sible for day-to-day operations; he is assisted by a Sub-Director who has
recently been appointed by NAFINSA. Mr. Navarrete replaced the previous
Director General only after the appraisal of the first SMI project, and this
change of management, coupled with the resignation of several key staff
professionals, may have contributed to some loss of continuity and momentum.
Program implementation was further hampered by delays unrelated to FIDEIN in
the overall implementation of PAI. Furthermore, the poor performance of
FIDEIN's factory building construction component, despite high levels of
demand, has been aggravated by a passive and inadequate technicaL and opera-
tional management. Recognizing the need to strengthen staff capabilities,
Mr. Navarrete intends to carry out a carefully planned and comprehensive
program of staff expansion, technical assistance and training, which is
reflected in the "Plan of Action" for 1980 (Annex 3).
4.72      Excessive turnover in FIDEIN's staff has been caused aLso by the
inadequacy of salary levels, which are generally lower than for comparable
positions in FOGAIN and FOMIN. This problem is expected to be resolved soon
after completion of a proposed salary level review and a redefinition of
staff functions by FIDEIN's management. FIDEIN is aware of the importance
of bringing salaries to sufficiently competitive levels to attract and retain
qualified professionals.



- 42 -
4.73      At present, FIDEIN is understaffed, due to reasons mentioned above
and to severe space limitations which appear to have been resolved with its
move to its new facilities. To strengthen its technical and operational
areas, FIDEIN hired recently an experienced architect/civil engineer and
intends to strengthen its financial control, analysis and reporting functions.
As of February 29, 1980, FIDEIN had a total staff of 43 employees including
27 professionals. The indicative organization chart, which is presented in
Annex 6, T-40, incorporates structural modifications authorized by the Board
at the time of appraisal, including the position of a qualified civil engineer
or architect at the managerial level, responsible for central planning,
appraisal and supervision of the construction program. The staffing of both
FIDEIN's appraisal and supervision departments would be strengthened, includ-
ing the hiring of engineering staff, to enable FIDEIN to continue performing
its construction and supervisory activities, taking into account the antici-
pated increased workload in connection with the implementation of the proposed
project. FIDEIN is considering an arrangement to engage the Industrial
Development Authority of Ireland to provide appropriate technical and manage-
ment assistance for the program and within a time frame currently being
designed. 1/ FIDEIN is also receiving the close attention of relevant govern-
ment officials in NAFINSA and SAHOP to assist in strengthening FIDEIN's
overall structure and performance.
Development of Industrial Estates
4.74      Location and initial construction of estates.  During the initial
stages of planning, evaluation and design of each of the estates, for which
SAHOP has been assigned overall responsibility, FIDEIN collaborates closely
with SAHOP, particularly in selecting the locations of the industrial estates
and carrying out the financial and market feasibility studies. Once the
location of an estate project is approved, SAHOP acquires a site of about
500 ha. and, in consultation with FIDEIN and the municipal and state authorities,
prepares overall plans, layouts and specifications. The first phase of
construction covers the development of about 20 ha. of the site, including
leveling, grading, laying access roads and installing power, water and sewage
disposal facilities. The entire site is then turned over to a local Fideicomiso
Especial, which assumes responsibility for future expansion and operation.
4.75      Whenever feasible, industrial estates projects are planned to
evolve into industrial cities, 2/ by integrating them with adjacent or nearby
social infrastructure projects including housing, hospitals and clinics,
commercial centers, schools, churches and recreation centers (carried out
by other agencies). Through a 1972 decree the government broadened the
activities authorized for FIDEIN to include promotion of commercial centers, 3/
which provide facilities for warehousing, retail and wholesale trade, general
business offices and recreational activity centers aimed at the tourist market.
1/   A consultant from the Industrial Development Authority of Ireland financed
under the first SMI loan, visited FIDEIN in September 1979. His report,
which was submitted in November 1979, will form the basis for the compre-
hensive Technical Assistance/Training Program scheduled for 1980/81.
2/   The concept is similar to planned "new towns" or "satellite towns"
that have been developed in other countries.
3/   To date only one commercial center is in operation at Mexicali, B.C.
del Norte.



- 43 -
4.76      Operating and financial performance of the industrial estates.  As
of December 1979, sixteen industrial estates (Annex 6, T-42) and one
commercial estate (at Mexicali) were operating (see map in Annex 9). The
growing momentum of the program is evident from the following table:
Table 4.6: INDTJSTRIAL ESTATE PROGRAM GROWTH a/
Cumulative Figures at Time of Project Appraisal
First SMI           Second SMI
June 1977   December 1979   Estimated 1982
Operating Estates (numbers)              12               16             25-30
Land Sales (ha)                         407            1,080.8        2,000-2,500
Occupant Companies (numbers)
Operating                              63               219
Industrial Premises Under
Construction                        72                211
Planning Construction                150                377              -
Total                             285                807         1,400-1,500
Employmenit b/                    15,000             37,000            70-80,000
a/   Covers construction program initiated in 1972, excluding Mexicali's
commercial center.
b/   Total employment estimated when all firms are operating at full capacity.
By February 1980, 2 additional estates were about to inaugurate operations
and 3 more were under construction. As of December 1979, land sales in the
16 industrial estates amounted to 1,080.8 ha. (equivalent to Mex$1,006.6 million)
sold to 60,7 firms, compared to 407 ha. (equivalent to Mex$191 million) sold to
285 firms located in 13 industrial estates operating when the first SMI project
was appraised. For the 2 1/2-year period from June 1977 to December 1979,
the annual sales of land (256 ha.) and number of new occupant companies
(161) averaged about three times the corresponding annual figures for the
prior 5 year period starting in 1972, when construction was inaugurated
(81 ha. and 57 companies p.a., respectively). The numbers of firms in the
planning phase of factory construction are particularly significant in fore-
casting demand for factory construction finance. In 1977, this category
representecl 53% of all firms that had purchased estate land; in 1979, it was
43Z, but almost double (298 vs. 150) in absolute terms.



- 44 -
4.77      Annex 6, T-43, presents summarized consolidated balance sheet data
for the Fideicomisos at year-end 1978 which reflect their strong equity
position. Assets of a newly created Fideicomiso Especial include the value
of raw land, the value of land development, and the capitalized value of
preinvestment ,tudies and assistance contributed by FIDEIN. In some cases,
land contributed by the municipality or other local bodies form part of
the assets in exchange for equity or a note issued by the Fideicomiso.
Additional funds required for ongoing land development and working capital
can be obtained from banks, using the estate owned by the Fideicomiso as
collateral and, to a limited extent, from SAHOP and FIDEIN. By the end of
1979, the federal and state governments had invested Mex$811.7 million
(including committed resources for 1979) in acquiring and developing land
(Annex 6, T-41). In addition, Mex$323.8 million had been invested (including
committed resources for 1979) by SAHOP, BANOBRAS, FIDEIN and private re-
sources from the local commercial associations.
4.78      Capital investment in land and infrastructure ranges from US$800-
1,300 (in 1979 prices) per job created depending on location. Industrial
estates are run efficiently by the individual Fideicomisos under FIDEIN's
monitoring responsibility, and are projected to expand further geographically
(para. 4.76), providing adequate support for the development of FIDEIN's
proposed subprogram. Estate-based projects have been fairly labor intensive,
with capital investment per incremental job estimated to be of the order of
about US$15,000 equivalent (in 1979 prices). This ratio should drop as
increasing numbers of SMI enterprises are assisted through FIDEIN's growing
program of factory-building finance, common facilities and equipment leasing.
Interaction with the "Fideicomisos Especiales"
4.79      The Fideicomisos Especiales which own and operate the estates are
decentralized trust funds directed individually by their own Technical Commit-
tees, chaired by the governor of the respective state in which they are
located. Each committee also includes representatives of SAHOP, FIDEIN,
NAFINSA, the Ministry of Finance, and SEPAFIN, and frequently the representa-
tive of the municipal authority and other local or national bodies that may
own part of the Fideicomiso Especial's assets. The state governor and the
representatives of SAHOP and FIDEIN tend to be the most active members of
these Technical Committees. The Fideicomisos Especiales have considerable
autonomy in their day-to-day operations, but are subject to monitoring and
overall coordination by FIDEIN, NAFINSA's agent in administering the national
program.
4.80      The staff of a local Fideicomiso Especial typically consists of a
manager and two or three other staff members, including an accountant.
Although the managers of the Fideicomisos Especiales are under the formal
direction of their respective Technical Committees, they work closely with
FIDEIN's staff and seek its assistance on a variety of matters, such as
locationad analysis, market analysis and demand forecasts, advice on factory
buildings and general technical and financial assistance. Based on mission
visits to more than half of the 16 operating industrial estates, managers of
the Fideicomisos Especiales appear to be capable and business oriented, with
sufficient experience to conduct effectively all estate activities, including
project supervision and expansion (coordinated with SAHOP), promotion and
public relations, and contract negotiation. FIDEIN assists the Fideicomisos
Especiales in selecting managers and other staff and in monitoring to ensure
that their activities are consistent with the policy objectives of the
industrial estates program.



- 45 -
4.81      FIDEIN also provides the Fideicomisos Especiales, as required, with
assistance on a continuing basis in activities such as: promotion and market-
ing; accotnting and financial control including preparation of annual budgets
and financial statements; and internal procedures and practices. Finally,
FIDEIN provides advice to relevant federal government agencies on such matters
as allocation of budgetary and other resources to the Fideicomisos Especiales.
FIDEIN - Status and Performance of the Industrial Estates Subprogram
4.82      The construction of industrial estates by SAHOP--including
new estates as well as expansion of older operating estates--is progressing
satisfactorily but only in terms of developed land and basic utilities
available to those industries with the resources to build their own factories.
Conversely, the provision by FIDEIN directly of factory buildings, common
facilities and leased equipment on terms and conditions accessible to most
SMI enterprises has been inadequate, due to its weak organizational capacity
(para. 4.71). FIDEIN's objective is to assist SMI enterprises locating on
the estates to overcome inherent credit constraints in acquiring such
facilities. Of primary importance is the provision of factory buildings
for sale, rent or lease with option to purchase at accessible prices.
The two smaller components, provision of common service facilities and
leasing of industrial machinery and equipment, are also needed but require
lesser allocations of resources.
4.83      Factory buildings.  Sizes of standard factory buildings (SFBs)
range from a minimum of 500 sq. m. to 2,400 sq. m. with the large majority
of applications expected to fall between 1,000 and 2,400 sq. m. However,
in .order to provide some flexibility for FIDEIN to finance the larger medium-
scale enterprises, factory buildings larger than 2,400 sq. m. and up to 5,000
sq. m. would be eligible for financing under the proposed loan on a case-by-
case basis. The standard building design is modular, to serve general SMI
requirements and to facilitate expansion by adding bays as needed (for tech-
nical considerations see Annex 5). However, there exists the possibility
of FIDEIN approving and financing factory buildings to special specifications
under a signed sales or long-term lease contract. The number and sizes
of buildings constructed at each estate would vary, depending on effective
demand. The funds allocated to factory building construction under the first
SMI loan have only been partially committed. Of the total US$5.0 million
available, about US$1.1 million have been committed for 7 buildings with firm
sales contracts totalling 13,000 sq. m. and advance construction of four
industrial buildings (authorized by FIDEIN after thorough marketing analysis
of potential demand in Tijuana) totalling 8,800 sq.m (Annex 6, T-44). Another
15-20 buildings are expected to be authorized in the second quarter of 1980,
and the balance by the fourth quarter of 1980, when funding would become
available under the proposed loan. About 70 factory buildings 1/ are
expected to be constructed with the resources of the first SIII project loan.
While the construction program has been lagging, negotiations and commitments
1/   These buildings will be occupied by an estimated 75-80 SMI enterprises
employing some 4,000-5,000 workers.



- 46 -
are accelerating rapidly, as a result of procedural clarifications given
during appraisal (para. 4.87), and the estimates for the balance of 1980,
summarized in Table 4.6 below, are considered realistic:
Table 4.7: FACTORY BUILDING CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE UNDER FIRST SMI
PROJECT - STATUS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1980
Number of
Status                             Factories           Estimated Sq. m.
Operating                             38                60,800
Under construction                    12                19,200
Pre-construction phase                20                24,000
Total Committed under                 70               104,000
Loan 1552-ME
4.84      Common service facilities.  Construction of common facilities has
the purpose of increasing accessibility and reducing unit costs for certain
services needed by the estate clusters of SMI enterprises. Typical common
services include maintenance and repair shops, central warehousing, quality
control and material testing centers, worker training centers, offices for
bulk purchase of raw materials and assistance/advice on accounting, computer-
ized data processing, marketing and promotion, canteens and restaurants.
Common service facilities have not yet been financed under the first SMI
project, but FIDEIN will attempt to identify specific demand for and the
feasibility of such services during the implementation of the proposed project.
4.85      Machinery and equipment leasing.  No commitments have yet been made
under this component but demand has been increasing recently due to a more
aggressive and promotional posture of FIDEIN, stimulating managers of the
industrial estates to activate the sales, rent or lease of physical installa-
tions other than developed land. FIDEIN is implementing a separate department
to handle its leasing operations for which new experienced staff is presently
being recruited. FIDEIN intends to launch the leasing operations once the
construction program for factory buildings is well under way. As a pilot
operation, up to Mex$10 million (US$440,000 equivalent) of PAI resources would
be channeled to finance direct leasing operations by FIDEIN to help estate-
based small enterprises. Loan 1552-ME assumed that FIDEIN would operate
through leasing companies. However, Arrendadora Internacional, S.A. 1/
expected by FIDEIN to channel most of the leasing component, did not agree
to operating with preferential interest rates to smaller enterprises located
in the industrial estates, due to a possible conflict with prevailing market
interest rates charged to its present clients. Therefore, Arrendadora
Internacional, S.A. offered to provide assistance to FIDEIN under a technical
assistance agreement to be developed, allowing FIDEIN to operate as a
1/   A subsidiary of Banco Internacional, S.A. which in turn is owned by NAFINSA.



- 47 -
first-tier institution. The leases will offer the client enterprise either
a purchase option (usually in the case of general purchase equipment such
as trucks and simple machine tools) or mandatory purchase before the expira-
tion of the lease contract (in the case of specialized equipment not easily
usable by other firms).
FIDEIN - The Proposed Subprogram
4.86      The need for FIDEIN-financed factory buildings, whether as SFBs or
special purpose units, is clearly evident from the demand registered by the
industrial estates. Analysis of the size distribution of land parcels acquired
by estate industries and the projections given in Annex 7, T. 42, show that
SNI comprises over 80% of the estate population. Historically, a significant
proportion of these have been medium scale according to the program's definition.
However, trend data indicate that older operating estates, as they expand, tend
to attract increasing numbers of small enterprises (apparently following the
larger "pioneer" industries). Additional efforts will be made under the
proposed loan to respond more selectively to the needs of small enterprises
through the development of common service facilities and launching the machinery
and equipment leasing activity (see plan of action, Annex 3). While a substan-
tial number of SMI enterprises require FIDEIN's assistance to finance factory
buildings, it would be impractical to attempt to disaggregate the forecast
demand for factory buildings according to location, since the estates are in
various stages of development and precise effective demand at each location is
unpredictable. Effective aggregate demand over the two-year project execution
period should easily exceed available funding (Bank loan plus counterpart
resources) by a considerable margin, provided procedures are streamlined and
modified as discussed below. FIDEIN intends to allocate funds in a manner
that would allow rapidly expanding estates experiencing high demand to receive
larger-than-average shares of available funds, while the remaining sites
receive reasonable minimum levels of funding to enable them to initiate
construction of some SFBs in advance of firm contracts as a promotional
device.
4.87      Advance factory construction.  To date, effective demand for factory
building finance with FIDEIN's resources has been constrained by procedural
guidelines requiring a legally binding commitment by S1II enterprises before
an application could be processed. A number of such arrangements have been
concluded, but the large majority of potential clients are unwilling to sign
contracts entailing the financial burden of substantial deposits with no
assurance as to delivery dates. In order to accelerate program implementation,
FIDEIN would initiate the construction of a reasonable number of SFBs, a
concept proven to be an especially effective promotional tool in Ireland
(where it was started) and other countries. The success of the privately
financed "maquiladora" 1/ projects in the Mexican border zone is due in large
measure to the advance construction practice. FIDEIN's industrial estates
1/   Assembly plants built in advance and ready for immediate occupancy by
interested firms.



- 48 -
program complements similar investments in the private sector (Annex 6, T-50),
which are concentrated in the border zone but now spreading to other regions.
FIDEIN intends to undertake advance construction of at least one to two
factory units of between 1,000 to 2,400 m2 each per estate. It is expected
that a contract will be signed with an occupant for practically all units long
before construction is completed. Advance factory construction would always
be based on appropriate market surveys.
4.88      Pricing policy and contract terms.  The basic criterion adopted by
FIDEIN for pricing of factory buildings and common facilities is to recover
invested capital and earn a return of ACF plus one to two points on unpaid
balances, which is reasonable. Rental and lease with purchase option oper-
ations of factory buildings and machinery/equipment would be structured to
yield a return equal to the ACF and ACF plus two points, respectively. The
program is still in an early phase of implementation but the financial goal
appears to be achievable, as indicated in the pricing criteria presented in
Annex 4. Depending on the actual mix of rent or lease with purchase option or
sale contracts, the minimum return averaging the ACF plus at least one percen-
tage point should be achieved and may be exceeded. SFBs are normally rented
or leased for a term of five years, and monthly payments may be adjusted
upward each year. For non-standard buildings constructed to the occupant's
specifications, rental contracts would be for a minimum term of 13 years.
Sales of factory buildings would usually be on deferred payment terms, although
exceptionally cash sales may occur. Rent and leasing operations would be
favored primarily by smaller SMI enterprises.
Project Appraisal and Supervision
4.89      FIDEIN's performance in project appraisal has been uneven, reflecting
the lack of experience of its staff. Procedural guidelines requiring legally
binding commitments (para. 4.87) have restrained FIDEIN from developing regional
market studies for advance factory construction, but this point has since been
resolved. FIDEIN is in the process of improving its project evaluation procedures
to cover more thoroughly the technical, administrative, marketing, financial,
economic, and credit aspects of proposed projects, including the preparation of
regional market studies in support of projects including advance construction
of factory buildings in the industrial estates. The quality of FIDEIN's
appraisals is expected to evolve satisfactorily, since this area is handled
by a well-qualified and motivated department head. Since market studies for
advance construction of factory buildings would be a major responsibility of
the project appraisal department, the present staff of two professionals would
need to be expanded to support the anticipated increased workload over the
near term. Mainly due to heavy staff turnover, FIDEIN projects have not been
adequately supervised. Strengthening of project supervision is reflected in
the "Plan of Action" for 1980, which was discussed at negotiations. In line
with the Plan of Action (Annex 3), FIDEIN intends to hire, in the near future,
additional appraisal staff and a qualified head for the supervision department
who would be responsible for all stages of execution of civil works and
construction of factory buildings according to a pre-established construction
program.



- 49 -
Procurement and Disbursement
4.90      In view of the widely dispersed locations and limited construction
at each location over the two-year project execution period--ranging from a
minimum of 1,000-2,000 m2 to 10,000-12,000 m2 at a few of the more rapidly
growing estates--international construction firms, even those already estab-
lished in Mexico, would have little interest in bidding, and conventional ICB
procedures would serve no useful function. Nevertheless, FIDEIN is announcing
the factory building component in advance through advertisements in Mexican
regional and large newspapers of wide circulation. Responses from interested
national and international firms will form the basis for updating SAHOP's
existing directory of prequalified construction firms, from which FIDEIN
invites a minimum of three competitive bids. SAHOP's directory includes both
large contrasctors based in Mexico City and smaller firms located in the
regions that are often in a position to compete successfully for FIDEIN's
contracts.
4.91      According to established procedures, FIDEIN's evaluation and subse-
quent selection of the winning bid has to be reviewed by its Technical Commit-
tee before contract award. Documentation related to all tenders and contract
awards will be available in FIDEIN's files for ex post review by Bank personnel
during supervision missions.
4.92      FI]DEIN intends to develop a technical assistance agreement ("convenio")
with SAHOP under which technical support and supervision can be obtained at
the request of FIDEIN or the Fideicomiso Especial, including assistance in the
procurement of supplies for the construction of factory buildings (price
quotations, specifications and suppliers) and procurement of construction
firms (Plan of Action, Annex 3).
4.93      Disbursement of the credit proceeds are governed by FII)EIN's opera-
tions manual. (in Project File) and by provisions contained in each construction
contract between FIDEIN's and the winning contractor. Disbursements satisfac-
tory to the Bank are made, in line with the physical progress of construction,
every two weeks after certification by SAHOP's resident engineer or FIDEIN's
supervising engineer or architect. If necessary, FIDEIN will obtain technical
assistance f-rom SAHOP, particularly in the procurement of supplies for the
construction of factory buildings (price quotations, specifications and
suppliers) and procurement of construction firms according to the existing
factory bui'Lding project and structural design.
Accounting, Control and Auditing
4.94      F[DEIN has presently a less-than-adequate accounting system for the
level of its operations. FIDEIN has agreed at negotiations to provide the
Bank by October 1,980 with audited financial statements by auditors acceptable
to the Bank for the years 1977 to 1979. Requirements for improving FIDEIN's
accounting and internal control areas are contained in the Plan of Action
(Annex 3). FIDEIN intends to contract an experienced consultant firm, which
will revise and assist in improving accounting procedures, including the estab-
lishment of an adequate collection system, procurement and disbursements
procedures, internal audit and general policies and procedures necessary for
strengthening the internal control of FIDEIN.



- 50 -
Operational and Financial Projections
4.95      Annex 6, T-47 and T-48 present summarized FIDEIN's unaudited
financial statements for 1977 to 1979. During these three years FIDEIN
received government funds to cover administrative and operati,'.al expenses
of about Mex$20 million to Mex$25 million, which are reasonable. The factory
building construction program started in the second semester of 1979 with
funds advanced by PAI. 1/ Although PAI is prepared to provide working capital
for FIDEIN's operations, government intends to provide additional equity funds
to be used as a revolving fund in the construction program of factory buildings
to cover disbursement lags for subprojects authorized under the Bank loan and
also for the downpayment/installments for land purchase from the Fideicomisos
Especiales up to the time a contract is signed with an enterprise.
4.96      The PAI funds provided to FIDEIN under Loan 1552-ME are expected to
be fully committed by year-end 1980. Estimates of the construction schedule
and capital costs (Annex 5) are based on the assumption that during 1980
uncommitted funds equivalent to about 80% of FIDEIN's subprogram under
the first SMI loan will be sufficient to cover all approved projects involving
construction of factory buildings (Annex 6, T-45). The initial allocation
under this proposed project to FIDEIN's subprogram would be set at Mex$334.0
million, which is based on a conservative market projection which should be
reached easily. Additional unallocated funds would be available to FIDEIN in
the event that these resources are utilized ahead of schedule (para. 5.04).
Financial projections of FIDEIN present acceptable growth in income, permitting
a positive return on its portfolio (Annex 6, T-47 and T-48).
1/    Mex$40 million of PAI resources were advanced for constructing factory
buildings.



- 51 -
V. THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A. Allocation of Program Resources
Under the First SMI Project
5.01     lUnder the first SMI project, PAI received a total allocation of
Mex$2,077 million, US$47 million equivalent (52%) of which was provided by
the Bank. The allocations by subprogram and sources of funds aLre shown below:
Table 5.1
Total         World
Amount    %    Bank    %   Government a/   %
(Mex$ million)
Credit                             1,112    54    690    64         422         42
Equity investments                   410    20    230    21         180         18
Industrial estates b/                210    10    115    11          86          9
Technical assistance                 196      9     46      4       150         15
Credit guarantees                     10      -     -       -         10         1
Feasibility studies                   30      1     -       -        30          3
Small and Medium mining c/           118      6     -       -       118         12
Total                         2,077   100  1,081   100         996        100
US$ Equivalent d/              90.3          47.0             43.3
% of Total                    100            52               48
a/   54% in budgetary resources, 42% from Banco de Mexico and 4% from NAFINSA.
b/   Including the machinery and equipment leasing component of up to Mex$ 10.0
million.
c/   Part of the counterpart funds for FOGAIN were reallocated to CFM
(para. 3.22).
d/   At Mex$23.00 = US$1.00.
Given the large amount of financing required by the vigorous SRI sector in
Mexico, the relatively modest sum allocated to PAI was expected to be suffi-
cient only to initiate operations, but not to satisfy a large part of SMI's
financing requirements. Although PAI started operations effectively only in
June 1979, about Mex$600 million had been utilized as of March 1980, with the
remaining amount expected to be committed by the participating institutions
during 1980.  As of May 30, 1980, US$24.8 million had been committed under
Loan 1552--ME, of which US$22.6 million was for credit, US$0.9 million for
equity investments, US$1.1 million for factory buildings, and a modest US$0.2
million for technical assistance. The credit component is expected to be
substantially committed by July 1980, while the components for equity invest-
ments, factory buildings and for specialized technical assistance should be



- 52 -
fully committed by year-end 1980. Commitments under the technical assistance
component were delayed by a misunderstanding regarding which expenditures
qualified for Bank financing. This has been clarified and plans have been
made for the commitment of these funds by specialized technical assistance
agencies and Sy the extension service (para. 3.24).
5.02      For the limited time that PAI has been operational, its achievements
are already significant, particularly in building up the industrial extension
service, and preliminary results indicate that the program will make a positive
impact on SMI enterprise development in Mexico. In view of the tight resource
position of PAI, the high overall demand for funds by SMI enterprises, and in
order to maintain the momentum of the program, the Mexican Government requested
the Bank in November 1979 to prepare a second SMI project, which was appraised
in January/February 1980.
B. The Project and the Proposed Bank Loan
5.03      The proposed project would build and expand on the accomplishments
of the previous operation. In particular, the project would support the
government's objectives of employment creation and regional decentralization
by fostering more rapid growth of SMI enterprises, particularly outside of
Mexico City. Special emphasis would be placed on: (i) developing further
the system of industrial extension agents to increase its reach to less
developed regions; (ii) the introduction of a new credit guarantee system
which would improve access to the financial system of small enterprises
with good projects but insufficient collateral; and (iii) institutional
objectives relating to the principal participating trust funds and to the
PAI secretariat. An important element of the proposed project would be
the review by mid-1981 by NAFINSA, in consultation with the Bank, of the
progress of PAI as a whole, in order to ensure that this innovative program
continues to develop satisfactorily in relation to its stated objectives.
Size of the Program and the Proposed Loan
5.04      On the basis of the outlook for SMI investment demand, the project
pipelines of the participating institutions, and their institutional capacity,
PAI would be provided with Mex$4,500 million under the second project, con-
sisting of the proposed Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent and Mex$2,200
million in counterpart resources of the Mexican Government. Table 5.2 below
shows the proposed initial allocation of program financing by subprograms and
sources of financing. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained
from the Mexican Government that the local counterpart resources of no less
than Mex$2,200 million will be made available by the federal government from
fiscal resources or from the Banco de Mexico.



- 53 -
Table 5.2: ALLOCATION OF PROGRAM RESOURCES
Mex$ million
Subprograms                     Total Amount    %   World Bank  ,' Government  %
Credit (FOGAIN)                    2,930        65       1,610    70      1.320    60
Risk capital (FOMIN)                  501       11         274    12        225    10
Industrial estates (FIDEIN)          334         7         184      8       150      7
Technical assistance                  296         7         46      2       250    11
Credit guarantees (FOGAIN)             45        1          -       --       45      2
Feasibility studies                    60        1          -       --       60      3
Unallocated (for use by
FOMIN and FIDEIN)               334         7         184     8        150      7
Total                   4,500       100       2,300   100      2,200   100
US$ million a/          195.7                   100              95.7
% of Total              100                      51             49
a/   Mex$23.00 = US$1.00.
As previously mentioned, FOMIN could benefit from increased promotional efforts,
while FIDEIN, which faces strong demand for factory buildings outside of Mexico
City, needs substantial institutional improvement (para. 4.71). Therefore,
Mex$334 million (of which US$8 million under the proposed loan) would be set
aside for use by either of these institutions in order to induce them to exert
stronger efforts in the aforementioned areas. The terminal date for submission
of subproject financing requests would be December 31, 1983, and the closing
date, December 31, 1984 (Annex 2).
Description of the Loan Components
5.05      The proposed loan would be allocated initially as follows:  US$70
million for FOGAIN to support the Credit and Guarantees 1/ Subprogram; US$12
million for FOMIN to finance the Risk Capital Subprogram; US$8 million for
FIDEIN to implement the Industrial Estates Subprogram; US$2.0 million to PAI
to implement the Technical Assistance Subprogram; and an unallocated amount
of US$8 million available for utilization by FOMIN and FIDEIN once they have
committed their initial allocations. In view of the large number of PAI
subprograms, and the possibility that their respective financing needs would
change during program implementation, the initial allocations and related loan
features would be reviewed and revised, as necessary, during the commitment
period by agreement between NAFINSA and the Bank. Subloans or investments
would be in accordance with the operating regulations of the respective
implementing agencies and the eligibility criteria for each subprogram.
1/   Only local funds would be made available for the guarantee mechanism.



- 54 -
Since approvals under the multitier system may involve relatively long process-
ing times, as under the previous loan subproject expenditures up to 180 days
prior to receipt by the Bank of the financing application would be eligible
for Bank financing.
5.06      The loan would provide financial and technical assistance to SMI
(as defined in para. 3.02) through FOGAIN, FOMIN, 1/ FIDEIN, and specialized
technical assistance agencies as specified below:
(a) The credit component of US$70 million would finance 55% of FOGAIN's
credits for machinery, equipment, civil works and associated working capital 2/
for qualifying subprojects (para. 5.09). Subloans would range from three to
a maximum term of six years with a grace period of up to two years, which is
reasonable given the nature of SMI projects. Since FOGAIN's operating regu-
lations limits the maximum combined amount of fixed asset and working capital
subloans per enterprise to Mex$12 million, maximum subloans would be about
US$290,000 equivalent. The average lending rates to the final borrowers would
be one percentage point above the average ACF for a 12 month period up to and
including April 1980. They would range from 14 percent for small enterprises
located in regions selected for industrial development, thus partly compensating
for higher transport and labor training costs and insufficient social infra-
structure and public utilities, to 22 percent for medium enterprises located
in the established industrial centers. FOGAIN's interest rates would be
adjusted once a year to reflect changes in the average ACF over a preceding
twelve month period. In the event that there should be substantial changes
in the ACF during the year (e.g. changes of 3 percentage points or more from
the base used for the last adjustment) the Bank and NAFINSA would consult and
consider further adjustments. Margins to intermediaries would average about
3%, but could range between 3.5% and 2.5% in line with the criteria used for a
range of interest rates, to provide an incentive for the intermediaries to
lend to small enterprises and those located outside of Mexico City.
(b) The risk capital component of at least US$12 million would finance
55% of FOMIN's equity investments and other instruments with equity features
to support expenditures of qualifying subprojects for machinery, equipment,
civil works and associated working capital. FOMIN would manage its re-
sources and set the return on its quasi-equity instruments with the objective
of recovering the value of its investments in real terms. For subor-
dinated convertible loans and other debt instruments with equity features,
the minimum interest rate would be up to three points below the ACF.
(c) The industrial estates component of at'least US$8 million through
FIDEIN would finance 55% of construction of qualified factory buildings
and common service centers for SMI enterprises, and of expenditures for
the purchase of equipment to be leased to qualifying SMI enterprises. In
setting lease and loan conditions, FIDEIN would impute interest rates that
are not more favorable than for FOGAIN's credits. In line with this policy,
imputed interest rates for credit sales and lease with the option to purchase
1/   For the purposes of FOMIN's investments, the equity of client enterprises
would be calculated prior to asset revaluation.
2/   No debt consolidation loans will be financed.



- 55 -
factory buildings, common service facilities and equipment lease arrangements
with option to purchase, would be ACF plus one to two percentage points, and
for rentals with no purchase option the imputed interest rate would be equal
to ACF. Overall interest rates should at least average ACF plus one point.
(d) The technical assistance component of US$2.0 million would finance
the direct foreign exchange content of the cost of training extension agents,
of the staff of the PAI secretariat and of the participating institutions,
and of facilities and equipment needed for specialized technical assistance.
Initial allocations of this amount were agreed at negotiations and are broken
down by institution in Annex 6, Table 51.
Channeling Arrangements, Repayment and Capitalization of PAI's Special Account
5.07      The proposed loan would be made to NAFINSA, which would channel the
resources in pesos through a special Program Account (established in NAFINSA)
to the individual trust funds and other participating institutions for quali-
fying subprojects and expenditures. All debt service charges (principal,
interest and commitment fee) related to the Bank loan would be paid by
the government, in order to capitalize the special operating account of PAI,
and permit PAl's earnings to cover the operating costs of the technical
assistance program. In view of these arrangements, the loan would be repaid
in accordance with a fixed 17-year amortization schedule including 4 years of
grace. Pariticipating institutions, with the exception of technical assistance
institutions, would pay back PAI resources as funds are recovered from subloan
repayments and sales of investments.
5.08      FOGAIN and FIDEIN would be expected to repay to the PAI account the
principal of the amounts lent to them and interests, leaving margins (around
2%) which would enable FOGAIN and FIDEIN to cover their operating costs from
their respective lending spreads.  FOMIN would repay PAI only the net amount
recovered from its investments plus one-half of any realized capital gains.
It would also pay to PAI a small portion (say, 2% of the cost of- PAI funds
invested in companies paying dividends) of any dividends on investment and
interest received from debt instruments. Resources paid back by the partici-
pating trust funds to the PAI account would be utilized by PAI ior purposes
similar to those under the proposed project.
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing
5.09     In view of the large number, relatively small size and varied
nature of the individual subprojects, it would not be feasible to determine
the foreign exchange content of each individual subproject. An analysis of
samples of eligible subprojects prepared by FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN in
connection with Loan 1552-ME showed that the foreign exchange content of
program financing is likely to be at least equal to the standard 55% disburse-
ment percentage for FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN subprojects set under the first
loan (Annex 6, Table 52), according to the following breakdown:



- 56 -
Table 5.3: ESTIMATED TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS
(Equivalent US$ million)
Content                                            Sources
of Financing        Foreign  Local  Total         of Financing          Foreign  Local  Total
Imported Equipment       79.6       -   79.6   Beneficiary Enterprises           -   54.5    54.5
Local Equipment          18.5    43.0   61.5   Financial Intermediaries          -   22.4    22.4
Construction              6.4    57.4   63.8   Financing under Project   100.0   95.7   195.7
Working Capital
Increases              5.0    45.2   50.2       for which:  FOGAIN        (70.0) (59.3) (129.3)
Technical Assistance    3.1    12.4   15.5                     FOMIN         (16.0) (13.1)  (29.1)
Guarantee Fund              -     2.0    2.0                   FIDEIN        (12.0)  (9.8)  (21.8)
Technical
112.6   160.0  272.6                    Assistance  (2.0) (13.5)  (15.5)
100.0  172.6   272.6
In view of this, disbursements of funds from the loan would be made on
the following basis:
(a)  For FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN:  55% of all disbursements made by
the three funds to finance machinery, equipment, civil works and
associated working capital; and
(b) For technical assistance: 100% of the cost of imported goods and
services, 70% of expenditures for imported goods purchased off-the-
shelf and services, or 25% of total expenditures for domestically
manufactured goods and services rendered in Mexico.
5.10      Disbursements for the subloans, investments and leasing operations
would be made against certificates of expenditure for specific subprojects
issued by the respective trust funds; the detailed documentation evidencing
final expenditures on machinery, equipment, civil works and related working
capital would be retained by the respective trust funds 1/ and would be
available for inspection by the Bank. Disbursement applications for sub-
projects would include information required under the SDS (para. 4.12). In
addition, disbursement requests by FOMIN and FIDEIN should be consistent with
1/   At least 70% of expenditures would be documented in the case of FOGAIN.



- 57 -
a brief description of the subproject, including a list of items financed, and
an estimated schedule of expenditures and disbursements, which would be
required to be submitted to the Bank prior to Bank authorization of the
subproject.
5.11      The Borrower would ensure satisfactory arrangements for a full
audit of the individual trust funds, as well as of the Program Account,
to be submitted to the Bank annually and according to standards satisfactory
to the Bank.
5.12      NAFINSA, through the PAI secretariat, together with FOGAIN, FOMIN,
and FIDEIN would apply suitable procedures either directly or through the
intermediaries to ensure that goods and services procured, using the financing
of PAI, are competitive in quality and price, and are appropriate for the
needs of the client enterprise. Detailed procurement procedures for factory
construction financed through FIDEIN are described in paras. 4.90 to 4.93.
Approval Limits
5.13      The approval limits would be as follows:
(a)  FOGAIN:  W4hile Bank approval would not be required for FOGAIN's
subprojects, 1/ the Bank could review at its discretion any
withdrawal request prior to disbursement. The Bank would also
review periodically a representative sample of subprojects
on an ex post basis during supervision missions.
(b)  FOMIN:  Investments requiring more than US$250,000 equivalent
in Bank funds would require Bank approval.
(c)  FIDEIN:  Bank approval would be required for:
(i) all subloans for factory buildings constructed by FIDEIN
without a firm purchase, lease or straight rent contract;
(ii) all subloans for factory buildings constructed with a firm
purchase, lease or straight rent contract with areas
larger than 2,400 sq.m. and up to 5,000 sq.m.;
(iii) the first two common service center subprojects; and
(iv)  the first two leasing operations of equipment and
machinery.
(d)  Technical Assistance:  All use of Bank funds for this purpose would
riequire Bank approval.
1/   In line with FOGAIN's operating regulations, the maximum Bank subloan
size would be about UJS$290,000 equivalent.



- 58 -
Project Benefits and Risks
5.14      The proposed project, which is ambitious in scope, is expected to
assist a substantial number of SMI enterprises, with a correspondingly
important impact on employment and decentralization of industry. Some 700
enterprises are expected to be assisted through the Credit Subprogram, many of
which would utilize FOGAIN's financing for the first time, and about two
thirds by amount of FOGAIN's credit is expected to be made to enterprises
located outside of the Mexico City metropolitan area. The revised Credit
Guarantee Subprogram, if successful, could be implemented on a much larger
scale to improve significantly the access to financing of small enterprises.
Some 90 enterprises would be assisted through the Risk Capital Subprogram and
80 enterprises through the Industrial Estates Subprogram. Finally, the
Technical Assistance Subprogram of PAI is expected to provide assistance to
several hundred more enterprises. As many as 20,000 incremental jobs are
expected to be generated as a result of the investments supported through the
proposed project, with a cost per job created in the order of US$13,000
equivalent, which is quite reasonable for a country at Mexico's level of
development. About 60% of the subprojects financed are expected to involve
small enterprises.
5.15      The project would also achieve important institution-building
objectives by continuing the process started under the first SMI project of
developing a more comprehensive and effective system of support for SMI by (i)
coordinating more closely the activities of existing financial and technical
assistance institutions; (ii) improving the access of small firms to these
institutions; and (iii) expanding the volume and range of their services.
In particular, the project would help to develop further the innovative
industrial extension service for direct assistance to SMI enterprises,
and induce the participating trust funds to identify clients more actively
than in the past. Particular emphasis is being placed on developing FIDEIN's
role as a specialized financial institution.
5.16      The major risk in the implementation of the proposed project involves
the inherent difficulty in coordinating several diverse program elements and
maintaining cooperation among several institutions. However, efforts made
under the first SMI project and to be taken in connection with the present
one reduce this risk to acceptable levels. There is also the risk that the
implementation of some program components, the Industrial Estates Subprogram
in particular, may lag behind the rest of the program. Concrete steps being
taken by FIDEIN in connection with the proposed project would suggest that the
level of this risk is acceptable. The review of the overall progress of PAI
to be undertaken by NAFINSA in consultation with the Bank will help to ensure
that PAI and its diverse elements continue to develop in accordance with its
objectives.
5.17      Should inflation accelerate further, the ACF should continue to be a
suitable yardstick for determining the onlending rate of FOGAIN, and the
corresponding rates for FIDEIN and FOMIN, in particular given the government's
intention of maintaining interest rate levels which would permit adequate
resource mobilization in the financial system. On the whole, the project
presents an acceptable level of risk.



- 59 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.   Agreements and Understandings Reached
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement or understandings were reached:
(i) with the Mexican Government and NAFINSA on:
(a) The loan amount, the allocation of the proceeds oi- the
loan among the various components of the project, and
arrangements for reviewing such allocation during the
loan commitment period (paras. 5.04 and 5.05); and
(b) the government's responsibility for servicing the loan,
and providing counterpart funds of Mex$2,200 million
and also arrangements for channeling the proceeds of
the Bank Loan and the counterpart resources to the
participating trust funds (paras. 5.04 and 5.07).
(ii) wJith NAFINSA (in its own capacity and as the trustee Eor the
participating trust funds) on:
(a)  review by NAFINSA by mid-1981, in consultation with the
Bank, of the structure, operations and overall progress
of PAT, focussing on the industrial extension service
(paras. 3.07 and 4.05); and
(b) satisfactory auditing arrangements for the Special Program
Account and the individual trust funds, and free limits and
procurement and disbursement arrangements (paras. 5.10 to
5.13).
(iii)  with NAFINSA (as the trustee for FOGAIN), and FOGAIN on:
(a) onlending terms and conditions including interest rates
to the final beneficiaries and margins to the inter-
mediaries (para. 4.10);
(1b) procedures for disbursement and procurement (para. 4.16);
(c) pending issues regarding the new credit guarantee mechanism
(para. 4.25); and
(d) the ex-post analysis of economic impact of projects and
improvement in FOGAIN's supervision activities (paras. 4.12
and 4.14);



- 60 -
(iv) with NAFINSA (as the trustee for FOMIN), and FOMIN on:
(a) financial criteria to be applied in designing debt instru-
ments with equity features (para. 4.49);
(b) satisfactory auditing arrangements for FOMIN and FOMIN
investees (para. 4.63);
(c) procedures for disbursement and procurement (para. 4.60);
(d) the increased level of promotion activities by FOMIN
(para. 4.50); and
(e) disinvestment procedures (para. 4.56).
(v) with NAFINSA (as the trustee for FIDEIN), and FIDEIN ON:
(a) onlending terms and conditions including interest rates
to the final beneficiaries for sales, rent or leasing
of factory buildings and common service facilities
(para. 4.88);
(b) presentation of FIDEIN's audited reports for years 1977
to 1979 by October 1980 (para. 4.94);
(c) procedures for disbursement and procurement (paras. 4.90 to
4.93);
(d) the Plan of Action for the institutional improvement of FIDEIN
(paras. 4.71, 4.73 and 4.89).
6.02      The modifications of the FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN operating regulations
to reflect the agreements reached during loan negotiations in manner satisfactory
to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
B. Recommendation
6.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for a loan of US$100 million to NAFINSA with a maturity of
17 years including 4 years of grace subject to the conditions outlined in
Chapter V.



- 61 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
MEXICO: SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Average Cost of Funds (ACF) Index
1.        Floating interest rates vary according to changes in t]he average
cost of funds as measured by the ACF index. Credit regulations establish
that interest rates on bank loans may be adjusted upward and must be adjusted
downward quarterly, according to the ACF index. The spread--the difference
between the interest rate paid by the final borrower and the ACF index--
however, must remain fixed during the term of the loan.
2.        Until December 1979, the ACF index had been calculated as a weighted
average of interest rates paid (before tax) by financiera (the investment
banks) and financiera departments of "multibancos" (multipurpose banks) on
all term funds and deposits, except checking and savings accounts. As the
transformation of the banking system from specialized banks and departments
to multipurpose banks was consolidated, the government authorized the elimi-
nation of departmental accounting in November 1979. Under the previous system,
the banks were required to maintain and report separate accounts for each of
their specialized departments: checking, savings, investment bEnking (finan-
cieras), mortgage banking and discount departments. In connection with this
change Banco de Mexico announced in December 1979 that the ACF index would be
calculated in the future as a weighted average of interest rates paid on all
term funds and deposits by Mexican private and mixed banks.
3.        I'he net result of this change has been minor.  Under the new defini-
tion, ACF values are slightly lower (see Table A.1), reflecting the inclusion
of some instruments issued by the former mortgage departments which were pay-
ing lower rates. The difference in values implied by the two definitions is
expected to approach zero since the mortgage bonds are being gradually eli-
minated. This is shown in Table A.1.
6.        Changes in the ACF index below reflect adjustments in interest rates
paid on deposits, and in the term distribution of funds. The value estimated
for February 1980 includes a partial adjustment for the increase in interest
rates for ]L2, 18, and 24-month CDs which became effective on February 15. It
is expected, therefore, that the ACF index for the following months will show
most of the impact of this change.



- 62 -                                ANNEX 1
T-1
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1:    ACF index, Highest Interest Rates on
Deposits-, and Inflation Rates
Highest Deposit             ACF            Annual Inflation
Year   Quarter   Month                    Rate              Old       New            Rate
1975     I                               14.21             11.86
II                             14.21              11.89
III                            14.21             11.91
IV                             14.21              11.97                     15.1
1976      I                              13.91             11.78
II                             13.91              11.76
III                            14.63             11.74
IV                             15.17              11.99                     15.8
1977     I                               15.17             11.99
II                             16.28              12.59
III                            18.52             13.83
IV                             18.52              14.30                     28.9
1978      I                              18.52             14.88    14.62             17.7
II                             18.52              15.47    15.16            16.4
III                            18.52             15.67    15.43             16.2
IV                             18.52              16.10    15.93            18.1
1979     I                              18.52              16.20    15.97             17.8
II                             18.52              16.27    16.05            17.9
lII                            18.52              16.62    16.54            18.6
Oct.                   19.09              16.79    16.75             18.9
Nov.                   19.52              17.42    17.37             18.8
Dec.                   19.52                -       17.52            18.8
1980             Jan.                    19.52                -      17.90            22.0
Feb.                   23.5 a/              -       18.40           n.a.
March                                       -       19.20
April                                       -       19.83
a/For 18-month CDs. Rates for 24-month CDs, which are free-market rates, may be
higher.
SOURCE: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
March 1980



- 63'-                                 ANNEX 2
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELCIPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan
Inisbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year and                   Disbursements               Cumu:Lative
Quarter (Ending Date)                  in Quarter                  Disbursements
1980-81
March 31, 1981                             3.0                          3.0
June 30, 1981                              5.0                          8.0
1981-82
September 30, 1981                         5.0                         13.0
December 31, 1981                           8.0                        21.0
March 31, 1982                            10.0                         31.0
June 30, 1982                             10.0                         41.0
1982-83
September 30, 1982                        10.0                         51.0
December 31, 1982                         12.0                         63.0
March 31, 1983                            12.0                         75.0
June 30, 1983                              8.0                         83.0
1983-84
September 30, L983                         5.0                         88.0
December 31, 1983 a/                       4.0                         92.0
March 31 , 1984                            3.0                         95.0
June 30, 1984                              2.0                         97.0
1984-85
September 30, 1984                         2.0                         99.0
December 31, 1984 b/                       1.0                        100.0
a/   Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
b/   Closing date.
LCPI2
May 1980



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
MEXICO: SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIDEIN's Plan of Action
This plan of action lays down particular organizational points to
be undertaken by FIDEIN during the 1980 calendar year. A timetable for
execution of this plan of action will be agreed during loan negotiations.
Auditing
1.        FIDEIN would present audited financial statements to the Bank for
years 1977 to 1979. Furthermore, it would provide the Bank with financial
statements of the Fideicomisos Especiales (Fideicomisos) for the above indi-
cated time period.
2.        This audit would include a report on internal control and account-
ing procedures in FIDEIN, considering particularly aspects which should be
strengthened.
Internal Control and Accounting
3.        FIDEIN would forward the external auditor's report to an experienced
consultant firm, which would be contracted to implement standard and consistent
accounting procedures in FIDEIN and the Fideicomisos, establish adequate col-
lection system, procurement and disbursements, internal audit and general
policies and procedures necessary for strengthening the internal control of
FIDEIN. Such a contract with a consultant firm would be presented to the Bank
by the same time as audit reports.
4.        FIDEIN would prepare administrative and operational manuals to
provide clear and standard guidelines for the management of the Fideicomisos.
Staffing and Organization
5.        FIDEIN would strengthen its technical and operational area by
hiring a qualified civil engineer or architect on a managerial level to be
responsible for the Industrial Estates subprogram. Furthermore, the staffing
requirements of the supervision and appraisal departments would be reviewed to
determine additional technical staff needed, taking into account the anticipated
increased workload over the near term.
6.        Furthermore, a salary level review and a redefinition of staff
functions of FIDEIN would be carried out to bring salaries to sufficiently
competitive levels to attract and retain qualified professionals and also
support staff carreer development.
Construction Program of Factory Buildings for 1980
7.        FIDEIN intends to follow established construction program of factory
buildings under sales contract and advance construction as indicated in Annex 6,
T-45.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Interest Rates
8.        FTDvIN intends to raise the interest rates charged to final borrowers
in line with the general increase in the ACF index published by the Banco Mexico.
Technical Assistance for the Construction Program
9.        FIDEIN would present a technical assistance agreement ("convenio")
with SAHOP during loan negotiations in which the following technical support
can be obtained at the request of FIDEIN or the Fideicomisos Especiales.
(a) Support of SAHOP, in the procurement of supplies for the construct-
icn of factory buildings (price quotations, specifications and
suppliers) and procurement of construction firms accordling to the
existing factory building project and structural design.
(b)  Supervision by SAHOP's resident engineer of all stages of executioti
of civil works and erection of factory building according to a pre-
established construction program.
10.       FI]DEIN is considering an arrangement with the Industrial Develop-
ment Authority of Ireland, which would provide technical assistance for a
specific program and within a time frame to be designed jointly.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO: SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIDEIN's Pricing Criteria
1.   Building Cost:                All-in cost 1/ including appropriated interest
during construction plus 10% margin to cover
FIDEIN's administrative and operational over-
head expenses. Direct administrative and
operational expenses of FIDEIN or the Fidei-
comisos would be properly allocated to the
all-in cost including commission on sales
or lease of factory building.
2.   Commission on Sales,          A modest commission on sales, rent or lease
Rent or Lease:                in addition to the Fideicomisos manager salary
is proposed as an incentive to improve per-
formance. Presently, Fideicomisos managers
are entitled to a commission paid by the
Fideicomisos for land sale in the industrial
estates. A differentiated commission schedule
based on the size of the factory buildings
oriented towards small-scale industry under
PAI, would be discussed during Loan Negotia-
tions.
Options Available to Occupant Firm
3.   Cash Purchase:                All-in cost including interest during cons-
truction plus 10% margin equals cash sales
price. Any deferrement along one year period
expressed as cash purchase would include in-
terest of ACF plus two points.
4.   Deferred Payment              (a)  Down payment of 20% of building cost
Purchase:                          expressed in item 1.
(b) Monthly installments over 5 to 13 years
inputed interest on unpaid balance of
ACF plus two points. Amortization period
adjusted to financial capacity of client.
5.   Straight Rent:                Percentage ACF annually on building cost ex-
pressed in item 1. Rent is adjustable annual-
ly according to the prevailing ACF index. Two
rent payments are advanced by client during
contract signing.
1/   Total construction costs.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.   Lease with Option to          (a)  Annual rent of ACF plus two points on
Purchase:                          building cost expressed in item 1, ad-
justed annually.
(b) Building value is adjusted annually in
line with inflation (replacement cost).
(c) Option price in the replacement cost in
year option is exercised less credit for
past rent. Option in effec:t up to the
5th year. Credit allowance 1st year-50O
of rent paid, 2nd year-40% of rent paid
(cummulative), 3rd year-30%, 4th and
5th years-20%.
(d) Terms on exercising option-cash on down
payment of 20% of net option price plus
five years payment period at inputed in-
terest on unpaid balance of ACF plus
two points.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
MEXICO: SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Considerations, Construction Schedule and
Capital Costs of FIDEIN's Factory Building (SFB) Component
Technical Considerations
1.        FIDEIN has developed four prototype designs for SFBs with covered
areas of 1,000 m2, 1,200 m2, 1,600 m2 and 2,000 m2. Small firms requiring
only 500-600 m2 can be accommodated by subdividing the prototype designs and
medium-scale firms requiring more than 2,000 m2 can be accommodated by multiple
modules of 1,000 m2 or 1,200 m2. FIDEIN's SFBs are standard shell buildings
assembled from prefabricated components. As such, they can be erected rapidly--
completion of the shell in three-four months is normal after casting the
slab--and at reasonable cost. FIDEIN plans to reduce costs even further by
purchasing components such as A-frames in quantity and shipping to several
separate sites where construction scheduling permits. Additional flexibility
is built into the program since on the basis of firm contracts, FIDEIN is
prepared to build to special specifications.
2.        The standard specifications call for a concrete slab, steel portal
frames (A-frames), either cinder-block walls or resin-coated steel sheet siding
and roofing of corrugated galvanized steel or resin-bonded steel sheet. Clear
height under the eaves is normally 16 ft. rising to 24 ft. under the central
ridge line. These elevations are suitable for most SMI needs. Outside office
and sanitary blocks are located in front of each factory unit (as is the cus-
tom in Mexico). At any given location, depending on local availability of
construction materials and climatic conditions, modifications are permissible,
e.g., substitution of bowspring roof trusses for the portal frames or stronger
framework, walls and roofs in areas subject to high wind conditions. Common
facilities financed under the program would require special design, generally.
Construction Schedule and Capital Costs
3.        Estimates of FIDEIN's construction and capital costs are based
on the assumption that during calendar year 1980, available funding under the
first SMI loan will be sufficient to cover all approved projects following the
construction chronogram presented in Annex 6, Table 45. The planned con-
struction schedule for 88,000 sq.m. for factory buildings is presented in
Annex 6, Table 46. Factory construction costs in 1980 are assumed by FIDEIN
to be Mex$2,600 per sq.m., up about 30% from 1979. Field data gathered
by the mission at five estates (Tijuana, Aguascalientes, Leon, Celaya and
Queretaro) indicate that, depending on location and local availability of
construction materials, unit construction costs currently range from about
Mex$2,000 per sq.m. to 2,500 sq.m. For cost estimating purposes, the
FIDEIN figure of Mex$2,600 per sq.m. for 1980 is a reasonable average.
SAHOP expects construction cost price escalation of 20% in 1981 and 15%
in 1982. Under the proposed second SMI project loan, allocations to FIDEIN's
Industrial Estates subprogram were conservatively set at US$8.0 million.
This would be complemented by unallocated PAI resources reserved by the
program for FOMIN and FIDEIN.



- 69 -                                                     ANNEX 5
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                           Page 2
Sample Designs of Standard Factory Buildings (SFB's)
iso,o                         _A                                          000e2
10o                                                  .  4t .-XX'-    .                          I p:q-.
sooo sol       \5(             syoo    W ~ ~~Area___                                      FB2
/_ 9 O1-2 20 sOL n
10                                                                        000
*oooo a o j   SFB(1)                                                                                               L \000i0
|fice                                 SFB Constructed Area                                                       0. /
1TIIPU       ~(1) 1,060.80 sq. mo.
_  11< . *r::.il4,' t >X10 .             (2) 1,264.80 sq. in.
000   .z r'SC           g.q3  .Office Space 100 sq. m.
Iro                       L    A                        X  2 | e -  P.0-
so.    .. _______ 000          1.0  00
j   000  00 
III I                                                       -=I'M
I    I                                                     .444        1=.0i
-4- -               ~
SFB Constructed
00 |  o Area - 2,080.8 sq. m.
O2O   |    |  |             |   >  S  S   ~~~~Office Space
I i  I   L  u           X        t    2se.O~~~~~~~~sq. m.
Oa           ea          ++       a
Street
I  I'"~-



MEXICO- SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Gross Domestic Product, By Sector of Origin
1965 and 1970-78
1965          1970         1971         1972          1973         1974         1975          1976       1977        1978
Value (billions of current Mex$)
Agriculture,Forestry & Fishing         36.5          47.4         48.5         52.9          67.8         83.4         " 9.9       128.6       176.6       220.4
Mining                                  3.3           5.6          5.2           5.6          7.0         10.3         10.7         13.8        21.3        23.4
Petroleum & Petrochemicals             9.1           13.3         13.3         14.9          15.7         25.3         31.3         37.4        64.1        83.4
Manufacturing                         52.4           94.7        104.2        118.6         141.0        188.4        227.1        289.8      405.7        511.7
Construction                           10.1          21.4         21.5         77.3          36.3         49.6         63.3         78.1        99.1       133.5
Electricity                             3.4           6.2          6.6           7.2          8.3          9.9         11.2         14.9       23.6         26.2
Commerce                               76.3         124.1        133.8        148.0         180.9        243.7        288.2        334.6      447.7        558.8
Transport & Communications              7.3          11.1         12.2         14.5          16.8         21.8         29.0         36.2       53.0         68.7
Government                            13.7           26.0         29.3         35.6         46.1          61.5         85.1        118.2      154.2        188.2
other Services                        39.9           68.9         77.8         87.7         99.7         118.9        142.4        176.4      229.4        290.1
Total GDP                      ?52.0         418.7        452.4        512.3         619.6        813.7        988.3      1,228.0   1,674.7    2,104.5
Shares (in percent of total)
Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing    14.4              11.3         10.7         10.3          11.0         10.4         10.1         10.5       10.6         10.4
Mining                                 i.3            1.3          1.1          1.1           1.1          1.3          1.1          1.1        1.3          1.1
Petroleum                              3.6            3.2          3.0          2.9           2.6          3.7          3.2          3.0        3.8          4.0
Manufacturing                         20.8           2?.6         23.0         23.2         22.8          23.6         23.0         23.6       24.2         24.3
Construction                           4.0            ".1          4.7          5.3           5.8          6.1          6.4          6.4        5.9          6.4
Electricity                            1.1            1.5          1.5          1.4           1.3          1.2          1.1          1.2        1.4         1.2
Commerce                              30.3           29.6         29.6         28.9         29.2          29.5         29.2         27.2       26.7        26.6
Transport & Communications             2.9            2.6          2.7          7.8          2.7           2.7          ?.9          3.0        3.2          3.3
Government                             5.5           6.2           6.5          6.9          7.4           7.5          8.6          9.6        9.2         8.9
other Services                        15.8          16.5          17.7         17.2         16.1          14.6         14.4         14.4       13.7        13.8
Total                          100.0         100.0        100.0        300.0         100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0      100.0        100.0
Source:  Bank of Mexico
LCPI2
March lORO



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Annual Rates of Growth of GDP by Sector of Origin
(Based on i960 Constant Prices)
(1970-79)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974      1975       1976       1977      1978       197%
Agricultural, Forestry
& Fishing                         5.0        2.0        0.3       2.2        2.8        0.7      - 3.0        2.7       3.1     - 0.4
Mining                              2.9        0.4      - 0.2       10.6      14.6      - 6.1        2.0        0.9    - 2.0         4.0
Petroleum & Petrochemicals          9.9        3.4        8.8        2.5      14.8        7.9       10.6       16.4      15.3       14.8
Manufacturing                       8.7        3.1        8.3        8.9       5.7        3.6        3.5        3.6       8.8        8.5
Construction                        4.8      - 2.6       17.6       15.8       5.9        5.9      - 1.9      - 2.0      13.3       12.0
Electricity                        11.3        8.0        8.9      11.0        9.4        5.8        7.4        8.5       9.0        9.0
Conmerce                            6.5        3.0        6.9        7.6       5.2        3.4      - 1.0        1.2       6.0        n.a.
Transport & Communication           7.8        7.5        9.9       11.6      11.9        8.9        5.0        6.1      10.2        n.a.
Government                          9.7        9.0       13.4       11.2       8.2       10.9        8.2        1.8       6.5        n.a.
Other                               5.1        4.9        5.6       5.0        3.4        2.8        1.6        2.2       3.0        n.a.
Adjustment for Banking Services   6.7          6.9        9.1       6.0        0.5        5.8        4.8        0.0       8.0        n.a.
Total GDP                     6.9        3.4       7.3        7.6        5.9        4.1        2.1        2.3      7.0        n.a.
1/ Prelimiinary esti..mates.
Source: Bank of Mexico
LCPI2
March 1980
a..



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Manufacturing Sector, Structure of Value Added, 1970-78
(Based on Current Pesos)
1970         1971          1972          1973          1974          1975          1976         1977           1978
Value (millions of current Mex$)
Food, Beverages & Tobacco            70,397        77,548        83,914        98,761       126,933       157,014       199,689      276,643       322,288
Textiles                             17,122        18,356        20,146        25,016        30,823        33,008        40,425       55,595        61,581
Clothing, Shoes                      19,987        22,779        26,301        33,735        40,403        47,979        60,428       86,871       108,997
Wood                                  3,987         4,071         4,071         4,713         6,216         7,720         9,449       13,455        17,249
Paper                                 6,503         6,847         7,804         9,358        14,243        15,439        20,287       27,428        35,108
Printing & Publishing                 4,813         4,896         5,544         6,011         9,083        11,753        15,784       20,964        25,826
Leather & Leather Products            2,963         3,083         5,532         4,417         5,247         5,284         7,857       12,952        17,055
Rubber Products                       2,693         2,906         3,189         3,862         4,654         5,548         6,985        7,635        11,124
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals          22,305        24,323        27,809        33,007        42,800        51,034        64,293       87,808       102,183
Non-metallic Minerals                 8,641         9,422        11,391        14,341        18,443        23,446        30,053       41,383        53,425
Basic Metals                         14,280        14,474        16,380        18,661        30,753        35,181        42,886       60,832        83,999   1
Engineering Products                 40,334        41,834        48,134        60,129        80,729        99,826       120,555      164,937       230,481  -
Others                                4,364         4,419         5,342         6,786         8,359         8,509        10,380       15,856        19,932
Total                          218,389       234,958       263,557       318,797      418,686       501,741        629,071      872,359    1,089,248
Shares (in percent of total)
Food, Beverages & Tobacco              32.2          33.0          31.8          31.0          30.3          31.3          31.7         31.7          29.6
Textiles                                7.8           7.8           7.6           7.8           7.4           6.6           6.4          6.4           5.7
Clothing, Shoes                         9.2           9.7          10.0          10.6           9.6           9.6           9.6         10.0          10.0
Wood                                    1.8           1.7           1.5           1.5           1.5           1.5           1.5          1.5           1.6
Paper                                   3.0           2.9           3.0           2.9           3.4           3.1           3.2          3.1           3.2
Printing & Publishing                   2.2           2.1           2.1           1.9           2.2           2.3           2.5          2.4           2.4
Leather & Leather Products              1.4           1.3           1.3           1.4           1.3           1.1           1.2          1.5           1.6
Rubber Products                         1.2           1.2           1.2           1.2           1.1           1.1           1.1          0.9           1.0
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals            10.2          10.4          10.6          10.4          10.2          10.2          10.2         10.1           9.4
Non-metallic Minerals                   4.0           4.0           4.3           4.5           4.4           4.7           4.8          4.7           4.9
Basic Metals                            6.6           6.2           6.2           5.9           7.3           7.0           6.8          7.0           7.7
Engineering Products                   18.5          17.8          18.3          18.9          19.3          19.9          19.2         18.9          21.2
Others                                  2.0           1.9           2.0           2.1           2.0           1.7           1.7          1.8           1.8
Total                           100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0        100.0         100.0          100.0        100.0         100.0
Source: Banco of Mexico    G Gross domestic product and expenditure, 1970-78.                                                                                  t 
LCPI2
March 1980



ME"ICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVTELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4:  Indices of Industrial Production, 1970-79
(1970 = 100)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977        1978       197924
GENERAL, -                           100      102.1      112.4      123.8      132.8      139.1      142.9     147.8      162.6       175.5
Manufacturing                     100      102.9      112.5      123.2      131.4      136.9      140.7      145.7      158.9       172.6
Sugar                              100     102.8      108.0      115.4      119.3      109.8      115.0      120.0      129.8       140.0
Beer                               100      87.2      102.4      119.9      135.4      136.0      132.7      148.9      156.2       175.4
Beverages                          100      86.2       94.8      104.9      102.0      122.6      118.4      133.9      148.5       170.2
Tobacco                            100       99.4     104.8       94.9      105.2      103.3      102.9      114.4      116.6       125.3
Textiles                           100      127.8     159.9      205.2      215.7      237.5      133.0      140.8      143.1       152.6
Printing                           100     103.7      113.9      104.0       92.4      111.6
Tires                              100     110.5      124.1      130.8      136.5      151.2      180.3      162.8      200.6       200.9
Fertilizers                        100      113.6      135.8      147.8     151.5      155.9       160.6     172.5      158.9       156.5   I
Chemicals                          100     108.4      114.1      127.8      142.4      134.7      141.9      153.9      145.6       133.5  .
Artificial Fibers                  100     125.5      153.0      184.3      194.7      222.9      242.3      261.1      279.5       307.7
Cement                             100     102.6      119.8      136.3      147.5      161.7      174.4      181.1      192.3       204.4
Iron                              100      104.5      118.8      123.0      142.6      131.3      152.2      186.8      224.6      219.8
Steel                              100      99.4      115.2      122.6      133.6      136.9      137.9      145.8      175.6       184.7
Copper                             100     109.1      117.0      113.1      135.7      128.0      149.1      139.8      150.3       171.8
Automobiles                        100     112.0      115.1      140.3      172.0      166.1      150.7      139.1      176.56      203.2
Trtcks                             100     102.3      120.3      151.0      187.2      231.3      193.1      157.7      225.5       284.2
Petroleum and Related Industries  100        102.4      108.6      110.1      126.1      140.1       153.5     174.0      200.3       227.4
Petrochenicals                       100      109.4      128.1      143.8     169.6       177.4      192.8     185.1      218.5       244.4
Mining                               100       96.7      101.2      107.7      119.2      112.       119.4      120.3     122.9       125.5
Electricity                          100      109.8      121.4      131.7     145.6      156.7       169.2     183.6      200.1       215.0
Construction                         100       97.4      113.9      133.9      142.0      150.4      147.5     144.5      163.7       185.6
1/  The general Index represents 60% of total industrial production in 1970 with the following (laspeyres)
fixed weights:  Manufactures (72.3%), Petroleum (6.6%), Petrochemicals (0.6%), Mining 3.2%),
Electricity (2.6%), Construction (14.7%).
2/  January-October
Source: Bank of Mexico, "Production and Sales of Industrial Sector"
LCPI2, March 1980



ANNEX 6
- 74 -                                       T-5
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5:  Indices of Employment in Manufacturin6, 1970-78
Index                    Annual rate
1970=100
1970                                    100.0
1971                                    100.4                         0.4
1972                                    103.3                         2.9
1973                                    108.1                         4.6
1974                                    115.1                         6.5
1975                                    118.1                         2.6
1976                                    120.7                         2.2
1977                                    119.7                        -0.8
1978                                     125.3                        4.7
1978  (January-October)                 124.6                          -
1979  (January-October)                 134.2                         7.7
Source:   Bank of Mexico - Production and Sales of Industrial Sector, p. 54.
LCPI2
March IJRn



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6: Gross Fixed Investment
(In Mex$ million )
PRIVATE
TOTAL             Public                                TOTAL                     % Total
1970         82,300              29,205                               53,095                       64.5
1971         81,600              22,328                               59,222                       72.6
1972         97,800              33,298                               64,502                       66.0
1973        126,400             49,838                                76,562                       60.6
1974        173,400             64,817                               108,783                       62,7
1975        221,700              95,767                              125,933                       56.8
1976        267,600             108,611                              158,989                       59.4
1977        339,100             153,800                              185,300                       54.6
1978        471,800            221,700                               250,000                       53.0
1979(Prov.) 645,000             n.a.                                  n.a.                         n.a.
1980(Est.)  722,400             n.a.                                  n.a.                         n.a.
Source: Bank of Mexico (1970-1978); mission estimate for 1979 and 1980, based on data from Confederaci6n de Camara
Industriales (CONCAMIN) and BANAMEX.
LCPI2
March 1980                                                                                                                     a



ANNEX 6
- 76 -                                    T-7
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7: Number of Industrial Establishments, Employment and Value Added by Manufacture,
According to the Number of Employees, 1970 and 1975 a/
1970
Establishments   Employment          Value added      Invested Capital
Number    7O   Number    7.   VI$ Million   7e   M$ Million    %
Less than small (Up to 5):
Unremunerated                57,568  48.0    91,963  5.8        674        0.8       742      0.4
Remunerated                  39,222  32.7   1.07.026  6.8   2,069          2.5    2,181        1.4
Total                   96,790  80.7   198,979 12.6   2,743           3.3    2,903       1.8
Small: 6-50                      17,820  14.9   291,832 18.5  10,598.         12.9   18,571       11.9
Medium: 51-250                    4,288   3.6   459,992 29.0  24,340          29.5   47,660       30.5
M4ore than 250                    1,065   0.9   630,444 39.9  44,700          54.3   87,263       55.8
Total                 119,963 100.0 1,581,247 100.0 89 381         100.0  156 417    100.0
1975
Establishments Employment         Value Added        Invested Capital
Number    h    Number    .   M$ Million    %    MS Miillion    %
Less than small (Up to 5):
Unremunerated               62,666   52.6   102,044   6.0    1,799    1.0           1,427      0.5
Remunerated                 33,459   28.0    89,519   5.2    3,53         1.9       2,606      1.0
Total                  96,125   80.6   191,563  11.,    5,332    2.9          4,033      1.5
Small: 6-50                     17,525   14.7   277,244  16.2   19,772   10.8          23,551      9.0
Medium: 51-250                    4,347    3.7   462,78i  27.1   49,021    26.8        65,271    24.9
More than 250                     ],215    1.0   776,331  45.5  108,700   59.5    169,337    64.6
Total                 19,2]J2  100.0 1 7(',9 q l00.0  182,833  100.0         62 192   100.0
1/ Includes mining
Source: Industrial Censuses 1970 and 1975
LCPI2
March 1980



E o~~~~ 1~ o1    z    w e t O' z 'f.6_ St e'f    CO                           H  H
ot                     ft _t f    t      ~       r   eO  wS_F3ft  *         
_  w  o se b n 3 Qe s~1a Of   '2t f t I"
s.t s          ft a     - >                   -                 ft 0'                ft O
ft  fti fti                  - _    t                         ft   ft  a_l
Of               OIf                                      f  _tf  t00   _W   0I
' Af             b1  'ft~@~        0f  O'f      ft    =     sa  5   -   &
r W _  r o o_ X M_ c vcX W _  > o 
S b                                                                      W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iLX~~~~ H' ~oXt~S        troa8t9
o 11N w_ w_ ~Oat at_  ~o _o. ot o _s 
_C                                 aao -a            H         C wa     CDWsWo    D5HP          . O
|| t|IototoH                              w  to  HtH H   -    o, ~'              t0w> 1 g lWo
ft  I-O t-@-    ft    --            -     t            ft-g-  Ct  .g               .-[. 
1 a   ..'-oaan               9   vOf-o t>o - ao a t  0g aHaa3ft
-       Baa- 
atto               t'o            aa H> g.' Q                 asrw            rr_ > D ~ ~ ,ol|t    
to~~ ~                      ~ i-''- 't                      WOW
|H    a    HO                           O O H           as        a -                  a     A >          
**0*OH                                             H cH'O   toO               IO C;,z      ewsO t6       Iw>M
|I I2~ s  tw                                                               s    pft                   IA   .......... >      oN > X8SXw$ |
11@   ~-    > r       -r                             -  '-    :2' r-    to    ~~B
I                                H. I-        H                      tO    *ftW.,  C~        SC$i            I   -
II   to       t    a    t     Ha        t          Ht         t t                 I        I
|      '  I lts     C    ft'ft'Ct'rC  ar         HHtO'H,             oaCrartftft
1l Ow loz     g  S    S'   S  t w  @  H oHO    o    9  t  _      9      t1  72
H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0;   -   -g-ooc'   ov.S  o E* 
11 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~t                                               ''f_wgtw~S-_w    c9>sos c   @s   c= 
9 niiin   11 ^  k  >  -  t    Vs   9  g  _  -  g  0> s   rs   rS >  wO 0  3< S   S~~~~to j  '



XCO   S SECOND SaiLa AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTSY DEVELoPKEIT PROJECT
Table 9:  Exports of Msnufactursd Good  by Sector: 1972-1979  /
In thousands of US dollars and pere-tanag
1972           1973            1974            1975           1976            1977            1978             1979        1972-1979          1976-1979
Proceased Foods and Beverages                     171,265         218,147        343,836        228,561         127,265        163,839          163,508          197,255        .  2.0              * 15.7
Of which: Canned Abalone                        4,562          4,670           8,120          6,760          8,822          10,565            9,553           9,310         * 10.7              +  1.7
Ena-ted Coffee Beans                   -           10,520           6,514          8,419         20,265          26,203          17,150           15,950            -                -7.7
Frozen Strab-rriee ./ougar          16,581         29,025          35,714         21,511         18,849          29,011           22,684          37,909         o 12.5              + 26.4
Canned Pineapple                     5,340          5,090           8,190          6,908          10,516         13,836           16,264          13,099         . 13.6              *  7.5
Canned Vegetables                   23,190         33,153          38,322         23,042         29,924          51,388           60,638          63,835         * 15.5              + 28.5
Sugar                              102,066        114,646         192,011        117,606           -               -                -             23,646         - 18.7                 -
Tequila                              8,648         12,988          19,625         14,623         15,575          14,938           20,086          19,325         t 12.1              *  7.4
Holeesee                            10,878          8,055          35, 349        29,692         23,314          17,898           17,110          14,181         t  3.8              - 15.2
Textile., Clothing, Leather & Footwear              77,669        167,657        267,891        141,144         156,207        150,252          155,383          180,808        * 12.8              4  4.8
Of which: Footwear 4 Cosponentt                10,221 bj      13,700 b/       19,502 k/      12,718          11,952         13,641           26,673          35,037         + 19.2              + 30.8
Cotton Yarn                         10,866         27,177          46,193         24,893         27,058          29,311           27,429          29,533         t 15.3              -  2.9
Synthetic Fiber Yarn                 7,510          9,790          11,000          7,032          8,628          10,151          13,836           14,646        * 15.6               + 19.1
enrequen Yarn Products              26,534         41,164          73,650         31,271         35,231          36,495           35,726          43,958         +  7.5              *  7.6
Hides 4 Skins                         b/             hl              b/            1,946           1,750          6,468            7,477           9,077            -                0 72.0
Clothing 4 Textiles                  6,937         23,434          41,779         22,312         25,074          22,615           26,208          32,520         a 24.7              *  8.9
Cotton Fabrics                      13,603         43,831          57,525         40,972         46,514          31,571           18,034          16,037         o  2.3              - 30.1
Chemicals 6 Pharmceutical                         102,381         152,317        261,113         204,204        227,735        235,736          311,947          450,467        + 23.6              + 25.5
Of which: Liquid Ahonia                          -              -               -            14,404         13,027           1,254           50,535          78,816            -                + 82.0
Lead Oxide                          10,552         16,104         25,058          11,517         15,477          22,433          26,101           39,591        * 20.7              * 36.8
Tanning Products 6 Dyes              2,310          3,540           8,180          7,275          9,507          16,618          20,039           29,520         *  3.6              a 45.8
Essential  II  Lime)                 4,068          5,432           7,526          6,605          5,076          11,838          13,382           20,120        + 25.5               + 58.2
Fertilizer.                          7,614 d/       8,454 4/       16,444 4/       1,531          2,096           4,611            1,557          12,449        a  7.2               + 79.0
Ph.reaceotLcale                      9,625         14,827          20,750         14,166         15,321          23,809          29,092           29,096         + 17.2              . 24.1
Hormones                            17,330         29,792          35,809         3C,090         20,199          21,266            6,232           4,681         - 16.8              - 38.0
Maiec Ms tel Producte                              72,705          L295           8              3802           L!!           583652           68 497          65,692         -  1.5              + 16.1
Of which: Steel tubing & Pieccs                15,211         1,l180          40,422         36,009          31,926         34,199           33,776          36,646         + 13.3              -  4.5
Structural Steel                    11,141 c/      10.254 c/      14,735           1,714          6,621          17,388          23,224           17,853        *  6.9              + 28.0
Machinery 4 Equipment, Except Tranaport           164,160          79,960        144,630        184,491         203,183        292,602          319,078         290,013         a  8.5              a 12.5
Transport VehIclea & Equipment                     48,983         107,243        128,194         85,336          46,941        187,593          273,867         307,345         . 29.2              + 86.6
Of which: loude Vehicles                        1,615          4,291           6,929          4,466          3,452          17,780          30,808           24,210        o 47.2              + 91.3
Passenger Vehicles                   2,772         35,368         36,467           3,780          6,171          11,566          56,408           93,046        + 64.0              +179.0
Bodice & Space parto for
v-hicie                        44,596          67,584         84,798          75,085         36,203        151,590          182,339          188,615        * 22.7              0 72.0
Mschanieed fL-hing boats              --                             -             2,005          1,115           6,657           4,313            1,474            -               *  9.7
Other Manufactured Products                       287,087           ,38          205,498        305,127         387,606        555,912          962,247       1,032,143         + 20.0              . 38.6
Of which: Csemct                                 -             3,280          4,310           6,845         14,392         43,429           34,496           20,407            -               o 12.3
Glee, 6 GI... products              18,329         21.566         26.190          25,901         36,519         50,229           52,323           47,493        c 14.5              c  9.1
ilss 4 Mlostiet                      5,793          6,945           6,345          2,440          9,144           2 ,358          2,943            2,203        - 12.9              a 60.1
B.oka                               12,782          7,952         24,074          22,986         27,174         38,715           39,793          44,838         * 19,6              o 18.1
Wood Furniture                       5,567          7,779         12,062           1,764          1,377           2,866           6,201            8,839        a  6.8              * 86.0
Other Wood Products, Wood
6 Cork                         14,082          15,308         22,785         23,204          32,934         44,433           61,811          57,814         * 22.3              o 20.7
a/ el
Total Manu-ctuced Goods, includin. ctlhrtr  677,019              959,669      1,434,336      1,186,935       1,190.818      1,644,586       2,234,884        2,431,990         * 20.0              c 26.8
Pe-ecntage Ch-c8  fto Prec
Percentage Change from Preceding Ye-r          * 24.3         i 41.7         o 49.5          - 20.8         a  0.3          * 38.1          + 35.9           c  8.8           -
a/ Eo.loding pecrtcheeicaln .ed offshore ..seobly  nduatriss.'
b/ Fuoctear, leathes and hides grouped tugech r. 
c/ Including c-rrucgted iron.
d/ Triple naperphoaphate.
e/ Eecluding frozen shrimp *nd fresh and frozen seat.
Source:  Manmo de MexIco, 18RD stff ecieotss.
LCP12
March 1980



ANNEX 6
T-10
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 10: Composition of Imports, 1977-79
(Millions current US$, percentages)
1977                    1978                  1979
Value         %         Value        %         Value          %
TOTAL                         5,889.8    100.0       8,139.6    100.0       10,614.1    100.0
=  =                                -
For final use, mainly consumption    320.2           5.4        472.8       5.8         658.0        6.2
Private Sector                       251.4       4.3         381.1       4.7         529.4       5.0
Public Sector                         68.8       1.1          91.7       1.1         128.6       1.2
Intermediate Goods                    3,698.4       62.8      5,184.2      63.7       6,437.8      60.7
Private Sector                     2,249.5      38.2      3,039.2       37.3       4,177.4      39.4
Public Sector                      1,448.9      24.6      2,145.0       26.4       2,260.4      21.3
Capital Goods                         1,871.1       31.8      2,482.6      30.5       3,518.4      33.1
Private Sector                     3,658.9      62.1      5,063.4       62.2       7,115.9      67.0
Public Sector                      2,230.9      37.9      3,076.2       37.8       3,498.2      33.0
Total Private Sector
Total Public Sector
a/ January-November only.
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
March 1980



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table  11:   Summary  of Principal  Fiscal  Incentives  for  Industrial  Investmen
Priority  Sectors                                                      All Industrial Activities
Geographic Location                                                                                       Other           Purchase  of         Employment Generated
of Investment         Small Enterprises b/   Activity Category 1 c/  Activity Category 2 d/  Industries                Local Equipment    by Additional Shifts
Zone I
Preferential              25% lavestment           20% Investment             15% Investment             -                   5%20  Additional
20% Employment             20% Employment            -                                         Employment
Zone II
State Priorities          25% Investment           20% Investment             10% Investment             -                   5%               20% Additional
20% Employment             20% Employment            -                                         Employment
Rest of the Country         25% Investment e/         20% Investment             10% Investment e/         -                   5%               20% Additional
20% Employment             20% Employment e/                                                   Employment
Zone III                                                                                                                                                              0
A. Controlled growth                                         -                                   -                            5%                      -              0
B. Consolidated growth   25% Investment e/           20% Investment e/          10% Investment e/         -                   5%               20% Additional        I
20% Employment e/          20% Employment e/                                                   Employment
a/ Geographic zones are defined in the decree published in Diario Oficial, February 2, 1979.  Fiscal credits can be used for the payment
of any federal tax which is not im,)osed for a specific use.  The percentages shown in the table for investment are applied to the total
value of construction and installations and the purchase of new machinery and equipment directly related to the production process; it
is granted at the time of undertaking of the expenditure.  In the case of employment, the percentage is applied for a period of two years
on the new employment valued at the annual minimum wage.
b/ Enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding 200 times the annual minimum salary in the Federal District.
c/ Includes agroindustries, capital goods producing industries and strategic inputs for the industrial sector (e.g. steel, cement)
d/ Includes non-durable consumer goods, durable consumer goods and intermediate products specified in decree published in Diario Oficial,
March 9, 1979.
e/ Applied only to expansions of productive capacity in the same industrial activity.
Source:  Secretaria de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial, Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial, 1979-1982 (Mexico, 1979) p. 181.
(D X
LCPI2
March  1980



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 12: Regional Distribution of Industrial Activities, a/ 1970-1975
1 9 7 0                                             1 9 7 5
Total Employment           Value Added              Total Employment           Value Added
States or Districts    Months         %       Mex$ millions    %             Months       %       Mex$ millions         %
Total                      1,581,247   100.0        82,383         100.0        1,707,919   100.0        182,831          100.0
Federal District          492,281    31.1        27,554          33.4          493,993    28.9         55,779           30.5
Valle de Mexico           229,336    14.5         15,742         19.1          273,937      16.0       36,246           19.8
Sub total           721,617    45.6        43,296         52.5           767,930    44.9        92,025           50.3
Nueva Leon                125,771      8.0        8,664          10.5           135,944      8.0       20,044           11.0
Jalisco                    97,119      6.1        4,585           5.6          116,070       6.8       11,590            6.3
Coahuila                   52,397      3.3        3,253           3.9           66.418       3.9        8,012            4.4
Vera Cruz                  62,475      4.0         3,074          3.7            66,146      3.9        7,456            4.1
Puebla                     58,372      3.7        2,630           3.2           65,087       3.8        6,403            3.5
Chihuahua                  40,059      2.5        2,211           2.7           54,467       3.2        4,968            2.7
Hidalgo                    27,296      1.7         1,291          1.6            32,749      1.9        3,562            1.9
Baja California            31,443      2.0         1,502          1.8            31,095      1.8        3,139            1.7
Sub total          466,932    29.6         27,210         33.0           569,976    30.4        65,174           35.7
Other States              392,698    24.8        11,877          14.4          421,013    24.7         25,632           14.0
a/ Includes mining and manufacturing, all establishments.
Source: Industrial Censuses for 1970 and 1975.
LCPI2
March 1980
-z
XI
fr



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 13:   Liabilities of the Banking System by type of Institution
and Instrument
(Mex$ millions)
1976 a/                 1977 a/               1978- /_   1979_-/
Banco de Mexico               98,477       16.5      107,811    14.1      126,604        13.1       128,312       11.2
National Banks               200,752       33.5      252,508    33.0       290,993       30.0       349,641       30.4
Demand deposits              2,285        0.4        3,307      0.4       4,730         0.5         6,191        0.5
Bonds                       24,201        4.0       25,689      3.4      33,031         3.4        32,550        2.8
Promisory notes                600        0.1        1,721      0.2      13,467         1.4        20,206        1.7
Certificates of deposit   11,847          2.0       19,091     2.5       18,518        1.9        19,246         1.7
Time deposits b/              -            -         1,400      0.2       7,334        0.7         14,124        1.2
Foreign bank loans         129,380       21.6      146,129    19.1      148,144        15.3       182,524       15.9
Other                       26,006        4.3      48,924      6.4       59,496        6.2        66,240         5.9
Capital                      6,433        1.1        6,247     0.8        6,273        0.6          8,560        0.7
Private and Mixed Banks    299,146         50.0      403,496    52.8      552,270       57.0       670,599        58.4
Demand deposits             81,319       13.6      112,404    14.7      151,455       15.6       164,124        14.3
Savings                     28,979        4.8       42,842     5.6       53,297        5.5        61,926         5.4
Bonds c/                    50,257        8.4       41,583      5.4      16,022        1.6            665        0.1
Promisory notes             68,045       11.3       79,535    10.4      132,142       13.6       166,475        14.5
Certificates of deposit   38,969          6.5      81,160    10.6       119,480       12.3       162,163        14.1
Time deposits b/              -            -         3,863      0.5      24,978        2.6        54,313         4.7
Foreign bank loans           6,790        1.1        9,680      1.3      14,371        1.5        14,239         1.2
Other                       18,366        3.2      22,236      3.0       28,127        3.0        32,511         2.9
Capital                      6,421        1.1      10,193      1.3       12,398        1.3        14,183         1.2
Total             598,375      100.0      763,815   100.0      969,867       100.0    1,148,552       100.0
a/ On December 30.
h/ Time deposits which may be withdrawn on predetermined days (one and two days per week and one day per month).
c/ Financial and mortgage bonds.
d/ On September 30.
SOURCE: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
March 1980
Lo 1



- 83 -                              ANNEX 6
T-14
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 14: Mexico's Largest Banks (October 31, 1979)
Bank                                       Assets                  %
(Mex$ millions)
Bancomer                                  191,872                 23.9
Grupo Banamex                             184,358                 23.0
Grupo Serfin                               79,156                  9.8
Grupo Somex Mexicano                       71,777                  8.9
Grupo Comermex                             63,437                  7.9
Grupo Internacional                        35,926                  4.5
Grupo Banpais                              18,351                  2.3
Banco BCH                                  17,397                  2.2
Grupo del Atlantico                        17,057                  2.1
Banca Cremi                                16,974                  2.1
Grupo Confia                               11,556                  1.4
Other                                      95'475                 11.9
TQtal                        803,336                100.0
SOURCE. Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Seguros
LCPT2
March 19180



- 84 -                              ANNEX 6
T-15
MEXTCO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDnTM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 15: Indicators of Financial Development and Efficiency
of the Banking System
Non-monetary           Total income        Costs of financial
liabilities as         as % of             intermediation as
Year               as percentage of GDP  deposits             percentage of deposits
1971                    40                    14.3                      5.3
1972                    40                    13.1                      4.7
1973                    39                    12.7                      4.5
1974                    35                    13.6                      4.9
1975                    36                    14.5                      5.1
1976                    36                    15.0                      5.4
1977                    34                    15.4                      5.9
1978                    34                    15.6                      5.3
1979                    34                    18.2                      6.3
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCP12
March 1980



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
T-16
MEXICC - SECOND S?4ill. ANT' MEDITM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 16: Trust Funds Financing
Outstanding Balances on September 30, 1979
(Millions of Mex$)
National         Private & Mixed           Credit
Total           Banks               Banks                Unions
FOGAIN           4,247.8          104.2                3,769.5             374.1
FIRA            23,122.5       5,058.2               18,064.3                 -
FOMEX           11,964.6          419.5              11,541.1                 -
FONEI            2,995.8           -                  2,995.8                 -
FOVI                91.2           -                      91.2                -
FONATUR          3,142.9           97.9               3,045.0                 -
Total         45,564.8       5,679.8               39,510.9              374.1
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCIT,2
Ntch l238Q



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 10: Geographical Distribution of Deposits and Credit
June 1979                                     Dec. 1978
Private and Mixed Banks                              Total                  Total
State                         CREDIT                    DEPOSITS                 CREDIT                    DEPOSITS
Billions Mex$    %         Billions Mex$    %      Billions Mex$    %       Billions Mex$    %
Distrito Federal               161.7         39.7          300.3        49.2        400.5       50.5       348.8         53.4
Nuevo Leon                      35.3          8.7           40.7         6.7         45.8        5.8        40.0          6.1
Jalisco                         27.0          6.6           40.6         6.6         39.4        5.0        29.0          4.4
Mexico                           22.7         5.6           5.3          0.9          27.6       3.5        23.8          3.6
Sonora                          15.9          3.9           19.3         3.2         29.1        3.7        21.6          3.3
Chihuahua                       14.9          3.7           16.7         2.7         17.0        2.1        12.7          1.9   I
Sinaloa                         14.1          3.5           12.1         2.0         24.6        3.1        18.3          2.8  X
Veracruz                         13.6         3.3           20.3         3.3          19.0       2.4        13.4          2.1
Tamaulipas                      12.2          3.0           18.3         3.0         15.5        1.9        11.5          1.8
Baja California N.              11.7          2.9           20.8         3.4         15.6        2.0        12.6          1.9
Guanajuato                      11.0          2.7           14.9         2.4         13.8        1.7        10.4          1.6
Coahuila                         9.7          2.4           15.7         2.6         21.8        2.8        16.6          2.5
Other states                    57.1         14.0           85.6        14.0        122.5       15.5        94.5         14.5
Total                    406.9        100.0          610.6      100.0         792.2      100.0      653.2        100.0
SOURCE: Banco de Mexico
0'
LCPI2
March 1980



- 87 -                                 ANNEX 6
T-18
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 18: Lending Terms, 1978-79
Private &
TOTAL          mixed banks       National Banks
1978    1979      1978    1979       1978    1979
30 days                    -      0.1       -        -          -      -
90 days                   8.7    12.0      5.9      12.2       11.0   12.1
180 days                  22.8    24.2    37.1       36.0       11.7   13.3
360 days                  26.7    17.7    17.9        6.0       34.6   29.4
More than 360 days        41.8    46.0    39.0       45.8       42.7   45.2
Total         100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0        100.0  100.0
SOURCE: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
March 1980



MEXICo - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 19: Selected Rates of Interest in Mexico, USA, and London Interbank Rates
1978                                                      1979                                   1980
II           III            IV               I             II           III             IV            February
Gross  Net   Gross   Net   Gross   Net   Gross   Net    Gross   Net   Gross   Net   Gross   Net   Gross   Net    Gross   Net
Mexico
a/
Time Deposits
1 day a week                          7.3  5.8   7.3      5.8     9.5   7.5    11.7   8.8       12.0    9.5   12.0    9.5   14.5   11.5   15.8   12.5
1 day a month                        10.1  8.0  10.1      8.0    10.7   8.5    12.9  10.2       13.9   11.0   13.9   11.0   15.9   12.6   19.6   15.5
Certificates of Deposits
3 months                            13.5 11.0  13.5    11.0    13.5  11.0    14.?  11.7        14.5   12.0   14.5   12.0   16.6   13.7   19.3   16.7
12 months                            17.5 15.0  17.5    15.0    17.5  15.0    17.5  15.0        17.5   15.0   17.5   15.0   17.5   15.0   18.5   16.0   23.0   20.5
24 months                            18.5 16.0  18.5    16.0    18.5  16.0    18.5  16.0        18.5   16.0   18.5   16.0   18.5   16.0   19.5   17.0   24.5   22e0 e/
CETES hI                              9.7         9.7             10.5          12.2            13.9           14.4          15.6           17.9           18.1
USA                         c/
Certificates of Deposit
3 months                             6.5         7.1             7.9            9.7             9.5           9.3           11'.3          13.0
12 months                             7.?         7.7             8.5           10.3            10.5           9.3           10.8           11.6
London
Eurodollar Deposits
"Call Money"                           6.8         7.3             8.1            9.6            10.2          10.4           11.5           13.4
3 months                             7.2         7.8             8.7           1 .0            10.6          10.5           12.6           14.5
12 months                             7.8         8.4             9.2           11.2            10.7          10.2           12.1           12.9
24 months                             8.1         8.4             9.0            9.9            10.1           9.6           10.6           11.8
Rate of Inflation in Mexico            17.7        17.6             16.4          16.2            18.0           17.8          17.9           17.8
a/ Withdrawable on specific days.
b/ Mexican Treasury Certificates.
c/ US$100,000 minimum.
d/ After tax.
ea kstimate of free-market rate.
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2                                                                                                                                                                     Ah
March 1980



MEXICO -SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 20: Banking System Credit by Sectors, 1976-79
(Outstanding balances as of September 30)
sect-or                           1979                   1978                       1977                       1976
Millions 2'exC    Mi ii'lions Mex$    %           Millions liex$    %       Miillions Mex$      %
Primary                                     '19,613       15.1        86,697       14.?        70,?90       13.2        49,784          12.7
InduFtry                                    281,707       35.5       237,898       38.9       189,570       36.6      150,136          38.3
r.nergy                                   36,774       4.6         29,292        4.8       25,029         4.7       19,208           4.9
Nanufacturin6                            12,142      16.7        106,530       17.4       92,123        17.3       65,856          16.8
Non-metallic minerals                      h,375         .8         4,941          .8        3,728         .7         3,136            .8
Mineral products                          29,171        4.9        40,560        6.6        32,482        6.1        22,344           5.7
Electricity                               13,91f6       1.7        10,375        1.7         7,987        1.5        6,664           1.7
Construkction                            r53,788        6.8        46,200         7.5       38,872        7.3        32,928          8.4
liousing                                      2, ,300      3.3        ?3,148         3.8       18,637         3.s        9,016           2.3
oervices                                    132,958       i 6.81      9;,402        ]5.6       8L,135        15.8       68,208          17.4
Commercial                                  123,03.3      l5.8        8',827        13.7       08,60?       12.9        48,216          i2.3
Government                                  103,562       13.0        84.230        1 .8 935,85             13.0        66,640          17.0
TOTAL                                 7 9'38    100.0         611,202       100.0      L3_ 5^,5      100.0      392,000         100.0
Sill                                         '0, 427       1.8        20,41/         3.3        9,n9'        1.8         5,880           1.5
FUGAIN, (.s  of SMI)                         4,247    (14.0)          3,515      (17.2)        2,66C'    (U995)         1,882         (32.0)
ISource: Banco de Hexico
LCPI2
March 1980



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 21: Organization Chart of FOGAIN and PAI Secretariat
Program                                            Technical
Coordinating    .Committee -
Committee-PAI             .            .FOGAIN
Director General-FOGAIN
and Technical Secretary-PAI
_                                 | ~~~~~~~~~~FOGAIN l
Marc 1980
Advdvisersle l
Economic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Studies. 
| Deputy Director   ll Deputy Director 
{       ~~PAI        llFOGAINl
|Operations XITechnical ||Promotion|   Regona                          Operations ||Finance  ||Administration  |Datal
l Assistance                   Offices                                                                 Processing 
l                 l           .            ] .             l                i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and Systems|
LCPI2 
March 1980                                                                              



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                   T-22
Table 22    Existing and Planned Regional Offices of PAI as of Year-erld 1979
Total No.
Potential for                   No. of ex-             of extension
Number of      creation of                     tension officers        officers by
Regional                   existing       new SMI             Total       presently               year-end
priority       Points      industries    enterprises          points      assigned                1980
(zone)                      (points)      (points)
Existing
1.   Mexico City                                Headquarters              -                -                -               8                       8
2.   Torreon                                  lb             5            4                1                 10             3                       5
3.   Leon                                     Ib             5            4                1                 10             2                       4
4.   Aguascalientes                           Ib             5            3                1                  9             2                       3
5.   San Luis Potosi                          Ib             5            3                1                  9             1                       3
6.   Tijuana                                  lb             5            3                1                  9             2                       3
7.   Monterrey                                Other          3            4                1                  8             7                       7
8.   Tampico                                  Ia             5            2                1                  8             1                       3
9.   Guadalajara                              Other          3            4                1                  8             6                       7
10.  Morelia                                  II             4            3                1                  8             1                       3
11.  Veracruz                                 Ib             5            2                1                  8             2                       3
12.  Villahermosa                             Ib             5            2                1                  8             2                       5
13.  Puebla                                   Illb           2            4                1                  7             2                       4
14.  Hermosillo                               II             4            2                1                  7             1                       3
Planned for 19tO
15.  Reynosa                                  Tb             5            4                1                 10             -                       3
16.  Chihuahua                                Ib             5            3                1                  9             -                       3
17.  Ciudad Juarez                            lb             5            3                1                  9             -                       3
18.  Queretaro                               Ib              5            3                1                 9              -                       2
19.  Merida                                   lb             5            4                0                  9             -                       3
20.  Mexicali                                 Ib             5            2                1                  8             -                       2
21.  Culiacan                                 lb             5            2                1                  8             -                       2
22.  Mazatlan                                 Ib             5            2                1                  8             -                       2
23.  Irapuato                                 Tb
Ciudac Obregon                          II                          .
Durango                                 I-
26.  Mat:zanillo                              lb             '1                            1-
Other Areas Considered
27.  Monclova                                 Ib             5            1                1                  7             -
28.  Piedras Negras                           Ib             5            1                1                  7             -
29.  Celaya                                   lb             5            1                1                  7             -
30.  Los Mochis                               Tb             5            1                1                  7             -
31.  Jalapa                                  II              4            2                1                  7             -
32.  Poza Rica                                Ib             5            1                1                  7             -
33.  Cordoba-Orizaba                          II             4            2                1                  7             -
34.  Nogales                                  Ib             5            1                1                  7             -
35.  Oaxaca                                   Tb             5            2                0                  7             -
36.  Saltillo                                 II             4            2                1                  7             -
37.  Ensenada                                 lb             5            1                0                  6             -
38.  Zacatecas                                Ib             5            1                0                  6             -
39.  Lazaro Cardenas                          Ia             5            1                0                  6             -
40.  Coatzacoalcos                            Ia             5            1                0                  6             -
41.  Tuxtla Gutierrez                         Ib             5            1                0                  6             -
42.  Campeche                                 Ib             5            1                0                  6             -
43.  Salina Cruz                              Ia             5            1                0                  6             -
44.  Cuernavaca                               IIIb           2            2                1                  5             -                       __
45.  Toluca                                   Illb           2            2                1                  5             -
46.  La Paz                                   II             4            1                0                  5
47.  Tepic                                    II             4            1                0                  5             -
48.  Acapulco                                 Other          3            2                0                  5             -
49.  Pachuca                                  IIIb           2            1                1                  4             -
Total No. of
Extension Officers                                                                                              40                      90
LCPI2
March 1980



- 92 -                                 ANNEX 6
T- 23
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 23: Integrated Small and Medium Scale Industry Program (PAI)
Financial Statements
(in ?ex$ millions)
BALANCE SHEET                                               1978     (Prelii&n9ary)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Other Short-Term Assets                         40.7          126.6
Accounts Receivable                                       2.3          148.5
43.0         275.1
Long-term Assets
Loan Portfolio                                          198.7          354.5
Net Fixed Assets                                          0.5            2.4
Deferred Charges                                          -              2.1
199.2         359.0
TOTAL ASSETS                                          242.2          634.1
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Short-term Liabilities (including current
portion of Loans)                                         1.1           45.6
Loans Payable                                            105.0          255.0
Equity
Capital                                               135.0          380.3
Retained Earnings                                       1.1          (46.7)
136.1          333.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                          242.2          634.1
INCOME STATEMENT
Interest Income                                            1.5           23.9
Other Income                                               1.3             -
TOTAL INCOME                                            2.8           23.9
Interest Expense                                           1.0           14.4
Commissions, etc.                                          0.3            8.2
General and Administrative Expenses                        0.4           48.8
Depreciation and Amortization                              -              0.4
1.7          71.8
..et Profit (Losr'                                  I_,_7            ('7.9)
a/ Includes current portion.
LCPI2
March 1980



93-                                                         ANNEX 6
T- 24
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Table 24: Classification of FOGAIN's Operations by Financial Intermediaries
(April 1954 - December 1979)
1978                             1979                April 1954 - December 1979
Financial Intermediary                    Amount                           Amount                      Cummulative Amount
(Mex$ millions)       %         (Mex$ millions)        %          (Mex$ millions)        %
GOVERNMENT BANKS
NAFINSA                                        246               9               519             11              1,114              7
GRUPO BANOBRAS                                  13              -                57               1                 81              1
Banco Nacional de Comiercio Exterior S.A.   -                    -               -                -                 75              -
259              9               576              12              1,270              8
MIXED BANKS
GRUPO INTERNACIONAL                            249               9              425               9              1,045              6
GRUPO SOMEX                                    147               5              222               5                759              5
Banca Promex, S.A.                               5              -                17               -                104              -
Independent Institutions                        25               1               28               1                319              2
426             15               692              15              2,227             13
PRIVATE BANKS
BANAMEX                                        509              18              771              17              2,458             15
BANCOMER                                       360             13               669              14              1,797             11
ORUPO COMERMEX                                 224               8              402               9              1,327              8
Banca Serfin, S.A.                              85               3              139               3                755              5
GRUPO BANATLAN                                  62               2              100               2                338              2
Associated Regional Banks                       71               2              179               4                424              3
Banco Sofimex, S.A.                             49               2               44               1                188              1
BANPAIS, S.A.                                   38               1              143               3                376              2
Polibanca Innova, S.A.                          30               1               76               2                208              1
GRUPO CONFIA                                    30               1               48               1                203              1
Banca Cremi, S.A.                               31               1               39               1                270              2
BANPACIFICO, S.A.                               17               1               33               1                236              1
UNIBANCO, S.A.                                  26               1                33              1                111              1
GRUPO POPULAR                                   20               1               12               -                220              1
BANCRESER, S.A.                                 18               1               42               1                152              1
Banco Continental, S.A.                         22               1               26               1                122              1
BANCAM, S.A.                                    21               1               32               1                 69              -
Multibanco Mercantil de Mexico, S.A.            15               1                36              1                198              1
Banco Mercantil de Monterrey, S.A.               9               -               20               -                 67              -
Banco B.C.H., S.A.                              11               -               10               -                 96              1
GRUPO GENERAL HIPOTECARIO                       13               1                 6              -                 58              -
Actibanco Guadalajatra, S.A.                    10              -                12               -                 64              -
GRUPO LONGORIA                                   9               -                 3              -                 93              1
Credito Mexicano, S.A.                           5              -                  9              -                 56              -
GRUPO GENERAL DE CREDITO                         8               -                 6              -                 46              -
Banco Occidental de Mexico, S.A.                10               -                 8              -                 26              -
Banca Metropolitana, S.A.                        9               -                10              -                 43              -
Banco Regional del Norte, S.A.                   1               -                 9              -                 30              -
GRUPO SOFIDES                                                   -                  -              -                  2              _
Independent Institutions                       227               8              251               5              2,153             13
Sabtotal                 1,940              68             3,168              68             12,186             72
CREDIT UNIONS                                    233               8               230               5             1,146              7
Total                     2,858             100            4,666             100             16,829            100
LCPI2
March 1980



M88XI0 -SECa   SNAL  AM H&8ty1K sALc   168T3LY   911OIf   P10WCT
1ab4t 25I   Aalysti of Total Cr-dLt Opera.ti-o   of ff61   fr-j-ptertibo   through 1979
______________________    ~1976                                                                          it 79                                                    prl1954 Vgny Ncehar 1939
fo. of Int-rpri..         7              b    f               Mount                      . of laterpoisro                  tf Amont                                N. of Eat           t            r of Amount
CredIts        /.      lNeo3 mIllIons)   %                                    Credits      t.    (rSno  olillono      7            ia                    Credits      t.    (Neo$ millioos)        1
BY A6tUNT 07 CREDIT
(He-$ mIll-ons)
bp to  1.0                                          2,771               78           3,055         75           1,057            17          3,178       72        3,671       68        1,293            77             16,397      86       30,186       88         8,170            48
1.0 to 3.0                                            626                              764         19          1,115            39            961        22        1,717       24        1,839            40              2,217      11        3,385       10        5,676            34
ore thot 3.0                                           048              4233                        6             691           24             281        6          442        8        1,534            33                g99       3          791         2        2,981            18
Total                               3,545                           4032         100           2100 64,420                             100        5 0 1o0_              4.666           10              19.113     70        34,362       107       16 829 
bY N0MI0ER OF EMLtYEEt  IN TIIE
ENTEFrFISE
4p so IS                               ~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~                                                 ~~~ ~~1,241  35  2211  1,623  36   1.121        36          616            13              6,227      34      10,018        29         1635             10
11 to 20                                              80936            235A                                      464            16          1,601130    2391      1 220        23          643            1              46 303      23        7,288       21          5078           30
21 to 50                            913              2~~~~~~                                                 ~~     ~    ~~~~~~      ~~       ~~~ ~~~6 937  33  1,1001.7 25  1404       70                 02$     26       9,456        2707
1 to 100                                              390              31                                         634           2?             430       10         5          10          937            20              2,100               4,672                   3834             23
hir     - Ilat 700                                     195              5            _                            500 -8                       257        6           253       6          866            19              1,145       6       .202         it        3,778             22
To-al                             3j.543            1O                          _ 100        7,85            100          4.420      1ic       IJ.A         100        4,666           100            19.113    1500       14362        10         1                LoZ
0Y TYTE OF ACTIVITY
Food prod-ots                                          577             16              464         16             386            14            733       17          896       17          661            14              2,948      15        5,209        15        2,536            15
lonotogos                                               32              1               37          1              30             1            40         1           49        -                   7                       264       1          509         1          338             2
Tobacco                                                  3               -               3          -               2            -_1                      - I                   - I  -        I                                                    10       -             7             -
bTetilco                                               95               3              109          3             116            6            132         3          167        3          727             6                728       6        1,399        4         1,206             7
Foo-so- and  lothco                                   642              la              492         17             386           14             816       19          953       18          628            13                107      06        3,464        16        2,081            12
Wood p-od-cto                                           67               3             106          3              2S                           1II      3          145        3           116            2                445       2           794        2          395             2
Foroltuto -d accessories                               217               7             255          6             104            4             308        7          387        7           21             5               ,12                 1,868         5          678             4
Fapetprodocto                                          45               1               21          1              54            2             47         1           60        1           02             2                279       1          538         2          368             2
Frlnting sod lltogeaphy                               129               4              145          4              87             3           147         4          173        3          130             3                867       5        1,468         4          504             3
leathler and leabFh- pto-d-tto                        113               3              124          3              93            3            104        2           132        2           96             2                552       3        1,054         3          449             3
Robber                                                 47               1                4                                                      50        0           58        1           5                               2         2          562         2          284             2
Cheolcals                                              177              5              212          5             233            8            216         5          229        5          350             8                          5        1,893         6        1,346             8
Fettoleoo prodp cts-5 ,6  5                                                                                                      _6               3       -            5        -            4             -                 16                    35        -           21             -
basic metals                                           55               1               60          0              66            2              73       1           102        2          168             4                310       2          611         2          458             3
Othor  i-etalo                                         284              8              356          9             229            M             372        a          459        9          463            10              1,543       8        23761         8        1,336             8
EbOot  torklog sod machIne fattlcotioo                675              19             754          19            562            20            938       21        1,172       21           972            21             35420 19              6,555       19         3,303           20
Othee o           iotactrlog                          249               7             290           7            234            8             251        5          302        6          274             6              1,176       6         2,791        7        1,111             7
Co__tr_ct_oo                                             9              -                           -               9            -                                    1         -            13            -                 57       -            66        -           44             -
Se-vi-es                                              IY1               3              112          3              57            2              76        2           88        2           68             1                872       5        1,227         4          344             2
Total                           3.545              O0           411 _____I_l2,850                                       4~,420     134,30                10             631062___                                                                   
Total   3._5      130           4,052         100                          10058        _____ 4,420  100                                             - 39fl  10   4,666   1  19,113  103  34.362      100       146.29           100
BY bLCATION-1
Loot I                                                973              27            1,118         28           1,030           36          1,438       33         1,729       3?         1,393           30             7,280       38       13,940       41         7,056            42
Zone I1                                               198               6              236          6             229            7          2,081       47         2,562       48         1,834           39             2,777      35         3,906        11        2,644            16
Zone I11                                            2.374              67            2,608         66           1,619           S7            901       20         1,099       20         1,439           31             9.056      47        16.516       48         7,129            42
Total                           3.545             100          4_052          120          2                013941 11003392                                           46_                                                34,362       100       16,829           100
BY TYFE OF FINANCING
Floed assets                                           MA                            1,472         36          1,172            39            MA                  2,301        44         2.439           52               NA                 12,808       37         7, 107          42
Workiog caVAtul                                        N                             2,469         61           1,544           54            NA                   2 914       54         7,064           44               MA                 20,465       60         8,677            52
Debt rostructorlog                                     N_A                             111          3             189            7             A                      95        2           163            4               ILL                 1.089         3        1,045             6
3,145             100          4_052         100 2058 m5o0                              6,420      1          5.90       100         4,666          100             18 113    100        34,362       100       16,829          '100
A) .s d.fi.sd It t18   atiootI Itdoatit-l D-Slopeeot Pl-n.
Karoh 1980



ANNEX 6
- 95 -                                  T- 26
MEXICO -SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 26:FOGAIN's Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1977 - 1979 -
Audited          Preliminary
1977       1978         1979
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and otlher short-term assets                        72.1        88.7        156.0
Accounts receivable (incl. arrears on
principal and interest on loan port-
folio)- Net                                             26.8        30,1         70.7
98.9 2/   118.8  yj   226.7  y
Long-term Assets
Loan portfolio                                        2,574.2    3,506.7       5,240.1
Net fixed assets (furniture & equipment)                  1.6         2.1         11.7
Deferred charges (due to foreign exchange
fluctuation)                                           355.5       512.8        473.1
2,931.3    4,021.6      5,724.9
TOTAL ASSETS                                       3,030.2    4,140.4       5,951.6
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Interest Payable                                         35.9        95.4  (   334.6
Other accounts payable (incl. current
portion of long-term liabilities)                       66.3        96.7  (
Certificates of participation of Banco
de Mexico                                              200.0    1,300.0         N.A.
302.2    1,492.1        334.6  3/
Long-term Liabilities
Certificat:es of participation of Banco
de M'exico                                           1,350.0       900.0      2,950.0
IDB Loan                                                800.0       925.5        910.2
PAI Loan                                                -           163.8        325.9
NAFINSA                                                                -         400.0
Other Creserves, etc.)                                     2.0         1.9         12.1
E2,152.4      1,921.2    4,598.2
Equity
Share capital from government                           551.4       648.7      1,039.3
Retained earnings                                        24.2         8.4        (20.5)
575.6      657.1      1,018.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                        3,030.2      =4,0.4      5,951.6
1/ Fiscal year changed from June 30, to December 31, as of 1977.
2| Excludes current portion of loan portfolio.
3/ Excludes current portion of certificates of participation of Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
March 1980



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 27  Past and Projected Income Statements of FOGAIN
(in Mex$ millions)
19771/   1978        1979        1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
INCOME
Interest Income                                         108.5    280.8       398.4       852.8  1,549.1  2,517.8  3,797.6  5,669.9
Other Income                                              -         0.1        0.1         -         -         -         -          -
108.5    280.9       398.5       852.8  1,549.1  2,517.8  3,797.6  5,669.9
EXPENSES
Interest Expense                                         84.9    180.4       284.7       689.4  1,009.8  1,536.4  2,140.3  2,800.4
Commissions, etc.                                         5.0       8.4        8.4        54.6       3.0      12.1    .12.1       12.1  I
General and Administrative Exp.                          18.2      33.6       57.8        96.3    172.4    278.6    432.1    658.3
Depreciation and Amortization                             0.2       0.5        1.1         2.5       3.5       4.5        5.5       6.5
Losses due to Exchange Rate
Fluctuations 2/                                         13.4      73.9       75.4        76.1      70.0      62.9      56.1      53.7
121.7    296.8       427.4       918.9  1,258.7  1.894.5  2,646.1  3,531.0
Net Income (Loss)                                      (13.2)   (15.9)      (28.9)      (66.1)   290.4    623.3  1,151.5  2,139.0
RATIOS
Total Income as % of aver. loan portfolio                10.1 3/   9.2         9.1        11.7      11.9      11.5      11.0      10.7
Financial Cost 4./ as % of aver. loan portfolio           9.6 3/   8.6         8.4        11.3       8.3       7.4       6.4       5.4
Gross Spread as % of average loan portfolio               0.5 3/   0.6         0.7         0.4       3.6       4.1       4.6       5.3
Administrative cost as % of aver. loan portfolio          1.7 3/   1.1         1.3         1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3        1.2
Net income (loss) as % of average loan portfolio   ( 1.2)3/  (0.5)            (0.7)       (0.9)      2.2       2.9       3.3       4.1
1/  Due to the change in fiscal year from June 30, to December 31, the income statement shows only the results of
operations from July 1 to December, 1977.
2/  Losses suffered on interest and principal repayments due to exchange rate fluctuation.
3/  Annualized 1977 ratios.                                                                                                            e
4/  Includes losses due to exchange rate fluctuations.
LCPI2                                                                                                                                     C'
March 1980



- 97                                        T- 28
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 28 FOGAIN's Projected Sources and Application o:f
Funds for the Period 1980-84
1980       1981        1982        1983        1984
SOURCES
Net Profit (Loss)                 (66.1)      290.4       623.3    1,151.5    2,139.0
Add: Depreciiation and
Amortization                   2.5         3.5        4.5         5.5         6.5
(63.6)     293.9       627.8    1,157.0    2,145.5
Increase in Share Capital
from the Government          1,000.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0    1,500.0
Borrowings:
PAI                             688.0       460.0      460.0       460.0       460.0
BANXICO                       1,400.0    2,000.0    3,000.0    4,000.0    4,500.0
BID                             690.0      172.5       690.0       690.0       690.0
Other                         1,558.6    2,000.0    2,500.0    3,000.0    3,500.0
Other Payable                      -        1,589.9    3,748.9    6,340.4   13,005.7
Loan Collections                3,623.0    4,175.0    7.035.3   11.105.0   17,051.9
TOTAL SOURCES                  8,896.0   12,191.3   19,562.0   28,2'i2.4   42,853.1
USES
Loan Disbursements              7,694.2   11,541.3   17,311.9   25,968.0   38,951.9
Repayment of Borrowings
PAI                             -            43.5       62.9       120.4       177.9
BANXICO                         400.0       500.0      500.0        --       1,000.0
BID                              43,8       43.8        39.6        35,4        35,4
Other                           -            -       1,558.6    2za.0o        2,5QQ.0
Fixed Assets Purchases            14.4        10.0       10.0        10.0        10.0
Other                            697.8        -          -           -           -
TOTAL USES                    8,850.2   12,138.6   19,483.0   28,l.33.8   42,675.2
Increase in Cash                  45.8        52.7       79.0       118.6       177.9
LCPI2
March 1980



MEXICO - SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 29: Organization Chart of FOMIN 1/
Technical and Funds
Disbursement Committee
Chairman: Jorge Espinosa de los Reyes
Director General
Sergio Luis Cano Luebbert
%0
Manager
(position open)                                                           Assistant Managerl
|                                         | ~~~~~~~~~~~~Jorge Luis Gonzalez Urdiales|
Legal Department       Appraisal & Supervision Dept.            Promotion & Equity Sales Dept.   Administrative & Financial Dept.
Jesus Perez Martinez        Moises Pardo Rodriguez                 Rodolfo Villareal Cardenas              Angel Mordragon Alvarez
3 (3)                       10 (12)                                    2 (2)                                4 (4)
1/ Figures represent number of professionals currently working in each unit, and figures in parentheses, total professionals
proposed for 1980.
LCPI2
March 1980                                                                                                                         :4



ANNEX 6
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                 T-31
Table 30:  Sunary of FOMIN's Investments
(in Mex$ million)
Year-to-date                   Year-to-date                 Year-to-date
December 31, 1977              December 31, 1978            December 31, 1979
No. of Firms  Amount          No. of Firms  Amount         No. of Firms   Amount
Studies                                 170          498.0              188        643.0             224          941.3
Rejections                               16           63.8               19         80.8              26           82.3
Approvals                               154          434.2              169        562.2             198          859.0
Not Finalized 1/                         77          157.6               87        169.8              66          195.6
In Process                                3           45.8                6         64.7              16          203.5
Completed Investments 2/                 74          247.0               76        347.6             116          459.9
Investments sold                          5            5.4                4         35.1              31           38.8
Companies Being Liquidated                2            0.2                4          9.0               8           10.8
Portfolio as of year-to-date             67          241.4      30           3     .     S
1/  These include projects approved by FOMTH, but not implemented typically because the client enterprise has
not agreed to conditions required by FOMIN for its investment.
2/ Reinvested dividends included in the investments of portfolio year-to-date.
1977     Mex$16.2 millions
1978     Mex$19.9 millions
1979     Mex$25.4 millions
Table 31: Economic Activity of Firms Supervised by FOMIN 1978-79
(in Mex$ millions)
Economic Activitv                     As of December 31,1978                              As of December 31, 1979
Subsector                No. of      Amount               Average Amount    No. of    Amount              Average Amount
Firms     Invested 1/      X       Per Firm         Firms    Invested 1/   X        Per Firm
Chemicals/Pharmace,uticals       13        51.0          16.8        3.9              16        665.4      16.2       4.2
Food Products                    13        66.0          21.7        5.1              14        79.2      19.3        5.7
Metal Processing                 16        97.8          32.2        6.1              20       158.2       38.6       7.9
Wood Products                     4        29.4            9.7       7.4               5        33.7        8.2       6.7
Construction Materials            6        11.7           3.9        2.0               5        11.9        2.9       2.4
Electrical Machinery              3         2.3           0.8        0.8               4         4.3        1.0       1.1
Textiles/Apparel                  2         3.0            1.0       1.5               2        11.9        2.9       6.0
Other                            11        42.3          13.9        3.8              10        44.7      10.9        4.5
TOTAL                    68        303.5         100.0        4.5              76      410.3      100.0        5.4
1/ Amounts include reinvested dividends.
LCPI2
March 1980



- 100 -                                ANNEX 6
T-32
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 32:Analysis of FOMIN's Authorized Projects by Number, 1977-79
1977           1978           1979       Total
No.     %    No.       %    No.    %    No.    %
By Economic Activity
Food Products                                   2      20      -       -     4    11       6    10
Metal Processing                                5      50      4      24    10    29    19    31
Chemicals/Pharmaceuticals                       1      10      5      29     4    11    10    16
Textile/Apparel                                 -       -      -       -    13    38    13    21
Other                                           2      20      8      47     4    11    14    22
TOTAL                                      10    100    17    100    35   100    62   100
By Destination of Output
Domestic Consumption                            5      50    11       64    25    71    41    66
Import Substitution 1/                          3      30      3     18      6    17    12    19
Primarily for Exports                           2      20      3      18     4    12       9    15
TOTAL                                      10    100    17    100    35   100    62   100
By Geographic Location
Zone I B (Border Zones)                         3      30      5      29    13    37    21    35
Zone II                                         -       -      2     12      8    23    10    16
Zone III A (Mexico City)                                      10     59      5    14    20    32
(Metropolitan Area)
Zone III B (Mexico City)                        2      20      -       -     9    26    11    17
(Surrounding Areas)                 2      2
TOTAL                                      10    100    17    100    35   100    62   100
1/   Also for domestic consumption.
LCPI2
March 1980



MEXICO SE0COND8 SHALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELODPHENT PROJECT
Tobte 33:FOK0N'   Equity invetmets Held
(in ken  thousad.)
Bald                                                                     Dividends li            Statmets
Location        %    noher of Slates Held    Par HaV.              f           Hrima(oe   o   et                             in Share                  C      Rau         Daa and _Montsf 068IN'.
Zones  Coned    Pretecred  Caooson  - Cost  Total      1~~~~~~979  0197       1977       1970               1979                    Date                    riginal Pe.tiipatio
A. C-soiru Corait tfitAbI,
A.uraIad-tIsoss       Se .A.                                       I-A           30.0      3,000           -           15,00'0              4,351       182,67)     1,6H0     (35061)             1,8C                  DePt-he              19 78    (15.300)
Adhesivos, S.A.                                i110          09.0~      ~     ~ ~~~~~~            ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ -  3,7  ,762  8      700         2,I           1                                    Dec.    r             974    (2.000)   1979   11,276)
Aurrtnst Soujoaca * 8.4.                          011-A~~~~~~~~~~~~II  16.4  -       00,202            6,020              .97           1,10       4,4        2,970              6,743                 Nunnb-t              1972    14,420
Acrsun-   Hoderoo   1.A.                                           IT-A          162       600            -            6,000                4,26           91.                                      600                 be-se               19377       6,000)
Bicicietoc Condor. S.A.                                              05B         30.0                 12,000          12,000                4,793       5,439       5,065        975                -J-n                                    L97H      (12,000)
Chapas y Triplay del Socete  S .A.                                   i-s        12.5                   7,50     360      0-                5,020    (0,32)            (15)         3               -Dsc...b-                                194I400
D'5B0,a, S.A.                                                      Ill-A         3:3.        -         6,000           6,000                1, 406         801L                      -                                  J-s                 19 78       6 ON00
Dalicise Tropi-sie, S.4.                                             15          33.         -         2.000            2,200               0,700       2,300       1,244     (5,955)               -                   Deceshet            1974      12 2002
Fotmados Pir.etds, S.A.                                            ILL-A         33.       9,660           -           9,000                1,933        505          -          -                  249                 Jun                 19 79     1 9,000)
lspt.lsora  y Diatclboidoti faa-Dan, 1.4.        101~~~ ~~-A   33.3      6,006                        6,000               3912         0,884        95         67                  98                 Msd                   979     16,000
Sodonri  34401ic lag-, 0.A.                                         0-          17.3        259          434           6,930               1,034         1641)         96        302             4,863                 June                 1973       4 4340)   1977      1650)  1978 (1.940)
lodust    ..aIon, 1.4.                                        ItI-H         9.2        -         60,000           6,000              11.454      (4, 107)       -           -                 -                   Nacc                 19 72      6.000)
Sudu-Ille  S .A.                                                   III-I         33.3    20.500           -           22,500                1,073         -                      -675                                 kMtc                  1979      (22,500)
Losiu-  D-ntl,gdo.  3.A.                                            IC           33.3     13,508          -            I3,50                3,869       1,796         -L 1582                                          Daei                  9 78     (12,50D)   1979   01.000)
p01540, 2.A.                                                         1.0         37.         =M6                           6                    5          04         -          --Dc,hr('                                                              (2663
ProdHotos Ketne, S.4.                                                IH          22.6                 80,000           8,000;               1,490       3,389       2,205        --                                    N'y                  1979        S ,00
So-lpus, 1.4.                                                        M-          33.3        -           .822          2,0822                 300          79         .                             2 22               Detr.he (- 979                 1  ,60
20t h Caniut.y COne.,O    alo   ..I                                              33.3        -         8,500           8,10                 1,30'6        492         020        794                                   M ke                 1979    1 0.000
Vint   505  dal Horns24                                             II           31.8        -             7              700                 140          266)       -          235                3 78               Jut1976                           (700)
I.b.N-..    . Itoa  d. ke,. RraetS*D.A.                              1-           20         -         17,880         17,010                2,167      (3,964)        809      1,723                -D.tebar                                 19 73    112.420)  1976   (3.780)
tadusttla* Ats.uit, 5.4.                            i-H~      ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~ 330 2940  10,978  13,060               5,300        2140      17674)        (100)29Deebt17                                                       15,0) 97            1860
ladrlllta  icaooto,  .4.E1-                                               33.'3        -         1,800           1,00                   61          (8          514       (65)                .                  D-cno                1 976    1 1,800
Lonia, 8.4                                        El~~~    ~ ~~~~~         ~     ~ ~~~~~~            ~~I-IA  33.3  - 1,670  1,620  119  (50D084(    22.349      961                .                     -t                192          ,60
Lodriler  Coc .A..                                                  -I:         20.0        -         3,333           3,333                  271           47       (23)         -                                    Dec. br               974      13,333)
Nag. y   ermeta    snllo,84   s-..tCA                                            20.01     1,904          -             1,904                 644         (6894)      -            -191                                 Icaht1977    11942
Prodoctos Co-e, 5.A.                                                11.4         23.3        -        40,571           4,5                    599          42 7    (6,909)        170               -                  Decbhe               1973    14,000)
Tota  26 Compaotes                                                                                               187,008    45.61                                                           12 695
orFinentla  Diffiliiulle
Acit    . o isrindo,: 3.4.                                  001-A        16.8      12,276      12,349          26,625                 (894      (5,785     (2.416)    3,569               1,261                 Deceber              1972     16,600)  1972   (6,002))
Acaunrs Co_erio,8.,I.                                                       235      1,0           ,5 14,80                            3.90         u..         ns                           ,2                    eehr1976                        4 4950)  1978  (10,000)              I
Algodanes y Cases, 0.4.                                               1.         33.0        -          4,9              ,90(00)                       (2,988)   (1,704         (357)               -Dcme                                     95      1420 
Alimeuto  Delantadoe de Sinalos, 0.4.                                 B-         30.80                  7,500           7,500ie                         (2.532)      (722)   (4,'882)               -D-tne b1974                                      1 7,00)
Crapeo-  y Hesiquss, 0.4.                                          010-A         25.2        -            160             160                 (73)         -          -            -                -                   DeOmbe               1979         (860)
Crm  Meie-       ,84                                                  -I_        333B                   2.200           2,200                (9762         106      1,26B       (645)               .Jo.-                                   19 79     02,200)
Ci_rras  yTraqoale.", S.4.                                            I-_        333B                   1,991           1,991                (847)         731      1,233          14               -D-neber                                 1975    61,99 1)
Cia. Foresta  Lo. lacados  5.4.                                      0-B          7.7        -          6,500          6,500               (7.596)    (28,082)   (4,0 14)          -                .Decmbr19727                                        6,500
Ciclnece   1.4                                                    (-A           33.3         -           000B800                             306)         72)        650     (2,131)               -                    eabr1979                         1066))
EqolposIuntralsEspscialioados, 5.4.                                  0.B         24.3        -        65,009           6,509               (3,96)      (2,600)   (2,096)   (1.490)                  -Joo                                    1973    13.350)
ForseeAcvoo,S.u_01.                                                              3).         -        14,7)0            1,472                (97(3))        83        (42)       ILH                                   Dneber               1923        1.472))
Inr. yAeeint S ,4                                                 011-A         33.)3       -I         1,400           1,400ne                           (ID))      (264)         627                                 December             1974        1,400
I.p, or   ndt.l ectrrlc  *S.A.                                     IllA         32.          11           -               112                 (5)         (45)         .         (29)               -                   etnbr1973                        (112
Aut  Air-He, 0.4.                                                  Ill-IA        3 2.1 '   2,200                        2,000              (1,206)        (228)      (4709      1254)               166                 D-ueber1-                      1200
Indotis  Topyec, 3.4.                                              011A          325         -         2,60            2,68                  (402))      (1)           .          -                 -                  Deoember             198a        2,400)
iot  8O -     ac,54                                                  I-          33.0        .        13,200          13,200              (10,932)      4,071       1,784         (13)                                 D scabr1975    (13,2 08)
.:.raIrI o d       Sy.  5..                                      001-B         30.0      2,000          -             2,000                0060)        (29         42           3                 6                  D.oubr187 a                     2 ,008
Lah-rtorlu  Brooig, 1.4.                                           011-A         30.         9(01                        961               (1,'407)      (697)       (195)       192                 78Dembr17(9)
lab-rataIo  AHn, S.A.                                                 -0        33.0         -         0,06            2,065               (6,223)      2,92        1,2I56)IDeobt17                                                                     2,65)
LabrtoIos Alphe, 8.4.                                                0-B         330         -         3200            3,0               (58,8)7       (3,9619)         8        663)                                  Deceber              1975      (13,200)
Sat   irA.t  rHoc,84                                       III-          32.2       180           -,80                                (975)        -                                          00                 rcember             19 79    11,000)
Torbac   0.4.                                                       II           33.3      1,52           -1,50                               (70)         189        (10)      (381)                30                Dember               1929        t ,50)
Criley Osd  Pluo,S.A.                                                [.0         17.9        .        10,500          12,500               (7,516)    (13,932)   (5,627)          --D-nsb-r                                                 1976      (12,500)
NoVate     S. A..                                                   II           24.0                 8 3,333          0,333                 (624)      1,437          --Deo-ber                                                            1970        6,000)
E.p-cdor  Or Con...n.    yHNinett, 0.4.                              l-D         33.3        .         5,000           5.000                 (399)         (94      1,207        564                -                  Deceber              1979      15,000)
Toa  25Cunene                                                                                                 1)7,740      33.61                                                           6,347
C.  Cossis   ne  Consrutie   o  i P-r-a-00r n   Si.o.                                                                                                                                            Stat-ut  Dett
Multipcek, S.A.                                                      I-B         33. 3       -         (,000          18,000                                                                 J- -.  a   1900           locenbe              1979      (10,008)
ormr 3..dv 0.8,                                              2-D          5.0        400          -               400                                                                J.  - ms  1980            DetebRr              19 79        1400)
Fis=tero, 8..                                                       CI           3).)    22,000           -           25,006 0                                                               October 1980              D-teber              1979      (23,020)
Snolss p P1s(e. Or Coohnllo, 5,4,                 ~~~          ~~ ~~~~II  3)) -         ,94           6,994                   -            .          -          -          April 1980                Deeber(90                     (694
DitrloldoI   daDedads  eer  04                                       I-B         33.3      4,876          -            4.876                               -                                  aur   90Decme                                 17          406
Tatol I Capns                                                                                                     47,278     11.5%
D.  C-,.,n.. so  Ors11t.tl   an  is Proc.a. of  g.iud-tia                                                                                                                                      A-tion Con.eidaad                                               lfiute
Acato Tra,tsfomsdocs OsH0d0100, S.A.                                      222         -          1,000           1,I                    -            -          --mae  P-..es                                                        197           Fissui
Cal Qu.in, 5.A.                                                                  23. -I3300                                00.                                                                  h -Ebahlltue972                                           Ta.uie
Alimeutos  Lecos, 1.4.                                      ~~~~~       ~     ~ ~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~21,4  . 6,00  6,00  .                                            Rh-Dbhilitau                                  1873          Taclslos
Cares   osI= e   elSayr  3.4.                                                    33.0        -            165             165                                                                 L .-iq.id-n                                  1973          FEn.sois
Cal..o. da1 DejSo, S.4                                                           2672,000                              2,6                                                                      aeiiaa1972                                                lout  Lbor Strtba
Cia. Ot-rn  Windsor OsA HeII,8..                                                  23                                                                                                                                                        Lg8  8        -Lqias17 2ina=ole
rusDfrig-radas  S .A.                                                       12.5        -          "      2,5002,6                                    -           .          -           Liqidant                                     1974          Flaais
Csrde   eio,54                                                                 33.3        -          2050           2,0580                                                                  ae    rnea17                                                 laca
Herreisutas P Naq. y Csrpint-r, S.A.                                             9).3                     644            644                   .                                 ,-iq'sidsPte                                               1976 (066)  1976 (400) Floanial
00.d  Construtor  N-1e  WeIto, S.4,                                              33.1        -         2250            2,25                                                                    L       iqudIa 974                                         Fimeunie1
12. M-bl-tr  SI3         .4.                                                     24.         -            640             660                  -            -          .           .          Liq taa1973                                                 Fi-a!cIf
ItO. ForasteLs. de Ney-rit  S.A.                                                 33.                  64,410           6, 441                                                                 LiquIate1973                                                Det. Se.Det
06.d  N.o, A..                                                                  33.)                     165              02.5                                                                Liqudas1973                                                 Jsts
Tu.Ifs-e, 5.A.                                                                3.0         -            495             495                   .           -          -           -          Liq.id=i                                      1973          F~isca  Debts
InO..To-a., A ilsy Ladrillos, 5.A.                                               13.         -           ,60     360                           .            -          .           -          Dbbltn                                         93Fiocs
La Meritima, S.A.                                                                32 .3       -         2,000           2,80                    .            -          -           .          Lqiae1975                                                   I-ap--atd by Ejido
LeIn.U Dbike, 5.A-                                                               32.3                      1             500                   -                       -          -             igidta                                      19)3          Fimeutle
ke.-I-o, S.A.                                                                   25.0        -          2,51           2,530                   -            -          -           -          Liqidtdan                                     1973          Fisa  IslEs
hewn Xa.         A 54                                                            2.7         -         4,000           6,00                                                                          "  --eie   ooe                         1973          FEsamOi1
TaLe  20 ORWss.                                                                                                   38,298.5   9.31
C14A1 TOTAL 76 CH9M'MIIZDL 4l2.5  1020.0
17  No tosS dividends   -t  paid durluk 0979, alE  aber  dilLdends in c               -eoo ktnb






- 102 -                                  ANNEX 6
T-34
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 34: FOMIN'S Portfolio Development
Second
First SMI Appraisal        SMI Appraisal
Dec. 1976      Sept. 1977       Dec. 1979
Operating Profitability
Number                                            23            20              26
% Investment                                     34             41              46
Operating with Losses
Number                                            34            19              25
% Investment                                     51             40              33
Under Construction, Pre-operating
Stage or in Special Situation 1/
Number                                            10            26              25
% Investmnet:                                    15             20              21
TOTAL
Numbet                                           67             65              76
= Investment                                    100            100             100
1/ Firms in special situation are those which are expected to be liquidated or
rehabilitated under new management.
LCPI2
March 1980






- 103 -
ANNEX 6
T-35
MEXICO -SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table  35:  Revenues of FOMIN's disinvestments 1976-79
(in million Mex$)
Company 1/                                 Par Value 2/    Sales Value 3/    Earnings (Loss)           % Return on Sales
Amercoat Mexicana, S.A.                        394                 656                 262
Aparejos Electricos, S.A.                      500                 630                 130
Cia. Vinicola de Ensenada, S.A.              2,000              2,000                   -
Empacadora Garza, S.A.                       1,584               1,828                244
Fabrica de Muebles Excelentes, S.A.            100                  30                 (70)
Mosaicos Vetrum, S.A.                          300                 390                  90
Pall, S.A. de C.V.                           2,152              2,755                 603
Zetra Solventes, S.A.                           60                  93                  33
Sub-total Sales - 1976                    7,090               8,382               1,292                     15.4
Amercoat Mexicana, S.A.                        497                 988                 491
Centro de Computacion y Proc. de
Datos, S.A.                                  244                332                  88
Empac-0-Matic, S.A.                          1,080              2,506               1,426
Empacadora La Concordia, S.A.                  563                 636                  73
Elementos Maquinados,, S.A.                  1,500              2,370                 870
Formas y Moldes MetaLicos, S.A.              2,333              3,033                  700
Jugos y Frutas de Zacatlan, S.A.             1,071              1,392                 321
Silicatos Especiales, S.A.                   2,000              2,200                 200
Sub-total Sales - L977                    9,288              13,457               4,169                     31.0
Amercoat Mexicana, S.A.                        452                 605                 153
Vitro Proceso, S.A.                            300                 500                 200
Deval de Mexico, S.A.                          297                 396                  99
Industrial Productos de Mexico, S.A.           212                 366                154
Ind. Citricolas de Montemorelos,
S.A. de C.V.                             3,500               5,960               2,460
Industrias Formesa, S.A.                       492                 700                208
Manufacturas Xochi, S.A.                       120                  50                 (70)
Zetra Solventes, S.A.                           60                 131                  71
Sub-total Sales - 1978                    5,433               8,708               3,275                    37.6
Zetra Solventes, S.A.                          180                 443                263
Alimentos Compean, S.A.                      1,000              1,700                  700
Cia. Turati Industrial, S.A.                   726              1,060                  334
Industrias Rimko-Rain, S.A.                    566                466                (100)
Productos Alimenticios Cabanas, S.A.           700              1,260                  560
Trejo Industrial, S.A.                         450                 720                 270
Sub-total Sales - 1979                    3,622               5,649               2,027                    35.9
Total Sales - 1976/79                    25,433              36,196              10,763                    29.7
1/   Amercoat MexicaLna, S.A. and Zetra Solventes, S.A. disinvestments proceeded through partial sales of shares.
2/   Par value for allI these cases equalled cost of FOMIN's equity participation.
3/   Does not include interest on credit sales which is presently 18.52.
LCPI2
March 1980



- 104 -
ANNEX 6
T.-36
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 36: FOMIN-Audited and Projected Balance Sheets, 1977 - 84
(in Mex$ millions)
Audited       Unaudited                      Projected
1977     1978        1979ut      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
Assets
Current
Cash, Banks and                                           .1      .2          .6
Marketable Securities                                   46.8    78.9        82.8        65.8      52.6       47.3      42.6      40.5
Accounts Receivable:
Interests Receivable                                    -        -          .8         1.2       1.6       2.1       2.7       3.5
Dividends Receivable                                    -       4.2       28.4        24.0      28.8      31.7      34.8      38.3
Loans on Portfolio Sales                               8.6    11.0         6.5        19.0      46..O     74.7      86.8      95.5
Employee Loans                                         2.0      2.8        2.5         3.6       5.5       8.0      11.3      13.0
Other Receivables                                       -        -          .5          .5        .5        .5        .5         .5
Sub-Total                                         57.4    96.9       121.5        114.1    135.0    164.3    178.7    191.3
Portfolio Investments
Investments (at cost):                                                                 892.9  1,268.1  1,733.1  2,302.0  2,968.1
Common Stock                                        214.1   248.1        256.6
Preferred Stock                                       18.3    62.2       153.8
Adjustment for Revaluation  J                        (21.8)  (31.2)      (14.2)
Subscribed Investments                                  -        -        34.8
Loans on Portfolio Sales                                 3.1       .8         -
Sub-Total                                        213.7   279.9       431.0        892.9  1,268.1  1,733.1  2,302.0  2,968.1
Fixed Assets
Furniture and Equipment                                  1.2      1.4        1.6
Less Accumulated Depreciation                            (.5)    (.6)        (.7)
Sub-total - Net Fixed Assets                         .7      .8          .9          .9       1.1       1.3       1.5       1.8
Other Long-term Assets
Employment Loans                                         3.6      5.5        7.0         9.1      10.9       13.1       15.7     18.9
Sub-total                                          3.6      5.5         7.0         9.1      10.9      13.1      15.7      18.9
Deferred Assets
Installation Expenses                                    .9       1.0        1.0
Accumulated Depreciation                                 (.6)    (.8)        (-9)
Sub-total - Net Deferred Assets                     .3       .2         .1           .6        .7        .9       1.0       1.2
TOTAL                                      275.7   383.3       560.5    1,017.6  1,415.8  1,912.7  2,498.9  3,181.3
Liabitities and Equity
Current
Subscriptions Payable                                    3.0       .5       40.8        95.0      76.0      60.0      48.0      S8.0
Taxes Payable                                            3.0      1.7        1.0 |       5-5       6.2       7.2       8.2       9.3
Accounts Payable                                         1.8      3.4        4.3
Sub-Total                                             7.8      5.6       46.1        105.5      82.2      67.2      56.2      47.3
Long-Term Liabilities
Pension Reserves                                          .6       .8        1.0         1.3       2.8       4.3       6.0       9.1
Long-Term Liabilities                                     -        -          -        240.0    442.0    694.0    981.0  1,292.0
Total Liabilities                                     8.4      6.4       47.1        341.8    527.0    765.5  1,043.2  1,348.4
Equity
Government Capitals Contributions                     316.7   436.7        550.7       720.7    924.7  1.169.7  1,463.7  1,816.7
Adjustments for Revaluation j/                         (21.8)  (31.2)    (14.1)        (28.0)   (36.8)   (48.1)   (62.7)   (77.9)
Prior Term Profit (Loss)                               (26.9)  (27.6)      (28.6)      (23.2)   (16.9)         .9     25.6      54.7
Current Year's Profit (Loss)                            (  7)   (1.0)        5.4         6.3      17.8      24.7      29.1       39.4
Total Equity                                        267.3   376.9        513.4.      675.8    888. 8  1.147.2  1. 4557  1.8.32. 9
TOTAL                                           275.7   383.3       560.5    1,017.6  1,415.8  1.912.7  2.498.9  3.181.3
1/   Considers Revaluation of fixed assets, retained earnings (losses) and adjustment for book value of firms.
2/   Considers adjustment for book value and revaluation of fixed assets of firms.
LCPI2
March 1980



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 37: FOMIN-Audited and Projected Income Statements, 1977 - 84
(in Mex$ millions)
Audited          Unaudited                    Projected
1977     1978         1979        1980      1981      1982     1983      1984
Income
Interest 1/                                           3.2       5.0          7.5         4.3      10.8     12.9      15.5      20.2
Dividends                                               .4      4.2           -          6.0       8.6      14.7     18.6      24.0
Net Income of Portfolio Sales 2/                       4.0      3.3           .2         9.8       8.5      12.5     15.9      20.1
Other Income                                            -        .1           .2          .2        .2        .2        .2       .2
Total Income                                       7.6      12.6          7.9        20.3     28.1      40.3      50.2      64.5
Expenses
Administrative and Operating Expenses                 18.2     22.3         25.4
Commissions to NAFINSA                                 1.9      2.0          1.2
Depreciation                                            .3        .4          .3                                                 -
Total Expenses                                    20.4      24.7         26.9        38.2      44.8     50.0      55.7      61.1
Operating Margin                                        (12.8)   (12.1)       (19.0)      (17.9)   (16.7)      (9.7)    (5.5)       3.4
Special Accounts
Stocks Dividends                                     12.1      10.9         24.4        24.1      34.5      34.4     34.6      36.0
Subscription of Stock below Par Value                   -       1.0           -           -         -         -         -        -
Operating Expenses of Prior Term                        -      _^8)                       -         -         -         -         -
Total Special Accounts                            12.1      11.1         24.4        24.1      34.5     34.4      34.6      36.0
Profit (Loss)                                            ( .7)    (1.0)         5.4         6.2      17.8      24.7      29.1      39.4
1/  Represented primarily by interest on marketable securities credit sales of FOMIN's equity participation, and assumes 2Z
spread on PAI funds used in financing debt instruments with equity features.
2/ Net income on portfolio sales breakdown:
Portfolio Sales Gains                                 4.2      3.4          2.1        13.7      13.2      15.6      18.0     21.6
Portfolio Sales Losses                                (2)      (.1)        (1.9)       (3.9)    (4.7)    (3.1)        .1)    (1.5)
Net Income                                        4.0       3.3           .2         9.8       8.5      12.5     15.9      20.1
LCPI2                                                                                                                                    L
March 1980



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 38: Resource Needs to Support FOMIN's Expected Level of Operations 1980-84
Government
Resources
PAI Resources               Possible Later      Outside of        Total Yearly
Year     Bank      Government   Total 1/    Stages of PAI           PAI             Resources
1980 2/  132.0       108.0      240.0                              170.0              410.0                        1
1981     137.5       112.5      250.0                              204.0              454.0                        0
1982     192.5       157.5      350.0              -               245.0              595.0
1983     130.8       107.0      237.8            217.2             294.0              749.0
1984       -           -          -              570.0             353.0              923.0
TOTAL    592.8       485.0    1,077.8            787.2           1,266.0            3,131.0
1/   Does not include subscriptions for the subsequent years, 1.50% of the unallocated
funds of US$8.0 million reserved to FOMIN and FIDEIN are being used by the Risk
Capital Subprogram.
2/   1980 considers use of resources for projects approved during 1979, due to the
delay in implementing the PAI program.                                                                  I
00 M
Ir



- 107 -                               ANNEX 6
T-39
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 39: FOMIN's Sources and Applications of Funds 1980-84
(in Mex$ millions)
1980      1981       1982      1983       1984
Initial Working Capital                    30.4       33.8      27.9       31.0      40.8
Sources
Dividends                                   6.0        8.6      14.7       18.6       24.0
Equity Sales                                9.8        8.5      12.5       15.9       20.1
Government Resources                      170.0      204.0     245.0      294.0      353.0
PAI Resources                             240.0      250.0     350.0      455.0      570.0
Interest 1/                                 4.3       10.8      12.9       15.5      20.2
Other 2/                                    1.5        2.0       2.0        2.5        2.5
Total Sources                       431.6     483.9      637.1      801.5     989.8
Applications
Investments
PAI Program 3/                          240.0      250.0     350.0      455.0     570.0
Not Eligible Under PAI 4/               150.0      195.0     234.0      281.0     337.0
Adm. and Operating Expenses 5/             38.2       44.8      50.0       55.7       61.1
Total Applications                  428.2     489.8      634.0      791.7     968.1
End of Period-Working Capital              33.8       27.9      31.0       40.8      62.5
1/    Considers 2X spread assumed on PAI's resources used to fund debt instruments
plus interest on marketable securities.
2/    Considers sources such as amortization of employee loans.
3/    Excludes subscribed shares not disbursed.
4/    Medium-large enterprises (total equity above Mex$40 million) and working
capital financing.
5/    Overall expenses are including commission to NAFINSA and depreciation.



MEXICO - SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 40:0rgamization Chart of FIDEIN
Technical and Funds
Disbursement Comittee
Chairman! Jorge Espinosa de los Reyes
Director General
Alfredo Navarrete Romero
I                                                                                                         o
General Sub-director
Jose Luis Felix Lopes
Technical and Operations                                                                                              Legal, Adinistrativ. & Finacil
ManagerMenager
Ernesto Resos Orozco                                                                                                         Enrique Torre.
Planning and                  a Leasing t-          anSles   |Apdr                         &            Promotion Dept. i          Adm. & Accounting Dept    Fin ncial Dept.           Legal Dept.           Internl Audit Dept
Department    Suprv  aDet            Appr:aisa  C&e t.u
Development Dept.    Special Studies    Agustin Guillen       Control Dept.      Studies Dept.          Carmen Ortuno               German Oyosa Roldan      |SManuel de Alba       Jesus Reynoso Garcia    (poatiom  open)
JoFqulore  morle.      j    r            Osorio              Fernando Saave    Rafaels                   Herrer
Florso    ~    Kaio                                     draade.iGaa
May1290
My 198D



- 109 -                              ANNEX 6
T-41
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 41: Investment in Acquisition and Land Development of
Industrial Estates as of December 31, 1979
(in Mex$ million)
Government
Location                            Federal 1/    State 1/       Other 2/       Total
Industrial Estates in Operation
Aguascalientes, Ags.                 58.8                                        58.8
Celaya, Guanajuato                   42.8                         26.6           69.4
Durango, Dgo.                        31.4           6.0            3.0           40.4
Framboyan, Veracruz                  35.9          41.1                          77.0
Iguala, Guerrero                     41.5                                        41.5
Leon, Guanajuato                     19.6          10.0           48.4           78.0
Linares, Nuevo Leon                  28.2          20.3                          48.5
Merida, Yucatan                      19.6           7.5                          27.1
Morelia, Michoacan                   17.4                                        17.4
Queretaro, Qro.                       8.5          40.4                          48.9
Tepic, Nayarit                       24.1                                        24.1
Tijuana, Baja Cal.                   31.3                        245.8          277.1
Tizayuca, Hidalgo                    30.0                                        30.0
Torreon, Coahuila                    17.0           8.4                          25.4
Villahermosa, Tabasco                50.4           3.7                          54.1
Kicohtencatl, Tlaxcala               30.4                                        30.4
Sub-Total                        486.9         137.4          323.8          948.1
Industrial Estates under Construction
Matamoros, Tamaulipas                44.3                                        44.3
San Juan del Rio, Queretaro          43.0                                        43.0
El Salto, Jalisco                    22.0                                        22.0
Sub-Total                        109.3                                       109.3
Commercial Center
Mexicali, Baja Cal.                  18.2          42.7                          60.9
Total                            614.4         180.1          323.8        1,118.3
1/   Include committed resources for 1979.  Does not include federal resources
Mex$15.2 million and Mex$2.0 million appropriated for industrial estates in
Ocotlan, and Reynosa, Tamaulipas, respectively.
2/   Includle SAHOP, BANOBRAS, FIDEIN and specifically for Leon private resources from
the local commercial association.
LCP7I2
March 1980



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table  42:   FIDEIN Operating Results of the Industrial Estates (as of Dec. 31, 1979)
I N D U S T R I e s
Planned New            nemna
Under       Pre-Construction                      Investments         Employent to be
Under  Pre-Construction          ~in Fixed Assets 2J         Generated 3/
L 0 C A T I 0 N S                     Land Sales            Operating       Construction        Phase             Total        (sx$ millions)             (enor.te)t
(ha)   (Mex' million)
Industrial Estates:
1. Aguascalientes, Age.                81.4        110.8               24               25               59              108                 887                 7,241
2.  Celaya, Guanajuato                 73.8         72.0               11               16               21               48               1,479                 2,676
3.  Durango, Dgo.                      90.2         31.5               24               20                9               53                 363                 1,896
4.  Framboyan, Veracruz               101.0         73.1               15               13               27               55               1,608                 2,506
5.  Iguala, Guerrero                   43.4         32.8                2                4                9               15                 400                 1,400
6.  Leon, Guanajuato 4/                60.0        250.0                -               40               85              125               1,000                 4,000                    I
7.  Linares, Nuevo Leon                 7. 7         7.4                1                4               16               21                  93                   597
8.   'erida, Yucatan                   59.4         34.2               37               12               24               73               1,064                 3,036
9.  Morelia, Michoacan                 29.3         29.4               18               15                5               38                  767                1,079
10.  Queretaro, Qro.                   178.5         95.2                6                9               20               35               1,726                 3,324
11.  Tepic, Nayarit                     59.7         37.5                6               10               22               38                 216                 1,525
12.  Tijuana, Baja California           30.0         53.3               16                6               21               43                 526                 2,534
13.  Tizayuca, Hidalgo                  63.7         66.9               20                9               13               42               1,253                 3,108
14.  Torreon, Coahuila                  30.2         10.3                5               12               21               38                 216                 1,149
15.  Villahermosa, Tabasco              81.4         94.9               34               12               22               68               1,302                 4,421
16.  Xicohtencatl, Tlaxcala             91.1          7.3                -                4                3                7               1,663                 1,780
SUB-TOTAL                      1,080.8      1,006.6              219              211               377             807               14,663               42,272
Comsercial Center:
17.  Mexicali, Baja California          34.4        165.1              103              164               91              358                 736                 5,000
TOTAL                       1,115.2    1,171.7               322              375              468            1,165              15,399                47,272
1/   All projects are industrial parks except for Mexicali, which is a coimercial center.  Three industrial parks under construction: San Juan del Rio, Queretaro;
El Salto, Jalisco (near Guadalajara) and Matamoros, Tamaulipas  are not included in the above listing.
2/   These figures represent the total new investment in fixed assets to be implemented by firms locating on the industrial estate.  It does not include the value                     t|n
of equipment already owned or operated by those firms who are transferring their activities to the estate.
3/   These figures are rough estimates which do not account for possible reduction of jobs in other locations by existing firma transferring to the estate.
4/   The Industrial Estate of Leon is the only joint-venture with private participation.  Leon is presently developing a complex (under construction) for grain
and produce wholesale warehousing ("bodegaS") for 526 individual operations using 20 ha of land, additionally 3 ha have been allocated for shoe factories
which will be transferred to this area during 1980/82.
LCP12
March 1980



- 111 -                             ANNEX 6
T-43
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 43: Consolidated Balance Sheet Summary for the
Fideicomisos Especiales as of December 31, 197P
(in Mex$ million)
Assets                                                        Unaudited 1978
Cash, Bankcs and Marketable Sec.                                   63.3
Mortgage Receivables 1/                                           105.0
Other Receivables                                                  87.3
Net Fixed Assets (Bldgs. and Equipment)                             5.6
Land Inventory 2/                                               1,046.3
Net Deferred Charges                                               72.9
Total Assets                                             1,380.4
Liabilities
Current                                                           235.0
Long Term                                                         209.3
Deferred Credits                                                   74.0
Total Liabilities                                           518.3
Equity
Federal Government                                                470.2
State Government                                                  177.6
Other                                                             299.9
Prior Term Surplus (deficit)3/                                    (70.5)
Current year's surplus (deficit)3/                                (15.1)
Total Equity                                               862.1
Total Liabilities and Equity                             1,380.4
1/   Deferred payments on land sales.
2/   Value of developed land turned over to the Fideicomisos by SAHOP, net
of sales.
3/   The deficit reflects losses on land sold below costs of dLevelopment.
LCPI2
March 1980



- 112 -                                                              ANNEX 6
T-44
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 44: Status of FIDEIN's Industrial Estates Subprogram as of March 1980
Size (sq. m.)         Factory Buildings
Factory                 Authorized by FIDEIN
Companies                                   Industrial Estate           Economic Activity        Building       Land      (Mex$ thousands)
Factory Buildings in Operation 1/
Nipomex, S.A.                               Tijuana, B.C. del Norte        Metal Processing       2,400        10,000            3,537
Elegance de Baja California, S.A.           Tijuana, B.C. del Norte        Leather ware           2,200        10,000            2,906
Sub-total                                                                                                                 6,443
Factory Buildings under
Construction 1/
Profit de La Laguna, S.A.                   Torreon, Coahuila              Textile/Apparel        2,400         6,034            2,996
Bordados Maty, S.A.                         Aguascalientes, Ags.           Textile/Apparel        2,000         4,725            3,948
Sub-Total                                                                                                                 6,944
Factory Buildings in
Pre-Construction Phase 1/
Condimentos del Norte, S.A.                 Torreon, Coahuila              Food Products          1,000         5,000            1,703
Acabados Suaves, S.A.                       Xicohtencatl, Tlaxcala         Textile/Apparel        2,000        20,000            3,829
Productos de Filamentos                     Xicohtencatl, Tlaxcala         Textile/Apparel        1,000         2,000            3,668
Elasticos, S.A. (Profilsa)
Sub-Total                                                                                                                9,200
Advance Construction of
Factory Building 2/
Presently, four factory buildings were authorized by FIDEIN for construction in Tijuana, Baja California del Norte.
Constructed area (sq. m.)-2x2,000 and 2x2,400 ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 22,880
Total Authorized by FIDEIN (under PAI). . . .                          .         .        .         .         ........ . 45,467
1/   Factory buildings with firm sales contract.  All sales consider deferred payments for a period of over five years with 18%
interest rate on unpaid balance.   Factory Buildings in operation got on stream during 1st quarter 1980.
2/   Based on thorough marketing analysis of potential demand including collated applications for factory buildings in Tijuana.
LCPI2
May 1980



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 45: FIDEIN's Industrial Estates Subprogram Construction
Chronogram with Commited Factory Buildings for 1980
(in Mex$ thoisands)
Industrial Estates        Up-to-date 1/    April    May    June    July    Aug.    Sept.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Total
As of March 1980
Factory Buildings
Aguascalientes, Ags.           3,948                6,340*                                                        6,340   16,628
Celaya, Gto.                                                 6,340*                                                        6,340
Durango, Dgo.                                                        5,830*            5,830*                             11,660
Framboyan, Ver.                            6,280*                                                                 6,280*  12,560
Iguala, Gro.                                                                          6,100*             6,100*           12,200
Leon, Gto.                                                                    7,300*                                 -      7,300
Linares, N.L.                                                                 6,010*                                        6,010   E
Matamoros, Tamps.2/                                 6,520*                                               6,520             13,040
Merida, Yuc.                                                 6,880*                                               5,545   12,425
Morelia, Mich.                                                       6,280*                                                 6,280
Queretaro, Qro.                                                               5,925*                                        5,925
Tepic. Nay.                                                                                     5,650*                      5,650
Tijuana, B.C.                 28,576                                                             7,585            7,585   43,746
Torreon, Coah.                 4,699                                                            6,025             6,025   16,749
Tizayuca, Hgo.                                                       6,400                               6,400             12,800
Villahermosa, Tab.                                                                                       8,200*             8,200
Xicohtencatl, Tlax.            5,958                                                   7,120*                              13,078
TOTAL                  43,181        6,280  12,860  13,220  18,510  19,235  19,050   19,260  27,220  31,775  210,591
*     Advance-construction factory buildings.
1/    Cumulative figures for factory buildings committed by FIDEIN.
2/    New industrial estate on stream in 1980.
LCPI2
March 1980



- 114 -                                   ANNEX 6
T-46
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 46: FIDEIN's Industrial Estates Subprogram Execution Schedule
of the Allocated PAI Funds for the Proposed Project Loan
Factory Area        Unit Cost                Total Cost
Completed 1/    Current Prices 2/        Current Prices
(sq. m.)            (Mex$)             (Mex$)  (US$ Equiv.)
1981
Quarter 1                    --                2,900                --         --
Quarter 2                  8,000               3,100               24.8       1.09
Quarter 3                 10,000               3,300               33.0       1.45
Quarter 4                 12,000               3,500               42.0       1.84
Sub-total               30,000                 -                 99.8       4.38
1982
Quarter 1                 14,000               3,650               51.1       2.24
Quarter 2                 16,000               3,800               60.8       2.67
Quarter 3                 16,000               3,900               62.4       2.74
Quarter 4                  8,000               4,000               32.0       1.40
Sub-total               54,000                 -                206.3       9.05
1983
Quarter 1                  2,000               4,100                8.2       0.36
Quarter 2                  2,000               4,200                8.4       0.37
Sub-total                4,000                 -                 16.6       0.73
TOTAL                   88,000                                  322.9      14.16
1/   Includes specialized common service areas.
2/   Base year 1980 - construction cost Mex$2,600/m2;
1981 price escalation factor of 20%;
1982 price escalation factor of 15%.
LCPI2
March 1980



- 115 -
ANNEX 6
NEXICO - SSCOND SM&LL AiD NEDIUN SCALE INDUSTRY DRVRLWPMNNT PROJECT                             T-47
T-48
Table 47:  PIDEIN - Unaudited and Projected Bialance Sheets, 1977-84
(in Mex$ million)
1n a u d i t e d                             Pr  o  1  e  c  t  e  d
1977     q1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984
Assets
Cash, Ranks and Marketable Sec.            .3        8.3        49.2         97.2         68.o         43.4         41.2         39.2
Accounts Receivable                        -          -            -        114.0        366.2        659.5        948.7      1,332.8
Other Receivables                         4.5        3.5          8.0          7.3          6.5          3.7          4.9         4.1
Loans to Fideicomisos Especiales         12.5       17.4         24.5         21.9         19.5        17.0         14.6         12.2
Factory Building Inventory                 -          -            -         69.9          78.3        94.8        142.4        167.6
Equipment and Machinery Inventory          -         -            -           1.5           7.0        10.0         15.0         20.0
Net Fixed Assets                           .4        3.6          2.8          3.7          3.5          3.4          3.2          3.0
Net Deferred Charges                       .4         .5           .4          1.4          1.3          1.2         1.2           1.1
TOTAL ASSETS                     18.1       33.3         84.9        316.9        550.3        835.0      1,171.2     1,580.0
Liabilities and Equity
Liabilities
Accounts payable                          1.6        3.3          4.4          4.8          5.2          5.8         6.3           7.0
Payables to Pial                           -         -          40.3        164.0        360.6        587.8        852.0      1,171.8
Other Payables                             .5         -           1.8          2.0          2.2          2.4         2.7          2.9
TOTAL LIABILITIES                 2.1        3.3         46.5        170.8        368.0        596.0        86t.0      1,181.7
Equity
Government Capital Contributions         79.7     102.0        128.2        250.1        290.0        339.8        402.0        476.1
Prior Term Profit (Loss)                (56.8)    (63.7)       (72.6)       (89.8)      (104.0)      (107.7)      (100.8)       (91.8)
Current Year's Profit (Loss              (6.9)      (8.3)      (17.2)       (14.2)         (3.7)        6.9          9.0         14.0
TOTAL EQUITY                     16.0       30.0         38.4        146.1        182.3        239.0        310.2        398.3
TOTAL                    18.1       33.3         84.9        316.9        550.3        835.0      1,171.2      1,580.0
Table 48:  FTDEIN -Unudl           ted         Incomi Statements, 1977-84
( in HexS mi llIiono8 
U n a u d i t e d                           P  r  o  i e  c  t  a d
1977      1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984
Income
Net Sales of Factory Bldge. 1/             -          -            -         78.7         221.3       319.1        374.1        450.0
Cost of Salea                              -          -            -        (70.8)      (199.2)      (287.2)      (336.7)      (405.0)
Net Interest 2/                           1.1        2.2          4.6          5.7          8.6         17.4         23.1         29.8
Net RentfLeaCe 3/                          -          -            -            -            .4          1.3          3.6          5.2
Services                                  1.3        1.4          3.0         4.0           5.0          6.0          7.0         8.0
Other                                      .1         -            .1           .1           .1           .1           .1           .1
GROSS PROFIT                    2.5        3.6          7.7         17.7         36.2         56.7         71.2        88.1
Expenses
Ads.& Operating Expenses                  9.0       11.2         21.6         28.7         36.7        46.6          59.1         70.9
Financial Expenses                         -          -           1.7
Comniauions                                .3         .5          1.4          3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0
Depreciation                               .1        .2           .2            .2          .2           .2           .2           .2
TOTAL EXPENSES                  9.4       11.9         24.9         31.9         39.9         49.8         62.2         74.1
NET PROFIT (IOSS)           (6.9)      (8.3)       (17.2)       (14.2)        (3.7)         6.9          9.0         14.0
I/  Includee land not eligible for Bank financing.
2/ Contidet  27 spread for FIDEIN on PAI's resources used under the industrial estates subprogra,m plus interest on
amarketa,le securities.
3/  Includes factory buildings and machinery/equipment.
4/  Technical Assistance to the Fideicomisos Especiales.



- 116 -
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 49: Resources Needed to Support FIDEIN's
Expected Level of Operations, 1980-84
PAI Resources
Possible later
Year       Bank         Government         Total        stages of PAI
1980        91.2            72.8            164.0
1981       118.3            96.8            215.1
1982       150.5           123.1            273.6                -
1983        27.4            22.4             49.8               300.0
1984                          -                                 455.0
TOTAL      387.4           315.1             702.5              755.0
Assumptions:
1. Resources outside of the Program are funded by the government to cover
only for administrative and operating expenses of FIDEIN.
2. "Seed capital" of about Mex$ 90.0 million would be provided by the
government to be used as a revolving fund in the construction program.
3. 50% of the unallocated funds of US$8.0 million reserved to FOMIN
and FIDEIN are to be used by the Industrial Estates subprogram.
4. Considers that 80% of Loan No. 1552-ME is disbursed during 1980 and the
remainder during 1981. Although all of it is committed by year-end 1980.
LCPI2
March 1980



- 117 -
ANNEX 6
T-50
Page 1
MEXIC - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 50: Government/Private Sector Complementarity
Private projects tend to attract larger well-financed (generally
medium-scale) firms that perceive the advantages of acquiring estate sites--
a clean, attractive industrial environment and adequate infrastructure and
services. FIDEIN's program goes far beyond the useful but limited objectives
of private estates. Most importantly, FIDEIN targets its resources towards
the smaller and financially more constrained SMI enterprises through selective
promotion, more accessible terms and conditions and prices which may be below
those of private estates but still yield a positive return. Furthermore, in
that same context, prices set by the government industrial estates act as a
barrier against industrial land speculation that otherwise could take place.
Another nioteworthy feature is the attention paid to social infrastructure and
related needs of population growth poles--housing, schools, hospitals and
commercial centers--and the eventual emergence of planned urban center
(ciudades industriales) wherein both jobs and the quality of life are equally
important.
Larger Private Industrial Estates by Location
Location                          Private Industrial Estates
Gonzalez Ortega, Baja Calif. Nte.           Ciudad Industrial El Vigia
Tijuana, Baja Calif. Nte.                   Ciudad Industrial Barranquita
Tijuana, Baja Calif. Nte.                   Centro Industrial Los Pinos
Monclova, Coahuila                          Parque Industrial Monclova
Piedras Negras, Coahuila                    Parque Industrial Castanos
Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua                    Parque Industrial J. Bermudez, S.A.
Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua                    Parque Industrial Juarez
Gomez Palacio, Durango                      Parque Industrial Lagunero
Irapuatc), Guanajuato                       Parque Industrial Irapuato
Guadalajara. Jalisco                        Parque Industrial El Alamo
Cuamant:La, Mexico                          Complejo Industrial Cuamantla
El Oro, Mexico                              Zona Industrial El Oro
Huehuetoca, Mexico                          Parque Industrial Huehuetoca
La Luz, Mexico                              Parque Industrial La Luz
Naucalpan, Mexico                           Parque Industrial La Perla
Netzahualcoyotl, Mexico                     Parque Industrial Netzahualcoyotl
Ocoyoacac, Mexico                           Zona Industrial Oc:oyoacac
Santiago Tianquistenco, Mexico              Parque Industrial Santiago Tianquistenco
Tenango, Mexico                             Parque Industrial Tenango
Tlalnepantla, Mexico                        Centro Industrial Tlalnepantla
Toluca, Mexico                              Zona Industrial Toluca-Lerma
Tultitlan, Mexico                           Parque Industrial Cartagena
Ciudad Lazaro Cardenas Michoacan            Ciudad Industrial Lazaro Cardenas



- 118 -
ANNEX 6
T-50
Page 2
Location                         Private Industrial Estates
Cuernavaca, Morelos                         CIVAC
Puebla, Puebla                              Parque Industrial El Conde
Puebla, Puebla                              Fraccionamiento Industrial Resurreccion
Puebla, Puebla                              Parque Industrial 5 de Mayo
Queretaro, Queretaro                        Parque Industrial de Queretaro
San Juan Del Rio Queretaro, Queretaro       Parque Industrial Valle de Oro
San Luis Potosi, San Luis Potosi            Zona Industrial de la Ciudad de S.L.P.
Mazatlan, Sinaloa                           Parque Industrial Portuario A.V. Bonfil
Guaymas, Sonora                             Ciudad Industrial Pesquera R. Sanchez T.
Nogales, Sonora                             Parque Industrial de Nogales, S.A. de C.V.
Matamoros, Tamaulipas                       Parque Industrial de Matamoros



MEXICO: SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 51: Estimated Breakdown of Technical Assistance Component by Institution for the Proposed Project Loan
(in Mex$ millions)
Patent & Other
Total     Consultants 1/         Information         Machinery &          Other
Services          Equipment 2/
INFOTEC-CONACYT                        16.4           4.5                   5.7                 4.9               1.3
CENAPRO                                18.2           4.0                   3.3                 9.1               1.8
IMIT                                    3.0           0.2                   0.1                 2.4               0.3
FONEP                                   1.8           1.5                   0.1                  -                0.2
FOGAIN                                  7.3           3.4                   1.0                 2.2               0.7
FOMIN                                   3.6           2.7                   0.2                 0.4               0.3
FIDEIN                                  3.6           2.7                   0.2                 0.4               0.3
PAI                                    20.1           6.0                   1.0                12.1               1.0
Other Institutions 3/                   8.6            -                     -                  8.6                -
Total                             82.6          25.0                 11.6                 40.1              5.9
1/  Sufficient to finance technical assistance of about 250-300 man/months by private consultants.
2/  Includes among others audio-visual equipment, laboratory equipment, information, communication qnd
training equipment.
3/ Includes among others the regional laboratories (Centros de Investigacion y Asistencia Tecnica de los
Estados), and technical training schools (Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica (CONALEP)).
LCPI2
May 1980                                                                                                                a.



MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 52: Computation of the Foreign Exchange Cost Content of Program Financing
(All amounts in millions of Mex$ unless otherwise specified)
Percentage Distribution of Total Investment
Off-the Shelf                                 Estimated Percentage
Purchases                                    of Direct and
Directly   of Locally        Cons-               Other   Indirect Foreign        Estimated            Total      Foreign Exchange
Total Invest-  Imported   Manufactured    truc-   Working   Local   Exchange Content              Total Foreign      Program    Cost as % of
Subprogram                     ment Cost    Equipment   Equipment         tion    Capital   Costs   of Project Costs a/   Exchange Costs   Financing   Total Program Financing
Credit and Guarantees            3,952          -              -            -          -        _              -                  1,789             2,975              60.1
-  Credit                        3,907         34.0          26.0         18.5       21.5       -           45.8                  1,789              -                  -
-  Reservz for Guarantees           45          -              -            -          -      100.0           -                     -                _                   -                        -
Risk Capital b/                  1,460         34.0          26.0          18.5      21.5       -           45.8                    672               668             100.6
Industrial Estates b/              501          -             -            -          -         -             -                      59               501              11.8
-  Factory Buildings               451          -             -          100.0        -         -           10.0                     45              -                  -
-  Common Services                  25          -             -          100.0        -         -           10.0                      2              -                   -
-  Equipment Leasing                25         25.0          75.0          -          -         -           47.5                     12              -                   -
Technical Assistance c/            356         20.0            -            -         -        80.0         20.0                     71               356              20.0
TOTAL Mex$                  6,269                                                                                            2,591            4,500               57.6
US$ equivalent          272.6                                                                                            112.6            195.7
a/   Using conservative assumptions of indirect exchange cost content - 30% for off-the-shelf purchases of locally manufactured equipment (based on the estimates of
the Report of the NAFINSA 1UNIDO Capital Goods Study), and 10% for construction and for working capital (the latter two based on Banco de Mexico estimates).
b/   Investment costs and program financing figures have been computed on the assumption that half of the unallocated amount of the loan would be utilized by FOMIN
and half by FIDEIN. The breakdown of FIDEIN's financng is a rough estimate and does not represent allocations.
c/   Bank financing for the Technical Assistance Subprogram would cover only the costs of any directly imported equipment needed for specialized technical
assistance, and the direct fDreign exchange costs of providing training to the extension agents, to the central staff of the Program's Secretariat, and
to the staff of participating institutions.
LCPI2
March 1980
IN 



- 121 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
MEXICO - SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PRtOJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
A.   On the manufacturing sector and financial system
1.   Informacion Economica, various issues; published by Banco de Mexico.
2.   Informe Anual, 1977 and 1978; annual report of Banco de Mexico.
3.   Examen de la Situacion Economica de Mexico, various issues; pub-
lished by Banco Nacional de Mexico.
4.   El Mercado de Valores, various issues; published by NAFINSA.
5.   Transformacion, 12 monthly issues for 1979; published by the Camara
Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion.
6.   Boletin Mensual de Informacion Economica, October 1979; published by
the Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto.
7.   X Industrial Census, 1976 (1975 data); published by the Secretaria
de Programacion y Presupuesto (1979).
8.   Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial (1978-82); issued by the
Secretaria de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial.
9.   Informacion Economica: Producto Interno Bruto y Gasto, Cuaderno
1970-78; published by Banco de Mexico (September 1979)..
B.   On PAI
1.   Actividades PAI-FOGAIN 1979 y Proyeccion a 1980, 1979; draft report
issued by the PAI Secretariat.
2.   Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Pequena y Mediana Industria, Segunda
Parte, 1980; draft report issued by the PAI Secretariat.
3.   Programa General de Actividades 1980, internal report prepared
by the PAI Secretariat.
C.   On FOGAIN
1.   FOGAIN's audited financial statements, 1977 and 1978.
2.   FOGAIN's draft Annual Report, 1979.
3.   FOGAIN's report on 25 years of operations.
4.   FOGAIN's Operating Regulations.



- 122 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
D.   On FOMIN
1.   FOMIN's audited financial statements for 1977 and 1978.
2.   FOMIN's Annual Report (Draft), 1979.
3.   FOMIN's Budget for 1979.
4.   FOMIN's Operating Regulations.
E.   On FIDEIN
1.   FIDEIN's unaudited financial statements for 1977 to 1979.
2.   FIDEIN's operations manual.
3.   Report on FIDEIN by the Industrial Development Authority (IDA) of
Ireland.
4.   FIDEIN's Operating Regulations.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD  15005
5,,  A, ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~6A  I40
-N.~~~~~N
N                                                       --N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A           LiE
E X2 I CMOI C              5                                                    "'
's05~~~~)  /  >,  '>4-..>Z    OF/NElC
SECOD SMLL AD MEILM   CALEj4),-E 0
IN'USTYDVLOMN   ROET4-9AAT
FEI' NOUSTRK  ESTTE SUE                                                                                                                              'R  I  IL
"INDUSTRIAL ESTATES UNUE. WNSTRUC 4'            --
nll..~IIIALL11.11 IN 1I-1-STIECTO  PHAS
N ~~~~~~~~~'-'                                                       44.40~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                BLZ
0 C-WEI.IA1                                                                                  OS                )3        444 0T                  4>
'V.  'K>  'SS'j                           SAIl' EQ  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1TI  UTERE
44  SE AT LAO                                                                            4E410000EAS~~~~~~UATMAL
.6  44"4j9N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HNUIA



