LOAN NUMBER 1881 ME
Loan Agreement
(Second Small- and Medium-Scale
Industry Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1881 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       -J), 1980, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTO  AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FOGAIN" means Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Indus-
tria Mediana y Pequeria, established by a law of the Guarantor
published in the Diario Oficial on December 30, 1953 of which the
Borrower is the Trustee pursuant to a contrato de fideicomiso
between the Guarantor and the Borrower dated April 7, 1954, as
amended; and such term includes the technical and administrative
organization, resources, staff and facilities used, or to be used,
by the Borrower to operate FOGAIN.
(b) "FOMIN" means Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial,
established by a contrato de fideicomiso between the Guarantor and
the Borrower dated April 12, 1972, as amended, and of which the
Borrower is Trustee pursuant to said contrato; and such term
includes the technical and administrative organization, resources,
staff and facilities used, or to be used, by the Borrower to
operate FOMIN.
(c) "FIDEIN" means Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y
Ciudades Industriales y Centros Comerciales, established by a law
of the Guarantor published in the Diario Oficial on December 24,
1970 of which the Borrower is Trustee pursuant to a contrato


﻿-2-
de fideicomiso between the Guarantor and the Borrower dated
February 1, 1971, as amended; and such term includes the technical
and administrative organization, resources, staff and facilities
used, or to be used, by the Borrower to operate FIDEIN.
(d) "Fideicomisos" means FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN.
(e) "Participating Intermediary" means any public or private
financial institution approved by FOGAIN.
(f) "FOCAIN Loan" means a loan made by the Borrower as
Trustee for FUGAIN to a Participating Intermediary to assist the
latter in the financing of an Investment Project in accordance
with the FOGAIN Operating Regulations, such loan to be relent to
an Investment Enterprise and to be partially financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and "FOGAIN Loan Agreement" means the
agreement for the FOGAIN Loan.
(g) "FIDEIN Loan" means a loan made by the Borrower as
Trustee for FIDEIN to a Fideicomiso Especial or Arrendadora
Internacional, S.A. or any other leasing agency to assist in the
financing of an Investment Project under Part A (3) of the Project
in accordance with the FIDEIN Operating Regulations, and to be
partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and "FIDEIN
Loan Agreement" means the agreement for the FIDEIN Loan.
(h) "FIDEIN Operation" means a FIDEIN Loan or an Investment
Project carried out by FIDEIN, and "free-limit FIDEIN Operation"
means a FIDEIN Operation, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit FIDEIN Operation pursuant to the provisions of Section
2.02 (c) (i) of this Agreement.
(i) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by a Participating Intermediary out of the proceeds of a FOGAIN
Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(j) "FOMIN Investment" means an investment made or proposed
to be made by the Borrower as Trustee for FOMIN in an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project in accordance with the FOMIN
Operating Regulations and to be partially financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and "free-limit FOMIN Investment" means a
FOMIN Investment, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
FOMIN Investment pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c)
(ii) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(k) "Investment Enterprise" means (i) a small- or medium-
scale industrial enterprise engaged in the production of goods
or services to which a Participating Intermediary proposes to
make or has made a sub-loan, or (ii) an industrial enterprise in
which the Borrower as Trustee for FOMIN proposes to make or has
made a FOMIN Investment, or (iii) a Fideicomiso Especial or
Arrendadora International, S.A. or any other leasing entity to
which the Borrower as Trustee for FIDEIN proposes to make or has
made a FIDEIN Loan.
(1) "Fideicomiso Especial" means a Fideicomiso established
by the Guarantor for purposes of carrying out its industrial
estates program.
(m) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise or FIDEIN
under Part A of the Project utilizing the proceeds of the Loan.
(n) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor.
(o) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(p) "FOGAIN Operating Regulations" means the operating
regulations of FOGAIN dated April 6, 1954, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
(q) "FOMIN Operating Regulations" means the operating
regulations of FOMIN dated April 12, 1972, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
(r) "FIDEIN Operating Regulations" means the operating
regulations of FIDEIN dated April 27, 1976, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.
(s) "Operating Regulations" means the FOGAIN Operating
Regulations, the FOMIN Operating Regulations and the FIDEIN
Operating Regulations.
(t) "Separate Account" means the account that the Borrower
shall open in its books pursuant to Section 3.09 of this
Agreement.
(u) "Small- and Medium-scale industrial enterprises" means
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises as defined in the
FOGAIN Operating Regulations.


﻿(v) "Prevailing interest rate" means an annual rate of
interest which reflects the average cost of borrowed funds to the
financial departments of multipurpose banks operating in Mexico as
calculated monthly by Banco de Mexico, S.A.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for:
(i) 55% of amounts expended by the Borrower, as Trustee
for the Fideicomisos, under a FOGAIN Loan or FOMIN
Investment or FIDEIN Operation to meet the reason-
able cost of fixed assets and permanent working
capital related thereto required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested; provided, however, that
(A) no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a
FOGAIN Loan, FOMIN Investment or FIDEIN Operation
unless (1) the Bank shall have authorized withdraw-
als from the Loan Account for the FOGAIN Loan,
or (2) the FIDEIN Operation or FOMIN Investment
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (3) the
FIDEIN Operation or FOMIN Investment shall be a
free-limit FIDEIN Operation or free-limit FOMIN
Investment for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account; and (B) the
percentage specified above shall not exceed the
estimated aggregate foreign exchange cost of Part A
of the Project; and
(ii) (A) 100% of expenditures in foreign currency or
70% of expenditures in pesos made by the
Borrower to meet the reasonable cost of
imported goods and services required for Part
C of the Project; and


﻿-5-
(B) 25% of expenditures made by the Borrower to
meet the reasonable cost of local goods
and services required for Part C of the
Project.
(b) The proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated as follows:
(i) $70,000,000 equivalent for FOGAIN Loans;
(ii) $12,000,000 equivalent for FOMIN Investments;
(iii) $8,000,000 equivalent for FIDEIN Operations;
(iv) $8,000,000 equivalent for FOMIN Investments or
FIDEIN Operations once the funds allocated under
subparagraphs (ii) or (iii) above have been with-
drawn from the Loan Account; and
(v) $2,000,000 equivalent for Part C of the Project;
the foregoing allocation of the proceeds of the Loan being subject
to change from time to time as determined by the Bank after
consultation with the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree,
(i) free-limit FIDEIN Operation shall be any FIDEIN
Operation other than: (A) a FIDEIN Operation
consisting of construction of factory buildings of
an area of more than 2,400 square meters, or (B)
a FIDEIN Operation consisting of construction of
factory buildings in respect of which there is no
sale, rent or lease contract, or (C) the first
two FIDEIN Operations made under Part A (3) (ii) of
the Project, or (D) the first two FIDEIN Operations
made under Part A (3) (iii) of the Project; and
(ii) free-limit FOMIN Investment shall be a FOMIN
Investment for an Investment Project in an amount
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
which shall not exceed the sum of $250,000 equiva-
lent.


﻿-6-
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
made before the date of this Agreement, or (ii) expenditures made
by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a FIDEIN Operation or
FOMIN Investment subject to the Bank's approval if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than one hundred and eighty days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect
of such FIDEIN Operation or FOMIN Investment the application and
information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in
respect of a FOGAIN Loan, free-limit FIDEIN Operation or free-
limit FOMIN Investment more than one hundred and eighty days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such FOGAIN Loan, free-limit FIDEIN Operation or free-limit FOMIN
Investment the request and information required by Section 2.03
(b) of this Agreement, or (iii) expenditures in respect of Part A
(1) or Part A (2) or Part A (3) of the Project unless the Borrower
has entered into the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement with FOGAIN or FIDEIN or FOMIN,
respectively, and the Bank has been furnished with an opinion
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing
that such contractual arrangements are legally binding upon the
parties thereto.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a FIDEIN Operation (other
than a free-limit FIDEIN Operation) or FOMIN Investment (other
than a free-limit FOMIN Investment) to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application together
with: (i) an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
summary description of the expenditures proposed to be partially
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and, whenever applicable,
a description of the Investment Enterprise; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the FOMIN Investment or, in the case of a
FIDEIN Operation consisting of a FIDEIN Loan, the terms and condi-
tions of such FIDEIN Loan; and (iii) such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a FOGAIN Loan,
a free-limit FIDEIN Operation or a free-limit FOMIN Investment
shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Pro-
ject, including a summary description of the expenditures proposed
to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and,
whenever applicable, a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the FOGAIN
Loan or free-limit FOMIN Investment or, in the case of a FIDEIN


﻿-7-
Operation consisting of a FIDEIN Loan, the terms and conditions of
such FIDEIN Loan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such technical assistance and productive
facilities and resources in Mexico as will contribute to the
economic development of the country's small- and medium-scale
industry. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Financing of:
(1) Investment Projects through FOGAIN Loans to Participat-
ing Intermediaries for further relending to Investment


﻿-8-
Enterprises; such Investment Projects to consist of
establishment or expansion of productive capacity.
(2) Investment Projects through FOMIN Investments in Invest-
ment Enterprises; such Investment Projects to consist of
establishment or expansion of productive capacity.
(3) Investment Projects consisting of:
(i) construction of factory buildings by FIDEIN or by a
Fideicomiso Especial for purposes of leasing them
with or without option to purchase or selling them
on deferred terms to small- and medium-scale
industrial enterprises;
(ii) construction and equipping of common servic:
facilities by FIDEIN or a Fideicomiso Especial to
be used by small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises; or
(iii) acquisition of industrial equipment by a leasing
entity approved by FIDEIN for purposes of leasing
it with or without option to purchase or selling it
on deferred terms to small-and medium-scale indus-
trial enterprises.
Part B:   Operation of a scheme to guarantee the repayment of the
principal of sub-loans made by Participating Intermedi-
aries to Investment Enterprises, including provision for
an adequate reserve fund.
Part C:   A technical assistance program consisting of: recruit-
ment and training of personnel; technical assistance to
industrial enterprises by industrial extension agents
and specialized agencies; acquisition and utilization of
equipment, materials and services for this program; and
technical and financial assistance to industrial enter-
prises to carry out studies.
(b) The Borrower as Trustee for the Fideicomisos and in its
own capacity shall carry out the Project and conduct its opera-
tions and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and
practices, with adequate personnel, and in accordance with the
Operating Regulations and shall, at all times make available,
promptly as needed, such funds and other resources as shall be
required for the purpose.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) transfer to the Fideicomisos' accounts, for purposes of
Part A of the Project and under contractual arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank, the equivalent in pesos at the time of
withdrawal of each portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account. The Borrower shall not, acting in its own capacity
or as Trustee for the Fideicomisos, change or fail to enforce any
provision of such arrangements; and
(b) use, as Trustee for the Fideicomisos, the amounts
accruing to it from the carrying out of Part A of the Project and
corresponding to the portion of FOGAIN Loans, FIDEIN Operations
and FOMIN Investments financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for
purposes similar to those of said Part of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) Interest on sub-loans shall be payable by the Invest-
ment Enterprises at annual interest rates which, on the average,
shall be equal to the average of the prevailing interest rates in
effect during the twelve months preceding the date on which such
rates are adjusted pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of
this Section plus at least one percentage point.
(b) The Borrower shall adjust the rates of interest pay-
able on sub-loans at least once a year to reflect, on the average,
the change in the average of the prevailing interest rates in
effect during the preceding twelve months in relation to the
average prevailing interest rates used for purposes of the pre-
vious adjustment.
Section 3.04. The Borrower as Trustee for FOMIN shall charge
on any FOMIN Investment consisting of subordinated debt or debt
represented by instruments convertible into equity interest at an
annual rate equal to at least the prevailing rate of interest in
effect at the time such FOMIN Investment is made less three
percentage points.
Section 3.05. The Borrower as Trustee for FIDEIN shall
require that the entities referred to in Part A (3) (i) and (iii)
of the Project charge such fees on the facilities and equipment
included in said Part of the Project and leased or sold on de-
ferred terms as shall be required to recover at least the oper-
ating expenses of such entities in respect of the Project, the


﻿- 10 -
amounts expended to finance such facilities and equipment, and, on
the average, the equivalent of an annual rate of interest on such
amounts at least equal to the prevailing rate of interest in
effect at the time such amounts were expended plus one percentage
point.
Section 3.06. The Borrower as Trustee for FOGAIN shall
require that if a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to a Participating Intermediary in advance of mazurity, or if a
sub-loan shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise dis-
posed of for value by a Participating Intermediary, stch Partici-
pating Intermediary shall iepay promptly to the Borrower the
amounts of the FOGAIN Loan corresponding to such sub-loan or
parts thereof so repaid in advance or disposed of for value.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower as Trustee for the
Fideicomisos undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, a sub-loan or FIDEIN Loan, or FOMIN Investment will be made
on terms whereby a Participating Intermediary or the Borrower
shall obtain, by written contract with an Investment Enterprise or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Participating Intermediary,
including, in the case of any sub-loan or FIDEIN Loan and to the
extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any FOMIN
Investment, the right to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them, and (B) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying our of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank, if the Bank shall so request after consultation with the
Borrower, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and that such insur-
ance cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to the


﻿- 11 -
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceedo of the Loan to the place of use or installation, and
that any indemnity thereunder be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Borrower or the
Participating Intermediaries shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform any of its obligations under its contract with the Parti-
cipating Intermediary or the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and cause the
Participating Intermediary to exercise its rights, in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the Participating Inter-
mediary; (ii) comply with its obligations under the FOGAIN Loan
Agreement or FIDEIN Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the FOGAIN Loans, the FIDEIN Operations,   the sub-loans, and the
FOMIN Investments.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project, to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than one year after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report on the execution and operation of the Project and
its cost and benefits, and on the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain, in its books, a Separate
Account; and
(b) record in the Separate Account: (i) the amounts trans-
ferred to each of the Fideicomisos for purposes of Part A of the
Project and pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(ii) all receipts and payments for or in respect of Part C of
the Project, in accordance with sound accounting practices con-
sistently applied.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall at all times maintain
such organizational arrangements as shall be necessary for
purposes of coordinating the carrying out of all of the several
Parts of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30,
1981, review with the Bank progress made in the carrying out of
the Project; and
(b) as Trustee for FOGAIN and for purpoes of refining
its criteria for project appraisal, carry out, each year during
the 1982-1983 period, an evaluation of a representative sample of
Investment Projects financed out of the proceeds of FOGAIN Loans
completed during that year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower, in its capacity as Trustee for
the Fideicomisos in respect of Part A of the Project, and in its
own capacity in respect of Part C of the Project, shall maintain
or cause to be maintained records adequate to record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of the Borrower in respect
of Part C of the Project and of the Fideicomisos.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) make or cause to be
made an annual audit satisfactory to the Bank of the Fideicomisos'
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements), and of the Separate
Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound


﻿- 13 -
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent and
qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements and
of the Separate Account for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Fideicomisos, the Separate Account
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt or the assets of any of the Fideicomisos as
security for any debt, except as otherwise stated to the Bank in
writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any external debt or the assets
of any of the Fideicomisos as security for any debt, such lien
will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration and operations
of the Fideicomisos, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning such administration and operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) a change shall have been made in any legal instrument
under which FOGAIN, FOMIN or FIDEIN has been established which
would materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the financial condition of FOGAIN, FOMIN or FIDEIN;
(b) a change shall have been made in any of the Operating
Regulations which would materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project; and
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of FOGAIN or FOMIN or FIDEIN.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower and at least one of the Fideicomisos
have entered into the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement are legally binding upon the
parties thereto; and


﻿- 15 -
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions or
agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or other-
wise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform, in its
own capacity and as Trustee for the Fideicomisos, all of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the
Loan Agreement contained, together with all necessary powers and
rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly per-
formed or given and no other such acts, consents and approvals are
required to be performed or given for said purpose.
Section 6.03. The date /9SJ                1q cn, is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
Mexico 1, D.F.
Mexico
Cable address:              Telex:
NAFIN                       NAFIN 383-1775765 BMXME
Mexico City                 Mexico City


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By
Aut'horized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1984
through   December 1, 1996                 3,845,000
On June 1, 1997                                 3,875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are added after the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  %       day of       ., 198 C2.
FOR SECRETARY


