Page  1
CONFORMED COPYU 
 
GRANT NUMBER H334-GM 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Capacity Building for Economic Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 8, 2007 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H334-GM 
(Amendment) 
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development Credit 
Agreement dated August 2, 2001, as amended to date (the Development Credit Agreement), providing an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,000,000)  
(the Credit) for the Capacity Building for Economic Management Project (the Project), as described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further support to the Project, in 
the form of a grant, by increasing the financing made available under the Development Credit Agreement 
by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000) 
(the Grant), such Development Credit Agreement to hereinafter be referred to as the 
“Development 
Financing Agreement” to reflect both the Credit and the Grant (collectively, “the Financing”); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to provide such 
additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. 
All references to the “Development Credit Agreement” are replaced with 
“Development Financing Agreement”, with the exception of the reference in Section 1.01.. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Section 1.01. is amended to read as follows: 
 
“The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the 
Association, dated January 1, 1985 as amended through October 6, 1999, with the modifications 
set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:” 
 
Page  3
2
Section 1.03. 
Section 1.02 is amended by:  
 
(a) 
amending definitions (g) and (h) as follows: 
“(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means with respect to Special Account Credit, categories (1), (2), 
(3), (4) and (5), and with respect to Special Account Grant, categories (2), (3) (4), and 
(5), set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;” 
 
(b) 
deleting the word “and” after definition (r); deleting definition (s) and making the 
 
following additional amendments:  
“(s) 
“Special Account Credit” means the special deposit account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the Credit; 
(t) 
“Special Account Grant” means the special deposit account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the Grant; 
(u) 
“Special Accounts” means Special Account Credit and Special Account Grant, 
collectively; and 
(v) 
“Amending Agreement” means this Agreement Amending Development Credit 
Agreement between the Borrower and the Association, dated November 8, 2007.” 
 
Section 1.04. 
The subject line of Article II is amended to read “The Financing”, and  
Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to:  
(a) lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,000,000)(the Credit); and 
(b) make available an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to two million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000) (the Grant).” 
 
Section 1.05. 
Section 2.02 (a) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.02. (a) (i) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, and services required for all parts of the Project, and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; 
Page  4
3
(ii) 
The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made  
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of goods and services for Part B of 
the Project and Operating Costs, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and  
 
(iii) 
The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project before 
disbursements of the proceeds of the Grant are made.” 
Section 1.06. 
Section 2.03 is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.” 
Section 1.07. 
Section 2.04 is amended to read as follows:  
“Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Grant not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such 
rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) for the Credit, and from the date sixty days after the date of 
the Amending Agreement (the accrual date) for the Grant, to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account  
(as the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately 
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.” 
 
Section 1.08. 
The references to: “Credit” in Section 3.02, Section 3.04 (c), and Article IV are 
deleted and replaced with “Financing”; “Credit Account” are replaced with “Financing Accounts” in 
Article IV; and “Special Account” in Article IV are replaced with “Special Accounts.” 
 
Section 1.09. 
Schedule 1 is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the revised Schedule 1 set 
forth in Annex I to this Amending Agreement. 
Page  5
4
Section 1.10. 
Part 2(f) of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2, is amended to read as follows: 
“Improving the Borrower’s financial management information system by establishing the 
accounting and budgeting modules of an IFMIS, through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training and the acquisition of equipment and software.” 
 
Section 1.11. 
Schedule 5 is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the revised Schedule 5 set 
forth in Annex II to this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 1.12. 
A new Schedule 6 is set out in Annex III to this Amending Agreement. 
Section 1.13. 
All other provisions of the Development Financing Agreement shall remain in 
full force and effect. 
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 
2.01.  This Amending Agreement shall not become effective unless evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution and 
delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by 
all necessary governmental action.  
 
Section 2.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this 
Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to 
the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this 
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of 
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03. 
This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by 
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. 
If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by  
a
date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and  
all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for 
the purposes of this Section. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending 
Agreement had not been executed. 
 
Page  6
5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
 
By /s/ Dodou B. Jagne 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Irene Xenakis 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
Annex I 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the Credit 
Amount of the Grant  
   % of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in    Allocated (Expressed in       Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil Works  
 
 980,000                                  _      
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods 
 
             2,945,000 
 
  900,000  
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
 4,730,000                          870,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
Services 
 
  expenditures 
and 
 
90%
of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
Training 
 1,835,000                        160,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and  
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(5) 
Operating Costs  
 610,000                          70,000 
 
 
90% 
 
 
 
(6) 
Refunding of 
     900,000 
 
 
 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
 
 
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
 
Advance 
 
  this 
Agreement 
(7) 
Unallocated 
0                                  0 
 
________                         _________ 
 
TOTAL 
12,000,000                        2,000,000” 
 
========  
======== 
Page  8
7
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that 
of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs arising under the 
Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, supplies, audits, salaries and allowances of contractual 
staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Financing Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under contracts costing  
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) consulting services under contracts with firms costing  
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) consulting services under contracts with individuals costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (iv) training and Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B. Special 
Accounts
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars Special Account Credit and Special Account 
Grant in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts have been 
opened, withdrawals from the Financing Accounts of amounts to be deposited into the Special Accounts 
shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report referred 
to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis 
of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A 
to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to  
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For 
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  9
8
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Accounts: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Financing Accounts; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts, or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
Credit or the Special Account Grant was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account Credit or the Special Account Grant, as the case may be, (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account Credit 
or the Special Grant Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to 
the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account, as the case may be, for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  10
9
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
(a) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  
(i) 
with respect to Special Account Credit, an amount equivalent to $800,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account Credit pursuant to paragraph 
2
of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000; and  
(ii) 
with respect to Special Account Grant, an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account Grant pursuant to paragraph 2 
of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Accounts shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which in 
the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account Credit or the Special Account Grant, as the case may be, such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
requests for deposit into the Special Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall specify.  Prior to 
or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account Credit or the Special Account Grant, as the case may be, such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into  
Page  11
10
the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the  
Grant Account, as the case may be, under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Grant, as the case may be, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  12
11
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account and the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special Account 
Credit or the Special Account Grant, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account Credit or the Special Account 
Grant shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the Grant Account, as the case 
may be, under one or more of the respective 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Grant Account for deposit into 
the Special Account Credit or the Special Account Grant, as the case may be, shall be supported  
by a Project Management Report. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit or the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account Credit or the Special Account Grant, as the case may be, an amount 
equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has 
determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account Credit, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $1,200,000, and in the Special Account Grant, shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.” 
 
Page  13
12
Annex II 
“Schedule 5 
Performance Monitoring Indicators
 
1. Statistics
:
Medium term strategy for the CSD in place and new statistical law enacted by 
December 31, 2005, results from 2003/4 Integrated Household Survey (including poverty profiles) 
disseminated by December 31, 2005, and revised and updated annual national accounts and price statistics 
published by September 30, 2006. 
2. MFAU
:
Macroeconomic forecasting model for The Gambia introduced by 
 
December 31, 2005. 
3. Revenue
:
Operations of the Gambia Revenue Authority started by September 30, 2006; at 
least 50 per cent of large taxpayers submit self-assessment in the year 2006; CRD and CED information 
technology systems upgraded by June 30, 2006; and the Gambia Revenue Authority operations manual is 
prepared, disseminated to staff, and training provided on its contents. 
4. Customs
:
Data generated on a monthly basis by the ASYCUDA system by 
 
December 31, 2005. 
5. Budget 
Process
:
Budget classification upgraded to international standards 
 
by December 31, 2004; sector strategies for health and education updated by June 30, 2006; recurrent and 
development budgets unified by the 2005 budget; and preliminary adaptation of a medium-term 
expenditure framework (MTEF) initiated for the 2006 budget. 
6. IFMIS
:
Strategy for the Information System Strategy Plan completed 
 
by March 31, 2002; reconciled accounts produced by the Treasury on a monthly basis to multiple users by 
December 31, 2006; 
preparation of the Borrower’s 2007 annual public accounts by March 31, 2008; and 
preparation and commencement of implementation of an IFMIS sustainability plan by January 31, 2008. 
7. Procurement
:
New procurement law adopted by December 31, 2003. 
8. Legal
:
Legal sector strategy finalized and approved by Cabinet by September 30, 2005; 
and Court Case Administration System designed by December 31, 2007. 
9. Reports
:
Report on options for restructuring Registrar-General, Curator of Intestate Estates 
and Registrar of Companies submitted by March 31, 2006. 
10. Assessment 
Report
:
Assessment Report on the Alternative Dispute Resolution Pilot Scheme 
by June 30, 2008. 
11. Financial 
Sector
:
Rationalized system for issuing treasury bills established by 
 
December 31, 2005.” 
 
Page  14
13
Annex III
 
“Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are modified as 
follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read: 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally applicable to the 
Development Financing Agreement to the extent and subject to any modifications set forth in 
such agreement.” 
2. 
Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Borrower” means the party to the Development Financing Agreement to which 
the Financing is made.”  
(b) 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“8. “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular Development 
Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions apply, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time.  Development Financing 
Agreement includes these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
(c) 
The following new paragraphs are added after paragraph 11 of Section 2.01, and 
paragraphs 12 through 14 are renumbered as paragraphs 16 through 18 accordingly: 
“12. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the Development 
Financing Agreement.” 
“13. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on its books in 
the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is credited.” 
“14. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant.” 
“15. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and the 
 
Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the Credit Account or 
the Grant Account).” 
Page  15
14
3. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the General 
Conditions, is modified to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, Article V, Article VI 
(excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01 (d), Article VIII, and Article IX. 
4. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the General 
Conditions, is modified to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 2.01(6), the heading of Article III, 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
5. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, is 
modified to read “Development Financing Agreement”. 
6. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts 
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to the Credit Account and 
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower as provided in the 
Development Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions. The amount 
of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn from 
the Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in Section 3.05 are 
 
modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the Development Financing 
 
Agreement”. 
7. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Borrower shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under 
the Development Financing Agreement in the currency specified in such 
agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the words  
 
“principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
Page  16
15
(c) 
   Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay under the 
Development Financing Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower.” 
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is replaced with  
 
 
the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with  
 
 
the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
(c) 
Section 6.05 is modified to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.” 
9. 
Section 7.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The words “principal or interest or any other amount” in paragraph (b) are 
 
modified to read “any amount”. 
 
(b) 
The word “credit” in paragraph (b)(i) is replaced with the words “credit, grant or  
 
financing”. 
10. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay under the 
Development Financing Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, 
any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower.”” 
 
