Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22516 GM
PROJECT APPRAISAI, DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12 MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JULY 6, 2001
Macroeconomics 5 (AFTM5)
Country Department 14 (CD14)
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of June 200 1)
Currency Unit    =    Dalasi
Dalasi I    =    US$ 0.0625
US$1    =    Dalasis 16
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGD                   Accountant General's Department
ASYCUDA               Automated System Custom Data Administration
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CED                   Customs and Excise Department
CRD                   Central Revenue Department
CSD                   Central Statistics Department
DFID                  Department for Intemational Development
DOSFEA                Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
DOSJ                  Department of State for Justice
EOI                   Expressions of Interest
FMIS                  Financial Management Information System
GDDS                  General Data Dissemination System
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GOTG                  Govemment of The Gambia
GPN                   General Procurement Notice
HIPC                  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD                  Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                   Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                   Intemational Development Association
IFC                   Intemnational Finance Corporation
IFMIS                 Integrated Financial Management Information System
IMF                   Intemational Monetary Fund
l-PRSP                Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISSP                  Information System Strategy Plan
IT                    Information Technology
LAN                   Local Area Network
LTPU                  Large Tax Payers Unit
MDI                   Management Development Institute
MFAU                  Macroeconomic and Financial Analysis Unit
MTEF                  Medium -Term Expenditure Framework
NAO                   National Audit Office
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
NGO                   Non Govemmental Organization
PBU                   Program Budget Unit
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
PER                   Public Expenditure Review
PHRD                  Population and Human Resources Development
PMR                   Project Management Report
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PRSP                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC                   Project Steering Committee
PTS                   Project Technical Sub-committee
RFP                   Request for Proposal
SPACO                 Strategy for Poverty Alleviation Coordinating Office
SPN                   Specific Procurement Notice
TA                    Technical Assistance
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    John Mclntire
Sector Manager:     Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader:   Preeti Arora



REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .....................................................................................1
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ....................................................................................                                                                 1
2.  KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ....................................................................................  I
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ....................................................................................                                                                                 I
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ........................... 1
2. MAIN  SECTOR  ISSUES AND  GOVERNMENT  STRATEGY ....................................................................................                                                2
3.  SECTOR  ISSUES TO  BE ADDRESSED  BY  THE PROJECT AND  STRATEGIC CHOICES ....................                                                       .................................... 4
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .................................................................................... 5
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .................................................................................... 5
2.  KEY  POLICY  AND  INSTITUTIONAL  REFORMS SUPPORTED  BY  THE PROJECT  .........................                                                 ...................................... 6
3.  BENEFITS AND  TARGET POPULATION  .................................................................................... 6
4.  INSTITUTIONAL  AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................................................   7
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ....................................................................................                                                                                 7
1.  PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED  AND  REASONS FOR REJECTION  ...................................                                                 .................................. 7
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES (COMPLETED,
ONGOING  AND  PLANNED) .................................................................................... 8
3.  LESSONS LEARNED  AND  REFLECTED  IN  THE PROJECT DESIGN  ..................................................................................  9
4.  INDICATIONS OF BORROWER  COMMITMENT AND  OWNERSHIIP . ................................................................................ 10
5.  VALUE ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT IN  THIS PROJECT: .....................................................................................                                           1 0
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ....................................................................................                                                                        11
1. ECONOMIC  ........                      ............................................................................  11
2. FINANCIAL ........                      ............................................................................ 11
3. TECHNICAL ....................................................................................                                                                                   I 1
4. INSTITUTIONAL ....................................................................................                                                                               11
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ....................................................................................                                                                               12
6.  SOCIAL  ........                    ............................................................................  13
7. SAFEGUARD POLICIES ....................................................................................                                                                          14
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ....................................................................................                                                                        14
1.  SUSTAINABILITY  .........                   ...........................................................................  14
2.  CRITICAL RISKS ................................................................................................... 15
3. POSSIBLE  CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ....................................................................................                                                             15
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ....................................................................................                                                                            16
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS .................................................................................... 16
2. OTHER .................................................................................... 16
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .................................................................................... 16
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ....................................................................................                                                                   16



ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance



REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTM5
Date: June 24, 2001                                Team Leader: Preeti Arora
Country Director: John McIntire                    Sector Manager/Director: Emmanuel Akpa
Project ID: GM-PE-P057995                          Sector: ME - Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Strengthen Key Aspects of Economic
Management
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan       [x] Credit      1 Grant        [  Guarantee         [  Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 15
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                 Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5 %                                    Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:        Source                       Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                1.52           0.00          1.52
IDA                                                    4.50           10.50         15.00
Total:                                                 6.02           10.50        16.52
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA
Responsible agency: DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Address: The Quadrangle, Banjul
Estimated disbursements (Bank/FY/US$M)
FY          2002         2003          2004         2005         2006          2007
Annual           3.2          4.6           3.6         2.0           1.2           0.4
Cumulative       3.2          7.8          11.4        13.4          14.6          15.0
Project implementation period: 5.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2001         Expected closing date: 1213112006






The Gambia                                                                 Page I
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (See Annex 1)
The project's development objective is to build Govermnent capacity foi economic
policy formnulation and execution. The project will also build the capacity of the judicial and
financial systems to facilitate private sector development. To achieve these objectives, the
project will help strengthen institutional and human capacity in three broad areas: (i) statistical
systems, macroeconomic analysis and poverty assessmnent; (ii) public resource management; and
(iii) facilitation of private sector development. Thc beneficiaries will be consumers of basic
public services, the civil service, and private sector operators. In the first area, the capacities will
be strengthened in: (i) the Central Statistics Department (CSD), which collects, produces and
disseminates macroeconomic and social statistics; (ii) the Macroeconomic and Financial Policy
Unit (MFAU) and the Program Budgeting Unit (PBU) in the Department of State for Finance
and Economic Affairs (DOSFEA); (iii) Strategy for Poverty Alleviation Coordinating Office
(SPACO), which has the responsibility of coordinating the preparation and implementation of
the national poverty strategy and programs; and (iv) Management Development Institute (MDI),
which provides management training to Government officials and the private sector. In public
resource management, capacity will be enhanced in the agencies responsible for revenue
mobilization (currently the Central Revenue Department (CRD) and Customs and Excise
Department (CED)); and expenditure management (the Directorate of Budget, the Program
Monitoring and Budgeting Unit, the Directorate of Loans and Debt Management, and Project
Evaluation and Monitoring Unit - all in DOSFEA, the Accountant General's Department (AGD)
and the National Audit Office (NAO)). Under private sector development, the project will
support capacity building in the financial, legal and regulatory sectors within the Central Bank of
The Gambia (CBG), the Department of State for Justice (DOSJ) and the Gambia Divestiture
Agency (GDA).
2. Key performance indicators: (See Annex l)
Key performance indicators would monitor the availability of macroeconomic data,
preparation and implementation of the budget, availability of audited public accounts, adoption
of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), quality of tax administration, processing
time for rendering judgments, and facilitation of private sector activity.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the
project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R98-131       Date of latest CAS discussion: September 10, 1998
The Board reviewed the most recent CAS on September 10, 1998. The broad objective
of the CAS is to assist the Government of The Gambia (GOTG) in achieving a rapid, broad-
based, export-oriented, sustained increase in GDP per capita that will reduce poverty. This
would be addressed by a two-pronged approach: (i) supporting policy reforms and programs in
support of private sector development and export-oriented growth; and (ii) ensuring the social
sustainability of programs, particularly through human capital development. The Government's



Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                         Page 2
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP, Report number IDA/SecM2000-669) was
presented to the Board on December 14, 2000, along with the Joint Staff Assessment. In it, the
Government recognizes that poverty eradication is best pursued through economic growth and
reduction of inequality of income and opportunities. The Board established - jointly with the
Board of the IMF - that the Government had reached the decision point for eligibility under the
Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Initiative. The full PRSP is expected by end-
2001, with a progress report one year into its implementation as a trigger to reach the HIPC
completion point.
In the area of capacity building for economic management, including good governance,
the main objectives of the CAS imply:
(i) assisting the GOTG in improving its capacity for policy formulation and implementation and
promoting efficiency in public resource management. Efficiency gains in public resource
management are expected to translate into improved service delivery, leading to better economic
and social outcomes.
(ii) assisting the GOTG to establish a conducive environment for private sector-led growth and
development, focusing on capacity building activities in the financial and legal sectors as well as
the regulatory framework for reconciling private and public interests as private sector-led
development proceeds.
Strengthening capacity of economic management institutions, improving public resource
management, creating a framework for resource allocation that is tilted towards providing
services to the poor, private sector development and promoting public-private partnerships
feature prominently in The Gambia's I-PRSP.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Between 1986 and 1993, reforms were pursued steadily, with good results in stabilization
and trade and exchange rate liberalization. During the period 1993-97, the economy suffered a
series of shocks, including the coup d'etat in 1994. The latter prompted the suspension of most
donor assistance, including the Bank's. Economic growth fell and major macroeconomic
imbalances emerged. Completion of presidential and legislative elections in 1997 considerably
reduced the country's political isolation and improved its economic prospects. The Government
took a number of measures to restore macroeconomic stability and began to normalize relations
with donors. On March 31, 1998, IDA's Board approved its first credit to the country (health
sector) after a hiatus of four years. On June 29, 1998, the IMF Board approved a 3-year PRGF
Program. The economy recovered and real GDP growth in 1999 rose above 5 percent, after
several years of stagnation. However, throughout this time the country's economic performance
has been constrained by human and institutional capacity limitations.
The formulation, execution and evaluation of macroeconomic, structural and social
policies suffer from lack of reliable and timely data; organizational weaknesses; poor human
resources; lack of logistics; and a lack of coordination across various agencies. Staff and
equipment inadequacies at the Central Statistics Department hamper the production and



The Gambia                                                                    Page 3
dissemination of statistics. Similarly, capacity constraints limit the ability of the MFAU to
formulate, implement, and evaluate macroeconomic and related policies.
Public resource management has shortcomings in tax administration and in expenditure
planning and execution. With revenues at about 20 percent of GDP (among the highest in Sub-
Saharan Africa), the Government now can turn its attention to tax reforms that reduce the
"excess burden" of taxation, including on the poor. Those reforms ought to also enable it to
capture a wider base efficiently and, thereby, permit it to maintain the level of resource
mobilization attained while allowing for a pro-poor tax structure that supports growth.
A study of the current revenue administrations was financed under the PPF of the project
to identify weaknesses and make recommendations for increasing the efficiency of the tax
structure and its administration. The study found weaknesses in: (i) database management; (ii)
tax assessments; (iii) taxpayer services; (iv) audit and investigation procedures; (v) recovery of
tax arrears; (vi) policy constraints on tax administration; (vii) structure of CRD; (viii) human
resource management; and (ix) information technology.
The Gambia has made considerable progress in reducing its unsustainably high fiscal
deficits since 1998. This has been largely accomplished through the compression of non-wage,
non-interest expenditures. As a result, aggregate fiscal control has been generally maintained.
However, as indicated in several studies, including the Public Expenditure Management study
financed under the PPF, allocative and productive efficiency of expenditures has not been
achieved. This has been attributed to: (i) limited fiscal discipline due to lack of transparency and
accountability; unpredictability in the budget process; and reliance on inadequate and often
outdated computer hardware; (ii) lack of strategic prioritization - inter-sectoral allocations do not
necessarily reflect strategic priorities, and intra-sectoral allocations are not always aligned with
declared policies. This is due to scarce human capacity in line ministries to formulate policies
and to link them with the planning and budgeting of public resources; separate preparation of
recurrent and investment budget (without analytical linkages, including programming of external
financing and recurrent budget); and inadequate information on disbursements provided to line
ministries during budget execution; and (iii) low operational efficiency - both financial and
human resources are managed below their potential.
Problems in Government accounting, accentuated by the lack of a reliable computerized
financial management system, are also pervasive. These include: (i) long delays in producing the
general ledger and reconciling bank data with cash books; (ii) incomplete coverage of the general
ledger; (iii) proliferation of below the line accounts and lack of information on these accounts;
and (iv) absence of audited public accounts since the early 1990s. As a result, reliable,
comprehensive and timely fiscal reports are not available to policymakers to plan, implement and
monitor the annual budget.
Private sector development is hindered by: (i) lack of good legal, regulatory and
incentive frameworks to support investment; (ii) inadequate enforcement of laws for economic
processes - laws are outdated and performance of the judicial system is ineffective; (iii) a weak
financial sector offering few financial instruments and services, resulting in high cost of credit;
(iv) delays in privatization of public enterprises that could provide opportunities to the private
sector; and (v) poor economic governance.



Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                                  Page 4
Government Strategy. The problems discussed above are also touched upon in the I-
PRSP. It recognizes that poverty eradication is best pursued through economic growth and
reduction of inequalities of income and opportunities. In this regard, it identifies ten program
areas supporting the five pillars1 of its strategy. The I-PRSP makes it clear that success in these
program areas will require strengthening capacity of economic management institutions,
improving public resource management, creating an accounting framework for resource
allocation geared towards providing services to the poor, and private sector development. It also
recognizes the importance of good statistics for social and economic development policies, in
poverty diagnostics and monitoring. Strengthening data collection procedures and improving the
quality and coverage of the data sets on national accounts, employment, household expenditure,
and social statistics will give the resulting estimates of poverty both greater credibility and
heightened prominence in national policy discussions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
First, the proposed project will help improve formulation, execution and evaluation of
macroeconomic, structural and social policies by facilitating the timely production of
macroeconomic and social statistics to help the authorities to make informed decisions. It will
strengthen macro policy making and related institutions to efficiently use this information to
formulate, implement and evaluate policies.
Second, the project will provide tools to better manage public resources to deliver basic
services. This will be achieved through strengthening Government capacity and institutions to
promote efficiency - both in revenue mobilization and expenditure management.
On the revenue front, the objective is to improve the efficiency of tax collection, enhance
accountability, and to improve the quality of services to the private sector. The project will
support the authorities desire to establish an independent revenue authority over the medium-
term. To lay the basis for this, the project will strengthen the existing tax collecting agencies -
CED and CRD - through: (i) upgrading equipment, establishing an appropriate accounting
framework, linking the two departments' computer systems, and providing training related to
strengthened collection and management; (ii) supporting the design and implementation of
institutional reforms; (iii) establishing a unified tax information system and independent audits;
and (iv) improvements in assessment and collection modalities for non-tax revenues.
Institutional reforms necessary for the creation of the revenue authority will also be studied, such
as ways to handle the legal status, internal and external accountability rules and regulations,
personnel management policy, and an incentive system.
The project will improve public expenditure management by helping strengthen fiscal
discipline, strategic prioritization and operational efficiency. The identified problem areas
include budget preparation (linkages between budget estimates and expenditure, between budget
ceilings and departmental submissions, and between recurrent and development budget); budget
execution (commitment controls, authorization of payments, execution of mandates, etc.); and
1 (i) Enhancing the productive capacity of the poor; (11) Improving access to and the performance of social services;
(111) Building capacities at local levels for people-centered development management; (IV) Promotion of
participatory processes and good governance; and (V) Provision of economic and social infrastructure support to the
poor.



The Gambia                                                                              Page 5
budget monitoring and accounting. The project will help the Government to move towards an
MTEF over the next several years. It will also support the establishment of an Integrated
Financial Management Information System  (IFMIS) as well as reform  of the procurement
system.
Third, the project will help build capacity to facilitate private sector development,
focusing primarily on the legal, financial, and regulatory sectors. Capacity of the legal sector to
promote sound and efficient administration of justice and provision of efficient legal services
will be built through: (i) training of judges, magistrates, court registrars and court officials in the
Judiciary; (ii) preparation of a judicial information strategy and establishment of a Court Case
Administration System for the High Court of The Gambia; (iii) establishing a pilot dispute
resolution system; (iv) restructuring of the Registrar General, Curator of Interstate Estates and
the Registrar of companies and attachments to appropriate institutions in small commonwealth
countries; and (v) refinement of legal/judicial sector strategy.
The Divestiture Strategy has been finalized with technical assistance provided under the
PPF for the proposed project. The project will fund training for the staff of the Gambia
Divestiture Agency to implement privatization transactions and support building regulatory
capacity. It will also fund technical advisory services to carry out a study of the Social Security
and Housing Finance Corporation to prepare it for divestiture. In the financial sector, the project
will fund short-term specialized training and technical assistance in banking supervision and
enforcement of prudential norms, liquidity forecasting, book-keeping for Treasury accounts and
the development of a framework for micro finance.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative                 Bank-        % of
Component                Sector       Costs        % of       financing      Bank-
(US$M)       Total       (USSM)    financing
l. Statistical systems,        Institutional    3.43         20.8         3.15         21.0
macroeconomic analysis and     Development
policy formulation
1. Strengthening National
Statistical System
2. Strengthening Macroeconomic
Analysis and Poverty Assessment
3. Strengthening Management
Development Institute
II. Public Resource Management  Public        9_11          55.15         8.19      54.6
Financial
1. Strengthening Central Revenue   Management
Department (CRD) and Customs
and Excise Department (CED)



Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                                 Page 6
indicative               Bank-       % Of
Compnnt                Sect ;r                  % of    financing      Bank-
_______________________      (U$$M)       ro~~tal    (S$A       financing
2. Strengthening Public
Expenditure Management
3. Developing an Integrated
Financial Management Information
System (IFMIS)
4. Introducing and implementing
Procurement Reform
Ill. Facilitation of private sector          1.36       8.23        1.31     8.73
development
(i) Strengthening the capacity of
the legal sector
(ii) Central Bank of The Gambia
(iii) Strengthening the Gambia
Divestiture Agency
Project Management                           0.58        3.51       0.49        3.27
PPF Refinancing                              1.20        7.06       1.20        8.00
Contingencies                                0.84        5.08       0.84         5.60
Total Project Costs              16.52      100.0       15.00      100.0
Total Financing Required              16.52                  15.00
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Government has a generally sound policy agenda, which is supported by the donor
community. The main focus of the project is to build capacity to effectively implement and
reinforce current good policies and provide a basis for further reform. It will support: (i)
economic and financial planning, policy formulation and macroeconomic management; (ii)
budget process reforms, including a design of the MTEF and establishment of an IFMIS; and (iii)
institutional reforms in the area of revenue collection leading to the establishment of an
independent revenue authority; adoption of a new procurement code; better liquidity
management in the CBG and strengthened capacity of the judicial system.
3. Benefits and target population:
The expected benefits are improved economic policy analysis and management; higher
efficiency, transparency and impact in the use of public resources; improved performance of
institutions entrusted with enforcement of laws in economic processes, thus improving economic
governance; and enhanced overall performnance in growth and poverty reduction.
The project will improve the ability of the Government to formulate and implement
economic policy. It will also improve its ability to collect taxes to finance public expenditures.



The Gambia                                                                  Page 7
At the same time, it will benefit taxpayers by simplifying tax and customs procedures, and
improving taxpayer assistance services. Improvements in public expenditure management would
enable the Government to allocate public funds to priority areas, maintain macroeconomic
stability and enhance cost-effectiveness of its operations.  Greater emphasis on results,
strengthened evaluation mechanisms and increased information availability through better
statistics will help improve accountability in the public sector and the quality of public services.
The project will benefit three broad target groups: (i) consumers of public services will benefit
from improved management of public resources; (ii) the private sector will benefit from
improvements in the financial and legal environment and the enforcement of laws for economic
processes; and (iii) the civil service will benefit from strengthened technical and management
capacity, which, in turn, will contribute to changing attitudes to better serve their clients. At the
organization level, the project will benefit key economic management agencies by providing
them with technical assistance, information systems, equipment and training, thus enabling them
to better perform their functions. Achievement of project benefits will be assessed through two
beneficiary surveys to be conducted at mid-term and project end.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The overall responsibility for project implementation is assigned to DOSFEA. A Project
Oversight Committee comprising the Secretary of State, DOSFEA (Chairman), the Secretary of
State, DOSJ and the Governor of the Central Bank wvill provide high level political support and
guidance. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) comprising heads of the beneficiary institutions
will oversee the implementation of the project; lead the organization and management of
reforms; and coordinate inter-agency relations.
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will coordinate and monitor project activities and
manage the financial, procurement, record-keeping and reporting activities. The Unit will be
made up of: (i) a Project Director; (ii) a deputy Project Director; (iii) a Financial Controller; and
(iv) a Procurement Officer. The PCU will collect and monitor project performance indicators;
prepare the report for mid-term review by the Government (by June 2003) and by the Bank (by
September 2003). The Project Director will serve as the Secretary to the PSC.
Project Technical Sub-committees (PTS) will be responsible for the specific technical
details in their respective project areas. They will develop annual and quarterly work programs
for submission to the PCU and prepare quarterly assessment reports, including the impact of the
project on their institution. They will be responsible for managing the processes associated with
the introduction of new procedures and systems.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A hybrid operation (Economic Management SECAL) was considered as an alternative in
1994. The Economic Management SECAL's objective was to strengthen capacity in the areas of
public resource management and to carry out civil service reform and some legal reforms. The
quick-disbursing component was to support implementation of budgetary and civil service
reforms. Following further deterioration of capacity for economic management after 1994, the



Capacity Buildingjbr Economic Management Project                                              Page 8
Government of The Gambia (GOTG) requested that the proposed operation focus only on
capacity for overall economic and public resource management. The decision to drop the civil
service component was also based on a desire to have a simpler operation. It is also based on the
realization, as reflected in the new CAS, that adjustment support could be offered separately,
with a focus on: (i) public finance management and reducing the stock of domestic debt; (ii)
reforms of the regulatory and incentive frameworks; (iii) trade liberalization; (iv) broadening the
divestiture program; and (v) deepening financial sector reforms.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development
agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                       (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation     Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-Financed
Public resource management, the   SAL II (closed in July 1992)          S                 S
civil service and public enterprise
reforms
Access to a minimum package of    Participatory Health, Population      S
basic health services and         and Nutrition Project
improvement of the basis for health
financing policy, including cost
recovery
Higher primary school enrollment    Education Sector Program            S                 S
and the quality, vocational training,
the efficiency, equity and cost
effectiveness of public expenditure
Improvement of the Consumer Price  IDF Grant
Index
Other development agencies
Economic management               Economic Management
Capacity Building (UNDP,
DFID) - The UNDP program
met with only partial success on
the objective of creating
Government capacity to
formulate, implement and
monitor its development
policies and programs in support
of sustained development.
DFID is supporting the Auditor
General's Department
Support to the National Audit Office   Technical Assistance from the
DFID
Records Management                DF1D
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



The Gambia                                                                  Page 9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A key lesson learned from the Second Structural Adjustment Program (SAL II) for The
Gambia is that weak institutional capacity to design and implement development programs
seriously undermines the sustainability of policy reforms. Capacity building efforts had limited
success due to a high dependence on long-term technical assistance (TA). Results were
disappointing because TA was underutilized and arrangements were rarely made to ensure that
local teams benefited from transfer of knowledge. Training was often ad hoc. With this lesson
in mind, the proposed program will address capacity building in a broader way, with emphasis
on the transfer of skills and systems. It will package training and institution of new procedures
in such a way as to have them reinforce one another.
In statistics, a major lesson learned is that capacity building should have a long-term
strategy covering a period longer than project implementation, and capacity building should be
accompanied by appropriate organizational/managerial measures, to match the new increased
capacities and achieve sustainability. Such a strategy will be followed under the project and the
organization and role of the CSD will be appropriately defined in a revised Statistics Act.
Lessons based on the experience in other Bank-supported projects in public expenditure
management are the following: making budget classification and reporting systems link
resources to outputs and ultimately to outcomes improves transparency and ensures fiscal
discipline; country-wide ownership for the MTEF process increases the likelihood of success;
proceeding at a measured pace using appropriate pilots allows time for absorption; and donor
coordination helps avoid duplication of effort and sending conflicting signals to the Government.
With the benefit of these lessons as a guide, the project will combine support to improve the
budget process, with the introduction of program lbudgeting. It will support training for the
MTEF and the preparation of participatory public expenditure reviews. The MTEF will be
piloted in five key departments. During the preparation of the project, the Bank has been in
close contact with other donors - DFID, EU and the UNDP - to coordinate efforts in this area.
In IFMIS, experience in other countries indicates the importance of phasing, with the first
phase dealing with the preparation of the Information System Strategy Plan (ISSP) and the
second phase dealing with the design and implementation of the IFMIS. The latter itself should
be carried out in a phased manner with milestones established for design of system architecture,
acquisition and installation of hardware and software, testing and validation. This approach will
be followed in the project. To improve the chances of success, the system will be limited to
financial management information systems (as opposed to non-financial data systems which are
expected to be developed through sectoral programs); and will commence with budgeting and
accounting. Further, introduction will be gradual, beginning with pilots in Finance, Education,
Health and Agriculture.
In the legal sector, lessons from other countries demonstrate the need for an in-depth
review to develop a strategic vision for the sector as a basis for a medium-term program of
capacity building. Such a review was undertaken and needs identified for the CBEMP. These
underpin the project activities.



Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                        Page 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has prepared an I-PRSP and is producing a full PRSP for end-2001.
The process has underscored the need for an improved economic management capacity,
including the ability to monitor and evaluate progress on poverty reduction. The Government
has accordingly pursued the CBEMP with renewed interest as an instrument to help it in this
area. It has taken the following steps to demonstrate strong commitment to the project: (i)
setting up a Task Force (TF) to prepare a participatory workshop to discuss with IDA and other
donors, the objectives and scope of a comprehensive program for economic management (end-
March/early April 1999); (ii) initiating project preparation by carrying out several studies using
PPF and PHRD resources; (iii) initiating staff training at the Customs and improving the
ASYCUDA system; (iv) auditing several Departments, including the Accountant General's
Department and publishing the audits; (v) completing PERs for education, health and agriculture;
and (vi) upgrading the external debt management system and training under the PPF.
The delay in bringing the project from the concept to the appraisal stage has partly been
due to poor consultant performance on the preparation of some diagnostic reports. Government
interest has been sustained and they are keen to get this support to build their economic
management capacity in order to deliver on their reform program and strategy for poverty
reduction. Further, other donors, especially the IMF, continue to urge the Government to build
capacity to fully implement the program agreed under the PRGF. This commitment is backed up
by only a low level of capacity for economic management, but in the team's judgment, this is a
sufficient base to build on.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of the Bank's support comes from the expected use of its long standing
involvement in public sector reforms, as well as its rich cross-country experience to enhance
chances of success in introducing new abilities, techniques and processes in the areas chosen for
capacity building. Drawing on its synergy with ongoing dialogue on reforms, this Project will
help sustain and reinforce consensus among departments about the need for a stronger capacity
for more effective public resource management and general economic management. The Bank's
experience as well as impartiality provide the Government of The Gambia with the backing it
needs to overcome possible resistance to change and attempts at capture by vested interests
during procurement of services and inputs.
While Government accounting is deficient, with public accounts not having been
produced since 1992, technical assistance to improve the system has been patchy. The CBEMP,
through the introduction of the IFMIS, will provide much needed support to produce annual
public accounts within the timeframe stipulated by the Constitution. The Bank's experience in
other countries also assures other donors that the program in this area will draw on considerable
accumulated experience. This has the added value of procuring support for the Government
from those other donors.



The Gambia                                                               Page 11
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see
Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Not Applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The project's capacity building features do not make it amenable to a precise calculation of
rates of return.  Nevertheless, investments in technical assistance, training and selected
information technology improvements should result in fiscal savings through improved public
resource management in the medium and the long tern.
Fiscal Impact:
Better statistics, economic management and policy will improve the allocation of public
resources to priority areas. An efficient public financial management system will reduce revenue
leakages; curb irregularities in budget execution; and generally improve accountability. Modem
information technology will raise efficiency in the use of public resources by reducing
administrative costs.
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound and design of the project components is based on
standard principles and recognized best practices. The statistical component will support the
preparation of key statistics in a timely and accurate manner based on standard methods. The
public expenditure management component will finance the adoption of good practices for
budget formulation, implementation and monitoring. Adoption of these practices will ensure
budgetary discipline, transparency and public expenditure accountability. The strengthening of
analytical and forecasting capabilities within the DOSFEA will achieve similar gains. The
IFMIS component will finance the modernization of public expenditure management.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The DOSFEA will implement the project. DOSFEA has demonstrated its commitment to
the project by assigning high level staff to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) charged with the
responsibility of coordinating all beneficiary agencies during project preparation. Staffing of the
PCU is in progress (see 4.2 below). A steering committee has also been established which meets
regularly to review consultant reports and make recommendations on actions to be taken and
guide the PCU on options and strategies to be pursued under the project.
4.2 Project management:
The PCU will coordinate project activities. It will manage the financial, procurement and



Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                        Page 12
reporting activities. Draft terns of reference have been prepared for Project Director, Deputy
Project Director, Financial Controller and Procurement Officer.  Appointment of suitably
qualified persons to the Unit is in progress. Project Technical Sub-committees have been
established and will be responsible for specific technical areas.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement issues that may negatively affect the ability of the agency to carry out
the procurement process are: (i) inadequate set of policies and procedures (regulations/codes);
(ii) lack of procurement organization; (iii) insufficient procurement staff; and (d) lack of overseer
or adjudicator to assure that procurement is performed in an effective manner.
Measures to mitigate the above-mentioned issues have been taken in setting up the
procurement processes for the project (Annex 6). More thoroughgoing improvements will be
made through Public Procurement Reform in the Gambia, also supported by the project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The PCU, which will be in charge of the financial management, is a new unit to be set up
and as such does not have any past experience. This may negatively impact the project's
financial management. But measures to mitigate this risk have been taken as a result of the
financial management capacity assessment and the related action plan. These measures include
recruitment of a qualified Accountant, the installation of a financial management system, the
development of an Operations Manual and the selection of an independent auditor.
5. Environmental:
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
s. 1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP
preparation (including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their
treatment emerging from this analysis.
An Environment and Social Data Sheet has been prepared.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:  Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening
and (b) draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment
management plan? Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and whlich groups
were consulted?



The Gambia                                                                Page 13
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the
project on the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Key social issues and social development outcomes:
The project does not have direct impact on social outcomes. It will improve the
Government's capacity to manage its resources effectively and channel them appropriately to
provide key social and economic services to the most vulnerable people, thus contributing to
poverty alleviation. Strengthening social statistics and improving household and labor force
surveys will also provide the basis for monitoring the use of resources made available to the
Government as part of HIPC debt relief and for implementing its poverty reduction strategy.
6.2 Participatory Approach:
A participatory workshop was held in April 1999 to discuss with the Government, civil
society and donors the objectives and scope of a comprehensive program for economic
management. Regular meetings and consultations are held at DOSFEA involving all project
beneficiary agencies to discuss key issues relating to the project components. Bank and other
bilateral and multilateral donors that are involved in capacity building initiatives have also
maintained an open dialogue on capacity building issues to ensure that assistance is
complimentary in nature.
6.3 Coordination with NGOs and other civil society organizations:
A stakeholders workshop, with active participation of Government departments, NGOs,
trade unions, University and civil society was organized to discuss the mandate and structure of
the Apex statistics body. Several options were discussed at the workshop and it was agreed that
a National Statistical Council will be established to oversee the operation of the CSD. The
project will also provide training to relevant staff on integrating social sectors, NGOs and gender
issues in economic planning, monitoring and performance evaluation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves
its social development outcomes?
Strengthened capacity for economic management in key Government Departments will
facilitate effective use of Government resources ancd enhance the impact of public expenditures.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development
outcomes?
The project will contribute to achieving CAS objectives with impact on social outcomes
to be monitored as shown in Annex 1.



Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                             Page 14
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of thefollowing safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                  Applicabli ty
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                   No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                           No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                            No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                          No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                           No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                     No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                      No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)           No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable
safeguard policies.
None of the safeguard policies are applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The following factors are critical to the sustainability of project benefits:
(i) Political commitment to program objectives - effecting better public expenditure management
by introducing a transparent and streamlined budgeting framework and improving accountability
by institutionalizing monitoring mechanisms depends on political commitment beyond the
control of the project. The project builds capacity to enable the Government to achieve these
objectives.
(ii) Demand for quality services - continuing public demand for improvements in the quality of
public services, particularly in revenue administration, public expenditure management and
public procurement is important to institutionalize and sustain the reforms supported under the
project.
(iii) Macroeconomic stability - fiscal discipline is essential to receive support from donors,
including under the HIPC initiative that will provide resources for the poverty reduction
program.
(iv) Provision for recurrent costs - availability of sufficient resources to maintain the institutions
and systems put in place under the project, especially for the CSD and public expenditure
management.
(v) Retention of skilled staff.
(vi) Capacity to manage and maintain the IFMIS.



The Gambia                                                                                 Page 15
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of
Annex 1):
Risk                Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to               M          Such commitment has been made by the Government in
improve transparency and                         its I-.PRSP. The Gambia is participating in the HIPC
accountability does not materialize.             initiative and has accepted to put monitoring mechanisms
to improve accountability. Continuous dialogue with
Government will emphasize that donor support will
dwindle without reforms.
Project management is not strong       M          The project management team will be carefully selected
enough to ensure prompt and                      based on experience in implementation of similar
complete implementation of the                   programs. Further, the highest level of commitment at the
project.                                         technical level through the Project Steering Committee
will lend support on the political and technical fronts.
Improvements in budget planning,       M         DOSFEA's approach to have key line departments
execution and monitoring are not                 engaged in the dialogue, especially on public expenditure
realized because of constraints                  issues (participatory public expenditure reviews), at an
beyond DOSFEA.                                   early stage reduces this risk; national consultative
workshop to identify priorities organized by the GOTG.
Resistance to the implementation of    N         The full integration of the FMIS into the modified public
IFMIS in line departments.                       expenditure system reduces this risk. Some departments
(health and education) have started preparing FMIS.
From Components to Outputs
The Personnel Management Office        M         It is expected that most staff will be trained in country.
of The Gambia has identified three               The project will improve the working environment
areas of high staff turnover - CSD,              through provision of equipment and information
AGD and Attorney General's Office.               teclmology, thus raising the morale of the employees.
There is a risk that staff trained               The Government has instituted a study on ways to
during the project will leave for the            improve staff retention.
private sector.
Inadequate resources to ensure         M         Government has shown commitment by providing
sustainability of capacity building              annually an allocation in the budget for staff training.
for public resource management.                  Under its good governance program, the Government is
working on a public sector management and
adrninistrative reform project.
Overall Risk Rating                    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The Cabinet has passed a motion that limits the salaries of the staff of the PCU to levels
much below the current market rate. This may iimpact negatively on the quality of staff and
hamper smooth project implementation. The Government has agreed to use the services of
specialists in the field of accounting and procurement to provide technical assistance and training
to project staff in the first year.



Capacity Buildingfor Economic Management Project                         Page 16
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i) The adoption by the Borrower of a Project Implementation Plan in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA;
(ii) The establishment by the Borrower of an accounting and financial management system
satisfactory to IDA; and
(iii) The appointment by the Borrower of independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit Project
records and accounts.
2. Other
(i)  Information Technology Advisor on board by December 2001.
(ii) Acceptance by IDA and the GOTG of final report on ISSP by May 2002.
(iii) Acceptance by IDA and the GOTG of new system architecture for IFMIS by March 2003.
In the absence of Government actions to meet these milestones, the Bank will withhold
disbursements under the IFMIS component.
H. Readiness for Implementation
I A  l.(a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation.
Ix] 1.(b) Not applicable.
[x] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation (substantively prepared and agreed during negotiations).
[x] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality (agreed during negotiations)
] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Preeti Arora                  Emmanfiel Akpa                  John McIntire
Team Leader                   Sector Manag r                  Country Director



Annex 1
The Gambia                                                                                         Page 1
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Hierarchy of           Key Perfonnance             Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
Objectives                Indicatoms                Evaluation
Sector-rlated CAS Goal   Sector indicatws           Seor I Country report    (frm  Goal to Bank Mi.si)
1. To improve the impact    Trends in literacy rates,  Household survey and   Efficient management of
of Government resources    infant mortality, poverty    other poverty survey  resources leads to
on economic and social    levels.                   reports; economic and     improvement in social
outcomes.                                           social statistics.        outcomes and reduction of
poverty.
2. Growth supported by    Trends in growth rates,   National income accounts   Continued improvement in
efficient, transparent and    private investment.   statistics.               social and business climate;
effective governance.                                                         private sector responds to
improved framework.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports           (from Objetve to Goal)
Objecfive                 Indiktrs
Build Government capacity  Reliable social and      Supervision reports;      Government commitment to
for economic planning,    economic data required for  Government statistical  implement the reforms.
policy formulation and    policy formulation and    reports; Beneficiary
execution.                poverty analysis by project  survey.
end.
A comprehensive budget    Supervision reports; budget
within a medium-term      documents.
expenditure framework is
presented by the time the
project comes to an end.
New accounting            Monitoring reports on
procedures are established;  budget execution; audited
audited accounts are      accounts.
produced annually and
reviewed by the
Parliament's Public
Accounts Committee;
IFMIS roll-out begins to all
departments by project end.
Build the capacity of the  Reduced processing time    Supervision reports;    Initial capacity building
judicial and financial    for rendering judgments by  financial sector statistics.    efforts followed by
systems to facilitate private  25 percent; Framework                          comprehensive sector
sector development       being developed to provide                           reforms.
financial intermediation to
the informal sector.



Annex 1
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                                                 Page 2
Htierarhy of             yPrfmac                     otrig&CtcaAsu                         ton
Outputtiw;ih00000 from eac  Oupu IdictorsP0$et Rpots(fo  outputs ,i)to obect;0ives
I. Statistical systems,
and macroeconomic and
poverty analysis.
1. Statistical infrastructure  Increase in response rate  National Accounts  Government commitment to
and a system that is able to  from 20 % to 50 % and  Statistics; CSD's quarterly   sustain the reform of the
provide accurate and      coverage from 60 % to 80   progress reports; PCU   statistical system after project
timely data is           % and revision of         reports.                  implementation and
established.             methodologies for                                   withdrawal of consultants.
compilation of basic
statistics; duplication of
statistics among
Government agencies
eliminated; new
information technology
introduced and
implemented to allow
compliance with GDDS.
2. Improved capacity for    Discrepancy between    Supervision reports; PCU    Counterpart to the TA is
monitoring macroeconomic  actual and forecasted    reports; Beneficiary      adequately trained to take
developments and impact   revenue decreased by 50    survey.                 over the responsibility of
assessment of poverty    percent for 2003 compared                           managing the Unit within two
related interventions.   to 2001; presentation of                            years.
SPA II by December 2001;
institutional capacity for
training of Government
officials and private sector
in key areas of public
management.
II. Public resource
management.
1. Restructured Central   Information manuals for    Supervision reports, PCU    Responsibilities at all staff
Revenue Department based   staff and public about the    reports; Beneficiary  levels well understood and
on a functional           new business processes    survey.                  adhered to without undue
organization and improved   within one year; at least                        micromanagement by senior
business processes to     80 % of large taxpayers                            management; vacant positions
provide management        submit self-assessment                             filled.
accountability and        for the 2003 tax year;
increased efficiency.     public education program
initiated within 9 months
and completed by project
end; dispute resolution
process initiated by the
end of year 3.



Annex I
The Gambia                                                                                         Page 3
Hierarchy of           Key Performance             Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
Objectives                Indicators                Evatuation
Output from each          Output Indicators         Project Repots            (from outputs to objectives)
Component
2. Uniform enforcement in   Data generated on a      Revenue reports;         Information is not considered
place at the port, borders    regular basis by the   supervision missions;    as power by those who work
and airport.              ASYCUDA system by          PCU progress reports;    with the ASYCUDA system
end 2002; customs         Beneficiary survey.      and data is shared with CSD
revenue leakages                                   and other relevant agencies.
minimized.
3. Budget process is      Sector strategies prepared    Budget documents;     Ownership of the reform
rationalized, MTEF        for health, education,    reports of the MTEF       process arnd extensive
developed and operational.  agriculture by 2001;     committee; Supervision   sensitization of all
costing of programs and   reports; Beneficiary      stakeholders - Government
activities in these sectors    survey.              and non-Government -
completed by 2001; budget                           regarding the MTEF is
classification changed to                           essential.
reflect program budgeting
for the budget year 2003;
recurrent and development
budgets unified by 2003
budget.
4. Integrated Financial   Public accounts produced   Monitoring reports on    Real authority and resources
Management System         annually; reconciled       budget execution; bank   are devoted to managing
developed and             accounts available on a   reconciliation statements;  information systems and the
implemented for the public  monthly basis to multiple    supervision reports;  launching of the new systems
sector.                   users throughout          Beneficiary survey.       has been done only after
Government by project                               carefully planning the
end,                                               implementation of all the
required changes in budgeting
and management structures as
well as providing for adequate
resource contingencies to
upgrade.
5. Efficient public       A new procurement code    Supervision reports; PCU    No interference at the political
procurement processes     adopted by June 2003;     reports; Beneficiary      level in procurement issues.
established.              enabling legislation      survey.
enacted by Parliament;
public procurement
completed within the
stipulated time.
III. Facilitation of
private sector
development
Start the process of      Reduction in length of    Supervision reports;      Commitment of leaders in the
establishing a framework    time between filing of  Beneficiary survey.      judiciary and the Department
for achievement of timely,   cases and conclusion;                            of Justice.
accessible and responsive    easier registration and



Annex 1
Capacity Buildingfor Economic Mlanagement Project                                                   Page 4
Hierarchy of           K e_y Peformance             Moniti&                Criticait Assumpts04
=Obctie                    IndcaOr                   Eauton-
utufom eath           Outp~ut 1"idlicttrs       Poe'ct~ Reots(rom otuts to 0bjethie)
Com ponent     >         10     ::f                                                                 0; 
legal and justice systems.    document retrieval at
Registrar of Companies;
pilot program of
recording court
proceedings completed by
2003 and action plan for
replication.
A system of book keeping    The system established   Supervision reports;
for Treasury Bills        and issue of treasury bills    Beneficiary survey.
established; supervision/    rationalized by June 2003.
management of foreign
currency deposits at
commercial banks
strengthened.
Gambia Divestiture         Social Security and       Supervision reports;
Agency strengthened and    Housing Finance           Beneficiary survey.
post-privatization         Corporation prepared for
regulatory capacity built.    divestiture by December
2002.
XProjet ComponentsISub^   Inputs: (budget for each    Prot Reports             (from Components to
Components                 component iUS$ 000)                                 Outpts)
1. Statistical systems,
macroeconomic analysis    US$3,430
and policy formulation
1. Strengthening National   US$2,270                                           Commitment of CSD and
Statistical System.                                                            other data collection
agencies to sustain the
reform of the statistical
system after project
implementation and
withdrawal of consultants.
1.1 Reorganization of the   US$165. Revision of     Supervision reports;
Central Statistical       laws, development of       revised Statistics law;
Department (CSD) and      strategy, restructuring of    Beneficiary survey.
revision of laws.          CSD.
1.2 Streamlining data    US$995. New surveys,       Survey reports;
collection/output          awareness raising         Beneficiary survey.
procedures.               workshops.
1.3 Producing timely and   US$268. Improvement in   Supervision reports;
accurate data for         methodology for National   Government statistics
Government and public use   Accounts, CPI.           reports; Beneficiary
survey.



Annex 1
The Gambia                                                                                         Page 5
Hierarchy of           Key Performance             Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
Objectives                Indicators                Evaluation
Project ComponentslSub-  Inputs: (budget for each    Project Reports          (from Components to
components                component, In US$ 000)                              Outputs)
1.4 Introducing modem    US$423 - New equipment   Supervision reports; PCU
computing equipment and    installed, staff trained.  reports; Beneficiary
information technology.                             survey.
1.5 Upgrading the CSD    US$418 - rehabilitation of   Supervision reports;
Office accommodation.     office space.             Beneficiary survey.
2. Strengthening          US$1,161                                            Counterpart to the TA is
Macroeconomic and                                                             adequately trained to take
poverty analysis.                                                             over the responsibility of
managing the Unit within two
years.
2.1 Applied policy tools    US$601. Technical      Supervision reports;
to analyze and quantify the   assistance and training.  Beneficiary survey.
poverty and income
distributional effects of
macro policies developed
and introduced; social
sectors, NGO and gender
issues integrated in
macroeconomic planning,
budgeting, monitoring and
performance evaluation.
2.2 Strengthened poverty   US$280. Consultancy     Supervision reports;
analysis; finalization of  and training for         Beneficiary survey.
SPA II; establishment of  strengthening
pro-poor program tracking    participatory assessments
systems.
2.3 Strengthened capacity  US$280. Consultancy and    Supervision reports; PCU
of the Management        training.                  reports; Beneficiary
Development Institute.                              survey.
II. Public Resource       US$9,108
Management
1. Strengthening Central    US$1,370. Defining new    Supervision reports;
Revenue Department        processes, training,      Beneficiary survey.
(CRD).                    preparing manuals,
upgrading office.
1.1 Build capacity in    US$270                   Supervision reports;
CRD to perform timely and                           Beneficiary survey.
accurate, field audits,
collections and assist the
public along with improved
management.



Annex 1
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                                                  Page 6
Hierach  of              Keyb Pefra                  Monitoring &           Critical Assumptionsr
=  it;eirlpM**lU'oy44                             06610  _g t0000;L: 0:V;ffasSL0ftbA000000
Project Components/Sub-  Inpfts: (budget ,fo ech    Projeet Report            (from Copnnsto
comfponenlts               opoetInUS$00)________ Otus
1.2 Design and           US$537                   Supervision reports;
implement structured                               Beneficiary survey.
compliance and
educational programs;
appeals system to enhance
fairness.
1.3 Introduce modern     US$157                   Supervision reports;
information technology to                          Beneficiary survey.
maintain a taxpayer master
file, automate assessments,
identify non and stop filers;
provide accurate and
timely management
reports.
1.4 Upgrade of the CRD    US$105                  Supervision reports;
accommodations.                                    Beneficiary survey.
1.5 Works - Construction   US$300                 Supervision reports;       Strong leadership to
of new building.                                   Beneficiary survey.        overcome sectoral interests.
2. Strengthening Customs    US$740 - Upgrading      Supervision reports;      Management commitment.
and Excise Department     ASYCUDA, providing        Beneficiary survey.
(CED).                    training and upgrading
training facilities.
2.1 Build capacity in    US$353                    Supervision reports;
Customs & Excise through                            Beneficiary survey.
training and developing
inspectors and using
modern equipment
2.2 Develop modern       US$116                    Supervision reports;
communication between                               Beneficiary survey.
and among enforcement
teams in the airport, port
and border post.
2.3 Introduce modern     US$168                    Supervision reports;
information technology to                           Beneficiary survey.
facilitate the clearance of
goods and provide timely,
accurate statistical &
management reports.
2.4 Works-construction   US$100                    Supervision reports;
of new building for                                 Beneficiary survey.
Customs, Central Revenue
& Statistics.



Annex 1
The Gambia                                                                                        Page 7
Hierarchy of           Key Performance             Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
Objctives                 Indicators               Evaluation
Project ComponentsISub-  Inputs: (budget for each    Project Reports          (from Components to
components                component, in US$ 000))                             Outputs)
3. Public Expenditure     US$ 1,420                 Supervision reports;     Willingness of DOSFEA to
Management.                                         MTEF committee reports;  get wider ownership;
Beneficiary survey.      Expertise mobilized, decision.
taken, line departments
involved.
3.1 Implementing multi-   US$960. Developing
year budgeting.           resource envelop, sector
strategies, program
budget classification,
costing of programs and
activities; integrating
recurrent and
development budget.
3.2 Disseminating new    US$200. Training,         Supervision reports;
budgeting procedures.     workshops.                Beneficiary survey.
3.3 Introducing          US$260. New public        Supervision reports; PCU
streamlined procedures for   accounting standards,  reports; Beneficiary
monitoring and accounting   design and             survrey.
of expenditures,          implementation of a
strengthening NAO.        revamped expenditure
implementation cycle.
4. Integrated Financial   US$5,063                                           Expertise mobilized, decisions
Management Information                                                       taken, line departments
System (IFMIS).                                                              involved; management
commitment.
4.1 Planning and        US$766. Preparation of    Development of work plan;
development of system    technical requirements,   periodic reports produced
architecture and software   review of chart of     by the IFMIS committee.
applications based on the    accounts, financial
new business processes   regulations, determination
defined under component 3  of user requirements,
above and the existing   drafting new chart of
financial regulations.   accounts and code
structure.
4.2 Production of online   US$2,300. Workshops to   IFMIS reports.
Integrated FMIS (IFMIS)    sensitize users on new the
to be piloted in the     new accounting systems,
Treasury, AGD, DOSFEA,  procurement and
Tourism, PMO and         implementation of
Department of Agriculture.  software, hardware based
on system architecture,
testing the pilot system.



Annex 1
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                                                 Page 8
Hierarchy of           Key Performante              Monitoring &         Critical Asuqmptions
Pr tmponentub-  lnputs: (budget for e"h    Proiect Reorts            (from Components to
components0t::t;00tX      component, in USS$ 00))  ___i ___        X0$ ________  Ou )
4.3 Addressing change   US$650. Creation of a      IFMIS reports;
management issues like   team of trainee and expert   Supervision reports;
bank reconciliation, arrears  accountants to assist  Beneficiary survey.
clearance, below the line    GOTG with backlog of
accounts; production of  bank accounts
Procedure Manuals; and   reconciliation, below-the-
user training.           line accounts,
commitments,
arrears/ suppliers and
debtors.
Examine and test data
integrity to ensure
accuracy and consistency,
conduct management
training, conduct other end
user training.
4.4 Roll out to other   US$1,347. Hardware        IFMIS reports; Supervision
Departments after        installation in other     reports; Beneficiary
successful pilot         departments. Additional    survey.
implementation.          training and building of
capacity for other
departments, adoption of
security and recovery
procedures. adoption of
maintenance contract for
software, hardware, and
infrastructure,
development of new
procedures and manuals.
5. Procurement Reform.    US$517, review existing   Supervision reports;     Management commitment,
code, develop new legal  Beneficiary survey.       well functioning task force on
framework, implement                               procurement reform.
procedures, train staff,
extend legal framework to
decentralized entities.
III. Facilitation of private   US$1,360
sector development
1. Improve capacity of the   US$560                                          Commitment of leaders in the
legal sector to promote                                                      judiciary and the Department
sound and efficient                                                          of Justice.
administration of justice
and legal services.



Annex 1
The Gambia                                                                                         Page 9
Hieamy of              Key Porkw nce               Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
Objectives                Indicators               Evaluation
ProjeCt ComPO _Ontslub-  Inputs: (budget for each    Project Reports          (from Componnts to
componenft                compone   in USS WM)                                outputs)
1.1 Training of judges,    US$100 - Training      Training assessment;
magistrates, court registrars  programs, workshops.  Supervision reports;
and court officials in the                          Beneficiary survey.
Judiciary.
1.2 Judicial information    US$150 - surveys of    Survey reports;
strategy and establishment  length of time between  Supervision reports;
of a Court Case           filing and disposal of cases.  Beneficiary survey.
Administration System for
the High Court of The
Gambia.
1.3 Pilot Alternate     US$20 - pilot in High     Supervision reports;
Dispute Resolution system.  Court, Banjul.          Beneficiary survey.
1.4 Training for the    US$200 - training.        Training assessment.
Solicitor General and other
identified staff in
management positions; on
the job training for state
counsels.
1.5 Studies on          US$60 - report on options   Supervision reports; review
restructuring the Registrar   for restructuring, study  recommendations;
General, Curator of      tours.                    Beneficiary survey.
Interstate Estates and the
Registrar of Companies
and attachments to
appropriate institutions in
small commonwealth
countries.
1.6 Refinement of       US$30 - workshops and     Workshop evaluations;
legal/judicial sector    consultations.             Supervision reports;
strategy.                                          Beneficiary survey.
2. Central Bank of The   US$350 - training and      Supervision reports;
Gambia - banking         consultancy, equipment.    Beneficiary survey.
supervision, liquidity
forecasting, framework for
micro-credit, book keeping
for treasury accounts,
feasibility study for stock
market.
3. Gambia Divestiture    US$450 - consultancy and   Supervision reports,
Agency (GDA) - improve   training.                 training assessments;
the capacity of the GDA to                          Beneficiary survey.
implement privatization
transactions and post-
privatization regulatory
capacity.






Annex 2
The Gambia                                                                  Page I
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
From 1986 to 1993, the Government of The Gambia pursued policy reforms steadily, with
good results in stabilization (reduced fiscal deficit, controlled inflation, stabilized exchange rate and
build-up of external reserves) and trade and exchange rate liberalization. From 1993 to 1997, the
economy suffered a series of shocks, including the coup d'etat in 1994. The latter prompted
suspension of most donor assistance, including the Bank's.
To reverse the deterioration in economic conditions, the Government formulated an
adjustment program in 1998. It now needs to build on the reforms undertaken to achieve and
sustain macroeconomic stability that is key to achieving growth and poverty reduction. Despite
Government commitment, weak economic management capacity is a stumbling block. The
Government's I-PRSP and on-going preparations for producing a full PRSP by end-2001 have
reinforced the awareness of the need for a strong economic management capacity, including the
ability to monitor progress made under the poverty reduction strategy.
Putting in place adequate systems for monitoring and evaluation will be key to tracking
progress. The CBEMP will help strengthen human and institutional capacity to enable the
Government to implement and monitor its poverty reduction strategy. The areas covered by the
CBEMP are: (i) statistical systems and macroeconomic analysis and poverty assessment; (ii) public
resource management; and (iii) private sector development.
By Component:
Project Component i - US$3.43 million
Statistical systems, macroeconomic analysis and policy formulation
1. Strengthening National Statistical System (US$2.27 million)
Reliable statistics are needed for social and economic policies, poverty diagnostics, and
impact monitoring. Strengthening data collection procedures and improving the quality and
coverage of the data sets on national accounts, employment, household expenditure, and social
statistics will give the resulting estimates of poverty both greater credibility and heightened
prominence in national policy discussions. This component will: (i) improve organizational
structure of CSD to facilitate provision of timely and accurate information; (ii) upgrade the
methodology of statistical data collection and analysis to meet relevant domestic users needs and
international standards; (iii) train staff to improve qualifications and performance; and (iv)
modernize the technology used in collecting, organizing, processing and disseminating data. Key
sub-components are:
(i) Enhance the role of the CSD as the principal agency for the provision of timely and
accurate information to the Government, private sector, and general public, and for coordination of
the official statistics. The project will provide technical assistance to develop an appropriate legal
framework for the CSD. This will include the revision of the Statistics Act, 1972 to ensure greater



Annex 2
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                             Page 2
independence of the CSD; to increase the authority of CSD to coordinate statistical works in the
country, setting uniform methodological standards, reporting obligations, and data-sharing
agreements.
Consultations with stakeholders have resulted in a proposal to establish a National Statistics
Council, which will supervise the reformed CSD. The Council's responsibility, inter alia, will be
to determine, annually, on the basis of the proposals prepared by the CSD, the program of statistical
activities to be approved by the Government; to evaluate implementation of the approved program;
to provide recommendations on new statistical activities; to provide opinions on the budgetary
expenditures for statistical activities; to establish co-ordination and data-sharing agreements among
agencies.
The project will support the preparation of a long term strategic plan for the CSD reflecting
the data needs of users. This strategy will take into account that The Gambia is participating in the
General Data Dissemination System (GDDS), developed by the IMF and the World Bank. The
System provides a framework for assessing the statistical system. It emphasizes the importance of
providing users of the data with the information and sets out a program of statistical development
that includes short and longer-term objectives. The GDDS-based strategy will also present the
basis for enhanced cooperation with the providers of technical assistance.
The long-term strategy of modernization will be adopted by the Council. Although part of
the program implementation will be financed externally, to ensure sustainability the GOTG will
commit itself to provide sufficient funds and staffing for the operational expenses of the CSD.
The organization of the CSD will be strengthened to include two new units in the Data
Processing Division: (a) Dissemination/Documentation Unit, responsible for the data and
documentation storage systems (data warehouse).  The unit will also comprise the Central
Publications Center to upgrade quality and ensure uniform standards for CSD publications. The
Unit will be responsible for the data users needs assessment, answering data requests, and
maintenance of the Web-site, which is to be established during the Project implementation; and (b)
Information Technology Unit - responsible for the maintenance of the newly established LAN and
other IT equipment, communication with the Government data providers/users, software
development and/or adaptation, and computer/software training for the staff of the CSD and other
data providing Government agencies.
The Project will provide technical assistance for modernization of the statistical system, as
well as in organization and management. Senior management of the CSD will receive training in a
management development program. Equipment for setting up the local area network, archiving
system, and publication center will be provided, together with relevant training.
(ii) Another objective is to improve data collection by increasing geographic coverage,
scope and response rate of surveys conducted by CSD. A weaknesses of the data generated by the
CSD is inadequate data collection that does not cover all the economy and arrives late. Data
collection in the past 15 years has been limited to Greater Banjul, with estimates for the rest of the
country being imputed. Response rate of formal sector enterprises is extremely low at 20%. There



Annex 2
The Gambia                                                                    Page 3
is undercoverage of the informal sector, internal water transportation, and the social areas. The
CSD collects no regular environment statistics.
Some improvement can be achieved by revising the Statistics Act to establish clear
responsibilities in data collection and presentation. A major effort will be required to strengthen
CSD's data collection on a wider basis, thematically and geographically. The project will improve
data collection by providing transportation and/or communication equipment and supporting new
surveys. The surveys, to be partly financed under the project, include: (a) National Establishment
and Labor Force Survey (frequency 2 years); (b) National Household Budget Survey - to provide
base line for the Private Consumption component of the GDP and to update the Consumer Price
Index basket; (c) Road Transport Survey - one-time exercise - to improve data for National
Accounts; (d) Informal sector surveys (frequency 5 years) to provide base line data on the informal
sector activities and improve information for the GDP calculation; (e) Regular Distributive trade
surveys (frequency 3 years); and (f) Rotating social statistics (mostly household) surveys. The
project will also train staff to collect environmental data.
To improve relationship with data providers, to increase the response rate and accuracy in
questionnaires returns, the CSD will initiate workshops to motivate data providers to improve
accuracy and timeliness of completing the CSD questionnaires.
(iii) Building CSD capacity to produce timely and accurate data. The Government has
updated the Consumer Price Index (CPI) by increasing its coverage as well as applying new
weights based on the information from the most recent household expenditure survey. Other
statistical areas need improvement. The only GDP estimate compiled is that by industrial origin.
Gambian national accounts are based on the 1968 compilation standard and have to move to the
1993 UN Standard. The base year of the constant price estimates is 1976/77 and has to move to a
more recent year to ensure the accuracy of the constant price estimates.
The project will build capacity to: (a) compile the GDP estimates according to the SNA 93;
(b) introduce a new base year for the constant price estimates; (c) re-introduce GDP estimates by
final use at current and constant prices; (d) prepare sectoral accounts for Tourism, Agriculture,
Education, Health and Community/Local Government as per PERs; (e) introduce the latest IMF
standards on GFS at the DOSFEA; (f) modernize the system of social indicators to reflect the
poverty reduction issues; and (g) produce a Sources and Methods Handbook for national statistics
which would reflect the new methodologies and data sources.
The Project will also be financing the staff training, including the long-term training abroad,
and consultancy needed to achieve these goals, as well as establishment of a professional library at
the CSD.
(iv) Introduction of modern computing equipment, software and information technology for
data collection, processing, transmission, storage and dissemination.  In support of planned
initiatives to raise the coverage, quality, and timeliness of data produced by the CSD, to bolster
institutional capacity and to improve liaison with data users and providers, the Project includes an
Information Technology (IT) sub-component. It comprises: (a) hardware and software for data
processing; (b) establishment of a local area network (LAN) for data exchange within the CSD, as



Annex 2
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                           Page 4
well as Internet connection of the CSD; (c) a centralized data warehouse to provide public access to
information; (d) equipment for the Central Publication Center of the CSD; (e) desktop publishing
equipment; and (f) a document archiving system.
The LAN will provide for enhanced efficiency in the use of available Information
Technology resources and to improve internal communication and transmission of data. It will
further allow for key external users to directly communicate with relevant units by email and for
response to queries by that medium where practical. The LAN would also enhance efficiency in the
maintenance of an eventual Internet publication strategy.
A modem document imaging and storage system will be introduced. This is the first stage
in an Internet dissemination strategy. In the short term it will provide for internal access to data and
for the transmission of information to key users by email from the archive. It will also provide for
the ready storage of data from satellite units. This will allow the timely attainment of the "one-stop
shop" desired by users as expressed in the workshop of 12 September 2000. The Project will
provide appropriate training of the personnel.
(v) Upgrade of CSD Offices. The current premises require an upgrade to improve staff
morale and efficiency. To improve working conditions of CSD staff, to provide accommodation to
the newly created Dissemination unit, and to ensure proper environment for the modem IT
equipment, the CSD premises will be rehabilitated, either by relocation to a new site, or by
renovation of the present location. In the period before relocation, the current premises will be
rehabilitated. The activity will consist of rehabilitation/relocation, procurement of some office
furniture (filing cabinets, computer desks, bookshelves, etc.), and installation of proper air-
conditioning.
2. Strengthening Macroeconomic analysis and policy formulation (US$1.16 million)
The MFAU is responsible for facilitating macroeconomic policy formulation,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. The Unit has been unable to fulfill its mandate because
of capacity constraints. While the continuing need for structural adjustment requires improvements
in public finances, DOSFEA lacks capacity to design and implement appropriate policies.
Capacity of the MFAU will be strengthened to: (i) provide technical advice to the Secretary
of State, DOSFEA on economic and social policies; (ii) oversee the design of the Government's
annual and medium-term economic planning within the medium term expenditure framework,
participate effectively in the preparation of the PRSP, and public expenditure reviews; (iii) monitor
macroeconomic performance; (iv) promote the coordination and consistency of social and economic
policies across departments; and (v) oversee the implementation of the budget. Headed by a
Director, who will guide the overall work program of the Unit, the MFAU will comprise of the
Economic Affairs section, Financial Affairs section and a Research section. The Government will
ensure that the Unit is adequately staffed. The CBEMP will contribute to the strengthening of the
MFAU through the following: (i) services of a technical advisor for a period of about 2 years; (ii)
training in PERs and MTEF contributing to the improvement in budget preparation and
management; (iii) technical assistance to build a macroeconomic model of the economy to improve
forecasting; (iv) training to relevant staff on integrating social sectors, NGO and gender issues in



Annex 2
The Gambia                                                                    Page S
macroeconomic planning, monitoring and performance evaluation; (v) technical assistance to
improve data collection and reporting through institutional strengthening and networking key
economic institutions; (vi) specialized training on issues that may be identified during project
implementation; and (vii) office equipment to improve working conditions.
The project will also support SPACO by strengthening its capacity in participatory poverty
assessments and contributing to the preparation of the PRSP. Support will be largely through
consultancy, training and study tours. The project will also support the development of a strategic
program for MDI and associated training to the staff of MDI to effectively impart training to the
public as well as private sector.
Project Component 2 - US$9.11 million
Strengthening Public Resource Management
This component will contribute to poverty alleviation through better management of public
resources to deliver basic services. This will be achieved through strengthening Government
capacity and institutions to promote efficiency - both in revenue mobilization and expenditure
management.
1. Revenue Management (US$2.1 million)
Studies financed under the PPF of the two revenue departments have identified the
following weaknesses: (i) database management; (ii) delayed tax assessments; (iii) inadequate
taxpayer services; (iv) inadequate audit and investigation procedures; (v) failure to recover tax
arrears; (vi) policy constraints on tax administration; (vii) highly centralized CRD; (viii) weak
human resource management; and (ix) antiquated information technology. The project will build
capacity to improve the efficiency of tax collection, enhance accountability, and to improve the
overall quality of services to the private sector. The project will support the tax collecting agencies
through streamlining procedures, simplifying the regulatory framework, training and information
technology. The project will support the establishment of an independent revenue board over the
medium-term. To take into account the lengthy process in establishing an operational revenue
board, the initial focus of the project will be on strengthening the existing tax collecting agencies,
while preparing a comprehensive framework for the establishment of the revenue board.
Institutional reforms necessary for the creation of the revenue board will include support to define a
legal status, internal and external accountability rules and regulations, personnel management
policy and an incentive system. To improve revenue management, the following tasks have been
identified:
(i) Restructure the Department to maximize the use of human resources, strengthen
accountability and improve management by moving to a functional organization that will save
resources and provide more management accountability and control. Activities include defining
functional statements for each unit and writing job descriptions for all positions.
(ii) Set up a Large Tax Payers Unit (LTPU) that will establish accountability and control the
large cases that produce 70-80 percent of the revenue collected by CRD. Key tasks include:
establishing the definition of a large case based on assets, turnover, imports, exports and tax paid;



Annex 2
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                              Page 6
determine the physical location of the unit; selecting a supervisor for the unit; establishing the files
for the large taxpayer cases; writing an operational manual outlining the work flow, specific time
frames for the various task and employees responsibilities and authority; notifying taxpayers of
their inclusion in the Large Case Unit and its implications.
(iii) Re-engineer the processes in the CRD to minimize the hand-offs of data and
documents; reduce time to process documents. Activities include: developing a flow chart that sets
out the current office processing and assessment procedure; based on the volume of documents
processed, revising and developing internal forms as necessary for the new processes; developing a
flow chart setting out the revised office processing and assessment procedures; developing written
operating guidelines for the new procedures and processes; and training the employees on the new
processing procedures.
(iv) Computerize the processing, assessment and payment system in the CRD. The
computerized system will significantly improve the control, tax computation, assessments and
follow up of all the tax cases and reduce errors. It will provide a master file of all taxpayers thus
increasing productivity and revenue.
(v) Develop a system to share data among the CRD and the CED, Immigration and the
Registrar of Companies.  CRD  needs operational data from  customs, and the individual
identification numbers from Immigration and the company registration number from the Registrar
of Companies. These numbers are used by CRD as the tax identification number. The linkage will
greatly enhance the management data and data that is needed for operational purposes such as
auditing. This will permit CRD to make a more accurate audit of the taxpayer's returns and
eliminate taxpayer and CRD errors relating to taxpayer identification numbers. It will also
minimize the requirement for CRD to issue temporary tax identification numbers.
(vi) Introduce self assessment system in CRD, beginning with companies and subsequently
for all individual returns. This will require: reviewing the tax forms and making the necessary
changes to ensure the required lines are included for the necessary data to assess the return when
received (taxpayer must not be permitted to simply attach their books of accounts to the return);
revising the taxpayer instructions that accompany the return; developing a pamphlet that sets out the
requirement for self-assessment and the procedures the taxpayer and CRD are to follow; continuing
to publicize the new system outlining the reasons for the change.
(vii) Establish a taxpayer education function within the CRD. Taxpayer education will
increase awareness of responsibility and rights. CRD employees will also understand that the
organization has a responsibility to educate the public on it tax responsibilities. The project will
provide technical assistance to establish a Customer Service and Public Education unit in the CRD
and train the personnel on how to meet and deal with the public in a professional manner, tax laws,
and procedures and processes in CRD; develop, publicize and conduct small business workshops
and public campaign to notify the public of the new organization and its responsibilities; develop a
document outlining the taxpayers rights and the appeals process and determine the management
data required to measure and evaluate the new program.
(viii) Develop and implement a dispute resolution system that is independent of the
Commissioner of CRD. To boost the private sector's confidence in the CRD, taxpayers need an



Annex 2
The Gambia                                                                    Page 7
independent administrative appeals system. This requires a review of the law to determine if a
legislative change is required, in which case the project will support the drafting of the required
law. If no new law is required, procedures will be written for the establishment of an appeals
board. After consultations with stakeholders, CRD will publish the procedure and its operations
and its authority.
(ix) Develop operating manuals for the CRD.
(x) Develop a formal training program, with most training in-country. Areas identified for
training are: Gambian tax laws, rules and regulations; accounting; auditing techniques; collection
techniques; interview techniques; analyzing financial statements; use of the new computer system;
operating procedures and service standards; management training for all managers - managing and
evaluating employees; program management - how to utilize data to manage a program such as
audit and collection; general broad gauge training such as the International Tax Program at Harvard
(this training will be used for a person that has been identified with potential to serve as the
Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner).
(xi) Implement an audit selection and field audit program for company tax returns after
training of inspectors.
(xii) upgrade the ASYCUDA system at the CED and provide relevant operational training.
The above tasks will be supported through consultancy services, including for review and
revision of the legal framework; staff training, including on the job training, to acquire the requisite
skills to improve performance; office equipment, including the use of information technology;
rehabilitation of office space to improve the work environment.
2. Public Expenditure Management (US$7 million)
Public expenditure and financial management comprises four elements: (i) planning and
budgeting; (ii) budget execution; (iii) accounting; and (iv) monitoring and reporting. These have to
operate within a sound legal, regulatory, organizational and institutional environment, and must be
supported by adequate staff and information systems. The project will support reforms in all four
areas through a gradual adoption of the medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) and the
development of an integrated financial management information system (IFMIS).
Towards the establishment of an MTEF. The Government proposes public expenditure
reform with a view to improving the quality and sustainability of service delivery and to have a
greater impact on poverty reduction. The Gambia has limited capacity to tackle these challenges.
The project will, therefore, create capacity to manage public expenditures within an MTEF. The
capacity will be developed by working towards the preparation and adoption of the MTEF, using a
work program laid out over four to five years. The first building block is to define broad sector
goals consistent with the Government's Strategy for Poverty Alleviation (SPA). The second
building block is to improve fiscal management by developing consistent and realistic estimates of
available resources. The third building block consists of developing appropriate policies and



Annex 2
Capacity Buildingfor Economic Management Project                                Page 8
making allocations in line with the broad sector goals. The activities supported by the project under
each of the three phases are as follows.
Phase I - Defining broad sector goals. While the I-PRSP has identified the broad goals, the
project will provide technical assistance to refine them during the preparation of the full PRSP.
Participatory activities, including workshops, focus groups, community reach programs, and the
training required to create local capacity to conduct these activities will be financed under the
project.
Phase II - Developing a comprehensive macroeconomic framework, including a consistent
and reliable resource envelop over a three-year period. The current approach is to estimate
revenues for the forthcoming year based on submissions received from the revenue generating
departments. Due to inadequate projections, the tendency has been to overestimate revenues and
then to cut expenditures when revenue is not realized. Provision of accurate and timely information
on the resource envelop is essential to ensure that budget plans can be funded. The project will
support the strengthening of revenue forecasting and macroeconomic planning capacity for the
medium term through its support to the MFAU and the strengthening of the Finance Division in the
DOSFEA. Support includes technical assistance, logistics and training.
Phase III - Developing appropriate policies, allocating resources in line with priorities and
implementing the budget effectively. The project will support the following systematic changes to
improve the budget process: (i) conducting participatory public expenditure reviews; (ii) developing
sector strategies that would lead to the definitions of programs, sub-programs and activities and the
restructuring of budget classification and reporting systems - introducing an integrated program
budget classification structure; (iii) costing of programs and activities; (iv) integration of the
recurrent and development budgets; (v) development of a budget framework paper as a basis for the
budget within a medium term framework; and (vi) dissemination of new procedures. For each of
these elements, the following initiatives will be undertaken in the relevant units of DOSFEA
(Directorate of Budget, Directorate of Loans and Debt Management, Program Monitoring and
Budgeting Unit and Project Evaluation and Monitoring Unit): technical assistance to improve
processes, required staff training, modernization of equipment (hardware, software, office) and
changes to laws and regulations as required.
The Government has identified six sectors for PERs.  These are: education; health;
agriculture; local Government and lands; tourism and culture; and works, communications and
information. While the preparation for the first three is at an advanced stage, the rest are just being
initiated. The project will support the preparatory activities for these PERs, including technical
assistance, logistics and training.
Measures to establish an MTEF to be supported by the project include: (i) generating
support for change through consultations with stakeholders; (ii) technical support to improve the
budget process, including macro framework, sector strategies, re-classification and introduction of
program budgeting, improving the budget call circular, establishment of expenditure ceilings,
streamlined guidelines for the preparation of the budget estimates and establishment of a structure
to facilitate stakeholder participation; and (iii) formulation of MTEF working groups; and pilot
MTEF in four or five key Departments. Capacity within the DOSFEA and key line ministries will



Annex 2
The Gambia                                                                  Page 9
be built through technical assistance, training and exchange programs, development of information
systems and operating.
The project will also build capacity for monitoring and accounting of public expenditures to
improve service delivery, reduce costs and delays in payments and improve expenditure controls.
The focus will be on new public accounting standards, and design and implementation of a
revamped expenditure cycle. This component links up with the IFMIS for budgeting and
accounting and will provide the input for the same. The main expenditures will be on technical
assistance and training to introduce the new procedures.
Financial Management Information System. Financial management is the core of any
program to enhance governance. It links the generation and allocation of resources to effectively
and efficiently achieve policy objectives. The establishment of a sound Government financial
management system takes place in several stages. It is considered necessary to achieve aggregate
fiscal discipline (Level 1) as a basis for and to inform the allocation of resources in accordance with
policy priorities (Level 2) through an MTEF. The ultimate objective (Level 3) is to ensure that
resources are used effectively and efficiently in the implementation of strategic priorities, this will
include the use of performance measures to monitor poverty alleviation. The objective of the
Integrated Financial Management Information Systerns is to enhance the efficiency, accountability,
and transparency of the financial management functions of the Government. This component will
support the development of several critical sub-components which include the: (i) planning and
budget implementation component; (ii) accounting component, including recording and analysis of
financial transactions; (iii) cash management component, managing cash assets; (iv) other IFMIS;
(v) integrating other ongoing systems to the IFMIS; and (vi) supporting capacity building in
management information systems and technology.
To limit the first phase of information systems development to a manageable level, the
improvements will focus on financial management information systems (as opposed to non-
financial data systems which are expected to be developed through sectoral programs); and
commence with the budgeting and accounting system. The accounting system itself will be
implemented in an appropriately phased manner by piloting in certain departments within
Government prior to a full roll-out. The pilot will include DOSFEA, Treasury, AGD, Agriculture,
Personnel Management Office and Tourism and Culture.
To create an effective and efficient management information systems, it is necessary to
develop the following work-plan. The project will build the capacity to maintain and administer the
new system and to disseminate information. It has two main parts: (i) preparation of the
Information System Strategy Plan that will provide the framework for the modernisation effort and
the design of systems to be implemented (specifications); and (ii) design and implementation of the
IFMIS based on the recommendations of the ISSP for the first sub-set of fiscal management
systems, which includes the critical expenditure management system sub-component (budgeting,
cash management and accounting). The development and implementation of IFMIS will be carried
out in a phased manner described below.
(i) Design and development of system architecture. The project will finance consulting and
advisory services to define and document an information technology architecture and plan (ITAP)



Annex 2
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                            Page IO
and formulate a strategic and operational information technology plan in the area of Government
fiscal management. The ITAP will provide a basis to support the fiscal business needs in
technology matters. It will also provide a road map for implementation purposes. It will identify,
describe and document the information needs and flows associated with the various IFMIS business
functions and processes.
(ii) Development of software applications for the business processes. The project, based on
the system architecture, will define the application software which will be best suitable for the
country's environment and infrastructure.
(iii) Production, and pilot phase, implementation of hardware & software, infrastructure, and
licensing issues. The Accountant General's office together with treasury and other departments
under DOSFEA will be the prime recipients of the IFMIS system. There will be two or three other
mid-size to large departments participating in the IFMIS pilot project. The pilot implementation
period will be crucial in providing a feedback to the system design, and related reporting
documentation.
(iv) Change management issues, desk instructions, and finalizing training issues. The
overall objective of change management is to ensure that each department develops adequate
capacity to implement IFMIS. During the pilot the primary objective is to prove processing
features and procedures for IFMIS, specifically: (a) how the system meets the requirements of the
Government in live environment; (b) assist in final design and proof of procedures such as data
flow to be followed during live processing; (c) prove the physical networking environment or the
infrastructure; and (d) assist in defining organizational structure and skills in departments.
(v) Roll out of the project to all other sites after successful pilot implementation. This phase
involves hardware installation in other departments; training for users in all departments; adoption
of security and recovery procedures; adoption of maintenance contract for software, hardware and
infrastructure; and development of new procedures manuals.
Management responsibility for this component lies with the Steering sub-committee, headed
by the Accountant General. The IT advisor financed under the project will also be advising the
Government frequently on any IT decision that the Government needs to make to improve its
information and financial systems.
Procurement Reform. A well-functioning public procurement system must seek value-for-
money in meeting the needs of Government agencies for goods and services.  Effective
procurement obliges suppliers to provide the best quality, service and price with a timely delivery.
Transparency is central and is characterized by: (i) well-defined regulations and procedures open to
public scrutiny; (ii) clear, standardized tender documents; (iii) bidding and tender documents
containing complete information; and (iv) equal opportunity for all in the bidding process. The
Gambia has taken the first steps to reform public procurement to improve the use of public funds by
Government procuring entities, enhance transparency and accountability in Government operations,
and to promote the participation of local industries in the supply of goods, services and works
solicited by Government.



Annex 2
The Gambia                                                                   Page 11
This component of the project will support restructuring of the public procurement
framework to improve the national public procurement system through more transparent regulations
and procedures, increased professionalism and reduced opportunities for corruption; and enable the
GOTG to take on responsibility (including full accountability) for aid-financed procurement and to
carry out more cost-effective procurement related to infrastructure projects. The project will build
capacity to support transparent public procurement systems integrated with national anti-corruption
initiatives and harmonize public procurement policies and tools with donor requirements.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.36 million
Facilitation of Private Sector Development
The project will help build capacity to facilitate private sector development, focusing
primarily on the legal, financial, and regulatory sectors.
1. Legal Sector Reform (US$0.56 million)
The Project will support strengthening the capacity of judges, magistrates, court registrars and
other court officials in the judiciary; design and establishment of a case management system in the
High Court; management training of the Solicitor General and other staff in management positions
in the Department of State for Justice; relevant private sector related training for state counsels and
restructuring and attachments of the Registrar's General department; review of the records
management system of the Registrar General; carrying out a pilot program for the recording of
court proceedings; and the development and articulation of a medium-term strategic development
plan for the legal and judicial sectors.
(i) Court Case Administration System - The project will support the design and
implementation of an information strategy for the Judiciary and a Court Case Administration
System in the High Court. Case management includes the supervision or management of time and
events involved in the movement of cases through the court system from the point of initiation to
final disposal. Case management emphasizes the sequencing and timing of such events to enable
expedient disposal of cases while maintaining the courts ultimate authority in the resolution of legal
disputes. The Gambian courts have been criticized for case blockages. Underpinning a successful
strategy is strong judicial commitment, leadership and supervision of the process. The objective of
this intervention will be to develop systems and policies that will ensure the equal treatment of all
litigants and the timely disposal of all.
(ii) Capacity Building for the Judiciary - This involves the development of induction and
continuing education training for judges and magistrates. These training programs will be designed
with the input of the judges as well as experts from countries which have such programs. MDI
would assist in the development and undertake the training. In addition seminars/workshops on
new legal developments and specialized training in selected areas, e.g. commercial law will be
undertaken. Under the project a training assessment would be carried out for the training of court
registrars and other court officials and short-term training courses designed to meet the needs
identified.



Annex 2
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                              Page 12
(iii) Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR) System - Most jurisdictions are now looking at
methods of alleviating the backlog of cases in the court by advocating ADR. Under the project the
Gambian judiciary wants to carry out, on a pilot basis, in the high court at Banjul an ADR program.
There will be an assessment carried out at the conclusion of the pilot to develop the process for
replicating this system country-wide.
(iv) Capacity Building in the Department of State for Justice/Attorney General's Chambers -
This comprises management training for staff with management responsibilities; specialized short-
term training for the various divisions of the Department of State, the Law Reform Commission and
National Council for Law Reporting; workshops and seminars for state counsels; study on the
restructuring of the Registrar General, Curator of Interstate Estates and the Registrar of Companies,
including study tours and attachments; and computer training for all staff.
(v) Refinement of legal/judicial sector strategy - Under funding from the PPF, the
Government undertook a review of the legal and judicial sectors. This study identified the issues
and made recommendations for addressing the issues. In order to carry this forward and to develop
a strategy for the sector, with identified priorities and actions, the Project would assist the DOSJ to
carry out a series of stakeholder consultations to develop the strategy further.
2. Divestiture and Regulatory Framework (US$0.45 Million)
The Divestiture Strategy has been finalized with technical assistance provided under the PPF
for the proposed project. The project will fund training for the staff of the Gambia Divestiture
Agency to implement privatization transactions and support building post-privatization regulatory
capacity. The project will also fund technical advisory services to carry out a study of on the Social
Security and Housing Finance Corporation to prepare it for divestiture.
3. Financial Sector (US$0.35 million)
The project will strengthen banking supervision and enforcement of prudential norms,
liquidity forecasting, book-keeping for treasury accounts and the development of a framework for
micro finance through the provision of technical advisory services and short-term specialized
training for the staff of the Central Bank.



Annex 3
The Gambia                                                                                   Page 1
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Local         Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                   US$million     US$mi;lion       US$million
Statistical Systems                                         1.13           1.14           2.27
Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Formulation               0.40           0.76           1.16
Central Revenue                                             0.83           0.54           1.37
Customs and Excise                                          0.45           0.29           0.74
Public Expenditure Management                               0.24           1.18           1.42
IFMIS                                                       1.11           3.95           5.06
Procurement                                                 0.13           0.39           0.52
Judicial Sector                                             0.15           0.41           0.56
Financial System                                            0.10           0.25           0.35
Divestiture and Regulatory Framework                        0.20           0.25           0.45
Project Management                                          0.44           0.14           0.58
PPF Refinancing                                             0.60           0.60           1.20
Total Baseline Cost                                         5.78           9.90          15.68
Contingencies                                               0.24           0.60           0.84
Total Project Costs                   6.02          10.50          16.52
Total Financing Required                    6.02          10.50          16.52
Local         Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Category                   US$rnillion    US$million     US$mrilion
Goods                                                      1.98           2.61            4.59
Works                                                      0.87           0.00            0.87
Services                                                   1.33           5.52            6.75
Training                                                   0.84            1.27           2.11
Contingencies                                              0.24           0.60            0.84
PPF Refinancing                                            0.60           0.60            1.20
Operating costs                                            0.16                           0.16
Total Project Costs      6.02          10.50           16.52
Total Financing Required       6.02           10.50           16.52






Annex 4
The Gambia                                                           Page I
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Summary
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Not Applicable.






Annex 5
Capacity Building for Economic Management Projeci'                                    Page I
Annex 5: Financial Summary
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending June 30
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD::
Total Fr2ancrngfYa  5.04.02.                   1.        0.4     0.0
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Total Project Costs          3.5       5.0       4.0       2.2       1.4       0.4      0.0
Total Financing              3.5       5.0       4.0       2.2       1.4       0.4      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  3.2       4.6       3.6       2.0        1.2      0.4      0.0
Government                0.3       0.4       0.4       0.2       0.2       0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing      3.5        5.0       4.0       2.2       1.4      0.4       0.0






Annex 6
The Gambia                                                                 Page I
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
1.1 The last Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) on the Gambia was carried out
in 1998. One of the key findings of the CPAR was that policies and procedures governing public
procurement need further revisions in order to be satisfactory. The findings of the CPAR remain
valid. Presently, the Govenment, with the assistance of the World Bank, has embarked on a new
reform of the public procurement system of The Gambia to align it with international best
practice. In general, The Gambia's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA
Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in credit documents
since the Gambia procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over contrary
provisions in local regulations.
1.2. IDA-financed Goods and Civil Works will be procured in accordance with the World
Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised
January and August 1997, September 1997 and January 1999). The World Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents and Bid Evaluation Report will be used for international competitive bidding
(ICB). National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures advertised locally will be carried out in
accordance with the Gambia's procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA provided
that: (i) bidders are given sufficient time to submit bids (at least four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation
and bidder qualifications are clearly specified in the bidding documents; (iii) no domestic
preference is granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible foreign firms are not precluded
from the competitions; (v) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with
predetermined and transparent methods; and (vi) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the
reasons to reject any responsive bid. Standard Bidding Documents to be used for NCB will be
reviewed by IDA before effectiveness.
1.3. IDA-financed consulting services will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in
September 1997, and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal (RFP) as developed by
the Bank, will be used for appointment of consultants as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation
Report for the Selection of Consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short term
assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried by firms or individual consultants.
1.4. Procurement Notices. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the UN
Development Business and in the local newspapers to obtain expression of interest (EOI) for any
goods and for major consulting assignments. The GPN will also be published in the national
press for contracts to be let under NCB. The detailed GPN for subsequent years will be prepared
for the project and published in the UN Development Business. This will be updated annually.
Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) and EOI for large contracts for consultants services (above
US$ 100,000) will also be advertised in Developnment Business and sufficient time will be allowed
for responses to such notices (minimum 30 days) before developing the short list.



Annex 6
Capacity Buildingfor Economic Management Project                            Page 2
1.5. Procurement Implementation Arrangement
The overall responsibility for the implementation of the project rests with the PCU. To ensure
proper implementation, the PCU will work in close collaboration with the project beneficiary
agencies. Adequately qualified staffing is required to cope with the relative substantial number of
beneficiary agencies pertaining to the project. The PCU will include a Procurement Specialist.
Draft Terms of Reference (TOR) of the Procurement Specialist were prepared during appraisal.
The PCU will be responsible for the preparation of the bidding documents, bid evaluation and
award, contracts monitoring and management at a central level. Procurement workshops and
training will also be handled by the PCU. The procurement specialist within the PCU will collect
and record information regarding procurement administration, and will send quarterly reports
based on this information to the Government and the Bank. These reports will indicate: (i) the
status of procurement (ii) an updated procurement plan; and (iii) compliance with aggregate
limits on specified procurement methods. Procurement audit will be carried out on the basis of
Risk Rating defined by the capacity assessment study. The objective of the procurement audits is
to ensure that procurement under the project is carried out in accordance with the Bank policies
and procedures.
1.6. Procurement Capacity Assessment and Procurement Plan
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during the appraisal mission to assess the
project environment from the legal, procurement and contract management standpoints (see
Summary Assessment Report below - detailed report is in the project files). Compliance of the
PCU procurement capacity level with the level required to manage project procurement according
to World Bank requirements is essential. An action plan to strengthen the PCU procurement
capability was agreed upon with the Borrower. The action plan includes: (i) hiring of a
procurement specialist; (ii) use of consultants as necessary to assist in procurement (iii)
development of a Project Operation Manual (POM) which ensures adequate coverage of
procurement, (iv) a procurement and contract management information system to be integrated in
the computerized financial management system to be developed for the project; (v) organization
of a filing system to ensure availability of, and easy access to procurement records; and (vi)
training staff on Bank procurement procedures and Bank standard bidding documents. The cost
of this action plan will be included in the project.
The procurement plan for the first year was prepared during appraisal and will be discussed
during negotiations. It is based on the initial needs of the project beneficiaries and will
incorporate the work-programs to be submitted by the PCU. The exact mix of procurement will
be determined on an annual basis during the annual joint reviews between the PCU and IDA,
where a draft procurement plan for the following financial year will be developed and submitted
to IDA for review and approval. The plan will include relevant information on goods, and
consulting services under the project as well as of the timing of the procurement process. The
procurement schedule will be updated semi-annually for the first eighteen months and quarterly
thereafter for PMR based disbursement. This plan, to be part of the Project Implementation Plan,
will be reviewed by IDA during each supervision mission.



Annex 6
The Gambia                                                                Page 3
During negotiations, the Government will review and agree with IDA: (i) the procurement plan
for the first year of the project; (ii) standard bidding document format to be used under NCB
procedure for goods; and (iii) a plan for training the key personnel of PCU. Before credit
effectiveness, a consensus will be reached on the proper monitoring of procurement.
The Government will give assurance at the negotiations that it will: (i) use the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents, for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants,
and the Standard Bid Evaluation Report; (ii) apply the procurement procedure and arrangement
outlined in the above documents; and (iii) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during
the annual review with IDA, and compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it to
IDA during implementation, with all procurement related-documents; and carry out during annual
reviews an assessment of the effectiveness of the bidding procedures and performance as they
relate to project procurement experience, and propose for IDA's consideration any modifications
to the current procedures to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining
compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate contract award and payments.
Procurement Methods
The program elements by expenditure category, ltheir estimated costs, and procurement methods
are summarized in Table A below. The thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are
summarized in Table B.
2.1. Civil Works. Civil works contracts for the construction of buildings for Customs and
Excise Department (CED) estimated to cost more than US$100,000 would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding procedures in accordance with the World Bank guidelines.
Civil works contracts for the renovation of the current Headquarters space and the construction of
a building for the CED, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate of US$0.38
million, would be procured trough National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure in accordance
with procedures described in the Project Operations Manual (POM) and acceptable to IDA.
Small works such as: (i) renovation of existing premises (Central Statistics); (ii) upgrade of
Serrekunda Office, etc which will not be possible to package with the other and estimated to cost
less than US$20,000 per contract, up.to an aggregate amount of US$0.08 million equivalent will
be procured under lump-sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained in
writing from at least three qualified local contractors. The written invitation must include a
detailed description of the works including basic specifications, the completion period, basic form
of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings when applicable. The contract will be
awarded to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided
he demonstrates that he has the experience and the resource to complete the contract successfully.
2.2. Goods.  The total cost of goods in the project is estimated at US$5.14 million.
Procurement of goods will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$100,000
equivalent or more per package and will be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Goods and equipment locally available, which cannot be grouped together into packages



Annex 6
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                           Page 4
of at least US$100,000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of NCB in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.80 million equivalent.
2.3. Procurement for small quantity of items such as office equipment, furniture, printed
materials and other instructional material normally considered to be standard items which cannot
be grouped into packages of at least US$20,000 equivalent will be procured through prudent
National Shopping and International Shopping in accordance with paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines, provided that the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed US$0.40
million equivalent. Solicitations will be issued in writing to at least three reputable suppliers
(preferably more) in order to receive three competitive quotations. Solicitation will give
specifications and the delivery time. Written quotations will be opened at the same time for
evaluation and records of award decisions will be kept for Bank's supervision missions and
audits. Specific shopping procedures to be followed will be reflected in the procurement section
of the PIP.
Motorcycles, vehicles and computers expected to cost less than US$50,000 per contract may be
purchased through specialized agencies of the United Nations (IAPSO).
Direct contracting may be exceptionally used with the prior no-objection of the Bank provided
that: (i) the item to be procured is proprietary and obtainable only from one source at a reasonable
price; and (ii) the aggregate amount of such contract does not exceed the equivalent of
US$100,000 over the project life.
Subject to the agreed limits, the aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB procurement
methods for goods cannot be exceeded without the prior no-objection of the Bank. The PCU will
maintain a tracking system to monitor such procurement in order to inform the Bank in a timely
manner when this may occur.
The total aggregate amounts and the procedures followed for all shopping methods under the
project will be reviewed every six months of project operations; depending on performance, and
the result of the review, the total aggregate amount may be adjusted where necessary.
2.4. Domestic Preference. The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to
works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
2.5. Consultancy Services. The consulting services to be financed by IDA (totaling US$7.55
million equivalent) will be for: long term technical advisors in the MFAU, Finance Division,
Accountant General Department and short termn technical assistance in CSD, CRD, CED, DOSJ.
Consultants will be hired through: competition based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) among qualified short-listed firms; by evaluating the quality of the proposals before
combining quality and cost evaluations; and by weighting the quality and cost scores. Least Cost
Selection (LCS) in accordance with paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, will be
used for audit contracts costing less than US$50,000. The firm with the lowest price will be
selected, provided its technical proposal receives the minimum mark. The selection of Individual
Consultants Services for small studies and other assignments will be on the basis of comparison



Annex 6
The Gambia                                                                   Page S
of curriculum vitae in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Single Source Selection (SSS) will be used exceptionally for: (a) training; (b) for a specific task
in a case where only one firmn has specific qualified experience; and (c) for consulting
assignments costing less than US$10,000 up to an aggregate of US$250,000 in accordance with
paragraphs 3.8-3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. The PCU would ensure widely publicized
procurement notice to get candidacy from consultants (firms and individuals). Based on agreed
upon criteria, the PCU will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to
establish short-lists.
Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised of national consultants(in
accordance with provision of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines) provided that a
sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However if
foreign firms express interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The Standard
Request for Proposal (RFP) as developed by the Bank will be used for requesting proposals, and
for selection and appointment of consulting firms. Simplified contracts will be used for short
term-assignments, simple missions of standard nature (i.e. those not exceeding six months)
carried out by individual consultants or firms.  The Government will be briefed during
negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines and the RFP, in particular with
regard to advertisement, public bid opening, and evaluation criteria.
The estimated cost of training, workshops, and study tours for the project is estimated at US$2.45
million. Training, workshops, and study tours will be carried out on the basis of approved annual
work programs that identify the general framework of training or similar activities for the year,
including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of participants and cost
estimates. The training institutions for all workshops/training with cost equivalent or exceeding
US$50,000 will be recruited competitively using the Consultant's Qualification method of
selection.
IDA Prior Reviews
3.1. With respect to goods and civil works, prior review by the Bank of procurement
documentation will be carried out by IDA for all ICB contracts (US$100,000 or more). Contracts
below the threshold of US$100,000 will be subject to post review during IDA's supervision
missions with the exception of the first three NCB contracts and all Direct Contracts which will
be subject to prior review. Draft standard bidding documents formats for NCB will be reviewed
before credit effectiveness.
3.2. With respect to consultant services, prior IDA review will apply to contracts for the
recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more
and US$50,000 equivalent or more respectively. Prior review will also apply to the Terms of
Reference of contracts regardless of the value, to single-source hiring, to all contracts for PCU
staff and contracts for audits, or to amendments of contracts rising the contract value above the
prior review threshold. For consultant contracts (firms) estimated above US$100,000, opening of
financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no objection to the technical
evaluation. For contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and more



Annex 6
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                                            Page 6
than US$50,000, the Borrower will notify IDA of the results of technical evaluation prior to
opening financial proposals.
3.3. All out of country training will be subject to prior review by IDA. Post reviews will be
conducted from time to time to review the selection of institutions/course, contents/trainees and
justifications thereof, and costs incurred.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
PCU for ex-post review by auditors and IDA supervision missions.
All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual
basis.   Modifications may be agreed upon, based on performances and actual values of
procurement implemented. Amendments to the Credit Agreement may be prepared as necessary.
Project Operations Manuals: Procurement
The Project Operations Manual to be prepared by the Borrower as a condition of effectiveness
will include a specific section on Procurement detailing: (i) procedures for planning, calling for
bids, selecting contractors, consultants, and vendors, and awarding contracts; (ii) internal
organization for supervision and control of works; and (iii) procedures for handing over
completed works.
The Government will give assurances that it will: (i) use the Bank's standard bidding documents;
(ii) apply the agreed procurement procedures and arrangements; and (iii) annually review the
procurement plan with IDA.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ExpenIditure Category           CB      _      _      _____   ________                  tal_Cost
1. Works                        0.46           0.38          0.08           0.00            0.92
(0.41)        (0.35)        (0.07)          (0.00)         (0.83)
2. Goods                        3.94           0.80          0.40           0.00            5.14
(3.17)        (06)(0.20)                    (0.00)         (3.97)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           7.55           0.00           7.55
(0.00)        (0.00)        (7.44)          (0.00)         (7.44)
4. Training including audits    0.00           0.00          2.45           0.00            2.45
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.32)          (0.00)         (2.32)
5. Operating Cost               0.00           0.00          0.46           0.00           0.46
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.44)          (0.00)         (0.44)
Total                   4.40           1.18          10.94          0.00           16.52
(3.58)        (0.95)        (10.47)         (0.00)        (15.00)
11 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through IAPSO, Direct Contracting, national and international shopping,
consulting services.



Annex 6
The Gambia                                                                        Page 7
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Valbe                            Contracts Subject to
Threshold            Procurement           Prior Review
Expenditure Category    (USS thousands)           Method              (US$ millions)
1. Works                      >100                   ICB                 US$: 0.46
<100                  NCB                 Post review
Prior Review for first three
contracts
2. Goods                      >100                   ICB                 US$: 3.94
<100                  NCB                 Post review
<20           National & Intemational  Prior review for first three
Shopping              contracts
Post review
3. Services
a) Firms                   >100                  QCBS                 US$ 1.77
<100                  QCBS                Post review
< 50                LCS/CQ                Post review
b) Individuals             >50                   3CVs                 US$: 0.80
<50                  3CVs                Post review
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$6.17 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High                                      X
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 6 months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits) by either Country Office procurement
staff or procurement specialist from HQ during supervision missions. Procurement Audit shall
be conducted every two years.
Based on the capacity assessment conducted during the appraisal mission in March 2001, it can
be concluded that the PCU would require strong procurement capability in the areas of bidding
documents preparation, bid evaluation, and procurement filing. All the procurement activities
including planning, for this project should be centrally managed by the PCU. This should be
done in coordination with all other beneficiary agencies.
In order to be in a position to take the lead role and be able to coordinate and manage all the
procurement activities under this project, the PCU has selected a Procurement Officer. Training
on the Bank's Procurement Procedures is required to avoid implementation problems.
An action plan to address areas where the existing PCU would need strengthening was discussed



Annex 6
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                             Page 8
during appraisal. The action plan includes: (i) hiring of a procurement specialist; (ii) use of
consultants as necessary to assist in procurement; (iii) development of a Project Operation
Manual (POM) which ensures adequate coverage of procurement; (iv) development of a contract
management system integrated in the computerized financial management system; (v)
organization of a filing system to ensure availability of, and easy access to procurement records;
and (vi) training staff on Bank procurement procedures and Bank standard bidding documents.
Given the diversity and relatively large number of beneficiaries, and also due to the fact that this
is a new project, the implementation would require extensive supervision. Therefore, it has been
agreed that one of three contracts not subject to prior review would be subject to post-review by
the Bank supervision missions. Also, a procurement audit shall be envisaged every two years.
Disbursement
The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of 6 years in accordance with the table at
Annex 5 laying out the disbursement schedule of IDA  funds.  The PCU will oversee
disbursements. It will be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications for submission to
IDA. Replenishment applications for the Special Account will be submitted at quarterly
intervals. In order to be in full compliance with the revised Bank requirements per OP/BP 10.02,
the PCU will implement planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting systems that substantially
satisfy the needs of the project.
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Civil Works                            0D78                         90%
Goods                                   3.42                 100 % foreign, 40 % local
Consulting Services                     6.65                100 % foreign, 90 % local
Training                                1.97                100 % foreign, 80 % local
Operating costs                         0.14                        90 %
PPF Refinancing                         1.20
Unallocated                             0.84
Total Project Costs                    15.00
Total                                  15.00
The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of 6 years in accordance with the table at
Annex 5 laying out the disbursement schedule of IDA funds. The credit's closing date will be six
months after the project completion date. Disbursement of the IDA credit will be made available
for civil works, goods, consultant services, training and operating expenses (including project
audit expenditures) that are eligible for IDA financing. While operating under traditional
disbursement procedures all disbursements will be fully documented at the time of submission of
withdrawal applications, except for expenditures made against statement of expenditures (SOEs).
Once the project's financial management is deemed satisfactory enough to fulfill all the
requirements for disbursements on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), the project
will have the option to switch to PMR-based disbursements. The disbursement percentages
shown in Table C take into account the duty exemptions prevailing in the Gambia for
Government imports and goods used for Government projects to ensure that taxes are not



Annex 6
The Gambia                                                                  Page 9
financed by the Association. Table C shows disbursements by category of expenditure and
financing percentages.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):
All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted monthly or when the Special
Account is reduced by one-third, whichever comes first. All replenishment or reimbursement
applications will be fully documented except for: (a) contracts of less than US$100,000 for
works and goods and consulting firms; (b) US$50,000 for individual consultants; and (c) all
training programs and operating costs. SOE documentation will be retained at the PCU for
review by Bank staff and annual audits.
Special Account
a) Special Account under Traditional Disbursement Procedures
To facilitate disbursements the PCU will open a special account at a commercial bank for IDA's
share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation of this account will amount to
US$800,000. The authorized allocation shall be limited initially to an amount of US$400,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit account plus the total amount of all
outstanding commitments entered into by the Association shall equal or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 2 million. Each replenishment request will be accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-date
bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
b) Special Account for Withdrawal Made on the Basis of PMRs
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which
the Association has determined, based on the PMR accompanying said application, is required to
be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six month period following the
date of such report; provided, however, that the arnount so deposited, when added to the amount
indicated by said PMR to be remaining in the special account, shall not exceed the amount of
USD1.2 million.
Government Funds
The Govermnent will deposit an initial amount of 300,000 Dalasis in the project account to be
established at the Central Bank. Beginning with the Government's fiscal year 2002, its
counterpart contribution will be deposited in the project account on a quarterly basis in
accordance with the disbursement schedule in Annex 5.
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
Scope of the assessment: Based on project implementation arrangements, the overall
responsibility for financial management will remain with the PCU. The role of the other
beneficiary agencies in the project financial management will consist of defining their needs and



Annex 6
Capacity Buildingfor Economic Management Project                           Page 10
the related technical specifications and certifying that the expected goods and services are
actually delivered or rendered. Therefore, the scope of the assessment will be limited to the
PCU.  However given the number of implementing entities involved, the coordination
mechanisms between these entities and the PCU will be looked at to ensure that the
arrangements in place will allow a smooth implementation of the project's activities.
PCU's financial management capacity: Given that the PCU is a new unit to be set up for the
purpose of the project, there is no capacity in place at project's appraisal. As a result, the
assessment of its financial management capacity at this stage of project cycle consists rather in
identifying the needs to be fulfilled, advising on the design of the proposed financial
management system, and agreeing to a timetable for its implementation, including all elements
of a sound financial management system (accounting system and procedures, staffing, financial
reporting and auditing). The objective is that when project implementation begins, the PCU
must have appropriate accounting and internal control systems in place that: (i) reliably record
and report the financial transactions of the project, including those transactions involving the use
of Bank funds; and (ii) provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring
project activities. All these considerations have been taken into account to define the financial
management arrangements proposed below. The option of integrating the project's financial
management into the Accounting Unit of the Department of State for Finance and Economic
Affairs was also considered. However this option was not retained because of the low existing
financial management capacities. The Accounting Unit has limited number of staff and these
staff do not all meet the required educational background and experience.
Financial Management, Reporting, Auditing
Financial Management
The PCU will have overall responsibility of the project financial management. It will have to
maintain the project's consolidated accounts. To meet these requirements, the PCU will be
equipped with a computerized financial management system appropriate to the scale and nature
of the project and capable of recording and reporting the project's operations by components, sub
components, activities, expenditures categories, regardless origin of funds. The computerized
financial management system will be multi-currency and include the following modules which
should be integrated: general accounting, cost accounting, budgeting, contract management,
fixed assets register, preparation of withdrawal applications, reports generating. The terms of
reference for the selection of a computerized financial management system were prepared and
agreed upon during appraisal. The installation of the financial management system satisfactory
to IDA is considered as a condition of credit effectiveness.
In addition, an Operations Manual will be developed for the project. It will describe: (i) the
overall organization of the project including job descriptions; (ii) the accounting system: charts
of accounts, cost accounting coding, accounting standards to be applied for the project,
presentation of main accounts entries, format of the project's financial statements and other
reports including PMR, diaries, filing system, etc.; (iii) the various operational procedures
including budget management (planning and monitoring), procurement of goods and services,
recording transactions in the books of accounts, disbursement, reporting, etc.; and (iv) internal
control procedures.



Annex 6
The Gambia                                                                Page 11
Terms of reference have been prepared and agreed on with the Government during project
appraisal. They specify the Consultants scope of work which include the following aspects: (i)
development of the manual of administrative and financial procedures; and (ii) installation of a
computerized financial management system.
Staffing
A qualified accountant acceptable to IDA will be hired to operate the project's financial
management system. The terms of reference were drafted and agreed on with the Government
during appraisal.
Reporting
Two sets of financial statements will be prepared by the PCU: the quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs, as required under the Financial Management Initiative (FinMI)) and the annual
Project's financial statements. The annual financial statements will comprise: (i) a statement of
Source and Application of Funds for the project during the current financial year, and
cumulatively since the start of the project; and (ii) a balance sheet. In addition, it was agreed
during appraisal that quarterly PMRs will be prepared and submitted to IDA based on the FinMI
models. The PMRs will include financial statements, procurement/contracts schedule and output
monitoring. Formats of the PMRs specific to the project's objectives and activities will be
developed in the Operations Manual.
Audit requirements
The annual financial statements of the project defined above will be audited for each calendar
year by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also
acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of the audited period.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
* the project financial statements (Statement of Source and Application of Funds, Balance
Sheet)
* the statement of expenditures (SOE)
* the special account (SA)
They will also provide a management report on Internal Controls outlining any recommendations
for improving internal accounting controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
Detailed terms of reference for the selection of the project's auditor were prepared and agreed on
during appraisal. The selection of an auditor acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.



Annex 6
Capacity Building for Economic Management Project                                           Page 12
PROJECT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN
To ensure that the above mentioned financial management requirements will be met in due time,
an action plan is proposed hereafter with tasks to be performed as well as target completion date.
Financial Management Action Plan
A'tiw                                TasksTarge Xt Completion Date
I- Development of the project's   Preparation of the terms of reference for the  Done
financial procedures and       selection of a consultant
installation of a computerized  Requests for proposal sent out             Done
financial management system
Proposals received                         Done
Technical evaluation completed and approved   July 15, 2001
by IDA
Financial evaluation completed and contract    July 30, 2001
awarded and approved by IDA
Submission of draft manual                 August 31, 2001
Submission of final report                 September 15, 2001
Computerized financial management system   September 30, 2001
installed and tested satisfactorily (charts of
accounts, transactions posting, reports format)
and staff trained
2 - Recruitment of the Project  Preparation of the terms of reference for the  Done
Accountant                     selection of the Accountant
Advertisement in the press                 Done
Accountant selected                        Done
Accountant joins the PCU                   July 15, 2001
3 - Selection of an auditor    Preparation of the terms of reference for the  Done
selection of the Auditor
Request for proposal sent out              June 15, 2001
Proposals received                         July 15, 2001
Technical evaluation completed and approved   July 30, 2001
by IDA
Financial evaluation completed and contract    August 30, 2001
awarded and approved by IDA



Annex 7
The Gambia                                                                                      Page I
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                      Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              26                          26
First Bank mission (identification)                   04/1999                    04/1999
Appraisal mission departure                          04/09/2001                 04/09/2001
Negotiations                                         06/14/2001                 06/21/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        09/15/2001
Prepared by: AFTM5
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant (US$300,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Preeti Arora                      Senior Economist, Team Leader
Elizabeth Adu                     Chief Counsel, Legal Counsel
Wolfgang Chadab                   Senior Disbursement Officer
Kofu Awunyo                       Legal Counsel
Olga Ivanova                      Senior Economist, Statistics
Ahmadou M. Ndiaye                 Financial Managemenil Specialist
Daryoush Kianpour                 Informatics Specialist
Mamadou Sevede                    Procurement Specialist
Amadou Tidiane Touray             Senior Procurement Specialist
James Owens                       Consultant, Tax Administration Specialist
John Short                        Consultant, Public Expenditure Management Specialist
Wayne Wittig                      Consultant ITC, Procurement
Guy Anderson                      Consultant, Financial Management Specialist
Steve Wan                         Language Team Assisl.ant, Final Presentation
Quality Assurance Team
John McIntire (AFC14)             Country Director
Emmanuel Akpa (AFTM5)             Sector Manager
Nancy Benjamin (AFTM5)            Public Expenditure Management
Irene Xenakis (AFTQK)             Operations Advisor
Misha Belkindas (DECDG)           Lead Statistician
Ali Hashim (ECSPE)                Lead Informatics Specialist






Annex 8
The Gambia                                                                    Page 1
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Plan
Draft Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoires and BTOs on file for all missions
C. Other
Central Statistics Department - Strategic Review
Capacity Assessment and Strengthening Study of (Customs and Excise Department
Capacity Assessment and Strengthening Study of (Central Revenue Department
Diagnostic Study of the Central Revenue Department
Capacity Assessment of the Management Development Institute
Inventory of Capacity Building Studies and Activities in the Public Sector
Study of Financial Management Information Systems
Study on the Budget Process and Medium Term Expenditure Framework
Legal Sector Reform Study






Annex 9
The Gambia                                                                                                         Page I
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Mar 2001
Difference between expecte
Onginal Amount in USS Millions       and actual disbursementsa
Project ID   FY     Purpose                              IBRD        IDA    Cancel.       Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P060329     2001   HIVIAIDS RAPIO RESPONSE PROJECT         0 00        15.00      0.00      15.37        0.00       000
P057997     1999   PVRTYALL.&MUNICDEV                      000         15.00      0.00      10.33        6.55       000
P035643      1999   THIRD EDUCATION                        000         20.00      0.00      13.87        4.10       0.00
P000825      1998  PART. HEALTHIPOP(NUT                    0.00        18 00      0.00      13.58        9 53      7.62
Total:        O.w0       68.00       000      53.15        2018       762
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions IJS Dollars
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval             Company                     Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic       Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1994                    AEF Lyefish                 0.36     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.36    0.00       0.00     0.00
1993                   AEF Ndebaan                  0.20     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.20    0.00       0.00     0.00
1984/90                 Kombo Beach                 0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:        0.56     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.56    0.00       0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment        -
FY Approval         Company                            Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00






Annex 10
The Gambia                                                                                                                   Page I
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
THE GAMBIA: CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       The   Saharan       Low-
Gambia      Africa   Income       Development dlamond
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                           1.3       642      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS)                       350        500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         0.43       321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                            3.1        2.6       1.9      GNP
Labor force (%)                                           3.1        2.6       2.3      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-991                                   capita                        enrollment
Poerty (% of population below national povertv line)
Urban Population (% of total population)                  32         34         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          53         50         60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  76         92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                26         32         43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of popuiation)         76         43         64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      64         39         39
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-age population)     77         78         96             -The Gambia
Male                                                    87         85       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                  67         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                             0.20      0.28      0.42       0.43
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                  29.1      20.4       18.3      17.8                      Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP              35.0     55.1       50.5       47.5
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                        ..    10.2         7.5       8.9
Gross national savingslGDP                        ..      8.5       11.9      12.0
Current account balance/GDP                   -28.7      -8.6      -11.0     -10.8      Domestic                      I
Interest PavmentslGDP                           0.2       1.7        1.2       1.0                                   Investment
Total debtUGDP                                 41.3    118.9      104.1      105.6      Savings
Total debt servicetexports                      0.4       5.4        6.1       7.1
Present value of debtUGDP                         ..       ..      63.7       55.7
Present value of debtlexports                    ..        ..     110.5       99.7
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    3.6      2.8       4.9        5.6       5.0             -The  Gambia
GNP per capita                         0.0     -0. 1      2.0        2.5       1.9                    Low-income groep
Exports of goods and services          2.6     -0.6      16.6       *8.7       9.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999       Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
f% of GDP)                                                                              2
Agriculture                                    31.0      30.8       31.4      33.2     20
Industrv                                       13.5      12.3       13.0      12.7  l 5
Manufacturing                                  4.1      5.9        5.6       5.4
Services                                       55.5      56.9       55.6      54.1                         Be    I/   se   rO
Private consumption                              ..    75.4         79.9      78.2    -20
General government consumption                   ..    14.4         12.6      12.9                  _GDI        ''O-'GDP
Imports of goods and services                  63.3      65.3       61.3      56.3
197949  1989-99        1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     0.8       1.5        3.0      16.5    20
Industry                                        3.7       0.9        5.2       3.6     to -
Manufacturing                                 7.9       0.8        1.5       3.0
Services                                        3.1       4.1        4.4       2.2
Private consumption                            -5.0       3.6        3.4       4.5                         9o *   .a
General government consumption                  5.0      -4.0       -4.0       9.6
Gross domestic investment                      -0.7       4.4       14.1       6.3    20
Imports of goods and services                  -6.8      -0.2       15.8      -7.8                 Exports   -O-Imports
Gross national product                          3.5       3.3        5.1       5.6
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Capacity Buildingfor Economic Management Project                                                                           Page 2
TAe Gambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                         
Consumer prices                                6.1       8.3       1.1       38      4
Implicit GDP deflator                          10.6     13.7       1.1       4.7
2
Govemment finance
(% of GOP, includes curent grants)                                                   o                          I      I
Current revenue                                         26.2      19.1      18.0             94    95    9e    97    9e    99
Current budget balance                                   7.6        1.3      01              -GDP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -1.4      -3.8      -4.6
TRADE
(US$ millIons)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             47       85        130       120
Groundnuts                                              13        13         5
Fish                                                     3         3         3
Manufactures                                                                        150
Total imports (ci)                              88      109        207       193     1
Food                                           ..        7         9         9
Fuel and energy                                         1          0        1
Capital goods                                            5        14        13       o                             N11
93   94   95   96   97   99 9
Export price index (1995^100)                    *-      67        108       109
Import price index (1995-100)                            66        110       114                  mExports       *mports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                               102         98        96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US13$ mWIlIons)                              1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                   65      130        213       212 o
Imports of goods and services                  120      150        278       271          93
Resource balance                               -55       -20        65       -59
Net income                                      -3      -17         -8        -7
Net current transfers                                    12         26        20
Current account balance                        -56       -25       -46       -46     -12
Financing items (net)                                               66        50
Changes in net reserves                                            -10        -3      is
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millons)                    26        103       107
Conversion rate (DEC, localtUS$)                2.0      7.6      10.6      11.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999 
(USS millions)                                                                       | Compositon of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            81      338        439       451
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0                       G 15
IDA                                           11       87        171       173     |                                         |
Total debt service                               0        7         15        17
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0                                     B 173
IDA                                            0        1          3         2
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants13                                      424                   1
Official creditors                            20        18         8         2
Privatecreditors                               2       -1          0         0            0: Ds',
Foreign direct Investment                     12       15         13         9            0C 23                              1
Portfolio equity                                                   0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    5       32         38        15      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateal
Disbursements                                  3       16          3         6      B - IDA    D - Other muilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0          1         2      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net llows                                      3       15          2         4
Interest payments                              0        1          1         1
Net transfers                                  3       15          1         3
Development Economics



