Report No. PID7459
Project Name                     The Gambia-Capacity Building for Economic...
Management Project (CBEMP)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       GMPE57995
Borrower                         Government of The Gambia
Implementing Agency              Dept. of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
The Quadrangle
Banjul
Contact Person: Mr. Bammy Jagne,
Permanent Secretary
Telephone - 220-227-221
Fax - 220-227-954
Date PID prepared                March 19, 1999
Date PID revised                 March 23, 2001
Appraisal Date                   April 2001
Project Board Date               June 12, 2001
Country and Sector Background
Prior to the July 1994 coup d'etat, The Gambia was considered an African
adjustment success story, particularly by the IMF. Since the inception in
1986, policy reforms were pursued steadily, with impressive results in
stabilization (reduced fiscal deficit, controlled inflation, stabilized
exchange rate and solid build-up of external reserves) and trade and exchange
rate liberalization. Although important and impressive, the gains remained
fragile. In 1994, the Bank's assessment showed that the country had not yet
managed to make a shift from a crises-driven economic management to the one
geared towards steady, sustainable growth. There is also much yet to be
achieved in the area of institutional reforms, capacity building and attitude
changes.
A series of adverse external and domestic shocks, including a prolonged
drought that adversely affected its agriculture, compounded by inappropriate
economic policy responses, governance issues and political instability, led
to a worsening of economic performance during 1993-96. Macroeconomic
stability proved indeed fragile in light of economic reforms in the CFA Zone
since August 1993 and the July 1994 coup d'etat. Overly expansionary fiscal
policies pursued during 1994-96, led to a soaring budget deficit, excluding
grants, from 2.2 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to 12.1 percent in 1995/96. This
was mainly attributed to high-cost off-budget public investment, not subject
to the rigorous selection criteria, which was partly financed through
concessional loans provided by non-traditional donors and the issuance of
Treasury Bills. Further weakening of human capacity to manage public
resources, in some instances, a result of frequent replacements of seasoned
staff, made financial management even more difficult, as political pressure
to spend increased and the revenue collection declined.



The completion of presidential and legislative elections in early 1997
considerably reduced the country's political isolation and economic asphyxia.
The Government took a number of corrective measures to restore economic
stability and began to normalize relations with donors. On June 29, 1998, the
IMF Board approved an ESAF Program. Economic management has improved
recently, resulting in lower macroeconomic distortions, however,
macroeconomic stability remains fragile and susceptible to internal and
external shocks.
Project Objectives
The project's development objective is to strengthen The Gambia's public
sector by improving the government's capacity for economic planning, policy
formulation and execution. Further, by improving the governance framework,
it will build business confidence and foster private sector led growth and
poverty alleviation. To achieve these objectives, the project will focus on
strengthening the institutional and human capacity in three broad areas: (i)
data collection, analysis and dissemination, and macroeconomic analysis and
policy formulation; (ii) public resource management; and (iii) facilitation
of private sector development. The beneficiaries will be consumers of basic
public services, the civil service, and private sector operators. In the
first area, the capacities of (i) the Central Statistics Department (CSD),
which collects, produces and disseminates key macroeconomic information and
statistics; and (ii) the Macroeconomic Policy Unit in the Department of State
for Finance and Economic Affairs will be strengthened. In the area of public
resource management, government capacity and institutions to promote
efficiency - both in revenue mobilization and expenditure management - will
be enhanced. Under facilitation of private sector development, the focus of
the project will be primarily on capacity building activities in the
financial and legal sectors.
Project Description
The proposed CBEMP is composed of the following 3 components; (i)
strengthening capacity of statistical systems and macroeconomic analysis;
(ii) strengthening of public resource management; and (iii) facilitation of
private sector development.
The focus of Component 1 will be to enhance collection of official statistics
used in developing economic policies, poverty diagnostics and monitoring. It
will improve the organizational structure of the National Statistical System
to facilitate provision of timely and accurate information, upgrade the
methodology of statistical data collection and compilation to meet relevant
domestic users needs and international standards, train personnel to improve
qualifications and performance and modernize the technology used in
collection, organizing, processing and disseminating data. It will also help
the Macroeconomic and Financial Analysis Unit in strengthening macroeconomic
policy formulation and implementation, monitoring and evaluation and SPACO in
poverty monitoring and assessment.
Component 2 will contribute to poverty alleviation through better management
of public resources to deliver basic services. This will be achieved through
strengthening government capacity and institutions to promote efficiency -
both in revenue mobilization and expenditure management.
Component 3 will help build capacity to facilitate private sector
- 2 -



development, focussing primarily on the financial and legal sectors.
Project financing
The five-year investment project is roughly estimated to cost about US$15.0
million, including government counterpart funds. IDA's assistance will
primarily focus on local and foreign training; on-the-job training; twinning
arrangements; workshops/conferences/seminars; consultancy for technical
assistance and studies; and equipment.
Project Implementation
The project will be implemented as a stand alone capacity building project.
The overall responsibility for project implementation is assigned to the
DOSFEA. During the preparation of the project, DOSFEA has demonstrated its
commitment to the project by assigning some high level staff to the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) charged with the responsibility of coordinating the
efforts of all beneficiary agencies in defining the key project elements. A
steering committee has also been established which meets regularly to review
consultant reports and make recommendations on actions to be taken and guide
the PCU on options and strategies to be pursued under the project.
The PCU will coordinate and monitor the day to day project activities and
manage the financial, procurement, record-keeping and reporting activities
associated with the project. Terms of reference have been prepared for the
positions of Project Coordinator, Deputy Project Coordinator, Accountant and
Procurement Specialist. Appointment of suitably qualified persons to man the
Unit will be a condition of effectiveness. Project Technical Sub-committees,
comprising largely of division heads, have been established and will be
responsible for the specific technical details in their respective project
areas.
Project Sustainability
The following factors are critical to the sustainability of project benefits:
(i) Political commitment to program objectives - effecting better public
expenditure management by introducing a transparent and streamlined budgeting
framework and improving accountability by institutionalizing monitoring
mechanisms depends on political commitment beyond the control of the project.
The project builds capacity to enable the Government to achieve these
objectives.
(ii) Macroeconomic stability - fiscal discipline is essential to receive
continued support from its major donors, including under the PRGF from the
IMF and benefits from the HIPC initiative that will ensure the availability
of resources for the implementation of the Government's poverty reduction
program.
(iii) Provision for recurrent costs - Availability of sufficient resources
to maintain the institutions and systems put in place under the project,
especially for the CSD and public expenditure management is very important.
(iv) Retention of skilled staff.
(v) Capacity to manage and maintain the IFMIS.
- 3 -



Lessons Learned from Past Operations
Prior to 1994, capacity building efforts had limited success and there was a
high dependence on technical assistance. Capacity was considered narrowly as
a shortage of skills and therefore efforts were limited to the use of long-
term technical assistance and training. Results were disappointing as long-
term TA was underutilized and arrangements were rarely made to ensure
matching local teams to benefit from transfer of knowledge. Training was
rarely based on sector priorities and identified skill requirements;
therefore often it was ad hoc. Since 1994, TA became scarce in the wake of
limited donor aid during 1994-1997. The proposed capacity building program
will seek to address capacity building in a broader, more holistic, yet in a
very operational way. It will seek to deal with all components of capacity
building: organizations, systems management of financial and human resources,
incentives, training and material resources.
The Technical Assistance in Statistics (TAS) team of the Bank's Development
Data Group (DECDG) has significant experience in conducting complex technical
assistance projects in the field of statistics. The Board of Directors of
the Bank approved one such project -- for Development of the State
Statistical System of the Russian Federation -- on May 13, 1999. Preparation
of a similar project for Ukraine is at advanced stage, and numerous smaller
statistical capacity building undertakings in different countries are under
implementation. The country experience gained from the implementation of the
Improvement of Consumer Price Index project financed by IDF grant will be
fully utilized.
The Project will benefit from the lessons learned in the implementation of
other Bank supported projects in the area of public expenditure management.
The basic medium term expenditure framework has been implemented with Bank
assistance in Estonia, Guatemala, Poland, Hungary, Ghana and Benin. The
restructuring of budget classification and reporting systems to link
resources to outputs and ultimately to outcomes (introducing an integrated
program budget classification structure) are useful for transparency (it
allows stakeholders to know clearly how the Government's intentions are
effectively translated into the reality of expenditure allocations and actual
outcomes) and to ensure fiscal discipline (the forward looking presentation
allows for early detection drifts and thus offers a set of early warning
signals on sustainability.
Poverty Category
The project will indirectly contribute to poverty alleviation. Weak economic
governance has been one of the key constraints to rapid economic growth and
poverty reduction, as well as to international assistance required in support
of these goals since 1994. The CBEMP's aim to improve the efficiency of
resource use should also have an impact on the government's budget over the
medium term, freeing more resources for direct poverty alleviation
activities.
Environmental Aspects
The project will have no adverse environmental impact. This is a category C
project and will require no further environmental analysis.
Program Objective Categories
The proposed CBEMP is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
assessment of the priority areas in capacity building for the strengthening
of economic governance. The proposed capacity building program will seek to
address capacity building in a broader, more holistic, but yet in an
- 4 -



operational way. The Project Concept Document of the proposed CBEMP was
discussed at the review meeting chaired by the Country Director on March 11,
1999.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone : (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Preeti Arora
Task Manager
(202) 473-8725
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 20, 2001.
- 5 -



