Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3555 GM
Development Credit Agreement
(Capacity Building for Economic Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 2, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3555 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 as amended through October 6, 
1999 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
Page  2
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ASYCUDA" means Automated System Custom Data Administration;
(b)
"CED" means Customs and Excise Department;
(c)
"CRD" means the Borrower’s Central Revenue Department;
(d)
"CSD" means the Borrower’s Central Statistics Department;
(e)
"DOSFEA" means the Borrower’s Department of State for Finance and 
Economic Affairs;
(f)
"DOSJ" means the Borrower’s Department of State for Justice;
(g)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i)
"IFMIS" means Integrated Financial Management Information System;
(j)
"MDI" means the Management Development Institute established by the 
Borrower pursuant to the Management Development Institute Act (No. 13) of 1982;
(k)
"MFAU" means the Macroeconomic and Financial Analysis Unit within DOSFEA;
(l)
"PBU" means the Programming and Budgeting Unit within DOSFEA;
(m)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit within DOSFEA;
(n)
"Project Implementation Plan" or "PIP" means the project implementation 
plan, adopted by the Borrower, and giving details of procurement and disbursement 
arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements, as shall be agreed with the Association for purposes of 
the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes any schedules to the PIP;
(o)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
"Project Oversight Committee" means the committee, established by the 
Borrower in January 2001, which provides high level guidance for the Project;
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on October 6, 1998, and on behalf of the Borrower on    
October 7, 1998; 
(r)
"SPACO" means the Strategy for Poverty Alleviation Coordinating Office, 
within DOSFEA; and
Page  3
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million Special Drawing Rights                     
(SDR 12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each   June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2011 and ending June 1, 2041. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2021 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
Page  4
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DOSFEA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative and capacity building practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan  designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of the 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an account 
in the Central Bank of the Gambia on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount 0f $20,000 equivalent 
to the Borrower’s estimated counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project for 
the first four months of Project Implementation, and thereafter at quarterly 
intervals, deposit into the Project Account the estimated amount required for 
expenditures for the following quarter as agreed by the Borrower and the Association 
in each annual work plan; and
(c)
ensure that the amounts deposited in the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section will be used exclusively for the 
Page  5
Borrower’s counterpart expenditures under the Project and not otherwise financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
eighteen months after the Effectiveness Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
Page  6
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has adopted the PIP in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has established an accounting and financial management 
system satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
the Borrower has appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of State responsible for Finance and Economic 
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of State for Finance
  and Economic Affairs
The Quadrangle
Banjul
Republic of the Gambia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFIN
2264
(220) 227 954
Republic of the Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  7
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 4776391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s/ John P. Bojang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful Patel
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
   % of
Allocated (Expressed 
Expenditures
Category
   in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
600,000
90% 
(2)
Goods
    2,700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
40% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
    5,300,000
100% of foreign
services
expenditures and
80% of local 
expenditures
(4)
Training
    1,600,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
90% of local
expenditures
(5)
Operating costs 
100,000
90%
(6)
Refunding of
    1,000,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) of
Advance
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
700,000 
Page  8
TOTAL
   12,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating costs" means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, supplies, audits, salaries 
and allowances of contractual staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) consulting services under 
contracts with firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) consulting 
services under contracts with individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; 
and (iv) training and Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this   
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this   Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (ii) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
Page  9
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $800,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
Page  10
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen institutional and human capacity 
for economic policy formulation and execution, in the following areas: (a) statistical 
systems and macroeconomic analysis and poverty assessment, (b) public resource 
management, and (c) facilitation of private sector development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Statistical Systems, Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Formulation
1.
Strengthening the National Statistical System 
(a) 
Development of an appropriate legal framework for CSD to ensure greater 
autonomy, the preparation of a long-term strategic plan and the strengthening of the 
internal organization of CSD, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training, and the acquisition of equipment.
(b)
Improvement of data collection by CSD, through the provision of technical 
advisory services, acquisition of equipment, training of CSD staff to collect 
environmental data and the carrying out of the following surveys: (i) national 
establishment and labor force survey, (ii) national household budget survey, (iii) 
road transport survey, (iv) informal sector surveys, (v) regular distributive trade 
surveys, and (vi) rotating social statistics.
(c)
Building CSD’s capacity to produce timely and accurate data, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training of staff.
(d)
Introduction of modern computing systems and information technology for 
data collection, processing, transmission, storage and dissemination, through the 
Page  11
provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of computing equipment.
(e)
Rehabilitation of CSD offices and the acquisition of office furniture.
(f)
Rehabilitation and expansion of offices for CSD/CRD and CED.
2.
Strengthening Macroeconomic and Poverty Analysis
Strengthening the capacity of MFAU, PBU, SPACO and MDI to facilitate macroeconomic 
policy formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, through the provision 
of technical advisory services, training and the acquisition of equipment.
Part B:
Strengthening Public Resource Management
1.
Revenue Management
(a)
Strengthening capacity of CRD to improve the efficiency of tax 
collection, enhance accountability and improve services to the private sector, through 
the streamlining of procedures, simplifying the regulatory framework, provision of 
training and information technology and acquisition of equipment.
(b)
Upgrading the ASYCUDA system at CED and the provision of relevant 
operational training.
(c)
Rehabilitation of CRD and CED offices and the acquisition of office 
equipment.
2.
Public Expenditure Management
(a)
Defining broad sector goals for the development of the full PRSP, 
including carrying out workshops, focus groups, community outreach programs and 
training.
(b)
Development of  a comprehensive macroeconomic framework, including the 
strengthening of revenue forecasting and macroeconomic planning capacity for the 
medium term, through the provision of technical advisory services and training, and 
acquisition of equipment and software.
(c)
Improving the budget process by: (i) conducting  participatory public 
expenditure reviews, (ii) developing sector strategies, (iii) costing of programs and 
activities, (iv) integration of recurrent and development budgets, (v) development of 
a budget framework paper as a basis for the budget within a medium-term framework, and 
(vi) dissemination of new procedures, through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training, and acquisition of equipment and software.
(d)
Strengthening the capacity of the Accountant General’s Department in 
monitoring and accounting of public expenditures through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training and acquisition of equipments.
(e)
Strengthening the audit function of the National Audit Office through the 
provision of training and the acquisition of equipment.
(f)
Improving the Borrower’s financial management information system by 
establishing an IFMIS, through the provision of technical advisory services, training 
and the acquisition of equipment and software.
(g)
Restructuring and strengthening of the Borrower’s public procurement 
framework through more transparent regulations and procedures, the provision of 
technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment.
Part C:
Private Sector Development
1.
Judiciary
(a)
Design and implementation of  an information strategy for the Judiciary 
and  a Court Case Administration System in the High Court, through the provision of 
advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment.
(b)
Development and carrying out of induction and continuing education 
training for judges and magistrates.
(c)
Carrying out on a pilot basis in the High Court at Banjul an Alternate 
Dispute Resolution program, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
Page  12
training.
2.
DOSJ
(a)
 (i) Strengthening the management capacity of  staff with management 
responsibilities within DOSJ, through the provision of management training; and (ii) 
strengthening the capacities of the various divisions DOSJ, the Law Reform Commission 
and National Council for Law Reporting, through the provision of short-term training, 
workshops and seminars for state counsel.
(b)
Carrying out a study for the restructuring of the Registrar General, 
Curator of Intestate Estates and the Registrar of Companies, through the provision of 
technical advisory services, training and study tours/attachments.
(c)
Computer training for all staff  of DOSJ.
(d)
Refining the strategy for the sector, with identified priorities and  
actions through provision of technical advisory services and assistance to the DOSJ to 
carry out a series of stakeholder consultations to finalize the strategy. 
3.
Divestiture Strategy: Strengthening the Gambia Divestiture Agency for the 
privatization of state enterprises through the provision of training, and technical 
advisory services; and the carrying out of a study on the Social Security and Housing 
Finance Corporation to prepare it for divestiture.
4.
Financial Sector: Strengthening banking supervision and enforcement of 
prudential norms, liquidity forecasting and the development of a framework for micro 
finance, through the provision of technical advisory services and short-term 
specialized training for the staff of the Central Bank.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the  Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Page  13
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 and $380,000 equivalent respectively, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $100,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, motorcycles and computers estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more, and (ii) the first three contracts procured under National Competitive 
Bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
Page  14
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Consultant’s Qualifications
Services for training as well as other similar assignments estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract that meet the criteria set out in  paragraph 
3.7 of the consultant guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  15
(c)
Contracts for audits, all contracts for the employment of project staff 
and all international training shall be awarded only after prior review and approval 
of the Association.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project: (a) the Project 
Oversight Committee, chaired by the Secretary of State, DOSFEA, with the following 
members, the Secretary of State, DOSJ and the Governor of the Central Bank; (b) the 
Project Steering Committee comprising the heads of all the institutions under the 
Project, to oversee the implementation of the Project, lead the organizational and 
management reforms and coordinate inter-agency relations; and (c) the Project 
Coordination Unit to coordinate and monitor Project activities, manage the financial, 
procurement, record keeping and reporting activities. The PCU shall comprise a Project 
Director, a Deputy Project Director, a Financial Controller and Procurement Officer. 
2.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP, and shall 
not amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion of the Association shall 
materially or adversely impact the implementation of the Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) appoint the Information Technology Advisor by December 
31, 2001; and (b) furnish to the Association its acceptance of the final report of the 
Information System Strategy Plan by May 30, 2002 and the new system architecture for 
IFMIS by March 31, 2003. 
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
Statistics: Increase in coverage and revision of methodologies for compilation 
of basis statistics by the end of the Project, Consumer Price Index based on new 
household survey completed by December 31, 2004.
MFAU: Macroeconomic forecasting model for The Gambia introduced by         
December 31, 2002. Discrepancies in revenue estimates decreased by 50% for fiscal year 
2002 compared with fiscal year 2000.
Revenue Department: Self assessment for large taxpayers introduced; at least 80% 
of large tax payers submit self-assessment for the tax year 2003; information manuals 
on new business processes prepared and disseminated by December 31, 2002.
Customs: Data generated on a monthly basis by the ASYCUDA system by        
Page  16
December 31, 2002.
Public Expenditure Management: Sector strategies prepared for health, education, 
agriculture by December 31, 2001; costing of programs and activities in these sectors 
completed by December 31, 2001 budget classification changed to reflect program 
budgeting for the budget year 2003; recurrent and development budgets unified by the 
2003 budget.
IFMIS:  Strategy for ISSP completed by March 31, 2002. Revised accounting and 
budgeting system introduced by December 31, 2003. IFMIS pilot departments (DOSFEA, 
Accountant General’s Department, Treasury, Agriculture, Prime Minister’s Office, 
Tourism) producing accounts on a monthly basis by December 31, 2004.
Procurement: New procurement code adopted by June 30, 2003.
Legal: Information available on length of time between filing and disposal of 
cases in the High Court by December 31, 2002.
Reports: Reports on options for restructuring Registrar-General, Curator of 
Intestate Estates and Registrar of Companies by December 31, 2002.
Assessment Report: Assessment Report on the Alternative Dispute Resolution Pilot 
Scheme by June 30, 2003.
Financial Sector: System established for rationalization of issuance of Treasury 
Bills by December 31, 2003.
