                                           Document o f
                                          The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                          Report No: 40985-GM




                                         PROJECT PAPER

                                              ONA

                     PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR2 MILLION
                               (US$3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA

                                             FOR THE

          CAPACITY BUILDINGFOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                          October 3,2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management4
Country Department AFR1
Africa Region




This document has arestricted distribution andmaybe usedby recipients only inthe
performanceof their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective 30 September 2007)


                                    Currency Unit = Dalasi
                                       Dalasi 21.9 = US$1
                                         US$1.55       = SDRl

                                             F I S C A L YEAR
                                        January 1      -    December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND A C R O N Y M S

ADR         Alternative Dispute Resolution
ASYCUDA     Automated System for Customs Data
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBEMP       Capacity Buildingfor Economic Management Project
CCMS        Court Case Management System
DFID        Department for International Development (UK)
DOSFEA      Department o f State for Finance and Economic Affairs
D P         Development Partner
DT          Directorate o f Treasury
FM          Financial Management
FSR         Financial Sector Reform
GBOS        Gambia Bureau o f Statistics
GPPA        Gambia Public Procurement Authority
GRA         Gambia Revenue Authority
IDA         International Development Association
IFMIS       IntegratedFinancial Management Information System
IP          ImplementationProgress
ISR         ImplementationStatus Report
JAS         Joint Assistance Strategy
M&E         Monitoring & Evaluation
MDG         MillenniumDevelopment Goal
MDI         Management Development Institute
M o U       Memorandum of Understanding
P A D       Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PMR         Project Management Report
PSR         Public Sector Reform
SDR         Special DrawingRight
SSHFC       Social Security and Housing Financing Corporation
U N C T A D UnitedNations Conference on Trade and Development



                                 Vice President:       Obiageli K.Ezekwesili
                               Country Director:       Madani M.Tall
                                Sector Manager:        Antonella Bassani
                              Task Team Leader:        Hoon Sahib Soh

                                    REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA

         CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                                               PROJECT PAPER



                                                    CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                      Page


I. Introduction...............................,.......,................................................,.......................,.......1
                                                                                                                 .

11.   Background and Rationale...................................................................................................l

111.  Proposed Changes................................................................................................................      3

rv.   Consistency with the CAS and PRSP......................................................................... ........5         .
V.    Economic Analysis o f Cost Overruns ..................................................................................5

VI.   Expected Outcomes .....,.......................................................................................................6

VII.  Benefit and Risks ........ . ,......... ............,............,.........,...........,.,,.... ............ ...........,.......6
                       .        ., .          .,                                                          .             .
VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditions for Additional Financing.........................,........                               .......,.......6
Annex A: Project FinancialManagement Assessment ..........,.........................................................8

Annex B:KeyPerformance Indicators..........................................................................................              14

Annex C: Withdrawal ofthe Proceeds ofthe Grant ....................................................................                      15


                                  REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA

            CAPACITY BUILDINGAND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                   ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                              PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET

Date: October 3,2007                                     Team Leader: Hoon Sahib Soh
Country: Republic o f The Gambia                         Sector Manager: Antonella Bassani
Project Name: Capacity Buildingfor Economic              Country Director: MadaniM.Tall
 Management Project                                      Environmental Category: C
Project ID:PO57995 and P105866
Borrower: Republic o f The Gambia
Responsible Agency: Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs




CurrentClosing Date: Dec 31, 2007




For Loans/Credits/Grants:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 3.00




IDA
Other

Borrower: Republic ofThe Gambia
ResponsibleAgency: Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
Contact Person : Mr.Abdou Touray, Permanent Secretary
Tel: (220) 4227221


I. Introduction

 1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an additional
grant in an amount o f U S $ 3 million equivalent to the Republic o f The Gambia for the Capacity
Buildingfor Economic Management Project (CBEMP, Cr.3555 GM).

2,       The proposed additional financing would help finance costs associated with some of the
original Project activities which have experienced cost overruns. The additional financing would
allow the Government to complete ongoing initiatives, thereby contributing towards the
achievement o f the Project Development Objective (PDO) and the sustainability o f the
initiatives. Neither an expansionnor a scale-up o f the original Project activities are proposed.

3.       The specific activities to be financed are the continuation o f the: (i)establishment o f the
Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) and building local capacity in its
usage; (ii)establishment o f the Gambia Revenue Authority (GRA) and strengthening its
operational capacity; and (iii)streamlining o f customs procedures and upgrading o f the
Automated System Customs Data Administration Information Technology (IT) System
(ASYCUDA). The expected outcomes from these activities are improved public financial
management, both for revenue and expenditures. Ongoing Project initiatives will become more
effective and sustainable due to strengthened local capacity.

4.       There are no changes proposed to the PDO. The existing institutional framework, and
procurement and disbursement arrangements will be maintained. With the additional financing, it
i s proposed that the Project's closing date be extended by one year to December 31, 2008. It is
also proposed that three o f the performance indicators associated with the legal sector reforms be
modified, such that targeted activities are scaled down and the implementation period extended
inaccordance withthe limitedcapacity ofthe beneficiary inthis sector.

11.     Backgroundand Rationale

5.       County Context. In 1994, a military coup brought about a new regime that has since
remained inpower. In September 2006, President Yahya Jammeh was re-elected as the President
for the third time, with 67 percent o f the votes. International observers described the election as
fair. Legislative elections in January 2007 resulted inthe President's party maintaining nearly all
the seats inthe National Assembly.

6.      The Gambia's economy is undiversified and limited by a small internal market. Services
account for over half o f the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), reflecting the importance o f re-
export trade and tourism. Agriculture accounts for approximately a third o f GDP but more than
70 percent o f employment. The country has no significant industry except for groundnut
processing, and the manufacturing sector accounts for only five percent o f GDP. The Gambia
reached the Decision Point under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative in
December 2000, and it i s expected to reach the Completion Point inthe second half o f 2007. The
overall povertyheadcount ratio i s currently 57.9 percent.

7.      The Government lacks capacity, but it has steadily benefited from donor funded capacity
building projects, including the CBEMP. With assistance from the International Development

                                                2


Association (IDA) and other development partners, the Government is currently developing a
comprehensive civil service reform program. A new CAS i s being prepared which will cover the
fiscal years 2008 to 2011.

8.       Project Background. The original Project was financed by a Credit o f SDR12.0 million
(US$lS.O million equivalent). It was approved by the IDA'SBoard o f Executive Directors on
July 26, 2001, and became effective on January 3, 2002. The original closing date o f December
31, 2006, was extended by one year to December 31, 2007, in order to provide more time to
complete Project initiatives. As o f September 1, 2007, 94.4 percent o f the Credit has been
disbursed. Disbursement projections indicate that the remaining funds o f the existing credit will
be fully disbursed by December 31,2007.

9.       The Project's objectives are to strengthen institutional and human capacity for economic
policy formulation and execution in the following three areas, which correspond to the Project's
components: (i)   statistical systems, macroeconomic analysis, and poverty assessment; (ii)  public
resource management; and (iii)     facilitation o f private sector development. There have been no
changes to the PDO to date, and as indicated, there are none proposed.

10.      The major activities under the three components are as follows:

  (i)Statistical systems, macroeconomic analysis andpoverty assessment. Component one
  provides support for the Gambia Bureau o f Statistics (GBOS), the household expenditure
  survey and the economic census, macroeconomic modeling, the PRSP process and
  participatory poverty assessments, and the Management Development Institute (MDI).

  (ii) resourcemanagement.ComponenttwofocusesonsupportingtheGRA,IFMIS,the
       Public
  tax and customs (ASYCUDA) IT systems, the budget framework, and the Gambia Public
  Procurement Authority (GPPA).

  (iii)Facilitation of private sector development. Component three supports a number of
  initiatives, including the development o f an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) system,
  legal sector and IT strategies, a Court Case Management System (CCMS), the divestiture
  strategy for the Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC), and a liquidity
  forecasting model and microfinance regulatory framework for the Central Bank.

11.      Project Performance.     There have been major achievements under the project, notably
the establishment o f a semi-autonomous GBOS, GRA, and GPPA, the development and
operationalization o f the IFMIS, strengthening o f official statistics through the household
expenditure surveys and the economic census, and the establishment o f an ADR system. At
present, the Implementation Status Report (ISR) ratings for PDO and Implementation Progress
(P)are both moderately satisfactory. Neither has been rated unsatisfactory in the past year.
Components one and two are moderately satisfactory, while component three is moderately
unsatisfactory. The PDO and P ratings are moderately satisfactory, as opposed to satisfactory,
mainly because the major initiatives, such as GBOS, GRA and IFMIS, initially made slower
progress than originally expected. The delays in implementation mainly occurred in the earlier
years of the Project, when the Government needed greater than expected time and resources to
prepare for activities and buildbasic local capacity. At present, the Project i s being implemented



                                                                                                 2

                                              3


appropriately, and therefore continues to compensate for the earlier delays. The provision of the
proposed additional financing is expected to enable an upgrading o f ISR indicators to fully
satisfactory status. The project is in compliance with all legal covenants under existing legal
documents. The ratings for Procurement and Financial Management (FM) are satisfactory.
Annex A presents the latest FM assessment, which indicates that the overall FMrisk is modest.
The audited financial statements are fully updated to end-2006. The performance o f the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) is currently moderately satisfactory, but this is expectedto be upgraded
throughimprovedreporting.

12.      Rationalefor Additional Financing. The need for additional financing i s mainly due to
cost overruns. The cost overruns resulted from an underestimation of the degree to which the
public sector lacked capacity, which meant that greater than expected funding was needed to
buildcapacity prior to undertaking initiatives. Many o f the Project's original activities required a
longer than expected period o f gestation, and therefore greater than expected support from the
Project, inorder to gradually establish the fundamental buildingblocks for the activities. Two o f
the major initiatives to be supported by the additional financing are IFMIS and the customs IT
system, ASYCUDA. The actual implementation of IFMIS only started in earnest in2006 due to
the Government requiring more time to analyze existing local capacity and business processes,
and to develop the solution and application design. When the Project started, ASYCUDA was
beingusedby the Government but was only partially operational and maintaining the system was
problematic. As opposed to immediately upgrading the system as originally planned, the Project
focused on stabilizing and fully operationalizing the system at the current version, and
strengthening local IT capacity for system administration. To a lesser degree, the need for
additional financing was also due to an underestimation o f the actual costs for civil works.

13.      The additional financing will help to ensure that the PDO will be fully met. The ongoing
activities to be funded are core initiatives o f the Project. There is a risk that these initiatives
would not be completed without the additional financing, and this could have a significant
impact on the PDO. The Government has experienced relative success in implementing the
initiatives, and i s anxious to maintain the momentum. However, it continues to operate under
tight resource constraints, and therefore the Government would find it a significant challenge to
fund the remaining activities from its own resources, despite strong country ownership. This
would not only result inincomplete, partially operational initiatives, but would also compromise
sustainability. The additional financing is crucial to facilitate both the conclusion o f the
initiatives and to buildthe local capacity required to ensure sustainability.

111.     ProposedChanges

14.      There are no proposed changes to the PDO, project design or scope. The activities that
will be financed by the additional financing are part o f the original activities o f the project. The
existing institutional framework and project implementation arrangements will be maintained,
thus enabling a quick and smooth implementation o f the additional financing. Part o f the
additional financing will be used to fund the continued operations o f the PCU. The additional
financing will address cost overruns, and therefore the total project costs will increase by the
amount o f the additional financing, US$ 3 million.




                                                                                                    3

                                              4


15.     The original procurement guidelines (revised 1999), as opposed to the new guidelines
(2006), will be applied to the additional financing given that it is for continuation o f ongoing
activities. The Government has requested additional financing in order to: (a) finalize the
implementation o f the core components o f IFMIS; (b) complete the establishment o f the GRA;
and (c) initiate the upgrading o f the customs IT system, ASYCUDA. All these activities have
already been initiated and are ongoing, and they are part o f component two under the original
Project. The additional financing Grant will fund either existing contracts or additional contracts
for ongoing activities. The development and implementation o f IFMIS have been contracted and
are ongoing. The funding for the contracts will be shared between the existing Credit and the
additional financing Grant. The activities related to the establishment o f GRA have also been
contracted and are ongoing, including for equipment, furniture and consultancies. A feasibility
study for the upgrade o f ASYCUDA has been contracted and conducted by UNCTAD, and the
Government plans to extend this contract inorder to implement the upgrade.

16.     IFMIS i s the centerpiece o f the Project's activities for improving public expenditure
management. In the recent past, the production o f the country's audited public accounts was
delayed by more than a decade, and there were significant off-budget expenditures. IFMIS will
significantly improve this situation by strengthening financial control and management o f public
funds, and by providing timely and accurate budgeting and financial information across the
Government. IFMIS i s now operational, and the establishment o f the core modules i s expected to
be completed by early 2008. The additional financing will allow the Government to: (i)      finalize
the implementation o f the core budgeting and accounting system; and (ii)      build local capacity,
thus better ensuring sustainability o f the system. IFMIS is a key part o f the original Project
design.

17.     The Government plans on preparing an IFMIS sustainability plan which will outline
actions for building capacity within the public sector so that eventually the Government can
operate and maintain the system on its own. One o f the key aspects o f the plan will be how the
Government cain gradually reduce the current reliance on external consultants by replacing them
with civil servants with the required qualifications.

18.     GRA is the Project's main initiative for strengthening capacity for tax collection, and
enhancing tax related accountability and services to the private sector. The creation o f the
semiautonomous agency strengthens           the legitimacy o f tax      administration,   facilitates
professionalism, and enhances the coordination between internal revenue and customs
administration. The additional financing will allow the Government to complete the ongoing
process o f establishing the new agency, including the recruitment o f staff and the implementation
o f a new organizational structure, operational planand business processes.

19.     ASYCUDA's proposed upgrade was part o f original activities under the Project. The
upgrade o f the system to version    ++ would allow the Government to fully automate customs
procedures, implement a WTO compliant valuation system, facilitate selective targeting o f cargo
inspections, and improve management and control through the generation o f customized
management reports. A technical feasibility study for the upgrade has already been conducted,
and the additional financing would allow the Government to initiate implementation o f the
upgrade. Financing for completing the upgrade is currently under discussion through the ongoing
CAS preparation process.



                                                                                                   4

                                               5


20.     Inaddition to the proposed additional financing, there are four additional changes being
proposed: (i)extending the closing date by one year to December 31, 2008; (ii)         revising the
performance indicator "case management system installed by September 30, 2006" to "case
management system designed by December 31, 2007"; (iii)         removing the performance indicator
"backlog o f cases reduced by 25 percent by September 30, 2006"; and (iv) extending the target
date for the performance indicator "assessment report on the Alternative Dispute Resolution Pilot
Scheme" to June 30, 2008. The extension o f the closing date will allow the Government
adequate time to complete the activities to be financed by the additional financing. The revision
o f the performance indicator on the Court Case Management System i s proposed because
implementation i s not feasible within the remaining project period given the beneficiary's limited
capacity. Note that this performance indicator and the indicator on backlog o f cases were not part
o fthe original Project; they were included through the previous Project restructuring.

21.     Improved reporting and communication will be crucial to raising the effectiveness o f the
PCU. IDA will propose that further options be explored for accelerating the production o f
various progress related reports, including draft minutes of meetings. The P C U should be more
firmindealing with contractorswho have failed to deliver for aprotracted period.

IV.     Consistencywith the CAS andPRSP

22.     The additional financing has been requested by the Government for the continuation o f
existing activities under the CBEMP, which are consistent with the strategic priorities set out in
the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). A new CAS covering the fiscal years 2008 to 2011 i s currently being prepared,
with an expected Board date in fourth quarter 2007. CBEMP's additional financing will support
the proposed first pillar o f the CAS which focuses on, "strengthening the institutional framework
for economic management and public service delivery." The additional financing i s also aligned
with the PRSP, which emphasizes strengthening public financial management and building
public sector capacity. The PRSP explicitly focuses on the importance o f IFMIS and the GRA.
CBEMP contributes toward poverty reduction by improving the Government's capacity to
provide public services to the poor.

V.      Economic Analysis of Cost Overruns

23.     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the initial IDA Credit did not include an
economic analysis as it was deemed not applicable, given the difficulties in deriving net present
values for capacity buildingprojects. Similarly, an economic analysis will not be conducted for
the additional financing.

24.     Given that the activities to be supported by the additional financing are ongoing and part
o f the original activities o f the Project, the Africa regional guidelines indicate that a new
appraisal is not required. In lieu o f a full appraisal, the team undertook a combined supervision
and negotiation mission to review implementation progress, outcome and output indicators, and
documentation relating to the additional financing.

25.     The additional financing does not raise the environment category o f the project nor
trigger any new safeguard policies. It does not involve any exceptions to World Bank policies.



                                                                                                 5

                                              6


VI.     ExpectedOutcomes

26.     K e y objectives, activities, performance indicators and estimated costs under the
additional financing have been developed (see Annex B).

VII. Benefit andRisks

27.     The expected benefits from the additional financing are fwther strengthening o f the
Government's capacity in policy-making and public service delivery. The building o f local
capacity would help ensure sustainability of the ongoing initiatives. A more entrenched and
expanded IFMIS would provide the Government greater control over budget preparation,
execution and monitoring. A strengthened GRA and improved customs IT system will contribute
towards robust revenue generation.

28.      The PAD for the initial IDA Credit rated the overall risk as modest. At the country and
sector levels, the major risk identified was Government commitment. Duringimplementation o f
the Project, initially there was some resistance to the reforms, but gradually the need for change
was recognized such that at present the Government is firmly committed to the reforms. The
Secretary of State (Minister) o f Finance has repeatedhis commitment to the Project initiatives, as
evidenced by the request for continued support both through this additional financing as well as
the next CAS. In addition, the Government has increased the allocation o f its own domestic
funds towards the recurrent costs o f the Project initiatives. The beneficiaries to be supported by
the additional financing are considered among the most committed. To ensure continued
mitigation o f this risk, IDA will engage a wide range o f local stakeholders to build awareness
and support for the initiatives.

29.      At the operational level, the major risks identified were project management capacity,
staff turnover, and sustainability. Weak capacity o f the PCU has been addressed through
substantial training provided to its staff. By contrast, staff turnover and sustainability remain
critical risk factors. The two factors are closely linked given that sustainability o f Project
initiatives will depend on limiting staff turnover. IDA with other development partners are
working with the Government indeveloping a comprehensive civil service reform strategy which
will be the basis for improving staff recruitment and retention. This strategy will include
complementary reforms o f civil service pay and performance management. IDA will seek to
further mitigate risks by continuing to encourage the Government to pursue initiatives which
take into account limited local absorptive capacity. It will emphasize the need to prepare a
sustainability plan which explicitly identifies personnelneeds as well as other recurrent costs.

VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor AdditionalFinancing

30.      The additional financing o f US$ 3 million equivalent will be provided as a Grant,
according to the category allocations outlined inAnnex C. The categories are goods, consultants'
services, training and operating costs o f the PCU. A separate Special Account will need to be
opened by the Government for the IDA Grant, with an authorized allocation o f US$500,000. The
disbursement o f the grant will begin when the existing IDA credit has been fully disbursed. The
additional financing will become effective once we received a legal opinion from the
Government confirming that the additional financing has been duly authorized or ratified by the



                                                                                                 6

                                       7


Republic of The Gambia and that the Development Credit Agreement Amending Agreement is
legallybindinguponthe Republic ofThe Gambiainaccordancewith its terms.




                                                                                   7

                                                     8


                      Annex A: ProjectFinancialManagementAssessment

Introduction

1.      This report was prepared as part o f the processing of the additional financing for the
Gambia CBEMP. The original Project was financed by a Credit o f SDR12.0 million (US$l5.0
million equivalent). It was approved by the International Development Association's Board o f
Executive Directors on July 26, 2001, and became effective on January 3, 2002. The original
closing date o f December 31, 2006 was extended by one year to December 31, 2007 in order to
provide more time to complete Project initiatives. As o f September 1, 2007, 94.4 percent o f the
Credit has been disbursed. Disbursement projections indicate that the remaining funds will be
fully disbursedbyDecember 31,2007.

2.      A financial management assessment (FMA) was carried out in accordance with the
Financial Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on
November 3, 2005. The objective o f the assessment was to update the previous FMA and
determine whether the implementing entities continue to have acceptable financial management
arrangements, w h c h ensure that: (1) the funds are used only for the intended purposes in an
efficient and economical way, (2) accurate, reliable, and timely periodic financial reports are
prepared, and (3) their assets are safeguarded.

ExecutiveSummary

3.      The project's transactions will be managed by the existing PCU. The performance o f the
P C U is currently moderately satisfactory, but this i s expected to be upgraded through improved
reporting. The overall performance o f the P C U in financial management was rated satisfactory
by the last FM supervision. The FM supervision recommended that the PCU further improve its
internal control and knowledge o f World Bank procedures.

4.      The fiduciary arrangements o f the national implementing agencies meet the World
Bank's minimum requirements under OP/BP10.02. They are adequate to provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the project required by
IDA. However, two actions need to be taken to strengthen the financial management system o f
CBEMP: (i)    updating the format o f the Project Management Report to be consistent with World
Bank required standards; and (ii)      implementing the 2006 auditor's recommendations.

CountryFinancialManagementIssues

5.      Financial management continues to face significant challenges. The 2003 CFAA noted
that The Gambia was associated with a high level o f fiduciary risk resulting from weak public
financial management o f the different elements o f the budget cycle, including strategic
budgeting, budget preparation, budget execution, accounting, internal control and monitoring,
and reporting and audit.' Since the 2003 CFAA, the Government has made it a priority to ensure
a better execution o f the budget, enhance the budget process and complete ongoing reforms to


1 CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment, World Bank, 2003



                                                                                               8

                                                     9


improve the efficiency and accountability o f public expenditure. As a result, there have been
major reforms addressing many of the weaknesses identified in the CFAA. A new C F A A is
planned for FY08, which is expected to show major improvements o f public financial
management.

6.       The "2004 Budget Management and Accountability Act" provides an updated legal
framework for reform. Recent progress has been made in preparing comprehensive and
analytical annual budgets for 2006 and 2007. Though significant improvements in the budget
have been made, reforms need to continue. A significant reform achievement was the
operationalization o f the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) in
January 2007.2The system provides comprehensive public expenditure and revenue management
and reporting. It produces financial statements on a timely basis and in conformity with
international standards. The system i s currently producing monthly fiscal reports, and it is
expected that the 2007 public accounts will be produced with only a quarter lag. Further
strengthening o f financial management structure, procedures and interface is expected to be
provided under the IDA and the African Development Bank's Joint Assistance Strategy (JAS)
for 2008 to 2011.The Boarddate for the JAS is expected inthe fourth quarter o f 2007.

RiskAssessment and Mitigation

7.       The table below shows the results o f the risk assessment from the Risk Rating Summary.
This identifies the key risks that management may face that could hinder the achievement of
project objectives, and it provides a basis for determining how management should address these
risks. Inview o f the general country financial management issues and the issues pertaining to the
CBEMP, the overall financial management risk is Modest.

   -~




                                             untrylevel capacity.
   1H EntityLevel                  M                                                            N
    H Project Level                M                                                           N

    H Budgeting               i M /                                                            N
   1
   IH Accounting              1    M                                         I                 N                  I
                                            ~


    H Internal                                                                                  N
         Control              i    M    l  I




  IFMISis an IntegratedFinancialManagementInformation Systemproviding an integratedplatform for budgetpreparation,
execution, accounting,reporting andpayroll.



                                                                                                                   9

                                             10




  H-High S-Substantial        M-Modest       L-Low

Strengths andWeaknesses of FinancialManagement

8.     The project financial management i s strengthened by the following salient features:

   The accounting personnel are adequately qualified and experienced, but the Financial
   Controller and the Program Assistant should acquire skills inreporting procedures;

   Budgeting arrangements are inplace;

   The audit reports are transmitted on time and the auditor's opinions of the financial statement are
   unqualified.

   Banking arrangements are adequate;

   There i s an adequate accounting software.

9.     The project financial management i s weakened due to the following reasons:

.  The PMR needs to be consistent with and meet the World Bank required standards;

   The Counterpart funds need to be available as set out inthe Development Credit Agreement.

ImplementingEntity

10.    The current PCU will continue to be responsible for the overall implementation of the
CBEMP. The P C Uwill also constitute the operational link between IDA and the Government on
matters related to the implementation o f the project. Duringthe project execution, the P C U shall
.
coordinate project implementation and manage:

.. procurement, includingpurchases o f goods, works, and consulting services;

   project monitoring, reporting and evaluation;

   contractual relationships with IDA and other co-financiers; and



                                                                                                   10

                                              11


    financial management and record keeping, accounts and disbursements.

Budgeting

11.     The capacity o f the accounting staff to hlfillbudgeting needs o f the project is adequate.
The software (PEGASUS 11)can adequately cater for the budgeting arrangements o f the project.

Accounting

12.     The current accounting standards in use in The Gambia will be applicable. IDA funds
will be accounted for by the project on a cash or accrual basis. This will be documented with
appropriate records and procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets. Accounting
records will be maintained in local currency. The Chart of Accounts will facilitate the
preparation o f relevant quarterly and financial statements, including information on the total
project   expenditures,     the   financial   contribution  from    IDA and       expenditure   by
component/category. Annual Financial statements will be prepared in accordance with
International Accounting Standards issued by the International Federation o f Accountants
(IFAC) .

13.     The existing accounting software will be maintained in order to allow production o f all
accounting and financial data required: financial statement, bank reconciliation statements, all
books o f accounts and all financial reports including the PMR.

InternalControlandInternalAuditing

14.     The project's internal controls, including processes for recording and safeguarding fixed
assets, are documented in the CBEMP Procedures Manual. This Manual should be a living
document that can be updated to strengthen the internal control system when the need arises.

Funds Flow and DisbursementArrangements

15.    Disbursements under the CBEMP will continue to be made on a transaction basis for the
withdrawal categories set out inthe table inparagraph 22 below.

16.    A new Designated Account will be opened for purposes o f disbursement o f the proceeds
ofthe Grant.

17.    The withdrawal applications will include a bank statement and a reconciliation o f the
designated account and other documents, as required. The project may also choose to prefinance
project expenditures and seek reimbursement from IDA.

18.    The Government contribution will continue to be deposited in the Project Account on a
quarterly basis, as set forth inthe Development Credit Agreement.

19.    The following table sets out, the categories o f items to be financed out of the proceeds o f
the additional Grant, the allocation o f the amounts o f Grant to each category and the percentage



                                                                                                11

                                              12


o f expenditures for items to be financed in each category. The existing Country Financing
Parameters should be applied.

                   Categories       1DAGrant             YOaf expenditure to be financed
                                   Allocated in
                                    000 us$
         1.     Civil Works                 0       100% of foreign expenditures and 90 % o f
                                                    local expenditures.
         2.     Goods                   1,370       100%o f foreign expenditures and 90 % o f
                                                    local expenditures
         3      Consultants'            1,320       100% o f foreign expenditures and 90 % o f
       I       IServices                            local expenditures.
                                                    100% o f foreign expenditures and 90 % of
                Training         I       230      I local exDenditures
         5      Operating costs            80       90% of expenditures.
                Unallocated                 0
                funds
                                       3,000


FinancialReporting

20.     The PCU will continue to prepare on a quarterly basis, the PMR in the area o f finance,
procurement including complaints from bidders, and project physical progress. The PMR should
be submitted to the IDA within 45 days following the end o f the quarter. The format and the
contents need to be consistent with the World Bank's standards.

Auditing

21.     Independent External Auditors with qualification and experience satisfactory to IDA will
conduct an annual audit o f the project's financial statements preparedby PCU. This audit should
be carried out in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) issued by the
International Federation o f Accountants (IFAC), and will include such tests and controls as the
auditor considers necessary under the circumstances.

22.     In addition to the audit report, the auditors will prepare reports on internal controls
(management letters) giving observations and comments, as well as provide recommendations
for improvement in accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial
covenants inthe Development Credit Agreement. The auditor reports should be furnished to IDA
within six months after the closing o f each fiscal year.

23.     The existing external auditor's contract could be extended under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. As in the past, the Project should enter into a contract with an external
auditor in a timely manner for the purposes o f auditing the financial transactions associated with
the additional financing.




                                                                                                12

                                              13


FinancialManagementAction Plan

24.     The action plan below indicates the actions to be taken for the project to strengthen its
financial management system and the dates that they are due to be completed by.



                                                          November 2007

      Prepare and submit an action plan to implement    1
      auditor's recommendations.                          November 2007


Conclusionof the Assessment

25.     A description o f the project's financial management arrangements above indicates that
although they satisfy the World Bank's minimumrequirements under OP/BP10.02, there remain
improvements to be effected for the system to adequately provide, with reasonable assurance,
accurate and timely information on the status o f the Project as required by the IDA. The
recommended improvements are detailed inthe Financial Management Action Plan.

FinancialCovenants

26.     Financial covenants are the standard ones set out inArticle IV o f the Development Credit
Agreement.

SupervisionPlan

27.     The PCU will be subject to at least one supervision mission next year. Supervision
activities will include: review o f quarterly PMRs; review of annual audited financial statements
as well as timely follow-up o f issues arising; transaction review; participation in project
supervision missions as appropriate; and updating the FM rating in the Implementation Status
Report (ISR).




                                                                                              13

                                               14


                            Annex B: Key PerformanceIndicators




Strengthen public   Buildlocalcapacity for            0Produce 2007 annual public          2.14
expenditure          sustainability, and finalize the  accounts byMarch 31,2008.
management           implementation o f the core
                     modules of the IFMlS              Prepare and start implementation
                                                       o f an IFMIS Sustainability Plan
                                                       by January 31,2008.
Improve the capacity Continue the establishment        Disseminatemanuals and train        0.79
for public revenue   andrestructuring of the GRA       staffs on GRA's new
management                                             organizational structure,
                                                       operational plan, job descriptions
                     Initiate the upgrading o f the    and business processes by June
                     customs IT system,                30, 2008.
                     ASYCUDA
Operating costs of                                                                         0.20
the PCU                                                                                  I
                                                                                         I
Total Costs                                                                                3.12




                                                                                               14

                                      15


                   Annex C:Withdrawalofthe Proceedsof the Grant


                            Amount o f the Grant          % of
                           Allocated (Expressed in    Expenditures
     Cateaorv              U S Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil Works                            0        100%o f foreign expenditures
                                                    90% o f local expenditures


(2) Goods                          1,370,000        100%o f foreign expenditures
                                                    90% o f local expenditures

(3) Consultants'                   1,320,000        100% o f foreign expenditures
    Services                                        90% o f local expenditures

(4) Training                         230,000        100%o f foreign expenditures
                                                    90% o f local expenditures

(5) Operating costs                   80,000        90%

(6) Unallocated                            0


    TOTAL




                                                                                    15


