                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                     Report No: ICR00001079


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-35550 IDA-3555A IDA-H3340)




                                     ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12 MILLION
                        (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      AND

                     AN ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2 MILLION
                         (US$3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                        GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA

                                    FOR THE

       CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                  June 29, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (AFTP4)
West Africa Country Cluster 1 (AFCF1)
Africa Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 9, 2009)

                         Currency Unit = Dalasi
                        US$1.00 = 26.48 dalasis

                           FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 to December 31


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADR       Alternative Dispute Resolution
AfDB      African Development Bank
ASYCUDA   Automated System Custom Data Administration
BOP       Balance of Payment
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBEMP     Capacity Building for Economic Management Project
CBG       Central Bank of the Gambia
CCMS      Court Case Management System
CED       Customs and Excise Department
CPI       Consumer Price Index
CPIP      Country Procurement Issues Paper
CRD       Central Revenue Department
CSD       Central Statistics Department
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DFID      Department for International Development
DNT       Directorate of National Treasury
DOSFEA    Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
DOSJ      Department of State for Justice
DPO       Development Policy Operation
GBOS      Gambia Bureau of Statistics
GDA       Gambia Divestiture Agency
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFS       Government Finance Statistics
GOTG      Government of The Gambia
GPPA      Gambia Public Procurement Authority
GRA       Gambia Revenue Authority
ICRR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFMIS     Integrated Financial Management Information System
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISR       Implementation Status Report
ISSP      Information System Strategy Plan
IT        Information Technology
JAS       Joint Assistance Strategy
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation

MDI       Management Development Institute
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NAO       National Audit Office
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PFM       Public Financial Management
PMO       Personnel Management Office
PPA       Participatory Poverty Assessment
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC       Project Steering Committee
SAL-II    Second Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SPACO     Strategy for Poverty Alleviation Coordinating Office
SSHFC     Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation
TA        Technical Assistance
TIN       Taxpayer Identification Number
TTL       Task Team Leader




                  Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili (AFRVP)
                Country Director: Habib M. Fetini (AFCF1)
                 Sector Manager: Antonella Bassani (AFTP4)
            Project Team Leader: Hoon S. Soh (AFTP4)
               ICR Team Leader: Badara Joof (AFMGM)

                                         THE GAMBIA
          Capacity Building for Economic Management Project (CBEMP)




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 1
 3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................... 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. DCA Key Performance Indicators ................................................................ 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 29
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's Project Completion Report .................................... 34
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 39
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
 Annex 10. Results Framework Analysis....................................................................... 44
  MAP IBRD No. 33409

A. Basic Information

                                                                       CAPACITY
                                                                       BUILDING FOR
Country:                Gambia, The             Project Name:          ECONOMIC
                                                                       MANAGEMENT
                                                                       PROJECT
                                                                       IDA-35550,IDA-
Project ID:             P057995                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       3555A,IDA-H3340
ICR Date:               06/30/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       THE GAMBIA
Original Total
                        XDR 12.0M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 13.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Dept of State for Finance and Econ Affairs
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/10/1999    Effectiveness:                            01/03/2002
Appraisal:             04/09/2001    Restructuring(s):                         06/30/2005
Approval:              07/26/2001    Mid-term Review:                          06/30/2004
                                     Closing:               12/31/2006         12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing           Moderately
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                          3                 2
Central government administration                               92                97
Law and justice                                                  5                 1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting                    14               14
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                 14               1
Macroeconomic management                                         29               4
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                 29               60
procurement
Tax policy and administration                                    14               21


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Habib M. Fetini                   John McIntire
Sector Manager:           Antonella Bassani                 Emmanuel Akpa
Project Team Leader:      Hoon Sahib Soh                    Preeti Arora
ICR Team Leader:          Badara Alieu Joof
ICR Primary Author:       J. Matthew Mitchell




                                              ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Build Government capacity for economic planning, policy formulation and execution.
Build the capacity of the judicial and financial systems to facilitate private sector
development

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revisions.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target    Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value       Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                                           approval        Target       Completion or
                                         documents)        Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :  See Annex 10.
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target    Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value       Values (from                     Achieved at
                                           approval        Revised      Completion or
                                         documents)     Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :  See Annex 10.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived            DO                       IP               Disbursements
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1     03/08/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   0.68
  2     06/26/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   1.93



                                           iii

 3    12/17/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    2.91
 4    05/29/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    3.57
 5    11/17/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    4.08
 6    05/26/2004       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                   5.16
 7    12/22/2004       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                   6.12
 8    06/13/2005   Moderately Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                   6.90
 9    06/30/2005   Moderately Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                   7.50
10    07/22/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             7.50
11    03/24/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            10.32
12    09/28/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            12.56
13    05/29/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            15.09
14    12/27/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            16.90
15    06/27/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            18.29
16    12/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            18.79
17    03/16/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            19.06



H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at    Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
                                                        Delays in implementation of
  06/30/2005        N        MS      U          7.50    key outcome and output
                                                        indicators.




                                         iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1    Background

The Capacity Building for Economic Management Project (CBEMP) responded to a critical need
for improving economic management in The Gambia, a country of 1.3 million people with a high
rate of poverty. The Gambia had a per capita GNP of US$350, less than the low income average
for Sub-Saharan Africa.1 The country had suffered economic and political disruption during
1993-98, mainly due to a military coup in 1994 which had prompted suspension of most donor
assistance and sharp declines in tourism, a major source of foreign exchange earnings. Following
the presidential elections in 1997, the Government began the process of restoring macroeconomic
stability and normalizing relations with donors. After several years of stagnation, the economy
recovered in 1999 with real growth in GDP rising above five percent. However, human and
institutional capacity limitations in the public sector constrained the efficient use of expanded
resources resulting from this growth.

1.1.2 Key Sector Issues

In public sector management, the key issues that the project addressed were an inadequate and
outdated statistical database, weak capacity for policy-making and inefficient systems for public
revenue and expenditure management. In particular, the lack of a computerized Public Financial
Management (PFM) system undermined the transparency and accountability of Government
operations. Audits of public accounts had not taken place since the early 1990s and backlogs in
the preparation of the accounts were becoming significant. Regarding the promotion of private
sector development, the court system was inefficient, financial instruments were limited and
costly, and the Government's divestiture plans were not being implemented.

1.1.3 Development Strategy

The higher level objectives that the project supported were part of the country's development
strategy outlined in its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). This strategy focused
on eradicating poverty through programs and policies for expanding economic growth and
reducing inequalities in income. Its five pillars were: (i) enhancing the productive capacity of the
poor; (ii) improving the access to and the performance of social services; (iii) building local
capacity for development management; (iv) providing economic and social infrastructure support
to the poor; and (v) promoting participatory processes and good governance. The implementation
of this strategy called for a solid statistical base and monitoring framework, efficient public
resource management with a focus on improving services to the poor, and removal of
administrative and legal constraints to accelerating private sector development. The CBEMP was
to be a key instrument for achieving these objectives.

1.1.4 Rationale for Bank Assistance

The Bank's involvement in the project was consistent with both its overall assistance program for
the country and its past partnership with the Government of the Gambia (GOTG) for better public
resource management. In support of the I-PSRP, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)2
called for a program to reduce poverty based on a rapid, export oriented increase in GDP per

1Based on the latest data available at the time of appraisal, which was for 1999.
2Document No. IDA/R98-131, September 10, 1998.

                                                            1

capita combined with measures to improve governance focused on efficient and transparent
resource management. Moreover, the Bank had previously supported improvements in public
sector management through the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL-II) for The Gambia,
which had closed in 1992 with a satisfactory performance rating.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective (PDO) is as follows "The project's development objective is
to build Government capacity for economic policy formulation and execution. The project will
also build the capacity of the judicial and financial systems to facilitate private sector
development."3 The major performance indicators in the PAD concerned the availability of
macroeconomic and poverty related data, improved preparation and implementation of the
budget, timely production of public accounts, the adoption of a Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF),4 improved quality of tax administration, reduced court case processing time
and other measures to facilitate private sector activity.                 The Annex 10 reviews the key
performance indicators from the PAD, incorporating changes applied through amendments to the
DCA (see details below). Annex 2 outlines the assessment of the Key Performance Indicators
(KPIs) of the DCA, which are a subset of the indicators in the PAD as they were in place at
project completion.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions to the PDO during the project's implementation period. However, there
were revisions to the project's performance indicators as a result of the project's restructuring in
2005 and the project's additional financing in 2007 (see Annex 2).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary target group consisted of three categories of beneficiaries: (i) consumers of
government services, through improved government capacity to use funds efficiently and direct
them to high priority areas; (ii) taxpayers, through simplified tax and customs procedures; and
(iii) civil servants, through the opportunity to enhance professional skills. Also, individuals and
companies in the private sector were to benefit from improved judicial and financial systems
designed to facilitate the establishment and operation of private businesses and expand
opportunities for employment.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 Statistical Systems, Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Formulation (US$3.43 million
equivalent)

This component supported the development of a reliable statistical base for economic and social
policies, poverty diagnostics and impact monitoring. Its principal activities were: (i) improving


3 The PDO in the text is from the PAD. The PDO in the DCA is as follows, "The objectives of the Project are to
strengthen institutional and human capacity for economic policy formulation and execution, in the following areas: (a)
statistical systems and macroeconomic analysis and poverty assessment, (b) public resource management, and (c)
facilitation of private sector development." The PDO in the DCA provides a more detailed formulation of the PDO.
4 During project implementation an amendment to the DCA changed this indicator to the preliminary adaptation of the
MTEF instead of its full development.

                                                          2

the organizational structure of Central Statistical Department (CSD) to facilitate provision of
timely and accurate information; (ii) upgrading the methodology of statistical data collection and
analysis to meet user needs and international standards; (iii) training staff to improve their
qualification and performance; (iv) strengthening poverty analysis through support to the Strategy
for Poverty Alleviation Coordinating Office (SPACO); and (v) enhancing the capacity of the
Management Development Institute (MDI).

1.5.2 Public Resource Management (US$9.11 million equivalent)

This component, the largest in the project, accounted for 55 percent of total cost. It was to
provide modern management technologies, analytical systems and training toward making better
use of public resources directed at alleviating poverty. The main activities of the component
were: (i) strengthening the management capacity of the Central Revenue Department (CRD) and
Customs and Excise Department (CED), including through institutional restructuring,
strengthening of the IT system and the introduction of tax self-assessment; (ii) improving public
expenditure management, particularly through the development of an Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS); and (iii) reforming the public procurement system.

1.5.3 Facilitation of Private Sector Investment (US$1.36 million equivalent)

This relatively small component provided support to Justice and Judiciary on legal sector reforms,
the Gambia Divestiture Agency (GDA) on the Government's divestiture strategy, and the Central
Bank on bank supervision and liquidity forecasting. The activities for legal sector reforms
consisted of (i) development of a legal sector strategy; (ii) the design and implementation of a
Court Case Management System (CCMS) for the High Courts; (iii) the piloting of an Alternative
Dispute Resolution (ADR) system; and (iv) the preparation of options for restructuring the
Registries.   Regarding the divestiture strategy, the project supported the preparation of a
divestiture study for the Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC), a public
enterprise. The assistance to the Central Bank focused on strengthening banking supervision,
liquidity forecasting and bookkeeping for treasuring accounts and developing a framework for
regulating and promoting microfinance institutions.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 Statistical Systems, Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Formulation

An amendment to the DCA in 2003 added support for the population census. In 2005, a second
amendment to the DCA revised and reduced the number of statistical surveys to be supported by
the project, taking into account priority needs and the limited capacity of the Government. The
amendment also made changes in the performance indicators for monitoring the performance of
the component.

1.6.2 Public Resource Management

In response to the difficulties the Government was experiencing due to its limited capacity, the
DCA amendment in 2005 restructured the implementation plan for IFMIS into two phases, with
only the first phase to be supported by the project. Under the restructured phase one, the original
eleven modules were reduced to the core six modules which still allowed the Government to
carry out the core budgeting and accounting activities, including all centralized transactions and
the preparation of the budget, fiscal reports and the public accounts. The second phase would
expand this basic system by decentralizing payment processing to the line departments and




                                                 3

directly connecting the system to the Central Bank and debt management systems. 5 The
restructuring of IFMIS reduced its projected cost under the project from US$5.1 million to
US$2.6 million.

The 2005 DCA amendment also reduced the scope of the outcome indicator for MTEF from full
implementation to preliminary adaptation. The decision to reduce the scope followed from the
realization that it would be unrealistic to expect the Government to simultaneously develop the
IFMIS and the MTEF. In particular, the Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
(DOSFEA) would need to play a central role in the development of the two systems but it has at
most 15 non-Treasury professional staffs. Given the need to prioritize, the Government and the
Bank agreed that it was more critical to first develop the IFMIS because through the system the
Government could address weaknesses in all stages of the budgeting process. In addition, it was
an immediate need given that the existing budgeting system had essentially collapsed.

In 2007, CBEMP received an additional financing grant of US$3 million equivalent to fund cost
overruns in the public resource management component. The additional financing was necessary
due to an underestimation, at the time of appraisal in 1999, of the need and cost for basic capacity
building activities. Two core subcomponents which received the additional funding were the
IFMIS and the Automated System Custom Data Administration (ASYCUDA), the customs IT
administrative system.

1.6.3 Facilitation of Private Sector Development

The project's restructuring reduced the overall number of legal agencies receiving assistance but
reallocated to this component some of the additional resources available from the reduced scope
of the IFMIS. Amendments to the DCA also reduced the scope of the indicator for Court Case
Management System (CCMS) from full installation to design only.

1.7 Other significant changes

In addition to the substantive changes in components and additional financing outlined in Section
1.6, the closing date of the project was extended from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2008.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Lessons Learned from Earlier Operations

The key lesson from past Bank projects, particularly the SAL II, was that there was a need to
address the weak government capacity to design and implement development programs, without
which policy reforms would not be sustainable. This lesson provided the overall rationale for the
project itself. For public expenditure management, the key lessons were the importance of
focusing on strengthening the budgeting process, proceeding at a measured pace to allow for
adequate time for local absorption of the reforms and coordinating with development partners.
The key lesson regarding management information systems was that focusing on financial
management improves the likelihood of success rather than trying to cover non-financial areas as
well.   For the project's activities in the legal sector, the key lesson incorporated was the



5The Bank recently agreed in principle to the Government's request for IDA's support for implementing phase two of
IFMIS through a second CBEMP.

                                                       4

importance of having a strategic vision in place as a foundation for medium term capacity
building.

2.1.2 Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures

The PAD rated the overall risk as moderate. In hindsight, the Bank underestimated the risk of
weak project management, given the lack of experience of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
in managing projects.          The Bank also underestimated the risk posed by the inadequate
commitment of some Government officials to the development of IFMIS, rated as negligible at
appraisal. However, this is understandable given that during project design the Bank made
considerable efforts to confirm the commitment of relevant Government officials to IFMIS. It
was only during project implementation that the key Government official responsible for IFMIS
did not adhere to previous commitments. As a result, there was little progress on IFMIS until the
departure of this official; after that, Government commitment to IFMIS was renewed, and
implementation of this project component was accelerated.                  Government's current strong
commitment is exemplified by its request for Bank support for a follow-up project to support
implementation of phase II of IFMIS and capacity building to ensure its system sustainability (see
page 8).

2.1.3 Adequacy of the Participatory Process

A project workshop took place in April 1999, with representatives from the Government, civil
society and donors, to discuss the design for a comprehensive program for strengthening
economic management. During project preparation, regular meetings on key issues affecting the
design of project components took place at DOSFEA. The project files indicate that the Bank
and other bilateral and multilateral donors involved in capacity building initiatives maintained a
constant dialogue to ensure that their assistance programs were complementary and avoided
duplications.

2.1.4 Quality at Entry

The project's overall concept was sound.               It fit well with the economic strategy of the
Government and the Bank's CAS.                   The preparation in terms of background studies was
substantial and the participatory process in design was extensive. Areas that could have been
improved are a less ambitious project design in line with the country's limited capacity and a
better specified Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Overview

The project took place over a period of approximately seven years, from effectiveness in January
of 2002 to closing in December 2008. Total project cost amounted to an estimated US$20.82
million equivalent, approximately 26 percent higher than the appraisal estimate of US$16.52
million equivalent. DOSFEA was the main implementing agency, for which it created a PCU
with a seven member staff.6 The project had 14 beneficiary agencies spanning the fields of




6 Project Director, Deputy Director, Procurement Specialist, Financial Controller, Information Technology (IT)
Support Specialist, and Administrative Assistant.

                                                       5

statistical analysis and macroeconomics, poverty analysis, financial sector supervision, and legal
and judiciary operations.7

Successful reform initiatives were uniformly characterized by relatively strong managerial
leadership and interest of the beneficiary. Other factors that led to the various successes under
the project included continuity of the Bank supervision team and flexibility in continuously
adapting the project support to the capacity and changing priorities of the Borrower. By contrast,
project performance was challenged by the weak managerial capacity in the PCU and a weak
M&E framework. The Bank rated the project as satisfactory during the initial two years but by
2004 the overall ratings were downgraded to unsatisfactory because the project was not meeting
most of its performance targets. However, project performance improved after the restructuring
in 2005 and at closing the project's overall performance was rated moderately satisfactory.

2.2.2 Mid-Term Review (MTR)

The MTR in 2004 found the project's development objectives were still valid but expressed
concern about substantial delays in implementation. By the MTR, the project had met four out of
sixteen key performance indicators, with disbursements amounting to 30 percent of the Credit.
The Bank rated the project as unsatisfactory after the MTR, recommended in-depth restructuring
and set up an action plan for improved implementation. Implementation improved after the MTR
but concerns about the inadequate alignment of the project with the capacity of the beneficiaries
remained. These concerns eventually led to the project restructuring in 2005.

2.2.3 Changes/Restructuring

The Bank modified the DCA three times during the project's implementation in 2003, 2005 and
2007. The change in 2003 added a population census to the project's activities. The amendment
of the DCA in 2005 restructured the project in order to align it more closely to the
implementation capacity of the beneficiaries and the managerial capacity of the PCU. The Bank
was proactive with regards to the project restructuring, preparing a detailed issues paper and
action plan and recommending a more comprehensive and in-depth restructuring, including the
possible removal of component three. However, the PCU and beneficiaries preferred a less
comprehensive restructuring and to maintain all components in the project. In the end, the Bank
and the Government agreed in the restructuring exercise to reduce the scope of some components,
in particular IFMIS, and extended the target dates for some of the key performance indicators.
Sections 1.6 and 1.7 describe the specific modifications to the project components. The DCA
amendment in 2007, as part of the additional financing Grant, further refined the project's
performance indicators.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design

There were some shortcomings to the PAD's M&E framework. The main problems were the
following: (i) some indicators were largely qualitative and lacked specificity, making it difficult
to verify their achievement; (ii) the outcome and output indicators were not always clearly
differentiated; (iii) some indicators were too ambitious when compared to the limited support

7Central Bank of the Gambia (CBG), Directorate of National Treasury (DNT), National Audit Office (NAO), Central
Revenue Department (CRD), Customs and Excise Department (CED), Department of State for Finance and Economic
Affairs (DOSFEA), Department of State for Justice (DOSJ), Judiciary, Gambia Bureau of Statistics (GBOS), Gambia
Divestiture Agency (GDA), Gambia Public Procurement Agency (GPPA), Management Development Institute (MDI),
Personnel Management Office (PMO) and Strategy for Poverty Alleviation Coordinating Unit (SPACO).

                                                      6

provided by the project; and (iv) indicators in select areas, such as training, could have been more
fully incorporated, although it is acknowledged that such indicators for capacity building
activities can be difficult to define and measure.

Examples of indicators that lacked specificity included "reliable social and economic data
required for policy formulation and poverty analysis," "institutional capacity for training of
Government officials" and "easier registration and document retrieval at Registrar of
Companies." Some of the outcome indicators were in fact output indicators, such as the
development of new accounting procedures and a framework for financial intermediation for the
informal sector. Similarly, the M&E framework designated some outcome indicators as output
indicators, such as the availability of fiscal accounts on a monthly basis and targets for the share
of large taxpayers who submit self-assessed tax returns.

The M&E framework did not include indicators specifically related to training.             However,
training was monitored under the project. The project prepared detailed annual training plans
which were reviewed by the TTL and most of the training took place as planned. The project also
tracked whether long term trainees remained within the Government, which is critical given the
high attrition rates and the lack of highly educated personnel in the public sector. Trainees in the
Directorate of Treasury (DNT) and the Gambia Bureau of Statistics (GBOS) sat through
examinations after their training in order to test the results of the training.

2.3.2 Implementation and Utilization

The project team consistently reported on most of the project's performance indicators in the
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs), commenting on the quality of the data, which varied from
good to poor. The fact that only four out of sixteen KPIs in the DCA were achieved by 2004 was
used by the Bank as the major rationale for rating the project as unsatisfactory. Also, the Bank
repeatedly encouraged the authorities to strengthen the quality of the M&E framework throughout
supervision.    The revisions of the indicators at project restructuring reflected primarily the
reductions in the scope of the IFMIS and MTEF components, along with extensions of the target
dates for achievement. Most of the changes involved output indicators and the project team
updated them in the ISRs. The project mostly did not modify the original outcome indicators in
the PAD, with the exception of the indicator related to MTEF. For a few indicators which were
defined quantitatively, it was still not possible to monitor them due to the lack of clarity in the
definition of the indicators and the baseline values ("response rate" and "coverage" of surveys) or
deficiencies in the relevant underlying data (reducing court case processing time).

2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

There were no safeguard issues applicable to the project. Fiduciary compliance was in the
satisfactory range throughout the project. The final ISR ratings were satisfactory for procurement
and moderately satisfactory for financial management. The final rating for financial management
was moderately as opposed to fully satisfactory due to some shortcomings in internal controls and
accountability and delays in submissions of project financial reports.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The core of the post-completion arrangements for CBEMP is the continued efficient operation of
the IFMIS, the foundation of the project's strengthening of PFM. The system is critical to the
timely production of transparent public accounts and avoidance of cost overruns. Moreover, it
was one of the factors that allowed the country to recently receive external budget support from


                                                   7

IDA and AfDB, as the system contributed to increased donor confidence in the Government's
PFM capacity.

Ensuring the post-completion sustainability of IFMIS has been a major focus of dialogue between
the Bank and the Government. As a result, a new performance indicator on the preparation and
implementation of an IFMIS Sustainability Plan was added through the additional financing. This
indicator was achieved by the Government. The Sustainability Plan identifies the future annual
recurrent costs and the development costs for phase II (see Table 1) and outlines an institutional
restructuring plan and a manpower plan based on training of local staffs, recruitment of new staffs
and a schedule for phasing out the team of consultants coupled with plans for transferring skills
from the consultants to the local staffs. Gradually reducing the current reliance on external
consultants will be critical to ensuring the sustainability of the system.

                           Table 1: Budget for the IFMIS Sustainability Plan (in US$)


                Activity                       2009       2010           2011          2012       2013
Phase II Supplier Costs                     2, 499,773   277,753          -             -          -
Phase I Support and Maintenance                168,424   239,604        265, 604       265,604     -
(Supplier Costs)
Phase II Support and Maintenance                 -       158,768        227,925        303,925    303,925
(Supplier Costs)
IFMIS Recurrent Costs                            -       250,000        200,000        200,000    200,000
Staff Incentives                               300,000   300,000        300,000        300,000    300,000
Professional Training                          390,000   360,000        235,000        235,000    235,000
IFMIS Consultant Costs                       1,119,000   823,000        234,000        234,000    234,000
Replacement of IT Equipment                              200,000          50,000      150,000      -
Vehicles (3)                                    90,000     -              -             -          -
Sub-Total                                    4,867,197 2,609,125      1,512,529      1,688,529  1,272,925
Contingency (5%)                               243,360   130,456          75,626        84,426     63,646
Total Cost                                   5,110,557 2,739,581      1,588,155      1,772,955  1,336,571
Source: The Government of The Gambia, July 2008.


The Government has incorporated in the 2009 budget the recurrent costs identified in the
Sustainability Plan, an indication of the Government's commitment to ensuring the sustainability
of IFMIS. The Government also officially requested a second CBEMP project focused on
IFMIS, in order to implement phase II and continue local capacity building which would help
ensure sustainability of the system. In response, the Bank has launched the preparation of a
project for approximately US$4 to 5 million equivalent. With regards to phase II, the Bank team
has emphasized the importance of weighing the potential benefits of expanding IFMIS against the
additional recurrent costs and local capacity required to operate and maintain the expanded
system.      Such considerations can substantially affect the sustainability of the system.            In
preparing the second CBEMP, the Bank plans to coordinate with other development partners
providing support for strengthening public expenditure management, particularly AfDB and the
EU.

Four new major institutions were established under the project: Gambia Revenue Authority
(GRA), Gambia Bureau of Statistics (GBOS), Gambia Public Procurement Authority (GPPA) and
the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) system. All four institutions are operating beyond the
completion of the project.           However, their capacities vary and hence also their expected
performance and likelihood of sustaining reforms. GRA appears to have the most capacity based
on their staffing, budgetary resources and the extent of reforms already completed.                   The
procurement reforms centered on GPPA have also been entrenched to a large extent but GPPA's
capacity remains relatively weak. The Country Procurement Issues Paper (CPIP) outlines further
reforms to strengthen the new procurement system. Government funding of GBOS significantly

                                                       8

increased over the past few years, but there are doubt whether this has been matched by improved
performance and the capacity of GBOS remains weak. The ADR system is being operated but
lacks recurrent funding and few cases have been handled so far. The transition arrangements for
Justice and Judiciary reforms on the whole have been relatively weak. There is little evidence of
follow-up actions on the major initiatives supported by the project, including the legal sector
reform strategy, the design of the Court Case Management System (CCMS) and the restructuring
options for the Registries.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project's capacity building objectives remain highly relevant to The Gambia's needs and the
priorities of the Bank's assistance strategies for the country. The Bank and the AfDB have
aligned their support in a Joint Assistance Strategy (JAS) covering FY2008-11. CBEMP covers
the first of two areas of intervention outlined in the JAS: (i) strengthening the institutional
framework for economic management and public service delivery; and (ii) enhancing growth and
competitiveness and the productive capacity of the poor. The JAS supports the implementation
of The Gambia's second PRSP for 2007-11, which outlines the country's priorities and reform
initiatives. The Bank's Board approved in May 2009 a new Development Policy Operation
(DPO) which includes the strengthening of PFM among its three major areas of support. This is
another indication of the relevance and importance of the project given that PFM is also a major
focus of CBEMP.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO focused on capacity building in three major areas: (i) statistical systems,
macroeconomic analysis and poverty analysis; (ii) public resource management, covering revenue
administration, public expenditure management and public procurement; and (iii) facilitation of
private sector development, through strengthening of the legal sector, the Central Bank and GDA.
The following sections evaluate the actual achievements in each area based on the project output
and outcome indicators. These indicators are from the original PAD M&E framework but
incorporate revisions carried out through various DCA amendments.            In the original M&E
framework, some of the outcome indicators were in fact output indicators and vice versa. The
following evaluation of the PDO re-categorizes the indicators such that they are correctly defined
as either outcome or output indicators. Annex 10 follows the PAD M&E framework in terms of
the categorization of the indicators, and it incorporates revisions from the DCA amendments. As
a result, there are some inconsistencies in the designation of the indicators between section 3.2
and Annex 10. Annex 2 presents the KPIs from the DCA as they were in place at project
completion (after 3 amendments). These KPIs are a subset of those PAD M&E indicators which
are considered the most critical and easily monitorable. These KPIs are also highlighted in bold
in Annex 10.

3.2.1 Component One - Statistical Systems, Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Formulation

The ICR rates the PDO achievement for component one as moderately satisfactory. The outcome
and output indicators were all achieved. However, the rating is moderately as opposed to fully
satisfactory due to concerns regarding the depth and sustainability of reforms at GBOS and the
lack of sustained improvements in the capacity for macroeconomic analysis.




                                                  9

Statistical Systems. The project sought to address the country's weak data infrastructure which
provides critical input for policy decision making. Shortcomings included an outdated household
survey (1998), economic statistics based on partial data on private sector activities and price
surveys which covered only the main metropolitan Greater Banjul. The main outcome indicator
was the production of reliable social and economic data, which was defined by the preparation
and dissemination of the following new surveys and statistics: the household expenditure survey,
population census, poverty estimates, GDP/national accounts and CPI/price statistics. These were
all achieved. The PAD also included an outcome indicator on increases in the "response rate"
and "coverage" of surveys, which subsequently was incorporated in the original DCA as
increases in the coverage and revision of methodologies for compilation of basis statistics.
Having decided that this indicator was poorly specified, a DCA amendment replaced it with
indicators on the implementation of the new household survey, population census, national
accounts and price statistics, which were all achieved as mentioned previously. The new
household survey (2003), population census (2003), the new economic census (2006) and new
price surveys (started in 2005 and currently ongoing) updated the country's statistical database
and expanded the coverage of surveys in terms of survey participants and geographical coverage.

With support from the project, the Government carried out major institutional reforms in order to
provide a sustained basis for the production and dissemination of reliable official statistics in a
timely manner. There are two related project output indicators: the preparation of a medium term
reform strategy and the enactment of a new statistical law. Both were achieved. The new
Statistics Act (2005) provided the legislative framework for transforming CSD into the new
semiautonomous GBOS and for establishing a new Statistics Council which acts as the Board for
GBOS and also coordinates the production of all official statistics within the Government. A
medium term strategy (Master Plan) was prepared based on a thorough analysis of the key
institutional constraints and it was endorsed by the Cabinet in 2006. The strategy was further
developed and expanded in 2008. Through the creation of a semiautonomous agency, the
institutional reforms were meant to strengthen political independence of official statistics and
create a pay scale separate from the Government, which would allow for higher compensation
crucial for attracting and retaining qualified professional statisticians. The institutional reforms
embodied in GBOS were major achievements and the Government now has a solid basis for
further strengthening of official statistics. However, there are concerns that fundamental changes
to the institution's management and operation have not been entrenched. Concerns include the
lack of a performance contract for GBOS, delays in publications, lack of new recruits and poor
archiving and dissemination practices.

Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Formulation. The project sought to address the weak
capacity of the Government for macroeconomic analysis and policy formulation by providing
capacity building support to DOSFEA and MDI, including by providing a resident
macroeconomic adviser. The PAD has two relevant outcome indicators: decreased discrepancy
between actual and forecasted revenue by 50 percent between 2000 and 2002, meant to measure
improved macroeconomic analysis; and improved capacity for training of Government officials,
essentially a measure of strengthened capacity of MDI.

The first outcome indicator on revenue forecasting was included in the original DCA but it was
removed through a DCA amendment as it was not considered a particularly good indicator of
improved capacity for macroeconomic analysis.            The related output indicator was the
development of a macroeconomic model. A model was developed but the Government does not
actively use the model. It was not properly archived and high staff turnover resulted in the loss of
many of the staffs originally trained on the model.


                                                10

The second outcome indicator on improved capacity of MDI was not included in the DCA and
was not actively monitored due to the lack of specificity. Nevertheless, the project supported the
achievement of this indicator through training of the staffs of the MDI and technical assistance
for developing its institutional capacity building strategy. It appears that there have been little
follow-up actions on implementing the strategy.

Concerning policy formulation, the project also included an output indicator on the development
of a new PRSP by 2001. This was achieved through support that the project provided to SPACO
for the new PRSP as well as for a series of PRSP Annual Progress Reports and Participatory
Poverty Assessments (PPAs). The PRSP (2003-05) was finalized in 2002 and PRSP II (2007-11)
was finalized in 2007.

3.2.2 Component Two - Public Resource Management

The ICR rates the PDO achievement for component two as satisfactory.                        It was the most
successful component as well as the most important in terms of resources allocated under the
project. The successful development of IFMIS and the establishment of the GRA and GPPA are
defining legacies of the project. The reforms were successful as well as relatively cost-effective.

Public Expenditure Management. The development of IFMIS under the project resulted in a
significant strengthening of public expenditure management. The development of the system was
accompanied by organizational restructuring, reengineering of operational procedures and
extensive training of staffs. The relevant outcome indicators from the PAD were the annual
production and audits of the public accounts and the monthly production of fiscal reports.
Through a DCA amendment, a new outcome indicator was added on the preparation of the
Borrower's 2007 annual public accounts by end-March 2008. All of these outcomes were largely
achieved, through the development of IFMIS. The system is currently processing all central
government transactions and producing the annual accounts and monthly fiscal reports in a timely
manner. In particular, IFMIS produced the 2007 public accounts by August 2008 and the 2008
accounts by March 2009, a major achievement for the country considering that in the past there
were years of delays in producing accounts. With regards to the annual audits, the substantial
backlog dating back to the early 1990s was significantly reduced and the Government recently
finalized the audits up to 2006. With improved reporting and better documentation provided by
the system, IFMIS is expected to also facilitate future audits of the 2007 and 2008 accounts.

The project output indicators associated with IFMIS were the preparation of the IFMIS
Information Strategy System Strategy Plan (ISSP) by March 2002 and the preparation and
commencement of implementation of the IFMIS Sustainability Plan by January 2008. The ISSP
was prepared in 2003/4 and the Sustainability Plan was prepared in 2008. The Sustainability Plan
identified the recurrent costs of operating and maintaining IFMIS. These costs were incorporated
in the 2009 Government budget, which is an important indication of implementing the
Sustainability Plan.

With regards to strengthened capacity for budget formulation, the relevant output indicators are:
the preliminary adaptation of a MTEF; development of sector strategies for health and education;
and upgrading of the budget classification, including through the incorporation of programmatic
budgeting and unification of the recurrent and development budgets.8 All these indicators were
achieved, except for the incorporation of programmatic budgeting. With regards to MTEF, a
multiyear resource envelope was developed and incorporated in the budget circulars and the

8Regarding MTEF, the original indicator in the PAD was the full development of the framework. This was revised to
preliminary adaptation through a DCA amendment.

                                                     11

Education sector developed a programmatic sectoral MTEF. However, it is unlikely that the
framework will be further developed in the immediate future given the need for additional
resources and local capacity constraints. The Bank supervision team recommended that the
development of the framework be much more gradual. The indicator on the sector strategies was
achieved through the development of sectoral public expenditure reviews.               The budget
classification was completely revised according to international Government Finance Statistics
(GFS) standards and the recurrent and development budgets have been unified.

Revenue Administration. Along with IFMIS, this was one of the most successful reform areas
under the project. There were three relevant outcome indicators in the PAD: at least 80 percent of
large taxpayers submitting self-assessed tax returns; regular generation of customs data; and
minimization of customs revenue leakages. The target for the indicator on self-assessment was
subsequently revised to 50 percent. The first two indicators were achieved. Self-assessments
were newly developed and were accompanied by a successful education campaign. Fifty eight
percent of large taxpayers submitted self-assessments in 2007 and preliminary data indicate that
the percentage increased in 2008. The upgraded ASYCUDA continues to produce key customs
data on a regular basis. The indicator on customs revenue leakages was neither quantified nor
included in the original DCA and as a result it was not monitored.

There were several output indicators, some of which were introduced through DCA amendments:
establishment of the GRA; upgrading of the IT systems; new operational manuals prepared and
disseminated to staffs and training provided on their contents; initiation of a public education
program; and initiation of a dispute resolution process. All of these indicators were achieved,
except for the dispute resolution system. The major institutional reform in this subcomponent
was the establishment of the semiautonomous GRA through the consolidation of the existing two
agencies, the Central Revenue Department (CRD) and the Customs and Excise Department
(CED). The semiautonomous status was meant to shield tax collection (and duty exemption)
from political influence and allow for higher pay scales necessary to attract and retain qualified
personnel.    The consolidation of CRD and CED was aimed at maximizing synergy and
conserving resources in managing the two areas of revenue collection.

As part of the GRA reforms, the Government enacted the new GRA Act (2004) and the new
Income and Sales Tax Act (2004). The project also supported the development of a new Customs
Bill, which has not yet been enacted. As part of the reforms associated with the new GRA, the
Government conducted extensive organizational restructuring, including the establishment of new
units on large taxpayers, auditing, taxpayer education and IT support. New operational policies
and procedures were developed, as well as new job descriptions which more clearly defined roles,
responsibilities and lines of accountability. The customs IT system, ASYCUDA, was upgraded.
A new tax administration IT system was developed and is currently operating in parallel with the
existing manual system. GRA conducted a successful series of staff recruitment campaigns. The
Government has developed a new dispute resolution system based on an independent Tax
Tribunal but the Government (DOSFEA) has yet to appoint members of the Tribunal.

During project implementation, the Government's annual average domestic revenue increased
from 15.7 percent of GDP for 2001-2003 to 20.6 percent for 2004-2008. Given that there were
no major tax policy changes during this period, it is likely that the revenue administrative reforms
had a significant impact on the increased revenue collection.

Public Procurement. The restructuring of the public procurement system was one of the earlier
successes of the project. There were no project outcome indicators specific to public
procurement. The relevant output indicator was the adoption of a new procurement code, which

                                                12

was achieved through the passage of the Gambia Public Procurement Act (2001) and the
development of new regulations and procedures. The new law and regulations provided the
legislative framework for restructuring the public procurement system from a centralized tender
board to a decentralized system which encouraged procurement through open competition. The
reforms aimed at increasing value-for-money in Government procurements and reducing
opportunities for corruption. Based on the new Act, the GPPA was established under the project
in order to act as the new regulatory body and to assist Government agencies in implementing the
new rules and regulations. The Government also recruited new procurement officers for the
major Departments (ministries).

Civil Service Reform. This subcomponent was added during project implementation in response
to the Government's request for support for the Personnel Management Office (PMO). Support
for PMO was deemed consistent with the project objective of strengthening the Government's
capacity for public resource management, given PMO's responsibility for human resource
management. In addition to training provided to the staffs of PMO, the project provided technical
assistance for a study analyzing the key capacity constraints of the civil service. This study led to
the 2009 ESW report, Improving Civil Service Performance, jointly prepared by the Government,
IDA, DFID and AfDB. The 2009 report served as the basis for the Government's civil service
reform strategy which is currently being implemented.

3.2.3 Component Three - Facilitation of Private Sector Investment

The ICR rates the PDO achievement for component three as moderately unsatisfactory. It was
the least successful component but also the least important in terms of resources allocated under
the project. As with component one, all the outcome and output indicators for component three
were mostly achieved.          Major successes in this component included the development and
operationalization of the ADR system and the support provided to the Central Bank. However,
the actual impact of many of the other initiatives does not appear to be significant or sustained,
resulting in the moderately unsatisfactory rating for the component.

Legal Sector. The PAD included two outcome indicators: reducing court case processing time by
25 percent; and easier registration and document retrieval at the Registrar of Companies. The
first indicator was revised in the original DCA to the estimation of the processing time in the
High Court, then subsequently removed in the 2007 DCA amendment.                           The indicator was
removed because it was not possible to estimate the court case processing time from the
underlying court records, despite technical assistance provided by the project. In addition, the
original indicator for reducing court case processing time by 25 percent was deemed
overambitious and unrealistic. The second indicator on strengthening the Registries was not
incorporated in the DCA. It was not monitored mainly for two reasons: (i) the project supported
only the preparation of a report on the restructuring options for the Registries, which would not
have resulted in actual improvements in the operations of the Registries without further follow-up
actions by the Government; and (ii) the indicator was not measurable without further
specification.

There were several relevant project output indicators, consisting of the preparation of: a legal
sector reform strategy, approved by the Cabinet; the design of the CCMS;9 the aforementioned
report on the Registries restructuring options; and the assessment report on the ADR pilot
scheme. All of these were achieved. In particular, the establishment of the ADR system was the
most important achievement in this subcomponent. It was meant to reduce the backlog in court

9The original goal was to fully develop CCMS but this was later scaled down to the design of the system, through a
DCA amendment.

                                                      13

cases by providing an alternative mechanism for resolving legal disputes. The ADR system was
established and became operational through technical assistance and training, including a
combined overseas training and study tour for a large group of staffs of Justice and the Judiciary.
A sensitization and education campaign was conducted before the system became operational. So
far the ADR system has handled a few cases, with recurrent costs funded by the Government. It
is estimated that this funding would need to increase in order for the system to have a greater
impact.

The legal sector reform strategy was prepared and endorsed by the Cabinet in July 2006.
However, the strategy had several shortcomings which made it inappropriate for actual usage. It
was too ambitious given the resource and local capacity constraints and it presented a long list of
initiatives without much prioritization. The Government has taken little follow-up actions on
implementing the strategy. The design of the CCMS was completed under the project but little
follow-up actions have taken place in actually developing the system. Again, the problem was an
overambitious design which was not consistent with the limited resources available under the
project and the capacity constraints of the beneficiary.                    An operating CCMS would have
strengthened the capacity of the Judiciary to efficiently and effectively manage court cases. The
report on the Registries restructuring options was prepared by the staffs of Justice and the
Judiciary in March 2005, after conducting two overseas study tours. The report was fairly
descriptive and more akin to a back-to-office report. The project's attempts to provide follow-up
technical assistance were not successful due to mismanagement of the procurement process.10

Financial Sector.       For strengthening the capacity of the Central Bank to promote financial
intermediation, the key outcome indicators were the development of a framework for supervising
the microfinance institutions and a rationalized system for issuing treasury bills (liquidity
forecasting model). Both were achieved, assisted by staff training provided by CBEMP. The
project also provided support for small-scale surveys of the external flows in services and
income, which helped to strengthen the preparation of the Balance of Payment (BOP), and for a
study on financial market development, which was of poor quality and had minimal impact.

Government Divestiture Program. The relevant outcome indicator was the strengthening of the
regulatory capacity of the GDA and the output indicator was preparing the SSHFC for divesture
through the preparation of a study on divestiture options. The project provided training to the
staffs of GDA but much of this has not been retained due to high staff turnover. The required
study was prepared and discussed by key stakeholders through a workshop. However, little
follow-up action has taken place. The Bank also expressed concerns with the quality of the
report.

3.2.4 Overall Assessment

The overall assessment of the achievement of the PDO is based on the assessment of the three
components. In summary, component one is rated moderately satisfactory, component two is
rated satisfactory and component three is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Component two was
the most important component given that it accounted for the most project resources and the
greatest number of critical reform initiatives.                For similar reasons, component three was
considered the least important. Taking into account the achievements and importance of the three
components, the ICR rates the overall achievement of the PDO as moderately satisfactory.



10The contract was awarded to the local consultant who had prepared the legal sector strategy. The Bank objected to
the contract given the concerns about the quality of the legal sector strategy and the fact that the project attempted to
offer a contract much beyond the local market rate. In response, the project decided to stop the procurement process.

                                                          14

The ICR's overall rating for the PDO is consistent with the rating in the final ISR. It is also
consistent with the average of ISR ratings, weighted by project disbursements before and after the
project restructuring of June 2005. Before the restructuring, the ISR had rated the PDO as
satisfactory for two-thirds of disbursements and unsatisfactory for the remaining one-third.
Therefore, the weighted average of the ISR ratings before the project restructuring was
moderately satisfactory. After the restructuring, the ISR rating of the PDO was consistently
moderately satisfactory.         Given that the average ISR ratings for both before and after the
restructuring were moderately satisfactory, the weighted average ISR rating for the project as a
whole was also moderately satisfactory.

In conclusion, it should be noted that there were multiple major structural reforms carried out
under the project, in particular the IFMIS, GRA, GPPA, GBOS and the ADR system. All of the
new institutions have contributed to the strengthening of public sector capacity, albeit in varying
degrees.

3.3 Efficiency

The PAD noted that an economic analysis of the project's benefits was not applicable. This is
due to the fact that it is difficult to define and measure the benefits of public sector reform
projects, which include system-wide, institutional and managerial benefits. However, there are
indicative evidences that the project's benefits outweigh the costs.

                                 Table 2: Discounted Annual Savings from IFMIS
                                                  (US$ millions)

Savings as Percent of Annual Govt Exp           2009           2010          2011          2012            2013 
      1 percent                                   1.2            1.7          1.9            2.0             2.3
      2 percent                                   2.4            3.3          3.7            4.1             4.5
      3 percent                                   3.6            5.0          5.6            6.1             6.8
Source: Assume discount rate of 12 percent, exchange rate of 25 dalasis/US dollar and annual maintenance costs
remaining at current levels of approximately US$300,000. Projections of Government expenditures are from the IMF.

The project spent US$7.1 million for IFMIS, including for organizational restructuring, re-
engineering of business processes and training of staffs. The development of IFMIS dramatically
improved public expenditure management capacity, resulting in potential cost savings through
more efficient management of public funds and faster processing and monitoring of government
transactions. A rough illustrative analysis of the efficiency gains from IFMIS can be carried out
by estimating discounted annual savings (see Table 2). The savings rate is defined as a percent of
Government local expenditures and the discount rate is assumed to be 12 percent. The analysis
indicates that the development costs of IFMIS would be recouped within five years with a savings
rate of 1 percent and within three years assuming 2 percent. The calculations are net of annual
maintenance expenses but do not include the remuneration provided to the IFMIS consultants,
which are associated with the development costs.

The project also provided US$4.3 million for revenue administrative reforms. The major revenue
reforms associated with the establishment of the GRA occurred from 2004 and onwards.
Government's annual average domestic revenue increased by 5 percentage points of GDP from
before to after 2004, during which time no major revenue policy changes occurred. Even if we
attribute only 20 percent, or one percent of GDP, of the increased Government revenues to the
revenue administrative reforms, the resulting increase in revenues in a single year on average
would be greater than the funding provided for revenue reforms under CBEMP.



                                                        15

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project's objective on public sector capacity building remains highly relevant to attaining the
country's broader objective of poverty reduction through economic growth and improved
government operations (Section 3.1). The ICR rates the achievement of the PDO as moderately
satisfactory (Section 3.2).   The ICR provides evidences which indicate that project funded
investments were economically efficient (Section 3.3). Taking account of all three dimensions of
the outcome evaluation, the ICR rates the overall outcome moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

The project directly supported the preparation of the PRSP and the monitoring of PRSP's
implementation.    The PRSP was prepared in a participatory and consultative manner, thus
supportive of social development. The project supported the PPAs which allowed communities
to directly participate in poverty monitoring. It also supported the design, implementation and
analysis of the 2003 household expenditure survey which provides the data for the country's
poverty analysis. The project supported the capacity building of the public sector, which is a key
objective of the PRSP. In particular, the strengthening of public expenditure management under
the project, through more timely production of government accounts and fiscal reports, has the
potential to improve social accountability through enhanced transparency of government
operations.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Section 3.2 of this ICR analyzes the support provided by the project for local capacity building.
In summary, the project supported the strengthening of public sector capacity through major
institutional reorganizations, the development of new legal and regulatory frameworks and
operational procedures, extensive training of civil servants, improved and new IT systems and a
more conducive working environment through new office equipments and rehabilitated office
space. In particular, the project supported the establishment of several major new institutions, the
GRA, GBOS and GPPA, and the development of the IFMIS and ADR systems. These reforms
were used to introduce international best practice in public sector management. The project
provided extensive short and long term training. In particular, most of the staffs of DNT received
local training on IT and accounting. In an effort to build local capacity to provide training, the
project provided support to MDI and also for a new course on basic statistics provided through
the University of The Gambia. Out of the 20 staffs who received support for long term graduate
level training, 19 remain in the public sector. This is an important achievement given the high
attrition rates and the lack of highly educated staffs in the public sector. Extensive short term
training was also provided by the project, although there are concerns that the impact on capacity
building was adversely affected by the high attrition rates in the public sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project support provided to the PMO on civil service reforms could be considered an
unintended outcome given that it was not originally envisioned in the project design. The
analysis of key constraints in the civil service conducted under CBEMP led to a more
comprehensive Government and donor joint analysis and eventually to the development of the
Government civil service reform strategy.



                                                 16

The strengthening of public expenditure management, through the development of IFMIS,
increased donor confidence in the Government's PFM capacity. This was a necessary condition
for the country to be considered for external budget support, which IDA and AfDB provided in
the current year and the EU is planning for 2010 and onward. Therefore, this could be considered
an unintended outcome of the project support.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The PAD suggested assessing the project's benefits through two beneficiary surveys during the
project's implementation, at mid-term and at the project's end, without providing any further
details. As the ICR for CBEMP is a core ICR, a beneficiary survey is optional and was not
conducted. However, extensive discussions with the beneficiaries continued throughout the
project, including stakeholder workshops for the MTR.

In addition, in December 2005 GRA conducted a customer satisfaction survey of 516 randomly
selected taxpayers, a major beneficiary group under the project. This was the first survey of its
kind in the country and was part of an effort to introduce an emphasis on customer service at the
revenue agencies. The major survey findings were: (i) 36 percent of taxpayers were aware of
GRA's creation; (ii) 35 percent directly used GRA customer services; (ii) from 59 to 66 percent
reported that their transactions took at least two days; and (iv) areas within customs and tax
processing with the highest instances of petty corruption were identified (see Annex 5 for details
of the survey results). The GRA widely published the results of the survey through their
newsletters and plans to continue conducting these surveys.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The ICR rates the risk to development outcome according to the criteria applicable to the
project.11 The availability of finance and related Government commitment to post-completion
support are considered the most important criteria. They depend on the Government's budgetary
priorities. Governance, institutional support and stakeholder commitment are considered the next
important criteria.     Economic performance, which would impact the overall availability of
government resources, is considered the least important.

The ICR rates the risk for financing and Government commitment as substantial. It is unlikely
that the major institutions created under the project, GRA, GBOS and GPPA, will collapse or
revert to the previous institutional arrangement. However, the Government's commitment to
their continued development and strengthening has varied, with the strongest commitment shown
for GRA. IFMIS has been a success but the country has had numerous instances of new IT
systems collapsing due to the lack of continued support, in terms of adequate recurrent funding
and qualified personnel. The risk of this happening for IFMIS has been mitigated by: (i)
inclusion in the 2009 Government budget of the recurrent costs identified in the IFMIS
Sustainability Plan; (ii) the recent agreement by the Bank to provide a follow-up CBEMP focused
on the system; and (iii) the fact that the system has been a high profile initiative and the subject of
study tours from other countries.             The risks associated with the initiatives for Justice and
Judiciary appear to be high, even for the ADR system which was operationalized, given
inadequate recurrent funding.



11Environmental, social and natural disaster impacts are not applicable to CBEMP.

                                                         17

The ICR rates the risks associated with governance, institutional support, stakeholder
commitment and political stability as substantial, due to the weak governance environment and
mixed stakeholder commitment. The ICR rates the economic risk moderate. Economic growth
has been fairly steady during the past few years but is expected to decline from 5.9 percent in
2008 to 4.0 percent in 2009 and 4.4 percent in 2010 due to the global economic slowdown.
However, Government domestic revenues in the first quarter of 2009 indicate that fiscal
performance has so far remained relatively robust. In addition, budget support provided by IDA
and AfDB for CY2009 and planned support from the EU for CY2010-12 will significantly
augment fiscal resources. On balance, the ICR rates the overall risk as substantial.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank clearly demonstrated the need for CBEMP, highlighting its alignment with the CAS
and the Government's I-PRSP and correctly identifying the need for improvements in systems
and technologies in three key areas in order to build the capacity of the Government in policy
making and resource management.          The preparation in terms of background studies was
substantial and the participatory process in design was extensive. The internal review process
allowed for further opportunities to strengthen the quality of the project design. Areas that could
have been improved are a less ambitious project design in line with the country's limited capacity
and a better specified Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework. In balance, the ICR finds
the performance moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's supervision of CBEMP had several strengths that were able to lift the project above
its unsatisfactory status around the time of the MTR and ultimately result in considerable
institutional development impact.        The project had one TTL throughout most of its
implementation period, from mid-2003 to 2008. This continuity allowed for a strong working
relationship with the country counterparts and flexible adaptation to the capacity and changing
priorities of the beneficiaries and the PCU. The TTL was able to conduct frequent missions, on
average three to four per year. This allowed for a strong client-oriented and flexible approach to
project supervision. Extensive feedback was provided on reports produced under the project.
Detailed supplementary issues papers were prepared during the period 2003-2006, which
contributed to the turnaround of the project performance. The Bank was proactive with regards to
the project restructuring, preparing a detailed issues paper and recommended an action plan for a
comprehensive and in-depth restructuring of the project. The restructuring represented a good
balance between focusing on priority initiatives while being supportive of the views of the
beneficiaries. In order to augment project resources for official statistics, the supervision team
successfully arranged for funding from two trust funds.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ICR weighs the moderately satisfactory rating for Bank performance in ensuring quality at
entry with the satisfactory rating for the Bank's supervision of the project, taking into account

                                                 18

overall project outcome. In line with the ICR guidelines, the ICR rates overall Bank performance
as moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

During project preparation, the Government showed a strong commitment to the higher level
objectives that the project supported by preparing the I-PRSP which emphasized the importance
of building public sector capacity. In order to build country ownership, the Government was
committed to a participatory approach in designing the project, holding a donor workshop to
discuss a comprehensive program for economic management. Under the PPF, the Government
prepared a Long-Term Reform Program Framework, which was instrumental in the project's
design. During project implementation, the Government enacted several major legislations that
provided the basis for the project reform initiatives, including the Gambia Public Procurement
Act (2001), the Gambia Revenue Authority Act (2004), the Statistics Act (2005), the Government
Budget Management and Accountability Act (2004) and the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act
(2005).

However, sustained commitment to the project initiatives varied greatly among beneficiaries, part
of which could be attributed to high staff turnover. Beneficiaries showing the most commitment
and interest, such as the revenue agencies, invariably made the greatest progress in the reforms.
The Government's oversight and coordination mechanism was not robust enough to address poor
performers. There was some tendency to focus on the allocation of training but not the impact of
the training. On balance, the ICR rates performance of GOTG as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The PCU's performance was mixed. Procurement and financial management received
satisfactory or moderately satisfactory ratings throughout CBEMP's implementation. However,
the ratings for overall project management ranged from satisfactory to unsatisfactory. The PCU
had several strengths. As a former Government official, the Project Director had a strong
personal and professional network with the beneficiaries which provided the basis for close
working relationships. The PCU's quarterly progress reports were produced relatively regularly,
although they were provided to the Bank with some delays. The assessments in the reports
gradually improved during the implementation period, including the level of frankness regarding
project performance. The two major steering committees, the overall Project Steering Committee
and the IFMIS Steering Committee, met relatively regularly throughout the project's lifetime,
which compares quite favorably with other projects.

There were, however, several shortcomings in the PCU's performance. The PCU experienced
difficulties managing multiple activities in different functional areas. Focus on the key output
and outcome indicators was lacking. Uneven management and slow follow-up on project related
activities caused delays. Responses to the Bank supervision team's requests for information were
similarly slow. The PCU had limited capacity to provide substantive inputs on policies and
project initiatives. It did not sufficiently prioritize activities with a view towards achieving the
project objectives within the budget, thus causing over-commitment of project resources and
unmet expectations by beneficiaries. Poor management of project resources caused 15 percent of
the additional financing grant, or approximately US$450,000, to be undisbursed at the close of

                                                  19

project. Weighing the strengths of the PCU's performance against its deficiencies, the ICR rates
the overall performance of the implementing agency as moderately unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As according to the ICR's guidelines, a moderately satisfactory rating for the performance of the
Government and a moderately unsatisfactory rating for the Implementing Agency requires an
overall Borrower rating of moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Rightsizing Reforms. A key lesson of the ICR is the need to tailor the design of public sector
reforms according to the implementation capacity of the Government. The original plan to
simultaneously develop an IFMIS and MTEF in The Gambia was overambitious. Without
decisive steps to strategically focus first on IFMIS, the project could have ended with neither
reforms completed. Furthermore, taking on too many initiatives simultaneously encourages a
heavy reliance on external consultants, which could undermine country ownership and the
sustainability of initiatives. In the context of limited local capacity, ensuring sustainability should
be the most important criterion for determining the appropriate type, scope and scale of reforms,
even at the expense of less ambitious outcomes. This is particularly true for IT initiatives because
such skills are most lacking in the Government.

An appropriate funding mechanism for public sector reforms. In countries with very limited
public sector capacity, a major overhaul of public sector management systems on multiple fronts
simultaneously is likely to require a programmatic approach to lending rather than a single
investment loan. The downscaling of initiatives during CBEMP's implementation, the additional
financing and the extension of the closing date for the project indicate that the full
implementation of the project initiatives under a single credit was unrealistic from the beginning.
Fundamental reforms in the Government's way of doing business require a long term perspective.
When such reforms are attempted under a single project, inevitably it leads to implementation
delays and significant risks to sustainability due to the lack of time for the reforms to become
entrenched. For this reason, a second CBEMP is currently under preparation in order to sustain
and deepen implementation of key initiatives under the first CBEMP.

Separation of initiatives for private sector development from public sector reform. The
component on facilitation of private sector development, involving multiple subcomponents to
strengthen the legal sector and the capacity of the Central Bank and GDA, is more appropriate for
a standalone project than as part of an already complex public sector reform project. This
component was much too ambitious given the small size of the resources allocated under the
project. Ultimately the funds were spread too thin to obtain substantial outcomes.

Greater attention to the M&E framework. The M&E framework should be more carefully
prepared in order to have better specified and measurable indicators. The differences between the
output and outcome indicators and their causal linkages should be more clearly defined. For the
second CBEMP project, it is recommended that the M&E framework incorporate indicators
related to training, including possibly the allocation and impact of training, the balance between
local and overseas training and the retention rates of trainees.

Improving the impact of training. While it may be tempting to provide training to as many staffs
as possible in a country with very limited human capacity, the provision of training to staffs with

                                                   20

limited absorptive capacity results in low retention and limited impact on local capacity building.
In such instances, it is critical to monitor the impact of training and adjust its provision
accordingly, although it is acknowledged that this is difficult in even developed countries. Any
individual who benefited from multiple short term overseas training should be bonded, in the
same manner as those benefiting from long term overseas training. This should also apply to the
staffs of the PCU, which benefited substantially from training under the CBEMP.                               The
Government of The Gambia is currently implementing a civil service reform strategy.                             Its
successful implementation is critical to improving training results, through increased staff
retention rates and strengthened personnel performance management.

Oversight of the PCU. Government supervision of the PCU was made difficult by the PCU's
location outside of Banjul and far away from DOSFEA's facilities. The PCU should have been
located within the same building as DOSFEA or at a minimum in Banjul. It is also recommended
that DOSFEA consider consolidating into a single unit the management of all its capacity
building projects.12 In addition to leveraging limited local capacity for project management, this
consolidation would help to improve donor coordination and harmonization.

Commitment of key beneficiaries. Commitment to the project at the top levels of Government is
a necessary but not sufficient condition for timely project implementation. A fully satisfactory
outcome ultimately must have the backing of the line managers in charge of implementing the
project's components.      For CBEMP, it was not until there was a change in the relevant
management, several years after the start of the project, that substantial work on the IFMIS began
in earnest. It is recommended that a clear and transparent mechanism be established in advance
on how best to address instances of protracted lack of commitment by a beneficiary, including
triggers for the removal of the beneficiary through project restructuring.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 7 for a summary of the Project Completion Report prepared by the PCU. The PCU's
assessment agrees in most areas with the ICR. The key issues on which the two disagree are the
following. One, the PCU recommends that the Government move forward on the development of
MTEF, whereas the ICR team recommends a more gradual approach. Two, the PCU is generally
more optimistic about the achievements and impact of project supported activities for official
statistics, MDI and the legal sector. Three, the PCU attributes the failure to implement CCMS to
the lack of funds forthcoming from the Bank, whereas the ICR concludes that it was the
responsibility of the PCU to allocate the necessary funds under the project and to ensure that the
project design was implementable. And four, the PCU's self-assessment of its own performance
is more optimistic than the ICR.

(b) Co-financiers

The project had no co-financiers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

A review by these agencies is not applicable to this project.


12 For the second CBEMP, one option to consider is to utilize the existing unit managing the AfDB capacity building
project.

                                                      21

                                  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million Equivalent)13

            Components                    Appraisal       Revised        Actual          Percentage       Percentage
                                          Estimate       Estimate14     Estimate        of Appraisal      of Revised
                                                                                          Estimate         Estimate
 Statistical Systems, Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Formulation
 Strengthening the national                   2.27          2.27            3.00            132.1            132.1
 statistical system
 Strengthening macroeconomic                  1.16          1.16            0.92              79.5            79.5
 analysis and policy formulation
 Subtotal                                     3.43          3.43            3.92            114.3            114.3
 Public Resource Management
 Strengthening the Central                    2.11 15       2.11            4.27            202.6            202.6
 Revenue Department (CRD)
 and the Customs and Excise
 Department (CED).
 Strengthening public                         1.42          1.42            1.99            139.9            139.9
 expenditure management.
 Developing an Integrated                     5.06          8.06            7.13            140.9             88.5
 Financial Management
 Information System (IFMIS).
 Procurement Reform                           0.52          0.52            0.64            123.9            123.9
 Subtotal                                     9.11         12.11           14.04            154.1            115.9
 Facilitation of Private Sector Development
 Strengthening the capacity of                0.56          0.56            0.23              41.7            41.7
 the legal sector.
 Strengthening the capacity of                0.35          0.35            0.35              99.7            99.7
 the Central Bank of The
 Gambia.
 Strengthening the Gambia                     0.45          0.45            0.56            124.0            124.0
 Divestiture Agency (GDA),
 Subtotal                                     1.36          1.36            1.14              83.8            83.8
 Project Management                           0.58          0.58            1.72            296.8            296.8
 PPF Refinancing                              1.20          1.20            -                 -                 -
 Total Baseline Cost                         15.68         18.68          20.82             132.8            111.5
 Contingencies                                0.84          0.84            -                 -                 -
 Total Project Cost                          16.52         19.52          20.82             126.0            106.7
 Total Financing Required                    16.52         19.52          20.82             126.0            106.7
Sources: PAD, the project paper for additional financing (2007), the ICR database on project disbursements,
and the ICR of the PCU.




 13The large differences between the projected and the actual estimates are due to exchange rate fluctuations. The
 project costs by component was kept only in dalasis, which then had to be converted to the US dollar equivalent for the
 table.
 14 This reflects the reallocation of funds through the DCA amendments, the additional financing and the Government's
 counterpart funds.
 15 US$1.37 million equivalent for CRD and US$0.74 million equivalent for CED.

                                                          22

(b) Financing (in US$ Million Equivalent)16

                                                                                           Percentage Percentage
  Source of Funds          Type of Co- Appraisal             Revised         Actual
                            Financing        Estimate       Estimate       Estimate       of Appraisal of Revised
                                                                                            Estimate         Estimate
 Borrower                         -             1.52            1.52           1.62            107                107
 International
 Development                      -           15.00           18.0017        19.20             128                107
 Association (IDA)
 Total                            -           16.52            19.52         20.82             134                106
Sources: PAD, the project paper for additional financing (2007), the ICR database on project disbursements,
and the ICR of the PCU.




16The large differences between the projected and the actual estimates are due to exchange rate fluctuations. The
project costs by component was kept only in dalasis, which then had to be converted to the US dollar equivalent for the
table.
17Includes additional financing of US$3 million granted in 2007.

                                                         23

                              Annex 2. DCA Key Performance Indicators18


                        KPIs                                          Actual/Latest Estimate

     STATISTICAL SYSTEMS, MACROECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND POVERTY FORMULATION
Mediumterm strategy for the CSD in place and  Achieved.  Statistics Act enacted in November 
new statistical law enacted by December 31,             2005.  Medium Term Strategy endorsed by the 
2005.                                                   Cabinet in July 2006.  
Results from 2003/04 Integrated Household               Achieved but delayed.  Report on the Household 
Survey (including poverty profiles)                     Survey finalized in 2006 and disseminated in 
disseminated by December 31, 2005.                      2007. 

Revised and updated annual national accounts  Achieved but delayed.  National accounts 
and price statistics published by September 30,  revised in 2008. New price statistics collected 
2006.                                                   since 2005 and published since 2007. 
Macroeconomic forecasting model introduced  Partially achieved.  The model was introduced in 
by December 31, 2005.                                   2005 but is not in use. 

                                     PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

At least 50% of large taxpayers submit self             Achieved.  An estimated 62 percent of large 
assessment in the year 2006.                            taxpayers submitted selfassessments in 2007.


Operations of Revenue Authority started by              Achieved.  The GRA Act was enacted in 2004.  
September 31, 2006.                                     The Commissioner General was appointed in July 
                                                        2006 and the Board constituted in August 2006.  
CRD and CED administration information                  Achieved but delayed.  A new tax IT system was 
technology systems upgraded by June 30,                 developed in 2008 and is currently operating in 
2006.                                                   parallel with the manual system. ASYCUDA was 
                                                        upgraded in 2005. 
Gambia Revenue Authority Operations manual  Achieved.  New business process developed in 
is prepared, disseminated to staff and training  2006 and the relevant operational manuals 
provided on its contents.                               disseminated in 2007.  Staffs received related 
                                                        training.  
Data generated on a monthly basis by the                Achieved.  The system has been generating data 
ASYCUDA system by December 31, 2005.                    since its upgrading in 2005. 
Sector strategies for health and education              Achieved.  Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs), 
updated by June 30, 2006.                               with sector strategies, updated by end2006.  
Preliminary adaptation of a MTEF initiated for  Partially achieved. Medium term resource 
the 2006 budget.                                        envelope was incorporated in the budget 
                                                        circulars, and the education sector has developed 
                                                        a sectoral MTEF. 
Budget classification upgraded to international  Achieved but delayed. Budget classification 
standards by December 31, 2004.                         upgraded by the 2006 budget.  
Recurrent and development budgets unified by  Achieved but delayed.  The budget reports have 
the 2005 budget                                         been integrated since the 2006 budget.  
ISSP (Information System Strategy Plan)                 Achieved but delayed.  ISSP was prepared in 
prepared for IFMIS by March 21, 2002.                   2003/04. 
Reconciled accounts produced by Treasury on  Achieved but delayed. IFMIS has been producing 
a monthly basis to multiple users by                    reports and reconciling accounts on a monthly 
December 31, 2006.                                      basis since 2008. 


18The indicators are from the original DCA in 2001 and amendments to the DCA in 2005 and 2007.

                                                        24

                     KPIs                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Preparation of the Borrower's 2007 annual        Achieved but delayed.  The 2007 public 
public accounts by March 31, 2008.              accounts prepared in August 2008, by IFMIS. 
Prepare and commence implementation of an        Achieved. IFMIS Sustainability Plan drafted by 
IFMIS sustainability plan by January 31, 2008.  end2008. Recurrent costs in Plan incorporated in 
                                                2009 budget. 
New procurement law adopted by December         Achieved.  New procurement law enacted in 
31, 2003.                                       2001.  

                       FACILITATION OF PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT

Report on options for restructuring Registrar   Achieved.  A report on the restructuring options 
General, Curator of Intestate Estates and       was prepared in March 2005. 
Registrar of Companies by March 31, 2006. 
Legal sector strategy finalized and approved by  Achieved but delayed.  Legal Sector Strategy 
Cabinet by September 31, 2005.                   endorsed by the Cabinet in July 2006.  
                                                  
Court Case Administration System designed by  Achieved.  System design completed in 2007. 
December 31, 2007.                                
Assessment Report on the Alternative Dispute  Achieved but delayed.  The ADR assessment 
Resolution (ADR) Pilot Scheme by June 30,       report prepared in 2007. 
2008.                                            
System established for rationalization of       Achieved but delayed.  System (liquidity 
issuance of Treasury Bills by December 31,       forecasting model) developed in 2006.  
2005. 




                                                25

                 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable.




                                   26

   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


           Names                         Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Preeti Arora              Senior Economist                   AFTP1 Task Team Leader
Olga Ivanova             Senior Economist                   ECACA
Amadou Moustapha Ndiaye  Financial Management Specialist     ECSPS
Daryoush Kianpour        Informatics Specialist              CITPO
Mamadou Sevede           Procurement Specialist              AFTH3 Consultant
James I. Owen            Tax Administration Specialist       AFTP4 Consultant
Steve Wan Yan Lun        Program Assistant                  MNSED
Supervision/ICR
Bourama Diaite           Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
Graham Eele              Senior Statistician                DECDG
Maimouna Mbow Fam        Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM
Muthoni W. Kaniaru       Senior Counsel                     LEGAF
Daryoush Kianpour        Senior E-Government Specialist      CITPO
Luz Meza-Bartrina        Senior Counsel                     LEGAF
James I. Owens           Consultant                          AFTP4 Consultant
Osval Rocha Andrade Romao Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM

Fily Sissoko             Senior Financial Management
                         Specialist                         LCSFM

Hoon S. Soh              Senior Economist                    AFTP4 Task Team Leader
Cheick Traore             Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC
Josette Percival         Program Assistant                   AFTP4

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                        3                          8.67
  FY99                                       24                         59.61
  FY00                                       23                         57.73
  FY01                                       16                         89.42
  FY02                                        3                         41.92
Total:                                       69                        257.35
Supervision/ICR


  FY99                                        1                          2.45
  FY00                                        0                          0.00
  FY01                                        0                          0.00

                                          27

 FY02       7      52.59
 FY03       14     88.14
 FY04       21    122.21
 FY05       19    141.03
 FY06       25    166.79
 FY07       16     99.17
 FY08       11     86.38
 FY09       6      47.12
Total:     120    805.88




          28

                                Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

                            Summary of GRA's Taxpayer Survey of 200519


1.1 Background

1.1.1 Mandate and services of Central Revenue Department (CRD)

The department of Central Revenue is responsible for collecting all taxes on income
derived from employment and business activities, sales tax from domestic sales of goods
and services; including capital gains tax, payroll tax, and entertainment tax among others.
The department also issues clearance certificates to persons and businesses to enable
them obtain various licenses from central government, municipalities and local
government upon confirmation that the persons are up to date with payment of their taxes.

The department is also responsible for registering all taxpayers and issuing them with a
unique Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). One other mandate of the department is to
audit taxpayers' accounting records in order to confirm that they have correctly declared
their taxable income and paid the correct taxes.


1.1.2 Mandate and services of Customs and Excise Department

The department of Customs & Excise is responsible for collecting duties and sales tax in
respect of goods imported and/or exported into or out of The Gambia. It is also charged
with the responsibility of manning our borders, ports and airports to ensure that no
prohibited or restricted articles are imported into the country; including prevention of
smuggling activities. The services provided by the department include valuation and
classification of goods to ensure that the correct customs tariff is applied, the correct duty
levied and taxes paid.


1.2 Summary of the findings

1.2.1 Services customers require from Central Revenue and Customs

Except for `bonds', `transit' and `direct release', at least 35% require the other services
offered by Central Revenue and Customs departments. The highest proportion of
customers surveyed is recorded for `sales tax' (85%), `tax clearance' (72%) and `duty
payments' (52%) services.

1.2.2 Level of tax audit coverage and perception on field audit staff

Only about 31% out of the 516 customers surveyed were subjected to a tax audit before.
Of those audited, about 45% confirmed having been given advanced booking for an
appointment. A significant proportion didn't approve the approach and conduct of the
officers for the audit exercise.

19This is the excerpted, unedited summary section of the final report of the Taxpayer Service Delivery Baseline Survey,
Government of Gambia, Gambia Revenue Authority, April 2006.

                                                        29

1.2.3 Tax payers' book-keeping and constraints

About 78% maintain books of account of any nature, of which 90% and 33% maintained
it `manually' and `electronically' respectively, showing that about 23% maintained their
books of account both manually and electronically. Only about 28% have had their books
of account audited by an independent auditor. About 50% out of those (i.e. 374) that gave
reason for not having had their books of account audited by an independent auditor said
`they don't know such services exist', whilst 41% said `such services are too expensive'.
Forty-two percent out of all customers (i.e. 516) surveyed employed a book-keeper or
accounting staff.


1.2.4 The level of awareness about self-assessment

Up to about 50% don't know about self-assessment, of which almost all (94%) would
like to know more about it.


1.2.5 Opinion of customers on the departments' service delivery and integrity

`Tax clearance' (12%) and `Payment' (11%) sections top the list in terms of proportion of
all customers (516) surveyed who had experienced difficulties or delays presenting their
tax returns or Customs entries with a huge non-response of about 40%.

Over 59% out of those (178) that commented on waiting time at Central Revenue said it
took at least 2 days to have their transaction completed, whilst about 66% out of 158
commenting on waiting time at Customs said it took at least 2 days. `Lack of
facilities/inadequate staff tops the list of possible reasons for the long waiting time in
these departments with 21%.

`Payment section' however tops the list for offering good customer service, whilst `tax
clearance' tops the list for offering poorest customer service.

`Tax clearance section' was again named as the office where a bribe was likely to be
demanded, whilst `payment section' was named as where you were not likely to be asked
for a bribe.

`Cargo release' (20%), `Boarder clearance' (16%) and `Audit and Assessment' (10%) top
the list of five sections that are prone to corruption.

About 78% rated Central Revenue as at least good, whilst Customs attracted a rating of
48% at least good with a significant no-response proportion of about 23%

Sixty-seven percent of those who commented would like to see an efficient tax collection
and administration system with competitive tax rates.
1.2.6 The level of awareness of the setting up of the new Revenue Authority



                                               30

Only about 36% are aware of the enactment of the Gambia Revenue Authority Act, 2004,
and almost all of those (93%) are in favor of the setting up of the Revenue Authority.

2.0 Objective of the survey

The main objective was to seek customers' opinion on service delivery of Central
Revenue and Customs. However, specific objectives of the survey are as follows:
    i)     Determine the type of services that customers require from Central revenue
           and Customs;
    ii)    Determine the level of tax audit coverage, tax payers' perception on the field
           audit staff and skills gap that needs to be filled in terms of audit capacity
           building;
    iii)   Validate the widely held perception that most of the tax payers do not keep
           proper books of account, and establish why this phenomenon exists and what
           strategies should be put in place to remedy the situation, as well as assist in
           putting a case for eventual withdrawal of presumptive tax from the statutes;
    iv)    Determine the level of awareness on the changes contained in the Income and
           Sales Tax Act, 2004 with particular regard to self-assessment, which shall
           guide the extent of the tax payer education campaign on the subject;
    v)     To seek the opinion of customers on the departments' service delivery and
           integrity issues; and,
    vi)    To establish the level of awareness of impending setting up of the Revenue
           Authority and hence guide on the strategy to be adopted in the proposed
           public education campaign.

3.0 Methodology

The survey followed purposive sampling approach since this was the first baseline survey
on tax payer service delivery in The Gambia. This technical decision was also based on
the nature of the available information regarding the frame to be used; as well as the lack
of information about existing customers (tax payers) of CRD and Customs.

A randomly predetermined set of a total of 516 tax payers were approached (surveyed)
with whom the questionnaires were completed.

3.1 Survey preparation and approach

A team of consultants from Central Statistics Department were assigned to design and
coordinate the operationalization of the survey. However, a taskforce, comprising GRA
officials and the consultants, was put in place. This taskforce discussed the survey
instruments and the implementation of the survey.

As the survey was targeted at all tax payers, use was made of the available list of the
existing tax payers in custody with Central Revenue and Customs. This list became the
survey frame. About 516 tax payers, composed of large, medium and individual
taxpayers, were randomly determined and selected for the survey. However, due to the
problem of the frame not being up to date, some of the selected tax payers could not be
located and had to be replaced with others on the frame.

                                            31

A questionnaire was developed, and it was designed such that the information furnished
could help address the objectives of the survey. This instrument was divided into six parts
to follow the specific objectives of the survey.

Being the first tax payer service delivery baseline survey, the questionnaire was
deliberately designed not to follow any specific pattern or sequencing of questions. A
case in point is the book-keeping sub-section where respondents were asked about
auditing of their books of account before being asked whether they kept any books of
account.

3.2 Training and data collection

The data collection exercise was undertaken during the month of December 2005. Prior
to the data collection exercise, training of data collectors was conducted where they were
trained on data collection approaches and on the contents of the questionnaire.

Furthermore, the data collectors were not only trained in the survey approach and
contents of the questionnaire; they were also given some background information
regarding the nature of the potential respondents' business operations, as well as
definition of some key concepts.

The trained data collectors were then divided into teams and deployed to approach tax
payers and assist them complete the questionnaires. Due to the tax payers' interest in the
survey, and the nature of the questionnaire, all those who were approached, responded.

3.3 Data processing, analysis and report writing

After the data collection exercise, the team of consultants did the remaining tasks of data
entry, screen design, data cleaning/coding, processing and table generation, analysis and
report writing.

CSPro version 3.0 - a statistical package, was used to design the data entry screen used to
key in the information furnished on the questionnaires. After the data had been keyed, it
was then exported into another statistical package, SPSS version 13.0 for editing, further
processing and table generation.

A number of tables were generated for all of the sections of the questionnaire in line with
the survey themes. These tables were then analyzed and the report writing ensued. The
draft report was laid before a taskforce that critically discussed it and made comments for
consideration in the finalization of the report.




                                             32

               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                     33

            Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's Project Completion Report


Note: The Project Director of the PCU for CBEMP prepared a 33-page Project Completion
Report, which was too large to include in its entirety in the ICR. The project files contain the full
version of the report. This six page, unedited version consists of the following sections from the
full completion report from the PCU: title page; executive summary; list of main
recommendations for the sustainability of CBEMP; the list of PCU staff, supervision team and
beneficiary institutions; and status of key performance indicators.



      CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                             (CBEMP)


                     PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT V.1 250209



Prepared By

Mrs. Fatou Leigh
Project Director


                                   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Capacity Building and Economic Management Project (CBEMP) was a five year
SDR 12 million project funded jointly by the World Bank and the Government of The
Gambia (GOTG), which commenced in January 2002. At the end of original project
completion date, December 2007, the Project was given an additional USD 3 million to
consolidate reform activities in IFMIS and the GRA including the ASYCUDA.

The CBEMP official closed in December 2008 and the next six months will be devoted to
administrative closure which includes the preparation and finalization of this report, the
Audit of the Accounts, the disposal of assets and transition of existing staff.

The CBEMP attained almost all of its development objectives. Prominent among its
achievements are the setting up of the GPPA, GBOS, GRA, the ADR system and the
implementation of an IFMIS. The main activities that have not been achieved are the
implementation of a Court Case Management Information System (CCMIS) at the
Judiciary and the implementation of program based budgeting (MTEF) for the six priority
sectors. The non achievement of the CCMIS is mainly due to inadequate capacity at the
Judiciary to expeditious address issues as they arise and lack of funding while the non
implementation of MTEF is a result of insufficient diagnoses of the enormity of the
assignment.      However, a framework for MTEF has been developed awaiting the


                                                 34

development of pre-requite sector policies, strategic plans and prioritised long term
programs and activities.

The CBEMP was managed by the Project Coordination Unit under the auspices of
DOSFEA. The Unit reported the Project Steering Committee consisting of beneficiary
institutions and chaired by DOSFEA and to the World Bank supervision team lead by the
Task Team Leader.


Main Recommendations for the Sustainability of the CBEMP
    1. Funding:         The GOTG through DOSFEA has manifested great commitment to
        the reform initiatives of the CBEMP and has always been forthcoming in
        providing the necessary counterpart funding.        This should be sustained by
        encouraging other development partners to participate in the funding through
        basket funding or BOP support.
    2. Management:             In all the beneficiary institutions in particular DNT, the
        Legal Sector and GBOS, management and staff needs to be reinforced to own the
        reform initiatives.    Change management and communication needs to be
        improved. In the case of GBOS, the Council needs to be more proactive.
    3. Training and Retention: Due to limited capacity and the high attrition rate, on
        going training needs to be institutionalize and incentives such as remuneration,
        working environment and conditions periodically reviewed in a bid to retain
        competent staff.
    4. The development objectives for the Legal Sector and the MTEF : These are
        still relevant and GOTG should explore options of implementing them.
    5. The Role of the PCU and the World Bank: On the whole, the relationship
        between the PCU and the World Bank has been positive. It must however, be
        stated that in few instances the boundary of intervention has not been clearly
        defined. This has resulted in unnecessary exchange of communications resulting
        in delays in the implementation of activities. In the future, these boundaries
        should be clearly delineated.

        Perhaps it is the inherent nature of PCUs, but in many instances where there is a
        discord with the World Bank TTL, the PCU felt isolated and not receiving
        necessary support and feedback from parent Department of State. The parent
        Department of State should provide timely support to the PCU whether it is in
        agreement or disagreement.




                                             35

   Appendix A: List of PCU staff, Supervision Team and Beneficiary Institutions

Chairman of the Project Steering Committee: Permanent Secretary, DOSFEA

Project Coordination Unit
Mrs. Fatou Leigh  Project Director
Mr. Alhaji Sawaneh  Deputy Project Director
Mr. Momodou Cham  Procurement Specialist
Mr. Bai Jobe - Financial Controller
Alieu Jobe - Acting Financial Controller
Mr. Momodou Ceesay  Program Officer Procurement
Mr. Ousman Bittaye  IT Support
Ms. Mercy Crabbe  Administrative Assistant

The following have also held the position before pursuing career goals:
Mr. Ebrima Fatty Financial Controller
Mr. Mamour Jagne  Deputy Project Director
Mr. Alieu Bittaye - Deputy Project Director

Support Staff
Mr. Babou Jobe - Office Assistant
Mr. Modou Lamin Susso  Driver
Mr. Serign Ceesay - Driver
Mrs. Segga Mbenga - Cleaner


World Bank Team

Mr. Hoon Soh - TTL
Mr. Daryoush Kyanpour - IFMIS
Mr. Graham Eele  Statistics Reform
Mr. Jim Owens  Revenue Reform

Former TTL : Mrs. Preeti Arora

Beneficiaries by Component
  i.    Statistical systems, macroeconomic analysis and poverty assessment: GBOS,
        EMPU, MDI, SPACO
 ii.    Public resource management: GRA, DNT, DOSFEA
iii.    Facilitation of private sector development: CBG, GDA, DOSJ and the Judiciary.




                                             36

                    Appendix B: Status of Key Performance Indicators


         Key Performance Indicator                              Current Status
Medium Term Strategy (for Statistics) in place  Achieved. Statistic Act enacted in November
and new statistical law enacted by December     2005. Medium Term Strategy (Master Plan)
31, 2005.                                       endorsed by Cabinet in July 2006.
Results from 2003 Integrated Household          Achieved. Integrated Household Survey report
survey disseminated by December 31, 2005.       finalized in 2006 and disseminated in 2007.
Revised and updated annual accounts and price   Achieved. National accounts revised in 2008
statistics by September 30 ,2006.               and new price statistics collected since 2005 and
                                                published since 2007.
Macroeconomic forecasting model of the          Achieved. Macroeconomic model was
country introduced by December 31, 2005.        developed in 2005 and training conducted in
                                                2006. Further training is planned for December
                                                2008 given the model is not actively used.
Operations of Revenue Authority started by      Achieved. Revenue Authority Act was enacted
September 2006.                                 in 2004, the Commissioner General appointed in
                                                July 2006 and the Board constituted in August
                                                2006.
At least 50 percent of large tax payers submit  Achieved. Fifty eight percent of large tax
self assessment in 2007.                        payers submitted self-assessment tax returns in
                                                2007.
Central Revenue Dept and Customs and Excise     Achieved. Tax administration system developed
Dept administration information technology      and operationalised in 2008. Customs IT system
systems upgraded by June 30, 2006.              (ASYCUDA) upgraded in 2005.
Data generated on a monthly basis by the        Achieved. Since the upgrade in 2005.
ASYCUDA system by December 31, 2005.            ASYCUDA generates monthly data.
Dissemination and training on GRA Manuals       Achieved. New manuals prepared and
by June 2008.                                   disseminated in August 2006. All staff trained
                                                on GRA Manuals.
Budget classification upgraded to international Achieved. Budget classification upgraded to
standards by December 31, 2005.                 international standards by 2006.
Sector Strategies for health and education      Achieved. Both sectors have new sector
updated by June 30, 2006.                       strategies as well as updated sectoral Public
                                                Expenditure Reviews.
Recurrent and development budgets unified by    Achieved. The budget reports present the two
the 2005 budget.                                budgets in an integrated manner since 2006.
Preliminary adaptation of a Medium Term         Not achieved. Some preliminary work has been
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) initiated for      initiated, including a medium term resource
the 2006 budget.                                envelope incorporated in budget circulars and a
                                                sectoral MTEF prepared for Education.
                                                However, the budget report continues to be
                                                prepared on an annual basis. The government
                                                and the supervision team agreed to take a more
                                                gradual approach to developing a MTEF (see
                                                2006 aide memoir).
Strategy for Information System Strategy Plan   Achieved. ISSP prepared in 2003/4.
completed by March 31, 2002.


                                               37

Reconciled accounts produced by Treasury        Achieved. IFMIS has been producing reports
(IFMIS) on a monthly basis to multiple users    and reconciling accounts on a monthly basis
by December 31, 2006                            since at least 2008.
Preparation of the Borrower's 2007 annual       Achieved. The 2007 public accounts prepared
public accounts (by IFMIS) by March 31, 2008    in third quarter of 2008.
Prepare and start implementation of IFMIS       Achieved. IFMIS Sustainability Plan prepared
Sustainability strategy by January 31, 2008.    and endorsed by IFMIS Steering Committee in
                                                2008. Implementation of IFMIS initiated with
                                                incorporation of IFMIS recurrent costs in the
                                                2009 budget and recruitment of new staffs for
                                                Treasury.
New procurement law adopted by December         Achieved. Gambia Public Procurement Act
31, 2006                                        enacted in 2001.
Legal sector strategy finalized and approved by Achieved. Legal Sector Strategy endorsed by
Cabinet by September 30, 2005.                  Cabinet in July 2006.
Court Case Administration System designed by    Achieved. Court Case Administration System
December 31, 2007.                              was designed in 2007.
Report on options for restructuring Registrar-  Achieved. Report on restructuring Registries
General, Curator of Intestate Estates and       prepared in 2005.
Registrar of Companies submitted by March
31, 2006.
Assessment Report on the ADR Pilot Scheme       Achieved. ADR assessment report prepared in
by June 30th, 2006.                             2007.
Rationalize system for issuing treasury bills   Achieved. System for issuing T-Bills (liquidity
established by December31st, 2005               forecasting model) developed in 2006.




                                               38

     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                   39

                      Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

I. Economic Framework

 Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP), November 22, 2000.
 Millennium Development Goals Needs Assessment for Poverty Reduction in the
    Gambia, 2007-2011 (November 2006).
 Republic of the Gambia: Poverty Reduction Strategy, 2007-2011 (November 2006).

II. Project Preparation through Board Approval

A. Selected Aide Memoires (AM) and Back-to-Office Reports (BTORs)

    Report Type                           Mission Subject and Dates
AM/BTOR               Identification and Validation Mission of April 10-18, 1999.
AM (Draft)/BTOR       Identification Mission of July 1-12, 2000.
AM/BTOR               Appraisal Mission of April 1-22, 2001.

B. Terms of Reference (TOR) for Project Preparation Studies

           Date                                        Subject
August 9, 1999              Improved revenue administration
February 14, 2000           Financial Management Information System
                            Management Development Institute
                            Public Investment Program

C. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, June 25, 2001.

D. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 12 Million
(US$15 Million Equivalent) for to the Republic of Ghana for a Capacity Building and
Economic Management Project, Report No. 22516-GM, July 6, 2001.

E. Development Credit Agreement (Capacity Building for Economic Management
Project) between the Republic of the Gambia and the International Development
Association, October 2, 2001.

III. Implementation

A. Aide Memoires (AMs) of Supervision Missions


                                     Mission Dates
April 28 to May 5, 2002
June 22 to July 18, 2002
October 1 to 15, 2003
February 9 to 27, 2004


                                           40

October 15 to November 5, 2004
March 7-31, 2005
January 16 to February 3, 2006
November 2-23, 2006
February 9-to 27,
August 13-27, 2007
June 30 July 10, 2008

B. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)

     No.                                        Date
1               March 8, 2002
2               June 6, 2002
3               December 17, 2002
4               May 29, 2003
5               November 17, 2003
6               May 24, 2004
7               December 24, 2004
8               June 17, 2005
9               June 30, 2005
10              July 22, 2005
11              March 24, 2006
12              August 29, 2006
13              May 11, 2007
14              December 27, 2007
15              June 27, 2008

C. Selected Management Letters

      Date                            Correspondents and Subject
May 28, 2002      Letter from Mary Barton-Dock, Acting Country Director for The
                  Gambia, to Mr. Bammi Jagne, Permanent Secretary for Finance and
                  Economic Affairs, Gambia, regarding the supervision of CBEMP.
November,         Letter from John McIntire, Country Director for The Gambia, to the
2003              Honorable Moussa G. Bala-Gaye,Secretary of State for Finance and
                  Economic Affairs., Department of State for Finance and Economic
                  Affairs, Gambia, concerning the progress of CBEMP and Public
                  Expenditure Review (PER).
March 19, 2004    Letter to the Honorable Moussa G. Bala-Gaye,Secretary of State for
                  Finance and Economic Affairs., Department of State for Finance and
                  Economic Affairs (Draft) from John McIntire, Country Director
                  concerning the progress of CBEMP , the PER and the HIPC review.
April 25, 2005    Letter from Madani M. Tall, Country Director for The Gambia, to The
                  Honorable Margaret Keita, Secretary of State for Finance and
                  Economic Affairs, Department of State for Finance and Economic


                                          41

                   Affairs, The Gambia, regarding PER follow-up and supervision of
                   CEMP subsequent to project restructuring.
March 22, 2006     Letter from Madani M. Tall, Country Director for The Gambia, to the
                   Honorable Moussa G. Bala-Gaye Secretary of State for Finance and
                   Economic Affairs . Department of State for Finance and Economic
                   Affairs, The Gambia regarding the updating of the PER and the
                   supervision of CBEMP.
December 20,       Letter from Madani M. Tall, Country Director for The Gambia, to the
2006               Honorable Moussa G. Bala-Gaye Secretary of State for Finance and
                   Economic Affairs . Department of State for Finance and Economic
                   Affairs, The Gambia, regarding the supervision of CBEMP, civil
                   service reform and capacity assessment, and poverty assessment.
April 27, 2007     Letter from Madani M. Tall, Country Director for The Gambia, to the
                   Honorable Moussa G. Bala-Gaye Secretary of State for Finance and
                   Economic Affairs . Department of State for Finance and Economic
                   Affairs, The Gambia. regarding civil service reform and capacity
                   assessment.
January 14,        Letter from Madani M. Tall, Country Director for The Gambia, to the
2008               Honorable Moussa G. Bala-Gaye Secretary of State for Finance and
                   Economic Affairs . Department of State for Finance and Economic
                   Affairs, The Gambia regarding the supervision of CBEMP and
                   Development Policy Operation (DPO).
August 1, 2008     Letter from McDonald P. Benjamin, Acting Country Director for The
                   Gambia to Honorable Moussa G. Bala-Gaye Secretary of State for
                   Finance and Economic Affairs . Department of State for Finance and
                   Economic Affairs, The Gambia, regarding, multi-donor budget report,
                   poverty assessment and supervision of CBEMP.

D. Project Amendments

    1. Amendment to the DCA, August 25, 2003.
    2. Amendment to the DCA, July 22, 2005.
    3. Proposed Additional Financing Grant in the Amount of SDR 2 Million (US$ 3
    million Equivalent) to the Republic of the Gambia for the Capacity Building for
    Economic Management Project, October 3, 2007.

E. Issues Papers

       Date                                       Subject
May 21, 2003        Pre-supervision review meeting issues paper for the Mid-Term
                    Review (MTR).
July 2003           Key issues for beneficiaries.
May 19, 2004        Revenue administration reforms.
March 2, 2005       Issues paper for the March 2005 supervision mission
January 17, 2006 Issues paper for the January supervision mission.
May 21, 2006        Issues paper for the May/June 2006 supervision mission.

                                             42

November 6,        Issues paper for the November 2006 supervision mission.
2006

F. Selected Reports/Studies

       Date                                        Subject 
April 22, 2004       Report on a study tour for the restructuring of the Gambia's 
                     Companies Registry 
June 28, 2005        Report on a strategy for the legal sector. 
February 13,         Report on recommendations for the organizational structure of 
2006                 GRA. 
March 16, 2006       IT Strategy for the legal sector ( 20062010) 
April 2006           Report on the processing of court cases in the High Court of The 
                     Gambia (19942004) 
April 2006           Taxpayer service delivery  baseline survey. 
February 6, 2007  Highlevel strategy and implementation plan for IT 
                     development in the Justice Sector of The Gambia. 
July 2008            Sustainability plan for IFMIS (20092013) 
October 2008         Human resource plan for the Directorate of the National 
                     Treasury. 
2008                 GRA's first corporate plan (2008 to 2010) 




                                           43

                              Annex 10. Results Framework Analysis20

                                               Original Target                                     Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value             Values (from        Formally Revised               Achieved at
                                                   approval            Target Values              Completion or
                                                  documents)                                       Target Years

Indicator 1 :       Reliable social/economic data for policy formulation and poverty analysis by project
                    end.
                    Poor social and         Improved social and No revisions.                  Statistical database
                    economic database. economic database.                                      improved through:

                                                                                               (i) A household
                                                                                               survey and a
                                                                                               population census in
                                                                                               2003.

                                                                                               (ii) An economic
Value                                                                                          census, completed in
(quantitative or                                                                               2006.
qualitative)
                                                                                               (iii) A new price
                                                                                               series and national
                                                                                               accounts (GDP) in
                                                                                               available since 2008.

                                                                                               (iv) A series of
                                                                                               Participatory Poverty
                                                                                               Assessments from
                                                                                               2001 to 2004.
Date achieved       01/01/2002              01/01/2002                                         12/31/08
Comments
(incl. %            Achieved. The project completed all of the key elements that defined a "reliable" socio-

achievement)        economic database as specified in the project's design framework.

Indicator 2 :       A comprehensive budget within a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
                    by project end.
                    No MTEF, annual         Development of         Preliminary                 Three-year resource

Value               budgets only.           comprehensive          Adaptation of MTEF envelope incorporated

(quantitative or                            budget within MTEF. initiated for the 2006 in the budget circulars

qualitative)                                                       budget.                     and an Education
                                                                                               sector MTEF
                                                                                               developed.
Date achieved       01/01/2002              01/01/2002             06/29/05                    12/31/08
Comments            Partially achieved. The project also supported the revision of the budget classifications
(incl. %            according to GFS standards. The revised classifications provide a better basis for the
achievement)        development of the MTEF in the future.

Indicator 3 :       The roll out of the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS)
                    in all departments and audited public accounts produced annually by project end.




20Indicators in bold are the KPIs in the legal agreements. These KPIs are also listed in Annex 2 of this ICR.

                                                          44

                                         Original Target                                 Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value         Values (from          Formally Revised         Achieved at
                                             approval             Target Values         Completion or
                                            documents)                                   Target Years
                 Inadequate            Revised accounting      Reconciled accounts Reconciled monthly
                 accounting            and budgeting system produced by              accounts produced
                 procedures.           introduced by           Treasury on a         since 2008, by
                                       December 2003.          monthly basis for     IFMIS.
                                                               multiple users by
                                                               December 31, 2006.

                 Delayed preparation Audited accounts          Preparation of the    The 2007 public
                 of public accounts. produced annually         Borrower's 2007       accounts prepared in
                 Backlog in audits go and reviewed by the annual public              August 2008, by
Value            back to early 1990s. National Assembly.       accounts by March     IFMIS.
(quantitative or                                               31, 2008.
qualitative)

                 No IFMIS.             IFMIS piloted at        No revisions.         Core IFMIS
                                       DOSFEA (Finance),                             budgeting and
                                       Agriculture and                               accounting modules
                                       Tourism and                                   started operating in
                                       producing monthly                             January 2007 and
                                       accounts by                                   subsequently rolled
                                       December 2004.                                out to revenue
                                                                                     agencies and
                                                                                     Education.
Date achieved    01/01/2002            01/01/2002              06/29/05              12/31/08
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved. In addition, the backlog in the audits of the public accounts has now been

achievement)     cleared up to 2006 (see Indicator 4 in Intermediate Outcome Indicators below).

Indicator 4 :    Reduce court case processing time and develop a framework for financial
                 intermediation to the informal sector.
                 No data available on Information available Indicator removed.       Indicator removed.
                 court case            on court case
                 processing time.      processing time by
                                       December 2002.

Value
(quantitative or No framework for      Develop framework No revisions.               The Central Bank

qualitative)     financial             for financial                                 developed a
                 intermediation to     intermediation to                             framework for
                 informal sector.      informal sector.                              supervising and
                                                                                     promoting
                                                                                     microfinance
                                                                                     institutions in 2003.
Date achieved    01/01/2002            01/01/2002              11/08/07              12/31/04
                 Achieved. The PAD included an indicator on reducing court case processing time by 25
Comments         percent but this indicator was first replaced by information on processing time in the
(incl. %         original DCA and then later removed through the DCA amendment in 2007. It was
achievement)     removed because the indicator could not be estimated from the court records, despite the
                 provision of technical assistance.




                                                     45

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target         Formally          Actual Value

    Indicator         Baseline Value             Values (from                            Achieved at
                                                   approval        Revised Target       Completion or
                                                  documents)            Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Capacity of Central Statistics Department (CSD) strengthened; poverty data,
                national accounts and price statistics updated.
                No Statistics bill.          Increase in coverage Medium Term The Statistics Act was
                                             and revision of       Strategy for     enacted in November
                                             methodologies for     the CSD in       2005 and a medium
                                             compilation of basic place and new term strategy for
                                             statistics by the end statistical law official statistics was
                                             of the project.       enacted by       developed by end-
                                                                   December 31, 2005, endorsed by
                                                                   2005.            Cabinet in July 2006
                                                                                    and further refined in
                                                                                    2008.

                No household survey or       CPI based on new      Results from     New household
                economic census              household survey      2003/04          survey conducted in
Value                                        completed by          Integrated       2003, report finalized
(quantitative                                December 2004.        Household        in 2006 and the
or Qualitative)                                                    Survey           results disseminated
                                                                   disseminated     in 2007.
                                                                   by December
                                                                   31, 2005.

                Outdated national accounts. Public accounts        Revised and      New price surveys
                                             updated and           updated          started in 2005 and
                                             produced annually. annual              published since 2007.
                                             Reconciled accounts national           New estimates of the
                                             available monthly,    accounts and     national accounts
                                             to multiple           price statistics (GDP) available since
                                             government users.     published by     2008.
                                                                   September 30,
                                                                   2006.
Date achieved   01/01/2002                   01/01/2002            06/29/05         12/31/07
                Achieved. The indicator on increased coverage and revised methodologies was removed
Comments        mainly because it would essentially be achieved if the indicators on the household survey,
(incl. %        national accounts (based on a new economic census) and price statistics were achieved.
achievement)    Instead, an amendment of the DCA added a new indicator on the Statistics Act and the
                development of a medium term reform strategy for official statistics.
Indicator 2 :   Capacity for macroeconomic analysis and poverty formulation strengthened.
                No macroeconomic model.      Macroeconomic         Macroeconomic Model developed in
                                             model introduced by forecasting        2005 and training
                                             December 2002.        model            provided but the
                                                                   introduced by model is not being
Value                                                              December 31, used.
(quantitative                                                      2005.
or qualitative)
                Only an I-PRSP available.    Presentation of SPA No revisions.      PRSP (2003-05) was
                                             II (PRSP) by                           finalized in 2002 and
                                             September 2001.                        PRSP II (2007-11)
                                                                                    was finalized in 2007.

                                                  46

                                                      Original Target        Formally          Actual Value

    Indicator                Baseline Value             Values (from                            Achieved at
                                                          approval       Revised Target       Completion or
                                                         documents)           Values           Target Years
Date achieved        01/01/2002                     01/01/2002           06/29/05         12/31/06
Comments             Partially Achieved. The project completed the development of the macroeconomic
(incl. %             model and provided training on its use. However, the model was not properly archived
achievement)         after its development and it is not in use.

Indicator 3 :        Revenue agencies restructured along functional organization; self-assessment of
                     large taxpayers introduced; business processes improved.
                     No Revenue Authority, no       Information manuals Operations of GRA Act enacted in
                     self-assessments and           on new business      Revenue          2004, and
                     outdated business processes. processes prepared Authority            Commissioner
                                                    and disseminated by started by        General appointed
                                                    December 2002.       September 31, and the Board
                                                                         2006.            constituted in 2006.

                                                    No Indicator.        Gambia           New business process
                                                                         Revenue          developed in 2006
                                                                         Authority        and the relevant
                                                                         operations       operational manuals
                                                                         manual is        disseminated in 2007.
                                                                         prepared,        Subsequently, staffs
                                                                         disseminated toreceived relevant
                                                                         staff and        training.
                                                                         training
                                                                         provided on its
                                                                         contents.


Value                                               At least 80 percent  At least 50      Sixty-two percent of

(quantitative                                       of large taxpayers   percent of       large taxpayers

or qualitative)                                     submit self-         large taxpayers submitted self-
                                                    assessment for the   submit self-     assessments in
                                                    tax year 2003.       assessment in 2007.21
                                                                         2006.

                                                    No formal dispute    New dispute      New dispute
                                                    resolution system.   resolution       resolution system
                                                                         system           designed but not
                                                                         established.     operating, as Tax
                                                                                          Tribunal has not been
                                                                                          set up.

                     Poorly functioning IT          Customs data         Data generated ASYCUDA has been
                     systems.                       generated on a       on a monthly     generating monthly
                                                    monthly basis by     basis by         data since 2005.
                                                    ASYCUDA              ASYCUDA by
                                                    (customs IT system) December 31,
                                                    by December 2002. 2005.

                                                    No indicator.        CRD and CED A new tax IT system
                                                                         administration was developed in


21This is the latest confirmed figure from the Government. The PCU's Project Completion Report (Annex 7) indicates
58 percent, based on a previous analysis.

                                                         47

                                               Original Target       Formally          Actual Value

    Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                            Achieved at
                                                  approval        Revised Target      Completion or
                                                 documents)           Values           Target Years
                                                                  information      2008 and is currently
                                                                  technology       operating in parallel
                                                                  systems          with the manual
                                                                  upgraded by      system. ASYCUDA
                                                                  June 30, 2006. was upgraded in
                                                                                   2005.

Date achieved   01/01/2002                   01/01/2002           06/29/05 and
                                                                  11/08/07         12/31/2008

Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. Improvements in revenue administration were among the project's major

achievement)    achievements.

Indicator 4 :   Budget process rationalized.
                Budget classification        Budget classificationBudget           Budget classification
                outdated.                    changed to reflect   classification   upgraded to GFS
                                             program budgeting upgraded to         standards by the 2006
                                             by budget year 2003.international     budget.
                                                                  standards by
                                                                  December 31,
                                                                  2004.


Value           Public Expenditure Reviews Sector strategies for Sector            Sectoral PERs, with

(quantitative   (PERs) for health, education health, education    strategies for   sector strategies,

or qualitative) and agriculture were not     and agriculture      health and       updated by end-2006.
                updated.                     prepared by          education
                                             December 2001.       updated by
                                                                  June 30, 2006.

                Recurrent and development Recurrent and           Recurrent and Recurrent and
                budgets separately prepared. development          development      development budgets
                                             budgets unified by   budgets unified unified by 2006
                                             2003 budget.         by 2005          budget.
                                                                  budget.
Date achieved   01/01/2002                   01/01/2002           06/29/2005       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   IFMIS Information System Strategy Plan (ISSP) and Sustainability Plan developed.
                No ISSP.                     ISSP completed by No revisions.       ISSP prepared in
                                             March 2002.                           2003/4.

Value           No IFMIS Sustainability      No indicator on      Prepare and      IFMIS Sustainability
(quantitative   Plan.                        IFMIS Sustainabilitycommence          Plan drafted by end-
or qualitative)                              Plan (added through implementation 2008. Recurrent costs
                                             2005 additional      of Sustainabilityin Plan incorporated
                                             financing).          Plan by          in 2009 budget.
                                                                  January 2008.
Date achieved   01/01/2002                   01/01/2002           11/08/07         12/31/07
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)


                                                 48

                                                Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator           Baseline Value            Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                    approval       Revised Target      Completion or
                                                   documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 6 :   Efficient procurement process established.
                No public procurement law. New procurement        New              Gambia Public
Value                                         law adopted by June procurement      Procurement Act
(quantitative                                 2003.               law adopted by enacted in 2001.
or qualitative)                                                   December 31,
                                                                  2003.
Date achieved   01/01/2002                    6/30/2003           06/29/2005       12/31/01
Comments        Achieved. Based on the Gambia Public Procurement Act (2001), the Government
(incl. %        established the Gambia Public Procurement Authority (GPPA) to act as the new
achievement)    regulatory body for public procurement.
Indicator 7 :   Achieve timely, accessible and responsive legal and justice system.
                No legal sector strategy.     No indicator.       Legal sector     Cabinet endorsed
                                                                  strategy         legal sector strategy
                                                                  finalized and    in July 2006.
                                                                  approved by
                                                                  Cabinet by
                                                                  September 31,
                                                                  2005.

                Manual court case             Court case          Court Case       Design completed by
                management system.            management system Administration end-2007.
                                              piloted by 2003.    system
                                                                  designed by
                                                                  December 31,
                                                                  2007.

Value           No Alternative Dispute        Assessment report   Assessment       ADR Assessment
(quantitative   Resolution (ADR) system.      on the ADR pilot    report on the    report prepared by
or qualitative)                               scheme by           ADR pilot        end-2007.
                                              December 2002.      scheme by
                                                                  June 30, 2008.

                No options for restructuring Report on options    Report on        Report on
                Registries.                   for restructuring   options for      restructuring options
                                              Registries by March restructuring prepared in March
                                              2002.               Registrar-       2005.
                                                                  General,
                                                                  Curator of
                                                                  Interstate
                                                                  Estates and
                                                                  Registrar of
                                                                  Companies by
                                                                  March 31,
                                                                  2006.

Date achieved   1/1/2002                      1/1/02              Last revised in Last achieved in
                                                                  11/8/07          11/8/07

Comments        Achieved. The project has completed the key intermediate steps but there have been
(incl. %        limited follow-up actions that would be necessary to ensure sustained impact of
achievement)    initiatives.


                                                   49

                                                Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator           Baseline Value            Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                    approval       Revised Target      Completion or
                                                   documents)           Values         Target Years

Indicator 8 :   Strengthened capacity of Central Bank for liquidity management.
                Weak system for               Rationalized system System           System (liquidity
                determining issuance of       for issuing Treasury established for forecasting model)

Value           Treasury Bills                Bills established by rationalization developed in 2006.

(quantitative                                 December 2003.       of issuance of

or qualitative)                                                    Treasury Bills
                                                                   established by
                                                                   December 31,
                                                                   2005.
Date achieved   1/1/2002                      1/1/02               06/29/05        06/31/06
Comments        Achieved. The project has completed the key intermediate steps but there have been
(incl. %        limited follow-up actions that would be necessary to ensure sustained impact of
achievement)    initiatives.




                                                   50

COUNTRY MAP




    51

