Document of                  F            COPY
The World Bank                     FILE CPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2700-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 7, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
US$1.00      =      K 0.71
K 1.00              US$1.41
K 1 million  =      US$1,410,000
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT      -   Average Daily Traffic
DPI      -   Department of Primary Industry
DTCA     -   Department of Transport and Civil Aviation
DWS      -   Department of Works and Supply
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP      -   Gross National Product
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
FAO      -   Food and Agriculture Organization
NEC      -   National Executive Council
NPEP     -   National Public Expenditures Plan
PNG      -   Papua New Guinea
PNGDB    -   Papua New Guinea Developmental Board
PNGHB    -   Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
SHMA     -   Southern Highlands Hlanagement Authority
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
VOC      -   Vehicle Operating Costs
PNG FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



InternaLtional Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Iternational Development Association
FOR OFFIIAL. 1JFS ONLY         - -
rFOR                                                                    For consideration on
EXECUTIVE                                                             May 27, 1980
DIREC TORS'                                                             ______r______
MEE'TINGl                                 l          l-
MEETINGFILE COPY
R80-114/1
IDA/R80-79/1
FROM:  Vice President and Secretary                           May 9, 1980
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Third Highway Project
Corrigendum
The attached replaces the first page of the Loan/Credit and Project
Summary of the President's Report and Recommendation on the proposed loan
and credit to Papua New Guinea for a third h.ighway project, distributed
on May 7, 1980, under R80-114[IDA/R80-79].
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice President
President's Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
I111k dounlilonl  ei n  s:rieted dirtli(Ll1i d nid mtv be useLI by recipients only in the performane
i1 thvI I iFic I tt \IU Ife. IIS coI nk S I OII    nIv t ot%rA 1se be discl osed without Woild Bonk authorization






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA               FILE  COPY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower      : Government of Papua New Guinea
Amounts       : Loan US$17.0 million
Credit US$13.0 million
Terms         : Loan:  For a period of 20 years, including a grace period
of 5 years, with an interest rate of 8.25% per annum.
Credit: Standard
Prolect
Descripton  : The main objective of the project is to support the economic
and social development of the Central Highlands of PNG by
providing low cost road transport among the provinces of the
Central Highlands and between each province and the Port of
Lae. Additional objectives are to train local engineers and
contractors, improve road maintenance, and support improved
planning and preparation of rural transport projects. The
project consists of: (a) improvement and paving of the
Highlands Highway section between Kassam Pass and Daulo Pass
(137 km), including supervision of the work by consultants,
technical assistance to DWS in contract management and
training of PNG engineers on the works; (b) improvement of
road maintenance, including technical assistance and
training of DWS and provincial governments staff by
consultants; (c) improvement of rural transport, including
technical assistance and engineering of priority road
projects; (d) engineering of the Togoba - Wapenamanda road;
and (e) procurement of traffic counting equipment. The main
risk would be a failure to achieve the wide distribution of
project benefits; the proposed project includes measures to
minimize this risk.
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theifofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower     : Government of Papua New Guinea
Amounts      : Loan US$17.0 million
Credit US$13.0 million
Terms        : Loan:  For a period of 20 years, including a grace period
of 5 years, with an interest rate of
Credit: Standard
Project
Descripton  : The main objective of the project is to support the economic
and social development of the Central Highlands of PNG by
providing low cost road transport among the provinces of the
Central Highlands and between each province and the Port of
Lae. Additional objectives are to train local engineers and
contractors, improve road maintenance, and support improved
planning and preparation of rural transport projects. The
project consists of: (a) improvement and-paving of the
Highlands Highway section between Kassam Pass and Daulo Pass
(137 km), including supervision of the work by consultants,
technical assistance to DWS in contract management and
training of PNG engineers on the works; (b) improvement of
road maintenance, including technical assistance and
training of DWS and provincial governments staff by
consultants; (c) improvement of rural transport, including
technical assistance and engineering of priority road
projects; (d) engineering of the Togoba - Wapenamanda road;
and (e) procurement of traffic counting equipment. The main
risk would be a failure to achieve the wide distribution of
project benefits; the proposed project includes measures to
minimize this risk.
This document hs a rostricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Foreign    Local    Total
…US$ million------
Improvement and paving
of Highlands Highway
between Kassam and
Daulo Pass (137 km)               18.6        8.0     26.6
Supervision of works
including assistance
in contract management
and training                       1.9        0.5      2.4
Technical assistance
for maintenance and
training                           1.0       0.2       1.2
Technical assistance for
rural transport and road
engineering                        0.8        0.2      1.0
Engineering o Togoba -
Wapenamanda r.ad                   0.6        0.1      0.7
Traffic counting equipment         0.1          -      0.1
Contingencies:
Physical                        2.3       0.9       3.2
Price                           4.8       2.0       6.8
Land acquisition                     -        0.4      0.4
Total prolect cost                30.1       12.3     42.4
Financing Plan:
IDA                               13.0          -     13.0
IBRD                              17.0          -     17.0
Government                         0.1       12.3     12.4
Total                            30.1       12.3     42.4



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
IBRD/IDA FY                 81          82           83           84           85
Loan annual                  -          5.0          8.0          3.5          0.5
Loan cumulative              -           5.0        13.0         16.5         17.0
Credit annual               9.3         3.7           -            -
Credit cumulative           9.3        13.0         13.0         13.0         13.0
Rate of Return: Eighteen percent based on savings of transportation and
maintenance costs. Additional unquantifiable benefits will
also result from improved communications.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 2838-PNG dated April 24, 1980, East Asia
and Pacific Region.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE
OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
1.        I submit the following report and recommencations oi.  proposed
Loan and Development Credit to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea
for the equivalent of US$30.0 million, of which US$13.0 million is on
standard IDA terms and US$17.0 million on current IBRD terms. The proceeds
of the Loan and Credit are to help finance a Third Highway Project of which
the major element is the improvement and paving of 137 km of the Highlands
Highway.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Papua New Guinea (PNG) in mid-1978,
and its report, "Papua New Guinea: Economic Situation and Prospects"
(Report No. 2157-PNG) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
December 1978. An updating mission took place in October 1979. The
following discussion of the economy of PNG is based on this work. Details
of recent economic data can be found in Annex I.
Structure of the Economy
3.        Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains, rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely scattered
islands. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral
resources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential.
The capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 100,000, is an
enclave, with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest
urban settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. The most
striking feature of PNG's economy is the dualism reflected in the relatively
small employment in the modern monetary sector and the large proportion of the
population engaged in the traditional agricultural sector. The modern sector
is dominated by the Bougainville copper mine and by the nonnational community
which was previously part of the Australian administration and which still
contributes significantly to both public administration and the private
sector. Mining contributes 20-25% of GDP, and the government sector and a
variety of small manufacturing and service establishments contribute about
half of GDP. Agriculture, forestry, and fishery, which employ about 85% of
the labor force, provide the remaining 25-30% of GDP, with half of t1D
sectoral output coming from subsistence agriculture.
4.        Per capita GNP in 1978 was US$560, but this average includes the
Bougainville copper mine, an enclave operation located on an island, ad well
as the nonnationals, less than 1% of the population, whose incomes average
roughly 20 times those of nationals. When only nationals are considered,
economic dualism in PNG is not as significant an issue as encountered in
other countries with a similar economic structure. The average government
salary, excluding nonnationals, is only about five times the estimated
income of a subsistence household. While this difference does indicate the
presence of inequalities, they are less extreme than, for example, in many



- 2 -
African countries. The Government's development objectives call for a
further reduction in the disparities that exist. At the same time, the
Government has developed policies to minimize the impact of dualism in
specific areas. For example, the renegotiation of the agreement with
Bougainville Copper Ltd. ensured that the Government would get the bulk of
profits over a certain level.  Since the remainder of the profits accruing
to the company and much of the expenditure incurred in the operations of the
mine are paid overseas, they have little impact on local incomes.
5.         PNG faced a critical period before and immediately following
independence when, for two consecutive years (FY75-76), the economy failed
to grow significantly. This resulted from the international recession as
much as from conditions in PNG, but it compounded the difficulties faced by
an emerging nation. In the last few years, however, improving commodity
prices and rising investments have contributed to an average annual growth of
GDP of close to 4% in real terms. While a great improvement, this growth is
still low compared to the average of 8% during the period 1968-74, and
compared to the population growth rate of close to 3% p.a. The high growth
rates of the past were due largely to the construction of the Bougainville
copper mine (mining's share in GDP rose from 2% in FY69 to 32% in FY74) and
such growth rates are not likely to be reached again until another large
project is undertaken.
6.        The large fluctuations in the growth of PNG's economy result partly
from its vulnerability to international economic conditions. Imports are
high, and international inflation is quickly passed on.  Exports are
dominated by four commodities - copper, coffee, cocoa, and copra - which
contribute about 85% of total export earnings.  Price fluctuations can thus
have a severe impact on the economy. In addition, PNG runs a substantial
structural deficit on its current account, the counterpart of the large
budgetary grant from Australia, equivalent to about one-third of exports.
7.        The Government has taken a number of steps to reduce the adverse
internal impact of variations in the international economy. In particular, a
Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund smooths the impact of fluctuating copper
prices on the budget, and stabilization funds for coffee, cocoa, and copra are
designed to reduce the oscillations in incomes of producers, thereby also
dampening price-induced supply responses and contributing to the stability of
government revenue. To date the management of these funds has been very
disciplined and has reduced the fluctuations in government spending that would
otherwise have occurred. A three-year wage agreement limited the rise of both
public and private sector wages to that of the consumer price index, thus
ending the sharp upward spiral of real wages that occurred during 1972-75, and
the hard currency policy follawed by the Government has helped to cut down
inflation to about 5% p.a., compared to an average more than twice as high
in earlier years. In the area of foreign aid, the Government negotiated a
four-year agreement with Australia, the major donor, and is currently
negotiating an extension of that agreement for the years following 1980.
These agreements have helped the Government to proceed in an orderly manner
with its development planning.



-3-
Development Issues
8.        The major issues which will affect the Government's ability to pro-
mote economic development in the future are the formulation of a national
development strategy and planning mechanism, the decentralization of govern-
ment activities, and the ability to achieve self-reliance, both in staffing
and in public financing. In the immediate post-independence period a con-
certed effort has been undertaken to define a set of economic and social
policies and to establish the means by which decisions in allocating govern-
ment resources will be taken in a disciplined and consistent manner. More
weight has been given to developing a viable economic strategy and a decision-
making process for the use of government resources than to the preparation
of a comprehensive development plan. Three major steps have been taken in
PNG in the last three years:  (i) a national development strategy has been
defined; (ii) a set of sectoral programs and strategic objectives/ criteria
has been identified to provide the basis for resource allocations; and
(iii) a process for evaluating new investment proposals based upon (ii) has
been established.
9.        The national development strategy places a higher priority on
improving the quality of life of the rural population than on maximizing
the rate of economic growth. Its thrust focuses on rural development,
emphasizing the less developed areas of the country, while the development of
a few large natural resource projects will be the main avenue in eventually
achieving economic self-reliance from the present very heavy reliance on aid.
The first objective recognizes not only the agricultural potential of the
country, but also the fact that the agricultural sector will be for quite a
few generations the main source of income generation and of absorption of the
larger portion of the labor force. The second objective, while not directly
benefitting the vast majority of the population, is intended to provide a
resource base, thus allowing the implementation of development programs. The
implementation of the second objective clearly entails the import of foreign
capital and expertise.  PNG has developed a policy of encouraging private
investment for the exploitation of the country's resources, while attempting
to minimize its own investment in these areas and to maximize the revenues it
would obtain from such developments.
10.       As a vehicle to carry out its development strategy, the Government
established the annual National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), a rolling
four-year plan for the public sector which focuses political decision-making
on the relative size of the allocations to each program or objective and
therefore on the tradeoffs between then. Government departments are then
assigned portions of each category to be achieved through specific projects.
While the basic aims of the NPEP are to link the planning process with overall
macro-economic policy and to direct public spending to the activities that
have the highest national priority, its impact is limited by its coverage of
new projects only. The first NPEP accounted for only 4% of the 1978
expenditures (K 20 million), but future plans will cover increasing portions
of the budget as government revenues grow, ongoing projects are completed and



- 4 -
a continuing review of existing expenditures leads either to their elimination
or their reformulation and inclusion in the NPEP. In the 1980 budget, the
NPEP encompasses over one-fifth of total expenditures. Implementation of NPEP
projects has been delayed by lack of staff and experience, but it appears that
the 1979 Plan was nearly on target.
11.        Implementation of the NPEP is also affected by the decentralization
process now taking place, since greater provincial control over spending will
reduce the Central Government's ability to pursue its priorities, and
inadequate staffing will interfere with the ability of the provinces to follow
their own plans. PNG's topography made it a country of scattered tribes, with
no great sense of national unity, and a degree of political decentralization
was a necessary response to secessionist pressures from some parts of the
country. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory and
financial control in a number of areas and will share power with the Central
Government in other areas. Provincial governments are financed through
Central Government conditional and unconditional grants, Central Government
refunds of certain revenues, and by their own taxation measures. Uncondi-
tional grants, which allow provinces to spend according to their own priori-
ties, are by far the most important source of finance; but while in 1978 they
comprised over 80% of Central Government payments to the provinces, they
amounted to less than one-quarter of total Central Government revenues. One
of the most serious problems facing provincial governments is the shortage of
trained and experienced staff, and their most urgent priority is to develop
the capability for budgeting, planning, and project identification and
preparation. The Central Government and other organizations assisting the
provinces must make a concerted effort to orient inputs toward that goal.
12.        Self-reliance in PNG is a twofold goal:  first, self-reliance in
terms of staff; and second, in terms of financial resources. Substantial
progress has been made in the Government's efforts to replace nonnationals
with nationals, especially considering that the University of Papua New Guinea
produced its first graduates as recently as 1972. However, the country
still relies heavily on nonnationals for many necessary services. In the
public sector, localization has reached an overall level of 90%, compared to
80% in 1971, but at the higher levels of skill requiring post-secondary
education, the proportion of nationals is still only around 40%. This
situation has created a relatively high cost Government and a dependence on
foreign aid to help meet these costs. The shortage of qualified staff is
reflected in the existing vacancies in Government, and in some departments
the shortages of professionals are critical. The establishment of
provincial governments is adding to the pressures on existing staff, as the
Central Government intends to staff provincial governments with no increases
in the overall size of the public service. The Government's response to
these problems is a localization effort directed at two fronts: first,
replacing nonnationals and meeting increased manpower requirements through
recruitment of local personnel; and second, adopting measures to lessen the
burden on the budget of nonnationals' high salaries and at the same time
reduce the tension-creating salary differential between different groups of



-5-
nonnationals by replacing the previous three-tiered system with a standard
contract for all nonnationals. In pursuit of the first objective, training
courses are given by the private sector and by most Government departments
and statutory authorities to meet their own needs. A centralized training
scheme is under study. The Public Service Commission has also launched a
Senior Executive Training Program to prepare Papua New Guineans to take over
high level positions in the Government. Since 1972, this program has taken
in 121 people, of whom two-thirds are now either filling or understudying
the positions for which they were chosen.
13.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance empha-
size modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure
accompanied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid (particularly
Australian aid). The Government has worked successfully to increase domestic
revenue which has grown from 10% of GDP in FY68 to 21% in 1978. Domestic
revenue, which accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68,
supplied 60% of the total in 1979. Tax revenue accounts for nearly four-
fifths of domestic revenue. Over the past seven years, the Bougainville
copper mine has been a major source of domestic revenue, averaging 18% of
the total and reaching a peak of 27% in FY76. Another large gold and copper
mine is likely to start production within the next five years, and by 1984
it could be contributing large amounts to government revenue.
14.       PNG is heavily dependent on Australian aid, which still provides
close to 40% of government revenue. However, this ratio has fallen from
close to 60% in the early 1970s, and the Government expeAts to continue to
reduce its reliance on the Australian grants. It will do this in part by
raising additional domestic revenue but, in addition, it will continue its
efforts to diversify the sources' of foreign financial assistance, although
none of this assistance will be on terms as beneficial as the unconditional
Australian grant to the budget. Recent donors have included New Zealand and
Japan, as well as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. The
Government insists that all projects proposed for foreign aid be accepted in
the National Public Expenditure Plan, thereby ensuring that they will accord
with Government priorities.
15.       Capital expenditures have grown twice as fast as current expendi-
tures in the last two years, but the estimated share of capital expenditures
in the 1980 budget is still only 14%. In order to increase investment and
at the same time raise the level of self-reliance, the Government realizes
that it must contain the growth of current expenditures, over 40% of which
go toward paying salaries and wages. The Government is attempting to limit
the growth of wages and of the public service while finding less expensive
sources for expatriate recruitment.
External Sector
16.       With regard to the external sector, PNG experienced huge trade
deficits prior to the introduction of copper exports in FY73. The current
account deficit was around one quarter of GDP in the early 1970s. Imports



- 6 -
were over 50% of GDP, whereas exports were only about one-third as high.
Since FY73, however, earnings from copper exports have dwarfed those from
other commodities, and, except for small deficits in FY75-76 when copper and
copra prices fell, despite large service payments, the balance on current
account, which includes the large Australian grant, remained positive.
Because of the favorable balance of payments situation in recent years, PNG's
foreign exchange reserves are now equivalent to about ten months of imports.
The dependence of the balance of payments on four main commodities and its
consequent vulnerability to fluctuations in international prices make this a
reasonable level for reserves in good years, particularly since it is in part
the counterpart to the stabilization funds for the four major exports.
17.       The country is likely to require a net capital inflow of around
US$70 million p.a. during the next few years. About one-third of this amount
will be in the form of private debt and direct investment, while the rest
represents public borrowing, of which roughly one-half is likely to come
from bilateral sources and one-half from international organizations. These
funds are in addition to the large Australian grant, equal to US$260 million
in 1980, and will have to grow in relative importance over time as the grant
falls in real terms. Total external public debt outstanding as of Decem-
ber 31, 1978, amounted to US$460 million, of which US$133 million was owed
to the Bank Group. Public debt service payments in 1978 were about 4% of
exports; they are expected to rise to nearly 8% in the next few years and
then to decline slowly. Debt payments to the Bank Group are only about 18%
of total debt service payments. The debt service ratio, including net
investment income payitents (which are largely self-financing), is about 15%
of exports and will rise to a peak of 19% in 1981.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       As of January 31, 1980, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of seven loans and eight development credits. The first operation
was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million approved in 1968; the most
recent, a rural development credit of US$20.0 million, was approved in 1978.
In the early years of lending, emphasis was on infrastructure and six of the
seven loans and three of the eight credits were for power, tele-
communications, ports and highway projects. In more recent years, Bank
Group lending has shifted to the agriculture and social sectors. Four of
the seven outstanding loans and credits and four of the next six planned
operations are in agriculture, rural development, and education.
19.       Project implementation has been satisfactory even with the more
complicated rural development projects. The rapid turnover of expatriate
staff and the transitional problems of recruitment and training of their
replacements have led to delays in the areas of project monitoring and
auditing but physical implementation has progressed approximately on
schedule. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of January 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of projects.



- 7 -
20.       Past Bank Group operations have averaged about one per year and
this is expected to increase to two operations per year from FY81 onward.
This level of activity will allow continuous emphasis on agriculture, rural
development, and education and further support of infrastructure development
in selected areas, especially rural transportation. While the proposed
project is for a single well-defined road, it is likely that future transport
projects will comprise smaller, more numerous subprojects implemented
through the recently decentralized provincial government development funds.
This trend will probably apply not only to transport projects but also to
education and some agricultural and rural development projects and will
require appropriate adjustments in Bank Group operations.
21.       The recently completed Transport Sector Review (Report No. 2819a -
PNG) and the forthcoming review of the agriculture sector will provide
direction for operations in these areas. Project design and implementation
will continue to be constrained by the unavailability of technical staff,
local and expatriate, and the decentralization of power to provincial
government levels will probably exacerbate the problem in some cases.
PART III - THE SECTOR
22.       PNG's transport system reflects the country's geography, topography,
and early stage of development. Because PNG is an island nation and
because concentration of population and economic activities are small and
scattered, interisland shipping and coastal transport of freight are
important and well developed. For similar reasons, air transport for
passengers and high value freight is also a mode that plays a critical
developmental role. The factors that have led to the prominence of sea and
air transport have also mitigated against the development of a fully
integrated national road network. With the notable exception of the
Highlands Highway on the "mainland", potential highway traffic volumes have
been too low to support the cost of constructing and maintaining high
standard roads between urban areas. The trucking industry is also at a very
early stage of development.
23.       PNG .has felt the full impact of modern transportation and
communications technology while emerging from neolithic forms of social and
economic organization. Most of this technology was introduced during the
postwar period of the Australian protectorate for purposes of civil admin-
istration and the beginnings of economic development. Along with the
technology came a structure of transport regulations similar to that which
had evolved in Australia, and most of the existing laws are derived from
that period. The question arises now as to whether these regulations are
appropriate for the future economic and social development of an independent
nation with a limited administrative capacity at the center and even less
at the provincial level. At issue, therefore, is not only what is desirable



-8-
in terms of regulation of transport, but also what is administratively
feasible. The position taken herein, after extensive study and discussion, is
that the scarce administrative resources of PNG are best focused on forming
and implementing transport regulations dealing only with human safety and
the protection of public roads, ports, and airports from damage by users.
The implication of this position is developed more fully below.
Air Transport
24.       Air transport has long been the chief means of providing access to
PNG's hinterland, and until 1965, the development of the Central Highlands was
almost entirely dependent on air transport. PNG led the world in pioneering
air freight traffic, and although this traffic has declined in importance in
recent years, civil aviation will continue to make a significant contribution
to the transport sector. However, Air Niugini, the national airline, has
exclusive rights to regional traffic under its charter. This monopoly raises
air transport costs and inhibits the economic development of the industry
because "third level" operators are obliged to operate higher-cost small
aircrafts and cannot compete with Air Niugini or with each other. The civil
aviation system in PNG as a whole needs to be examined, and a national
aviation plan needs to be developed based on an assessment of technical,
economic, and financial factors. The Bank Group obtained assurance from
Government during negotiations that it will continue its review of the civil
air transport system and that it will convey to the Bank Group the measures
it will take to increase competition in the air transport industry,
especially air freight, and that such recommendations will be provided to
the Bank Group for comment by June 30, 1981 (Section 4.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Ports and Shipping
25.       PNG relies heavily on water transport for interisland and coastal
traffic. Of some 50 ports of various size in the country, 16 of the major
ports are managed by the PNG Harbours Board (PNGHB) and imports and exports
handled through these ports in 1978 totalled 1.9 million tons. Coastal and
interisland shipping services are provided by some 210 locally owned small
vessels, divided into two categories: intermain port trade and feeder
trade. Under Government regulations these vessels are required to have
annual surveys and trading licenses. The licenses are valid for one year
and set limits to the route and volume of cargo to be carried. The public
good objectives of such regulations are neither apparent nor anywhere
defined, nor will the administrative capacity be present in the future to
implement such regulations. Therefore, the Government has agreed to continue
its review, as recommended by the Department of Transport and Civil Aviation
(DTCA), of these regulations especially those covering trading licenses and
inform the Bank Group by June 30, 1981, of proposed measures to deregulate
the coastal and intercoastal shipping industry and that such recommendations
will be provided to the Bank Group for comment (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



-9-
Highways
26.       The road network in PNG comprises just over 18,300 km of vehicular
roads (of which 500 km are sealed), approximately 1,000 km of which are
located in urban and densely populated areas, that is, in and near the main
coastal towns and in the Central Highlands. The road system, due to the
high costs caused by the extremely mountainous terrain and heavy rainfall,
is not linked and consists of a number of regional networks, where roads are
classified into three functional categories (arterials, collectors, and
locals) and into national and provincial roads for administrative purposes.
The Central Government will continue to provide a major portion of construc-
tion and maintenance financing despite the decentralization. While the
Department of Works and Supply (DWS) is responsible for maintenance of
national roads, the provincial governments are now responsible for
maintenance of provincial roads, carried out either through DWS or through
provincial public works departments.
27.       Neither freight nor passenger traffic volumes are high due to the
low level of development, population concentration in isolated pockets, and
the fragmented road network. The Highlands Highway, which runs from the
main port of Lae to Mendi in the Central Highlands (600 km), is an exception,
carrying a substantial average traffic volume in excess of 600 ADT, of which
over 40% are trucks and buses. The upgrading of this Highway has been the
most important achievement in the transport sector in PNG over the past 15
years. The Central Highlands, where about 40% of PNG's population live, is
predominantly agricultural. The proposed improvements to the Highlands
Highway will provide a reliable, lower cost road transport link, and will
support the expansion of agricultural production in this area.
28.       The provision of feeder roads for the Highlands Highway and
penetration roads linking isolated villages to other areas of the country
generates two major concerns. First, the generally low traffic volumes
generated by many of these roads and the high recurrent maintenance costs
induced by steep terrain and heavy rainfall frequently lead to a situation
where minimum road investments cannot be justified on the basis of conven-
tional benefit-cost analysis. Second, the new provincial governments that
will be in charge of identifying, planning, implementing, and maintaining
such roads have severe shortages of technical and administrative capacities.
To address these two problems and to prepare the way for future Bank
support in the area of rural transport, a technical assistance element for
rural transport is included in the proposed project (para. 46).
Regulation of Road Transport
29.       The road transport industry in PNG is controlled through granting
or withholding of licenses for commercial vehicles by the Land Transport
Board. Apart from general supervision of licencing procedures, the Board
must also assess the supply of, and demand for, the services of public



- 10 -
vehicles, and review the conditions of their operation, all in the "public
interest." The trucking industry, which operates under these regulations, is
characterized by a few modern highly capitalized firms that were formerly
owned and managed by expatriates. Though ownership of these firms is
officially in local hands today, expatriate management and capital continues
to be dominant. These firms contract for most of the high volume, long-haul
traffic and have first access to cargo for otherwise empty backhauls. With
these advantages, costs for these firms are far below maximum tariffs, and
this segment of the industry is highly profitable. The more traditional
segment of the industry is characterized by owner-operators of small trucks,
carrying passengers and freight and having access to that cargo which is
left over or unwanted by the large firms. The costs for these firms are much
closer to maximum tariffs and profitability is much less. Currently, access
to the "modern" sector is restricted by limiting the number of licenses for
the heavy vehicles used by the large firms. This was originally done to
control damage to the roads by heavy trucks and to ensure local ownership
of the large firms. Neither objective has been achieved in fact. The
main concern regarding the proposed project, is that restrictive licensing
and a maximum tariff formula does not consider the impact of cost-reducing
road investments which will make it unlikely that the substantial user
savings associated with the project will be passed on to producers and
consumers through lower trucking rates.
30.       Sophisticated administration and policing of official tariffs
based on extensive research and public hearings are not going to be possible
for many years in PNG. It would be desirable therefore to introduce compe-
tition to the modern sector of the trucking industry in order to approach
cost-based tariffs and to allow for easy access by the successful members of
the more traditional sector so that local ownership and management of the
efficient firms can eventually become a reality. This implies deregulation
of the trucking industry and has already been the subject of Government
concern. During negotiations the principals and timing of a proposal for
deregulation of the trucking industry were agreed between the Government and
the Bank Group and an assurance was obtained from the Government that it
will submit, by June 30, 1981, a proposal, as approved by the Bank Group,
for the deregulation of the trucking industry, to the National Executive
Council (NEC) for consideration and possible adoption. In addition,
assurance was obtained from Government that it will promote interprovincial
commerce so as to keep it free from regulatory interferences and restrictions
except for regulations concerning safety and damage to the system (Section
3.09 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Planning and Administration.
31.       Administration of the road transport system based on recommenda-
tions by a UNDP study (for which the Bank was the executing agency) was
reorganized in 1977. The DTCA and the Department of Works and Supply (DWS)
were established, each represented by a separate Minister.



- 11 -
33.       Most of the technical positions within DWS are filled by
expatriate staff. Although some positions are held by nationals, there is
still a deficit of technical and skilled personnel especially in supervisory
and managerial level. DWS must engage short-term consultant staff to fill
vacant key positions. However, it is accelerating its training program to
qualify more nationals. DWS has already set up a training section which
coordinates all manpower development activities and training at various
training centers. Assurance was obtained during negotiations that DWS
will continue this training program of road works and administration with
modifications after consultation with the Bank Group (Section 3.08 of the
Development Credit Agreement). Although training has the full support of
DWS management and is allocated an adequate budget, it will take a long time
to reduce dependence on expatriates. The main training problems are: a lack
of national instructors, the need to update training curricula, and the need
to improve the supply of training equipment. The training element under the
project will assist the training section of DWS to meet these objectives
(para. 45).
34.       DTCA is responsible for transport policy and planning, and admin-
istration and regulation of transport activities, assessment of transport
demand, carrying out traffic surveys and forecasts, preparing economic
studies and projects for financing through NPEP. Through its Policy and
Planning Division, DTCA plans and assesses improvements required to meet
transport demand; the capability of this division has been strengthened
to coordinate more effectively the development of infrastructure and
services in the transport sector.
Financing
35.       Financing for the construction, improvement, and maintenance of
roads is provided through general revenues from the Government's annual
budget. Provincial government funds for provincial and local roads are
provided either through untied grants or other funds appropriated by NPEP
from its general revenues. Contributions by the users of the road to
general revenues are low, with user charges amounting to less than 20% of
the total national expenditure on roads and about 30% of the annual main-
tenance and administration costs. Because of the scarcity of public
revenues, the rapidly increasing public maintenance burden for all transport
modes, and the desirability of transport tariffs to reflect the public as
well as the private cost of providing the service, assurance was obtained
from Government that it would prepare a proposal on a general transport
pricing policy to increase transport user charges (including road user
charges) progressively to a level sufficient to cover, by December 31, 1986,
the cost of maintenance and administration of the transport infrastructure.
This proposal would be presented to the NEC by June 30, 1981, for its con-
sideration and possible adoption (Section 3.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement).



- 12 -
Engineering and Construction
36.       DWS is responsible for the engineering of road works.  A large pro-
portion of design work on roads is carried out for DWS by local consultants,
most of whom are subsidiaries of foreign firms. All major road construction
works have previously been carried out by foreign contractors, especially
where the projects have been externally financed. However, some road
construction works have recently been carried out by force account. Civil
engineering contracts in PNG are not of the scale or frequency, to support a
large domestic construction contracting industry. The Second Highlands Road
Improvement Project (Credit 677-PNG) includes a component providing technical
assistance to domestic civil engineering contractors. However, the relative
shortage of small civil engineering or maintenance contracts (K 500,000,
US$700,000 and less), which were suitable for the domestic contractors to
undertake, did not allow sufficient opportunity for training. During
negotiations, the Government assured the Bank Group that it would continue
to investigate ways of promoting the domestic road construction industry
and would submit a report by December 31, 1980, on the status of these
investigations and thereafter submit reports for the Bank Group's review
by December 31 each year until 1984 on the measures taken for the promotion
and development of this industry (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Previous IDA/Bank Financed Prolects in the Transport Sector
37.       The Bank Group's assistance in the transport sector has included
acting as executing agency for the UNDP-financed transport survey of 1968-69,
financing the First Highway, the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project,
and the First and Second Port Projects. The UNDP Transport Survey provided
the framework for the reorganization of transport administration and the
preparation of initial investment programs. The First Highway Project
(Credit 204/Loan 693-PNG) in 1970 provided US$9.0 million for improvement of
150 km of the western end of Highlands Highway between Kundiawa and Mendi.
There were cost overruns of 90% on this project due to higher-than-estimated
bids. The Bank Group declined to provide supplementary finance and the
Government subsequently financed the overrun. The Project Performance Audit
Report, completed in 1977, concluded that the Bank was unnecessarily harsh
in refusing supplementary finance, and that international competitive
bidding conditions in PNG at the time may have contributed to cost
escalation. The Second Highlands Road Improvement Project (Credit 677-PNG)
in 1977 provided for US$19.0 million for construction and improvement of 68
km of the Highlands Highway. It also provided for engineering, feasibility,
and rural development studies, and assistance to domestic contractors. Bids
were called for submission prior to negotiating the credit and 30% of the
work was to be executed by force account. Bids again exceeded appraisal
estimates, and it was ultimately decided to reduce the scope of the project
from the originally proposed 302 km to 68 km. A significant portion of the
deleted section will, however, be improved under the proposed project.
Implementation of the Second project is proceeding satisfactorily, and it is
expected to be completed in August 1981.



- 13 -
38.       The First Port Project (Credit 326-PNG) provided US$9.2 million
for improvements at four main ports. Although the Harbor Board's
(PNGHB) performance as executing agency was satisfactory, PNGHB did not
fully meet the Project Agreement's covenants which required a costing study;
the study was not completed before the project was fully disbursed. However
this study is now in hand. Also, PNGHB did not, under the First Port Loan,
achieve the required 8% rate of return on net fixed assets. The Second Port
Project (Loan 155-PNG) approved in 1978 for provision of a container berth
at Port Moresby was financed by the Bank and Kuwait Fund, each providing
US$3.5 million. Work on this project is proceeding satisfactorily, and the
rate of return covenant is being complied with.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was identified in December 1976 and appraised
in October 1979. A staff appraisal report (No. 2838-PNG, dated April _,
1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
Project Obiectives
40.       The first objective of the project is to support the development
of the Central Highlands region by helping the Government complete its
program of improvement to the Highlands Highway from the mnain port of Lae
through the Central Highlands to Togoba, a total length or 475 km. The
project will improve and pave the section of the highway between Kassam Pass
and Daulo Pass, a length of 137 km, which is presently of low gravel
standard, steep and subject to slides which cause interruption to traffic.
This is the last section of the highway scheduled for improvement. When the
project is completed, the highway will be sealed from Lae up to Togoba, thus
constituting a reliable road transport link which will encourage
agricultural expansion in the Central Highlands.
41.       The second objective of the project is to improve the standard of
road maintenance in the country and to prepare for a much larger future
maintenance load through technical assistance, training, and support of
organizational reform.
42.       The final objective is to assist in developing a national capacity
for identifying, preparing, and implementing a large number of small scale
rural transport projects by financing technical assistance and simplified
engineering of approximately 300 km of rural roads. This assistance will
also support the new provincial government planning efforts since most small-
scale projects with a local impact would be emanating from this level
of government. It is likely that such projects, financed through the
sectoral programs in the NPEP, will form a large element of any future
lending in the transport sector.



- 14 -
Project Description
43.       The project consists of five components, described below.
(a) Improvement and Paving
44.       The works under the project consist of improvement of the existing
road between Kassam Pass and Daulo Pass (137 km) and paving a 6.5 m carriage-
way with a 0.5 shoulder on both sides. The carriageway will have double
bituminous surface treatment and the shoulders a single coat. Eight of the 32
existing bridges will be replaced by new, two-lane structures and the rest
will be repaired. Detailed engineering of this section, funded by the
Government, has already been completed by local consultants, Cardno and
Davies, PNG, Pty Ltd., in association with Scott, Wilson, and Kirkpatrick &
Partners, U.K. These consultants, to be funded under the project, will
supervise the improvement and paving works. Further consulting services, to
be provided by the project, will assist DWS in contract management and
arrangements will be made for training PNG engineers on the site.
(b) Improvement of Road Maintenance
45.       Technical assistance will be provided under the project, through
consultant assistance, for improving the efficiency of road maintenance
operations. Two road maintenance engineers provided by the consultants will
assist DWS in establis,ing a Maintenance Operations Section at its head-
quarters. They will initially prepare proposals for improved planning,
monitoring and cost accounting of maintenance operations, and later assist
in the implementation of their proposals. Two training officers will also
be provided: one for heavy equipment maintenance to be based at the
Mechanical Maintenance Center in Port Moresby, and one for road maintenance
operations to be based at the Civil Engineering Training Center in Lae.
Funds are also included in the project for the purchase of training aids and
equipment for the Port Moresby Training Center. Consulting services are
estimated to total 140 man-months over a period of four years. Detailed
terms of reference for these services will be agreed with the Government
prior to negotiations.
(c) Technical Assistance in Rural Transport
46.       With the completion of this project, most of the essential primary
road network with high traffic volumes will be complete. Future development
will depend on providing isolated population pockets with adequate transport
for marketing their produce and improving communications. The project
includes technical assistance for the preparation of future rural transport
projects to assist in providing access to these areas. The services will
assist provincial governments to: (i) develop ways of screening transport
infrastructure projects based on current and potential economic production;
and (ii) develop the capacity to plan, identify, prepare and execute
transport projects.



- 15 -
The possibility of using staged transport, initially aircraft and/or coastal
shipping, to develop areas with high economic potential prior to instituting
road programs will also be explicitly considered by this effort, hence the
emphasis on rural "transport" as opposed to rural roads. The feasibility of
road programs in these areas will also be assessed and simplified engineer-
ing of some 300 km of priority rural roads will be carried out by DWS with
the use of local consultants.
(d) Engineering of Togoba - Wapenamanda Road
47.       Funds will be provided under the project for the detailed engineer-
ing of this road (67 km) for which a recently executed feasibility study
proved that the road, which provides the main access to the Enga province,
is economically justified. The funds for the feasibility study and
engineering of this road are included in the Second Highlands Road Improve-
ment Project (Credit 677-PNG); due to cost overrun on that project the
Government has requested that the Bank Group finance the engineering under
this project. If the Bank Group does not include construction of this road
in the proposed Enga Rural Development Project, the Government is willing to
seek other external financing but would like to have the detailed engine-
ering prepared. The engineering will be carried out by international
consultants.
(e) Procurement of Traffic Counting Equipment
48.       Funds will be also provided under the project for the purchase of
24 traffic counters. These will facilitate improved availability of data on
traffic volume, which is fundamental to the development of improved road
maintenance operations and road transport planning. Lack of such data in
the past has been a hindrance to effective road planning. During
negotiations the Government agreed to the institution of a systematic
program of traffic counts by June 30, 1981 (Section 3.07 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Implementation
49.       DWS will be the executing agency for the project, with the excep-
tion of the technical assistance for rural transport and procurement of the
traffic counting equipment; both of these elements will be the responsibil-
ity of the Department of Transport and Civil Aviation (DTCA). Consultants
to be provided under the project will supervise the works on the Highlands
Highway, provide technical assistance and training in maintenance, and
technical assistance for the development of rural transport projects and
road engineering.  The improvement and paving works works will be carried
out through a single contract to be awarded after international competitive
bidding; prequalification of contractors had been completed by the Govern-
ment after international advertising, and the Government called tenders on
December 3, 1979 and opened them on February 29, 1980. Five contractors
submitted competitive bids which remain valid until May 30, 1980. The
Government intends to award the contract to the lowest evaluated bidder
whose bid is about 1% higher than the appraisal cost estimates, and is



- 16 -
reasonable. The contract award is expected to be made in late May 1980,
the contract effectiveness will be contingent upon the approval of the
proposed loan and credit by the Bank Group Board of Directors.
50.       Construction is scheduled to commence in June 1980, and it will
last for three years. A project implementation schedule has been agreed with
Government.
Land Acquisition
51.       It has been agreed that the Government will take the necessary
steps to complete the land acquisition in time for project implementation.
The Government confirmed at negotiations that necessary arrangements to
acquire the land needed were well underway.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total project cost is estimated at US$42.4 million, of which
about US$30.1 million represents the foreign exchange requirements. The
foreign exchange component is to be financed up to a total of US$30.0 million
by an IDA credit of US$13.0 million and a Bank loan of US$17.0 million; the
remaining US$12.4 million to be financed by Government. Physical
contingencies of 10% of base costs for all items have been included. The
price contingency for the improvement and paving, supervision of works, and
technical assistance components have been estimated at 10.5% for 1980; 9%
for 1981; 8% for 1982; 7% for 1983 and onwards. Although project
implementation will start in 1980, an allocation of only US$0.7 million has
so far been made by Government in its 1980 NPEP budget toward the US$7.0
million needed for implementation of the project works in that year. The
matter was discussed with Government and assurance was obtained that
the required increase in allocation of funds would be made in the 1980 NPEP
budget by mid-1980.
Procurement
53.       The improvement and paving works will be procured by contract
following international competitive bidding. The hiring of consultants will
follow Bank Group guidelines. The traffic counting equipment will be
procured by international shopping, following the Bank Group guidelines.
In the case of small items whose value is less than US$10,000 each, up to an
aggregate of US$50,000, local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group will be followed. For purposes of bid evaluation, domestic manufac-
turers will be given a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the customs,
duties, and taxes price, whichever is less.
Disbursements
54.       Disbursements will be made first from the credit and then from
the loan. Disbursements will be against normal documentation on the basis
of: (i) 70% of the total cost of improvement and paving works; (ii) 80% of
expenditures for consultants' services; (iii) 100% of the foreign expendi-
ture for imported equipment, materials, vehicles, and spares; and (iv) 65%



- 17 -
of total expenditures for imported, but locally procured, equipment,
materials, vehicles, and spares. A schedule of estimated disbursements was
reviewed durir- negotiations. Payments will be subject to internal audit
by DWS and to audit by the Auditor-General's Office.
Project Benefits, Justification, and Risks
55.       Completion of the final link in the Highlands Highway up to Toboga
will give the people of the Central Highlands better and lower-cost access
to the port of Lae, and facilitate expansion in agricultural production.
Transport costs will be lowered through reduced vehicle operating costs.
The present high road maintenance costs will also be reduced. The technical
assistance components of the project will improve maintenance operations
throughout PNG, help define areas of economic potential, and develop DTCA's
and the provincial government's ability to identify high priority rural trans-
port projects. The training component will reduce dependence on expatriate
staff and enh-nz_ Lhte ability of local technical staff.  Based on vehicle
operating cost savings and maintenance cost savings, the average economic
rate of return (ERR) for the project is 18%, which is acceptable. A 20%
cost overrun would reduce the ERR to 16%, and the elimination of maintenance
cost savings would decrease the ERR to 15%. Only if major cost overruns
were experienced would there be any doubt about the worth of the project.
.)w-tier, it is unlikely that costs will be higher than estimated.  The main
ribk is .hat the benefits from these improvements will not be passed on to
the farmers and other consumers of transport serivees due partly to
restrictive regulations of the trucking industry. To minimize this risk,
agreement was reached with Government that it would submit a proposal to the
NEC to deregulate the industry, thus providing more competition (para. 30).
If this proposal is not adopted by the NEC and subsequently by the Parlia-
ment, then it is unlikely that the benefits will accrue to the users of the
services.
Ecological Impact
56.       The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
ecological effect. The risk of land slips has been minimized through
careful design, avoiding unstable soil areas where practicable and providing
adequate drainage.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements between Papua
New Guinea and the Bank and the Association respetively, the recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.



- 18 -
58.        Special conditions of this project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
59.        I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreements of the Bank Group.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
60.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
project.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 7, 1980



ANNEX 1
- 19 -                               Page 1
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
FY68-72      FY72-77        1978
US$                        (%, FY69            (%, FY73
Million        %         constant prices)        prices)
GNP at Market Prices       1,853.6      100.0         6.1          4.8          4.3/b
Gross Domestic
Investment                 355.5       19.2       23.0         -8.5         -1.0
Gross National Saving        485.7       26.2          ..         16.3
Current Account Balance    130.2          7.0
Exports of Goods, NFS        838.2       45.2        18.0         15.6         12.8
Imports of Goods, NFS        886.3       47.8        17.0         -4.0          3.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1972
Value Added /c         Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million      %         000     Z         US$    % of National
Average
Agriculture           258.7        40.1       158    48.8      1,637         82.2
Industry              189.7        29.4        43    13.3      4,411        221.4
Services              197.1        30.5       123    37.9      1,602         80.4
Total/Average         645.5       100.0       324   100.0       1,992       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                    % of GDP
1979 /a              1978            FY75-77
Current Domestic Receipts                 264.3               20.8               19.3
Current Expenditures                      430.8               29.8               32.3
Current Deficit                           166.5                9.0               13.0
Capital Expenditures                       63.0                4.2                4.1
External Assistance (net)                 175.0               12.9               14.1
/a  Preliminary.  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1
- June 30 to January 1 - December 31.  Here, FY__ refers to the July 1 -
June 30 period, whereas 197 refers to the calendar year.
/b  GDP.
/c  At factor cost.
not applicable
.. not available



-20 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 2
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
June.    June
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                       1975      1976     1977      1978       1978     1979
(Million K outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                         245.5    277.8    428.5    449.0       407.0    506.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net             -30.8     18.0       3.3      13.5       9.8      63.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net            111.3    112.4    137.7    194.5       170.1    215.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP              24.5      26.3     35.6      33.7      30.5
Consumer Price Index (June Quarter
1971 - 100)                                154.1    167.3    173.6    179.9        179.9    189.2
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index (1971 - 100)             7.5      8.6       3.8       3.6       3.6       5.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 9.7      1.0      22.5     41.2       13.6      26.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE FY77-1978)
1976   1977   1978                                     US$
(US$ Million)                                       lillion    %
Exports of Goods, NFS         606.2  708.5   764.8L/   Coffee                         166.4    24.7
Imports of Goods, NFS         610.0  739.0   878.7/a   Cocoa                           89.0    13.2
Resource Gap (Deficit - -)   -3.8  -30.5  -113.9        Copra & Copra Products         46.3      6.9
Factor Services (net)        -55.3  -50.4   -64.6       Timber & Timber Products       26.1      3.9
Net Transfers                  98.3  186.7   184.6      Copper Concentrates           266.9    39.7
Balance on Current Account   39.2  105.8        6.1     All Other Commodities          77.8    11.6
Private Capital (net)          24.4   39.7   -28.3      Total                         672.5   100.0
Public MLT Loans (net)         12.2   25.7    -7.8
Errors and Omissions A       -32.5  -32.4    27.5
Increase in Reserves           43.3  138.8    -2.5      EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1978
US$
Million
FUEL AND RELATED MATERIALS
FY74   FY76   1978       Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed         459.9
(US$ million)          Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Imports                       28.9   60.0   84.6 a    Total Outstanding & Disbursed           459.9
Exports                          ..    0.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 /d
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 I
FY75                             1977                   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed           4.2
Nonguaranteed Private Debt
US$1.00 - K 0.73                 US$1.00 - K 0.79
K 1.00 - US$1.37                 K 1.00 - US$1.26       Total Outstanding & Disbursed           4.2
FY76/77                          1978-1979
IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF 12/31/78)
US$1.00 - K 0.79                 US$1.00 - K 0.71
K 1.00 - US$1.26                 K 1.00 - US$1.41                                        IBRD   IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed          50.9  36.2
Undisbursed                      11.9  33.7
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  62.8  69.9
/a  These figures differ from those in the national accounts on Page 1.  This is because the
national accounts include receipts and payments on an accrual basis, whereas the balance
of payments are done on a payments basis. The large discrepancy here probably occurs
because of increases in the price of copper in the last few months of the year.
/b  Including capital n.e.i.
/c  Estimate.
Id  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
not available



- 21 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 3
A M    GN   - SOCUL 1IDICA2O0S DAA SMU
LOUD AREA (THOUSAND SO. Km.)I               PAPUA -wou WIS            IPmmNG  G10UP  (AJS?UA.IMG
TOT"l           461.7                                                 SANE        SAME     NEXT MEGNE
ACU LTU          19.5                                mm   Ut T        DWMAImIC   DICOMH       DICO
1960 lk   1970 A  SITIAT  A          GON ji   =P Li   am" cw
ar P  CAPITA (USS                  140.0       260.0    560.0           528.9      467.5      1097.7
TnGY COISUMPTION PI CAPITA
(KILGAS OF COL MqnlVA- )           51.0       136.0    269.0           371.1      262.1       730.7
MPQAIIIow AND VITAL STASTICS
POPUlATIXI. M-YA  (0I=LoImS)        1.9         2.4       2.9
uDAN POpULATIIm (P3CI Of TOTAL) 2.7             9.5      13.2           27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULAXITO PnJETICES
POPULATION IN     2000  WLLIDOS)                       3.0
STTIO T POPUILATION (MILLIONS)                          9.0
MHA PATIOAIY POPULATION IS   A                       2120
POPI0A1M  DUSITT
PF  SQ. DI.                       4.0         5.0      6.0           154.8       45.3       "4.6
PU  SQ. nU ;GUCMTUMAL LAW        96.0       124.0    147.0           566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATIOM AGE STRUCIUR  (PERCNT)
0-14 ITS.                        39.7        42.0     41.9            41.3       45.2        41.3
15-46 us.                         57.4       55.0      54.9            54.9       51.9       55.3
65 Ts. AND AOVE                    2.9        3.0       3.2             3.3        2.8        3.3
POPULATION GEOWTI RATE (PUGCU)
TOTAL                             1.7         2.3      2. 41           2.4        2. 7        2.4
0R95N                            12.6        14.7       60             4.3        4.3         4.3
CRUDE SIBTH RATE (U T10SAUD)        4.0        42.0      42.0           30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE TUSAND)       23.0       1I.0       17.0            8.3  .   11.7          9.2
OSs MUPE0DCTIWO IAT                  ..         2.9       3.0            2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLAUNIMG
ACCEPTOES  AUlAL (TSOUSAUDS)       ..         ..        ..
USE  (PUCEiT 0 MRID WON)    ..                ..       3.0            34.1       13.2       34.7
P000D AD NUTRITION
DWt or FOOD PMODUCTION
PEM CAPITA (1969-71-100)         91.0       100.0    100.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PU CAPITA SUPPy OF
CUDRIES (PERCET o0
3EQDINUIS)                     U8.0         ..      96.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PHOTEINS (GCIMS PM DAY)          39.7         *.      46.2            57.4       54.3        64.4
OF WHICI ANIAL A      SD         ..         ..        ..            16.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (A55 1-4) MORTALITY MATE     32.0        24.0      19.0            4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTAiCY AT SDIRT  (TAS)    41.0        46.0     47.7            61.1       54.7       *0.2
IWANT  OILTALLTY RATE (PR
THOUSAND)                                     106.0       *-            46.6       68.1       46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT Of
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..     20.0            21.9       34.4        60.6
URBAN                              ..          ..     30.0            46.2       57.9       75. 7
RURAL                              ..         ..       19.0           12.8       21.2       40.0
ACCESS To  CUlTA DISPOSAL (PZ1COT
OF POPULAION)
TOTAL                              ..        14.0     16.0            28.4       40.8       46.0
1AA                                ..          ..       ..65.0                   71.3        46.0
URAL                               ..         5.0      5.0            14.7       27.7       22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        14390.O0f   11630.0  11990.0          3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NUMBING PERSON    2450.011   2370.0   2190.0           1107.4    1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PB SOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                           170.0/f    1SO.0/       ..           613.3      726.5      453.4
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..           203.6      272.7      253.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..          1110.3    1404.4       2732.4
ADWISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..        ..            23.9       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..       5.0             5.2        5.4         5.3
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..        5. 1        5.2
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER. OOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        ..         1.9
BRBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..        ..         1.6
lURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..                    2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PE2CENT
OF 0WELLT1qGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..       28.1        50.0
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..       45.1        71.7
P.IJAL                             ..         ..        ..              ..        9.9       L7.3



- 22 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 4
TOLE 3A
PAPUNW C0A  - SOCIAL  MIDICATORS DATA SIEET
P   z  IA N   GUD   XREFEENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED *GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIM&TEA -
SAME        SAME      NEXr  hEIGH
NMT  tZCENT     GUXGRAPHIC   INCOME         DiCOIK
1960  b     1970 /b ESThUi&T  lb       ZCIOIfc   COR"UP /d    GOUIP le
EDUCATION
ADJumSTED ENROLENT RATIOS
PtIHARY:     TOTAL                 32.0         52.0      58.0             97.9        82.7       102.5
MALU                              63.0       71.0            98.7        67.3        108.6
*Z                     ..         39.0       45.0            97.4        75.8        97.1
SECONDAIt:   TOTAL                  1.0          8.0      12.0             42.2        21.4        33.5
MALE                   2.0        11.0       16.0            46.7        33.0         38.4
FEPIUA                 0.5         4.0        7.0            40.9        15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OP SECONDARY)  16.0          19.0      22.0             12.5         9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.0         33.0      31.0             32.5        34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                          18.0         23.0      23.0             25.8        23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        29.4         32.0      32.0             84.1        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PEt TDOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          7.0       6.3              6.1        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           .                                     84.4        76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                                                 22.4        13.5        38.3
NESPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
iDTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                                          7.0             24.2        18.3        40.0
CINEM  ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                           3.6         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1040.0       1260.0    1439.0
FEMLE (PERCENT)                    41.4         41.3      41.1             36.7       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0         86.0      84.0             54.6       62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.3          5.8       8.0             16.3       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.8         52.1      50.9             40.7        37.1        33.5
KALE                                 61.2         58.4      57.6             49.9        48.8        48.0
FEMALE                               47.7         44.9      43.6             31.0        20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       0.9              1.1         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                            14.9        15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                           46.8       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEKOLDS                                             6.2         6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCET OP HOUSEHOLDS                                             16.6        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                    329.0            193.1      241.3        270.0
RURAL                                                    226.0            128.7      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                     136.8      179.7        282.5
RURAL                                                                      96.8      103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                     10.0             32.0       24.8         20.5
RURAL                                                     75.0             52.5       37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate ILiddle Income
(S551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1964;   /R  indigenous population growth rate 2.8Z;   /h  1966.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for !978.
August, 1979



- 23-                                                                                           ANNEX I
DE_I_ITI____OF  OCIAL INDI_ATOR                                                                       Page   5
Notes: Although the data war drawn from sources generally judged the meat authoritative and reliable, it should also be meted that they say sot be inteena-
ti,nsIly comarble because of the lack of standadized deinitions and concePts used by different coutries In collecting the data. The data are, nontheless,
usflto describe orders of  agoitode, indicate tren.ds, and chrctrzecrtain major differesese  bet.ee. countrie..
lTne ndJunted group a-eage  for each indiontor are ppulaticn-seighted geoentoi emean, encuiodl   the e-tree values of the indicator end the soot populated
coutry ho each group.  fDce to lack of dot,, group averge  of nfl. indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Eop-tnrn and of Indi-atoro of Access no Water ad E-crtn
Disposl  Ocuiog, Incoea Disteihtion  and Poeri  for other ecotry groups ar  poplaticn-weightnd geomtric men  sitbout solso    f the sotre-  vuosad
the soot",poposated con     S.ihoe the coeag   f conries sm-ng the indicator  deonds  n avolbility of data sod to not uniform  cation moot be coeroised
in relating ave-gen of oeindicator to another.  These avragesseiotf sfla  aprssains of  ep-eted  values when comparing the Values of one
idicator at a time smcg the country and reference groups.
E0Th AREAL (thousad nq.im..)                                                                  Acestaort ipnl(ecnt of_2populin),-  totl  ~urban, sd rural
otl- Total surface area comprising land area and Inlassd eates                             Thneafpe:(oa,ubn   odrrl   evdb                                 erta diPoslm
Agri-altural -  Moat recet entiate of sgricultcsal area used t;Pemprail                       porcentsges of their reope-tire populations. E-creta dinposal  ay includ
or pecmsently for crpe, pastures, mket and kitchon gardens or to                            the' _oUctin and dispon.al, cith or sithout treatmet, of humansorta
lie fallow,                                                                                 sod saute-eter by eater-born  system   or the use of pit privies and  _Anl-c
GNPf PER CAPTfA (05$) - GNP per onpita estimates at curent sarket pie,Posesatin per Rsyioiu- Population divided by number of practicing physician
caloulated by nam  c-n-rico   ethcd as World Bsnk Atlas- )1976-78 basin);                     q;salfhed from 1a mdionl school at univernity level.
1960, 1970, and 19,78 data.                                                                 PouainpeNursing Pernon - Population divided by nuahr of practicing maic
fENERGY CONSUMPTIORN Pin CAPITA - Anonua  conountio  of comecil  neyi                            sod feele graduat  socues, practical nsa,md mesisteoto r.
(calsd lignite, prtrole-n    nua   a   n   yr,             nceran   e-PWuaispo    optl SId- total, urban, and rurl - Puit ion (total, urban ,
ticrmivietrioiy) i  hiloesnaofucal g vquidaledt penopi. to;  g..                      medrural)   davdd by their respective number of hospital beds availble he.
1970, and 1976 d.t.                                                                            public  and prioate general and npcial1-ed h-tipita1 and rehbihitotico  cet-r.
Ho.pitl .rc -es.tabli.hnets p-eranently staffed by at leant one phycician.
PRRPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                 Etutaliohm-to providing prioripoll  custodial car  are cot io-luded. Rural
Tota  Poplaton.   id-Yar   illi..no) - is of July 1; 1960, i970, sod                    hoptal, however, inclde he_ith and medical  -eters not perasnetly otaffed
1977 data                                                                                   by a physician  (but by a medio-I asintant, nure, midwife, etc.) ouch offer
Orhee fPula,tico  (pevoct of totol) - Ratio of urban to total popo.intle;                      I-patiestoo edatio and pr-cde a limited range of medical facilities.
differenot definition   of urian ar-  nap  ffc-t  -om-raility of dnto                      diocsprOoia   a   Total n.. s  oftdonions to or discharges from
among ocuotroec;1,i960, 1970), ned 1975 data,                                                hospitals divided by the ounivr of bods.
Popultion inpea  2000 - Curret population projections ar  hosed on                      HlOUINGi
1975  oa        Jeoltico by age sod  -e  and their sortality and fertility             hr-ragn RIce of Housrio1d  (pejrsonser hounebhld) - total,  rhan, and rura  -
rateo   Prjcinparaeter-  for nortality robes  _opeise of threc                            i   ..uehoil _ont  of a grou  of individuals  h.c nhsr  living quarters and
le-ci  osnocing life coPeotany at birth increseig cith coutry 0                           their uni  meals.  S hoarder or lodger may or mop not beiv 1ocidod io the
Per capita  nocer level, and f vonle life -opeotancy citbilining at                       household for otatintical psiposes.
P77.5 peers   The parmter  foe fer'tility rnte also bare three levels                   veagoonl o  persns per coon- total, urban  sod rural - bocrage nuber
as coi,g decline in fertilitY acoordcog to incom   lvlsd patf pe.Hrsoepe"rEro  t*t al rban  and rura  ocupe  convntional  dsnliingo,
faily   ancing perforane. Each coutry Is then ass igned. one of these                     -epocti-ely.  D-1eliogo eccide d cs.-peemnent  trut-rvo  and unoccpied parto.
nice  obilnations of mortality sod fcrtiiity trendo for projection                      Aoena1ij toElectricoty(Rrrtofdeog)- tota.  orhn,  id "ura  -  Coo-
Puroe.                                                                                     etosidelig    u   electricity  tIcIIog quorter  asPercntgeo
itotiunsypRpulotioc - ios . stot-csy popoltioc there Is no gr...th                          total, urban,sod rural d-clling. respectively.
000c ito tirth onto ic eqoo1 to tic death note, nod alec the age
s-trutr  rmaito cos-tant. Thio is ahic-ed only after fertiloty eaten                 EDUCATION
dcIice to the replacerent le-rd of unit set r-productico rate,  hino                  Adjusted Enrolisoct Ratios
eahgreratico of sono  erpl-oc   t.tulf e--tly.  The stationa..y popo-                  Priaar  school - toal  onie cod fro-lo  -G..on  total, O.Io soc feooie e-11l-
latioc rice  -  r-tiomoed on tie basic of the projected rh-arot-iti-s                       nnt of all ages at tie primary level  opercetgage  of r-peti-e primary
of thr ppulatio  it the poor 2000, and the rote of declIne of fertiiity                     ccolcpopoIoticc-; normaly I-liudes childre   aged (-II yea-  hut
rateto repiacenet leev.                                                                     odjuotod for diff.eret lengths of primary edu..atin; Ic   --utri-snith
Year stationary Ppoplation Os retohsi - The Yea  oboe otationar  populotiu                    onlro-i coucotioc enro.lloct any e.oeed 100 p-eet 0:                 oepuphis
sloe ban heroe -ache,S                                                                      are hele  or  hov  tie official school age.
noonso    ro-ty                                                                          -rodayshoi - totol  nolefand final  - C-nouted at  L-1c;nec r
P     er q. ecs. - Rid-year ppolation pee oq- arkiioevvnr (lo ivotnoes) of                    education  -qu-ren      iast fou  years of apperced priesury iorcis
total araproides g.o.ra   Iotiol  or techr training instruotico.S foe P ppis
Per so. in   giotodlln   - C-oopted oo stove foe agricultural land                            usually of 12 to i7"yenes of aget;   repoid-ne course                F o arc . g alply
only.                                                                                       co-luded.
P.~Iilti_  4    S-t-(p--oct) - Chlidoco  (0-li pe-ro , .orkin,-ege                     v_ot ico-  -o-oIrnt (---cet uf  -ccodo) - Vocational i-rti-ution-  i ,lode
(is-hi pret),6sod retired (65 years sod over) no percestageo of mid-peso                     technical, industrial, or cobher proge-   chico opo...te  o.dop-dertly or n
population; I9io, 1970, and 1977 into.                                                        dep-rtsotc   f_oocdary iostitutiun.-
Popolatico he-th RatLe (ect)-titol - itA-1 grou.th rates of total add-                        PopiI-teaoiec, rato   ,pi-yr. and seroodary - Total studi-to rr11itd in
Yea  populations for 1950-iD, 19tO-70, and 1970-77.                                           primar  so  recoday levels divided by nubers of tea-hero  - tie  urcec-
FPopultiuI   routh Rnto (per-o)-  rn   - hooca1 gruth rates of u-ian                             opndiag icoolo.
popolaticos. f or195h0-, 1700-7,  nd170-71.                                                 Adiut lit_eray rutv Ilv_-ct) - Litr-on  adults (able to read and s-ite)a
rude birth Rate   er- thousad) - do..ual lice tiroth  pee thousand of nid-                      np-roetge of total aduit popuitti-s aged iS Yearo and over.
Ysar populotioo; 09 0, 1970, and 1977 doto.
C-rde heath case    - thousand) - Acooi dratho per thcuo-d It -d-year                     C0ONSUMPTION
pouitiot; 1  0, 170, sod 1977 into.                                                    Pos-enger Cue  (Per thoocand puuato) - Paoger ours oopiae ..tor corn
ironse Repr-d-tico Rate - Ac-rage onh- of daughter  u  on    ili bear                         orating hoot than eight persos; coches ambulaces  heresad silit-ry
is her .. oma  r-pe-d-oti-e p-iud if she co                P-sccyeoet ag-                   vohioles
sPecific  fvetoiity rater; us..oiY floe-year -erg-r csdoog ho 1960,                      tadi. R-oiv..ro  (per thousano pAulloo -  i  types of receivers foe  si,d
1970, and 1975.                                                                            hbad-oaso  to seor-i polih  Poe thousan  of popointi; coo ldes  _oli.eeasd
Family  _00m    -~ Acptors. Acual (tio-ado) - hAoual sunier of                                rnccoers         ..ootrien  sd it yese   hiearegioteatit_ of -ad-osetosast
ocoepto   of hirt-osrldevce  under  auspice  os ratiosl..  famIly                           effect; data foe recet year  nay not be  ompor-ile since -S.t coutries
plannio  progran.                                                    ,                      ahlished li-eoiog.
isily Piasin   - Csers (por-eot- of     -oid soe)- P.eretage of married                    TR R-cei-r  (pEr thousand popuittico) - TV reoiv-r  foe br...d-nt to general1
o-ovo of child-hearing age (15-i ~yene_h  Ic us  iiti-o troo  devi-ec                       pbilic per tipou-sod  poplation; nor-lden- unicensed TO re eivr  to countries
to oil mareted conec in son  age trO...                                                     so d on pearo o.hm  regloorotios of TO sets can in effect.
foil dlii NOfROTRON                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Neospaoer Circuin,tios (cer thousan-d puldtion) - Shoes the overge  iclto
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                               of  'daily gcner   doite, retoupoper~ ,dfied onop.reirdil poli-etion
Rode  of food   rdu-ti-o Per Capita (1969-71-100) - Rodeo of Per on pits                      devoted pelooroy to recrigcoel  en    ti'oohce   ob   daily
an-ul pr-du-tic  of all food -oc-diti-s                      e-doic    olodes se-d  nd      if it ucpears  lt-leasttfior-tinesd0turL.
feed anCso   aedryu   ai . Cmadit-co-er primary goods                                     Ci-em  Aoosi Atteod-no  per Capits ree  iv-r - Booed 00 the  uhrf ticketo
(..oug .r..e icotead of s-g-) which ... edhible aed coati sh .ct,e.test                 told during tho year, iuoludiog adi sui-o  to driv-ocumssdnhl
(c.g  offec and tee or  e-ioded).  Aggregate production of eac              - cutry         unite.                                                   -.ie-           d-b 1
Is basedcoatiosni overage producr price -ighto.
Per rapit 'tosp1y of -ni-iec  (percent of reqoire_eto ( - Computed feces               IpoR FRCoE
coe-gy equivaleot of -tc food-  uppiov   -viiblc o i ous.try per onoito                 Total  -abr frc  (tih.a.odo         --  oi-nllj notice pornons, i-oldieg armed
pe   A-i.bollble ouPpydh-  onpri-e dometic produotioc, imports leoc                 fo oadueploye  hot e-ciuding ho...e-i-m, students, coo. Ilefisitoo
o.porto, an   hsogc  hococ ltl           N-SIRo lupii-  v dlud  animal feed, a-ds,        i            --aiosoutri-s  re nout  -oporsile.
qunIte   used ho fooId pro_   iog, nod lose _cc dic'tr ibtion. Require-              ceteroo(-Pol   co   oc   rpretg    fttllbrfre
nots sLorectisoted by FiO biuvd .s phyciciogical crdo for normal                        9~7l5rpr, (-lbor forc  in farsiog, f-rotry, bunting sod
octivo   cod h-alti  . ictde--   oor  ovo   t-poprtur-, body -vIghto,                     fiuhing aspercetage of totni ltior force.
aesdscdo~tribti-oc of populto-, sod o11ociog 10 percent for                      Rdor   pnet)-lIsbe fcr0  00  iniolg, o-atru-tics, n-ofsot-iog and
cates:    iurid        levl.                                                              lvo2te icl,otrsd gass-              eooaeo  ttllbrfre
Per ospto  _oppiy of eroc_   roo   e  ujtp- d       Prooco ocot-ot .5 vor,a..iocolidohate.(rroo                               P, octa  ml,  and` fcte-Patiipfi.o
o-pit net -upply of food per day. Set ouspip  of food so deoloed toativity  -at-                               ... ruputcd t   ou,ml,sdfrclb    oc   spr
ahoo. Reqoiremeots for oil -ohotroe   estoidl-hd Op JOIA proide for                      octages of total, Cole sod fvnolr puplotico of oil ages respetiorip;
-1oinso  ol11un-  of ho greec of ototl proteto per day sod 20 gran  of                    1960, 1970, sod 1975 deco.  Thes  esc RIts port i_opoioe eate  reflecting
anIma  sod polor proteis, of Oho-h 10 gr-s  shcold he aniui pestoio.                      og-sotocture of thr popoIatioc, nod long sto   trend. A fru estimates
Thescs~tandrdcd ar  t.oo  thso toos  cf 75 g9-o  of total peoteio and                     or-  Iron ooool     _oros
20 g,ros  of acin1 p-tceis to  o        -v,g  for tic ..old, proposed by piO           FEcoo.eio Dependecoy Ratio -  Onol.dof popoloticn under 15 sod 65 and ovr to
P.lotic ThiledtOce1i Food Sur.o. tY,he  oo   orei   g  gru o.    f 15-64 Years.
Prcpita prteis soyphy fresos-ti and Pulse - Pr-corn  oopply of food
derived f- roai-tlo sod pol,es  0 cras  p en da,Y.                                   01sfOME DISTRIBUTRON
Child  a.ges 1-4) M-ctnioty OnR  (peicoo) - Ainnol doths pery thou-and                      peco e of cr1-te Icooe (to to in can  soc kiod) - Fe-i-ed by richest
so  ge grop 1-1. y--r, t.o child nc 'K thsaogop5o otdci                                        percent, richest 00 peo-t, pooret 20 peresot, sod poor.est h0 percent
opo  oot te 00  d-riodi fy_  life to.loc.                                         ohutblds
ibitTOH                                                                                     PCEvcRTY fARGET ORCUPR
lifedoyr luc   atRirl  (pers)- Avegc nue   fyasof lifv                             Eotinoted Absoiso   toet   ooclvl(0   e                    aplo  -ran nd rural-
--inooo   oo birth;  9h,   09ON70. t_dei977. data.                                          ihcue   oetyi -m levl FiAt tint hooes                 - le el brocsuh   nooia
iofsot Mortality iste  (pee thvusund) - A-ocal deaths of itfants uodv  con                    sutriticoolly udeqoate diet plus ess .eo l sco-food roqui-sets id0not
pray of age poer thoo-and lice birtic.                                                      aff-cdahl-
Adocs   odf  Water"11L  -precfP-,outoc  -  tota   orMg  and ria-                              oono    eoielovt    oe  lvl(0   v   aia       ra   n   ua 
ouciec. of yrpe   ct01, uno   aend rua)ct   eooieacs   smrlrlti-e Poort  i-oone level ioare-Othird of s-ceege peers pita
oeo-t`rcupply (tocidecbtreo.ted surf-ae otters or untreated but                           Peroa  iccom- of the o-utry. Onto. l-oi Is deriond from  tic rural le-c
onootcsosed cater  -hc as tint from protected b-holet, springs,                             nith adj-otmeot foe higher cost of living in urban aes
and s-nisry sells  so peroestages of tirir respective popuiti-o  To                      iEtimac    oonio    eo  Asit   oeeyboelee                               'et' - orha  and
an ovio ner  a yoiic  foocoiror osnepost I-cte  ost arm  tban                      1rua    - Pret of poulton(          tie      yn run..)  L-:acab,I      t   ur
50   ete,o  from  a"osem   IbecnsdId noting   Ithit reanable
thev tie h--ce.f  or osmie-  of tie ho-ohoid do oct har  to speod o                                                                    o-oic sd Ro-ial Riots Dicini-
disp-spctio...tm  part ~f tie day in fetching the fsdly'. snater seeds                                                         OsocSAl.ysis and Proj eti.n. iepa-te,ent



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of February 29, 1980
Loan or
Credit                                                 Amounts (US$ millions)
Number      Year      Borrower      Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Four credits and five loans fully disbursed           55.5    20.2        -
348-PNG    1973        PNG         Livestock                  5.0        0.1
1333-PNG    1976        PNG         Agriculture       12.0                8.5
661-PNG    1976        PNG         Education                  4.0        2.2
677-PNG    1977        PNG         Roads                     19.0        6.4
1551-PNG    1978        PNG        Ports II            3.5                1.4
841-PNG    1978        PNG         Rural Development         20.0       18.3
Total                                    71.0    68.2       36.9
of which has been repaid                  6.3
Total now outstanding                    64.5    68.2
Amount sold                8.1
Repaid                     4.0            4.1
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                                60.4    68.2
Total undisbursed                         9.9    27.0       36.9



- 25 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 2
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION L1
Credit No. 348 Smallholder Livestock Credit ProJect; US$5.0 Million Credit
of January 4. 1973: Effective Date:  May 11. 1973: Closing
Date: June 30. 1980.
The project supports the Government's program for development of
livestock production by smallholders. Subloans are made through the Papua
New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB) to smallholders for beef, pigs, and
poultry. Technical assistance to smallholder is provided by the Department
of Primary Industry (DPI). The Project further provides for farmer training,
inservice training for DPI extension staff, and upgrading livestock research.
About 98% of the credit had been disbursed by end of November 1979. The
remaining funds are mostly for the Technical Services category and would be
used, with approval of the Association, to cover the costs of preparing a
proposed follow-up Credit Project and a possible Agricultural Support
Services Project. Despite the continuing loss of expatriate staff and recent
provincialization of the extension services, the project has generally
progressed well. The last supervision mission has suggested to the Government
that the project completion report be prepared before the appraisal of the
proposed follow-up credit project. However, owing to staff constraints, the
Government might not be able to comply with the request.
Loan No. 1333 Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project:
US$12.0 Million Loan of November 19. 1976: Effective
Date: January 6. 1977: Closing Date: December 31. 1984.
The project is designed to establish 9,600 ha of oil palm plantings
and processing facilities around Popondetta. The 4,000 ha nucleus estate and
factory, which are to serve both estate and smallholder production, are being
developed as a joint venture between the Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation. The Bank-financed portion of the project includes:
5,600 ha of oil palm plantings, subdivided into 1,400 smallholder plots;
long-term credit facilities for smallholders to be provided through the PNGDB;
extension and visiting inspection services; and technical assistance for
project management, social infrastructure, and improvement of the road net-
work.
Smallholder oil palm plantings are back on schedule after initial
delays. Estate plantings are well ahead of schedule. Construction of the
oil mill is proceeding satisfactorily and should be in production on schedule
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
by May 1980. The roads program is well ahead of schedule but some cost
overruns have occurred. Additional work will be required on the main Oro
Bay-Factory road, beyond appraisal estimates. The construction of housing
and buildings is on schedule and within cost estimates. A prospectus for the
proposed transport company has been prepared, and the company should be
registered by the end of 1979.
Smallholder accounting by the PNGDB needs tightening. The former
Project Accountant has been appointed Project Coordinator, with the Office of
Project Coordination, Department of Finance, and a new Project Accountant is
in the process of being appointed. As a result, Bank disbursements lag
expenditure by a significant amount.
Credit No. 661  Education Proiect:  US$4.0 Million Credit of November 19.
1976: Effective Date: January 3. 1977: Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to: (a) meet manpower requirements in
agriculture, industry, health and the teaching service; and (b) support
education and planning studies in PNG. Physical project implementation
is nearing completion on schedule; technical assistance has incurred
minor delays, but these' are being overcome. Educational outcomes look
promising. Project c'sts are within appraisal estimates. Disbursements
lag behind schedule, primarily, because of delayed submission of withdrawal
applications.
Credit No. 677 Second Highlands Road Improvement Project: US$19.0
Million Credit of January 28. 1977: Effective Date:
March 29. 1977: Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
The project will improve and pave 68 km of the Highlands Highway.
It further provides detailed engineering and feasibility studies of the same
highway in rural development studies of the Enga and Chimbu Provinces, and
techical assistance to domestic road construction contractors. Civil works
are proceeding satisfactorily; detailed engineering and feasibility
studies has been completed. The Chimbu rural development study has been
completed and the Enga study will be finished by mid-1980. Technical
assistance component has also been completed.
Loan No. 1551 Second Port Project: US$3.5 Million Loan of May 18, 1978:
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
The project will provide facilities for container handling at
Port Moresby so that the greater efficiencies of container shipping can be



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
realized. Major components include additional land reclamation of 1.6 ha,
to give a total of 4.2 ha, a 125 m berth, an extension of the present
container freight station, and improvements to the port access road. Also
included in the project are a 30 m coastal berth at Samarai, located on a
small island off the coast of Southern Papua, provision of three pilot
launches and consulting services for project design and implementation, and
for training Papta New Guinea Harbours Board staff. Work is proceeding
satisfactorily on the new container berth and terminal which is about 80%
complete. The three pilot launches have been delivered and the coastal
berth at Samarai is about 30% complete.
Total dry cargo traffic at all PNGHB's ports in 1979 was 1.7 million
tons, slightly over that for 1978 (1.67). Total container traffic at all
PNGHB's pors in 1979 was about 43,650 of which about 12,000 were handled in
Port Moresby. Although the Board failed to increase port tariffs in 1978 or
1979, it had a satisfactory financial rate of return (7%) in 1978, but this
was somewhat less than the Loan requirement in 1979. A tariff increase
was proposed by the Board in January 1980, and approved by the Bank. The
Government now proposes to impose a 36.5% profit tax on the Board, the
affect of which has yet to be assessed.
Credit No. 841 Rural DeveloRment Prolect I: US$20.0 Million Credit of
November 7. 1978: Effective Date: March 7. 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Within the Southern Highlands Province, the project would provide
for research into subsistence crops, nutrition and health of the people,
expand coffee, tea, silk and cardamom production, build roads, schools and
health subcenters; support adult education and agricultural extension
services; and contribute to the general development of the province's people
and economy. The construction of civil works (roads, schools, health
subcenters, training facilities and houses) is generally on schedule and
within cost estimates. The nutrition and subsistence component of the
Project has started with local resources, but the major effort should
commence with the appointment of about eight consultants in early 1980. The
partly completed nurses training center is already in use for training
nurses aids and one of the three health subcenters is ready for operation.
Teaching in one of the two secondary schools has commenced, partly in
temporary buildings. Under the non-formal education component, many
schools and villages have received assistance in the form of gardening
tools, seeds, chickens and ducklings, cooking and food processing aids.
Tea, coffee and cardamom companies and groups have mostly been formed
and are satisfactorily managed or advised by a full complement of technical
staff in the Southern Highlands Management Authority (SHMA). Land develop-
ment and new plantings are proceeding on schedule and coffee and tea
production on existing plantings exceed appraisal estimates. There is



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
little progress with the silk component due to technical and managerial
difficulties. The Department of Commerce has requested an FAO mission in
early 1980 to further assess the potential for silk in the highlLds.
Project management for 1980 has been arranged satisfactorily by appointing
the Deputy Project Manager as Project Manager and by retaining the present
Project Manager as a consultant for about 8 months. The appointment of an
experienced estate accountant will be made to SHMA in early 1980, to relieve
the General Manager of some administrative duties.  The recruitment of
several technical specialists for the project is underway.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   20 months
(b) The agencies which have
prepared the project:                 Department of Transport and
Civil Aviation (DTCA), National
Planning Office (NPO), Depart-
ment of Works and Supply (DWS)
(c) Date of first presentation to
Bank Group:                           October 1978
Date of first Bank Group mission
to consider the project:             April 15, 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                              October 3, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  April 8, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          September 30, 1980
Section II:  Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Assurance was obtained from Government that it will continue
reviewing its civil aviation system and coastal and intercoastal
shipping regulations and inform the Bank of any proposed
measures to increase competition and deregulate these industries
(paras. 24 and 25);
(b)  Agreement was reached with Government on the principles and
proposed timing of trucking industry deregulation (para. 30);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Agreement was reached with Government to prepare a proposal on
gene_al transport pricing policy to increase transport user
charges (including road user charges) progressively to a level
sufficient to cover the cost of maintenance and administration
of the transport infrastructure (para. 35);
(d)  Assurance was obtained from Government that it will continue to
investigate ways of promoting domestic road construction industry
(para. 36);
(e) Assurance was obtained from Government that DWS will set up a
regular traffic counting system (para. 48).



IBRD 11428R2
143  \  1440          i     -      145-                                te 11            '                          DECEMBER 1979
143\                                                                  14\                                                     PAPUA  NEW  GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Existing Roads
we s r  S     ~~E A  S  T      S  E  P IK                 0                 ojA                                              S;                 Construction andd I-provemn    o ba 9/rei20
W,-Fs r                                                                                                   ......... Feasibility Study      Fio"atnl`6`9 /cCtredit 204~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FasbliySud  oa  9/rdi 0
ESEPt  I           -   -         .            .                  f D _X           M    A      D    A    N    G -e                                    Construction and Improvemet F Credit 6Pro77  5
Improvement and Paving-Third Highway Project
>  _    ~~~~'   ~ ~~  '~~~~~~~~~~~ \   ~~~'   ' ~~~~)             <s                    ;                 '__---- Provincis Boundar----Prmnci esBundrie
F  -            SIS ' o LakCKo SEA epn
SOITHERd ~'EASN    ST                                H.                                                                                                 RILOMETERS
HI~~ULANSS ~~~ vlOF~~LAND9  NEW v   IC NEW enITAIGHLNo
AItEA OF                                          a      0sm
STAITN----------
. i .NEW IRtAN< _.  CO RALSA                                            GO/f  of  Pa a                                          QKERA           \     ~                       147
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                                                                                         ErU      s'-  
1'   X             X AS i, ''S"? ,;t                                                                             ' ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Won



