Document of
The World Bank                        I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2838a-PNG
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 24, 1980
Transportation Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
US$1.00       =      K 0.71
K 1.00        =      US$1.41
K 1 million  =       US$1,410,000
ABBREVIATIONS
AADT     -   Annual Average Daily Traffic
AWM       -   Area Works Manager
BPC      -   Budget Priority Committee
DTCA      -   Department of Transport and Civil Aviation
DTWS      -   Department of Transport, Works and Supply
DWS       -   Department of Works and Supply
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
NEC       -   National Executive Council
NPC      -   National Planning Committee
NPEP     -   National Public Expenditures Plan
NPO       -   National Planning Office
PNGHB    -   Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
PWM      -   Provincial Works Manager
PMV      -   Public Motor Vehicle
VOC      -   Vehicle Operating Costs
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programme
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                          British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =  2,204 lbs or 1.102 US short ton (sh ton)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  TRANSPORT SECTOR
A, Geographic, Demographic and Economic
Background * 9  9      9    9  9  9  I  9  9  9  9  9   9  9   9  9   9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9  1
B. The Transport System   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . .    3
C. Transport Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             7 . .  7
D. Transport Planning and Coordination        . .T  . . . . . . . . . .    17
2.  HIGHWAYS
A. The Network.                                                         9 .......*..***.   .  .  15
B. Traffici.   . . . . . . . . . .                             .       10
C. Highway Administration, Staff and Training......  .. .. .13
D. Highway Planning . . .    .  .  .. . . . .         .   . . . . .   15
E. Financing. .              . . .   .    .   *o   .  . .  .  .  . a  .  .  16
F. Enginieering .. . . .. . . ..   . .*                    ...0.#. 1
G. Construction  . . . . .   . .                  . . .   .   .    .    .    .    .  17
He Maintenance. . . . . ..     . .   . . . . . . . .   . . .   19
I. Previous IDA/Bank Financed Projects. .   . . . .  .* .              20
3. THE PROJECT
A. Description. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
B. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component. . . . . . . . .  25
C. Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  27
D. Implementation, Procurement and Environmental Aspects  .   .    28
E. Disbursements  . 9 . .             . . . . * . .   . .   * .  *   29
4.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General.                              . . . . . . .  . . .  29
B. Development Potential and Traffic .                                 30
C.  Benefits of the Project .o. . . ...... .. .. .. ..  .   33
5.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
This Report was prepared by Messrs. R. Rafloski (Economist), G. Trnka
(Engineer), E. H. Chittleburgh (Training Advisor) and edited by Christine
Morgan.
Tbe document ha a muicted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Description of Highlands Highway
2. Technical Assistance for Maintenance: Outline Terms of Reference
3. Technical Assistance to Provincial Governments for Rural
Transport: Outline Terms of Reference
4. Project Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLES
1. Vehicle Fleet
2. Road Transport Statistics by Provinces
3. PNG Harbours Board Administered Ports
4. Volume of Major Exports
5. New Transportation Projects Proposed in NPEP
6. Expenditures on Roads
7. Central Government Expenditure by Function
8. Road Infrastructure - Composition of Expenditure and Revenue
9. Design Standards for Rural Roads
10. Estimated Cost of Project
11. Project Implementation Schedule
12. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
13. Traffic Projections on the Highlands Highway
14. Vehicle Operating Cost on the Highlands Highway (Unpaved road)
15. Vehicle Operating Costs on the Highlands highway (Paved Road)
16. Net Benefit and Cost Flows
17. Sensitivity Analysis of Costs and Benefits on Economic Rate of Return
CHARTS
1. World Bank 21086 - Organization of the Department of Transport and Civil
Aviation
2. World Bank 21018 - Organization of the Department of Works and Supply
MAP
IBRD 11428R2



1. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic, Demographic and Economic Background
1.01      Panua New Guinea (PNG) is an island country located in the tropics
about 100 miles to the north of Australia. It comprises the eastern half of
the island of New Guinea (the mainland) and some 600 smaller islands of
which about half a dozen are of major importance. PNG has a land area of
about 462,000 sq km (about the size of Spain) spread over some 2,000,000 sq
km of the Western Pacific Ocean. Both the mainland (comprising about 85% of
the land area) and the major islands are dominated by massive mountains.
The central mountain range of the mainland, which forms a complete divide
between north and south, is not a single chain but a complex system of
ranges separated by broad upland valleys. These valleys, with altitudes of
5,000-10,000 feet, form the Central Highlands./l The foothill zones have
become deeply cut by river systems resulting in an intensely rugged
topography. Volcanic areas of the mainland, which are limited to relatively
small zones, have also produced difficult formations.
1.02      In addition to limitations imposed by the mountains, extensive
swamps cover large areas. On the southwest coast of the mainland, the great
delta plain of the Daru coast is one of the most extensive swamps in the
world. There are also large swamps on the northwest coast. From the
mountains of the hinterland, the river systems carry heavy loads of alluvium
with which they are building their deltas. There are extensive mangrove and
nipa palm swamps at the mouths of most of the rivers. In addition, the
large Sepik and Ramu Rivers flow for hundreds of miles through extensive
riverine swamps of sago, bamboo and forest.  Scattered settlements are found
in the swamplands but the numbers are small.
1.03      The main consequence of the rough, broken topography and the
swamps is to make a very large proportion of the land virtually unusable for
agriculture and forestry.  These topographic conditions, the extensive
swamps and the numerous islands have created small pockets of widely
dispersed population centers, often difficult to access. These features
explain the extremely high cost of providing transport facilities to many
parts of the country, and the high cost of their maintenance. Over 40% of
PNG's population of approximately 2.9 million is concentrated in the Central
Highlands and less than 15% of the total population is urban./2 Although
the Government has instituted a program of localization expatriates, who
form about 1% of the population, still play a vital role in technical,
administrative and business functions.
/1 Comprising the provinces of Eastern Highlands, Western Highlands,
Southern Highlands, Enga and Chimbu.
/2  Urban Center populations (1977) are:  Port Moresby 105,900; Lae 62,500;
Rabaul 33,200; Madang 21,500; Wewak 20,500; Kieta-Arawa-Panguna 19,700;
Mt. Hagen 14,900, and Goroka 12,500.



-2-
1.04      PNG's economy is characterized by relatively small employment in
the modern monetary sector; the majority of the productive population is
engaged in the traditional, largely subsistence, agricultural sector. The
modern sector, dominated by a large open-pit copper mine on Bougainville,
and the expatriate community, which predominates in the government sector
and a variety of small manufacturing and service establishments, contributes
about 70% of GDP. Agriculture, forestry and fishing which employ 85% of the
labor force, provide the remainder, with over half of the sectoral output
coming from subsistence agriculture.  Cash agriculture is growing fairly
rapidly, with production concentrated in three crops (coffee, cocoa and
copra) for export:
MAJOR EXPORTS
Annual
growth
FY68     FY71       FY74       FY77       FY68-77
…(K Million) ---------                        %
Copper                            -        -      311.9      191.4            -
Coffee                        14.3      20.6       28.8      132.6         28.0
Cocoa                         11.8      13.6       23.3       55.1         18.7
Copra /a                      21.3      22.9       38.4       32.6          4.9
Timber                         4.9       8.9       20.3       21.9         18.1
Total exports /b            59.1      77.4      459.3      484.5         26.0
/a  Includes copra oil and oil pellets.
/b Including other exports such as fish, palm oil, tea, rubber and gold.
1.05      Barring major oil discoveries, future growth of the economy is
likely to be moderate (3%-4% per annum or less than 1% faster than
population growth). Although the Government wishes to increase economic
growth, strong emphasis is put on avoiding rapid, disruptive changes in
traditional modes of living. The prospects for mining appear good, but much
less so for manufacturing, where markets are small and transport costs high.
Consequently, an unusually high proportion of consumer goods will continue
to be imported. Australia currently provides a large budgetary grant (some
K 180 million or US$254 million, for 1979) equivalent to about 40% of
exports, which has enabled the Government to subsidize some services,
particularly transport.
1.06      The latest (1978) available estimate of per capita GNP of all
persons resident in Papua New Guinea, including nonnationals, is US$560 p.a.



-3-
The Central Highlands
1.07      The Central Highlands consists of five provinces; Eastern
Highlands, Chimbu, Western Highlands, Enga and Southern Highlands with
provincial administratons located at Goroka, Kundiawa, Mount Hagen, Wabag
and Mendi. Approximately 40% of PNG's total population is concentrated in
these provinces. Coffee is the main cash crop of the Central Highlands,
which produce some 84% (40,000 tons) of total PNG coffee production (48,000
tons in 1978/79). Of this 84%, which is produced in the area of influence
of the Highlands Highway, smallholder production accounted for about 70%.
Tea and pyrethrum are other, less important, cash crops which have developed
in the area since the completion of construction of the Highlands Highway in
1966. It is important to note that coffee, next to copper concentrates, is
the country's major export earner. In 1977, total domestic exports were
valued at K 484.5 million (about US$675 million). Copper concentrates were
K 191.4 million (US$268.0 million) or 40% of total and coffee was K 132.6
million (US$186.0 million) or 27% of total. Excluding copper concentrates,
coffee accounted for 45% of export earnings. In 1965, the year before the
Highway was opened, indigenous growers (smallholders) from the Highlands
accounted for just over 60% of the coffee produced in the Highlands. By
1977, production by the indigenous growers had increased over four fold (a
14% p.a. increase) and their share of production had grown to 70% of the
total produced in the Highlands.
1.08      The Highlands Highway runs 600 km from Lae to Mendi via Mount
Hagen, and connects the administrative centers of the Central Highlands with
Lae, which is the administrative capital of the Morobe Province and, also,
the second most important port in PNG. The Highlands Highway plays an
important role in the economy of the region. The population of the region
relies almost entirely on agriculture, only a small percentage being wage
and salary earners, and the continued expansion of diversified agricultural
production can be helped by a reliable, lower cost road transport link.
B. The Transport System
General
1.09      The transport system reflects the country's geography, topography,
and early stage of economic development. Thus, air services have long
played a larger role than in other countries with easier land travel. There
is no railway in the country and roads do not yet reach a majority of the
population, many of whom remain isolated and inaccessible, except by foot or
air. Coastal and interisland shipping is important for delivering
agricultural production to exporting ports, as well as for distributing the
imported goods on which the country relies so heavily. The country's two
largest cities, which are Pt. Moresby and Lae both on the main island, are
only 300 air km apart and are not yet connected by road, because of the
intervening mountains and good air and shipping connections. The small



- 4 -
population scattered on numerous islands and separated by high mountain
ranges on the mainland results in high capital and operating costs in all
transport modes.
1.10      With the country's heavy dependence on foreign trade, it is not
surprising that imports and exports generate much the larger volume of
freight traffic for both road haulers and coastal and interisland shippers.
Since imports account for nearly three times as much tonnage as exports (not
counting copper and timber which move through special ports) substantial
increases in production for export can easily be handled by the present
system.
1.11      A green cover report on the transport sector (World Bank Report No.
2819a-PNG dated January 29, 1980) has been sent to the Government for its
review and comments. The main findings of the Report were: (a) there is a
need by Government to recover a significantly higher share of costs from the
users of the nation's road system; (b) the need to make greater use of compe-
tition to reduce costs and to improve services in all three major transport
modes (road haulage, air transport, and coastal and interisland shipping);
(c) the development of the domestic capacity for building and maintaining
roads needed to be accelerated; and (iv) the need to develop data and
guidelines that will permit the selection of the most economical road-design
standards, taking into account not only shortrun construction costs but
subsequent operation and maintenance costs. The Bank's position on the policy
issues is that the Government should recover the maintenance and operating
expenses for each mode and that the modes should be completely deregulated
except for regulations concerning safety and damage to the system assets.
1.12      Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that a proposal for increasing transport user changes (including road user
charges progressively to a level sufficient to cover maintenance and admin-
istration costs by December 31, 1986 would be submitted to the National
Executive Council (NEC) for consideration and possible adoption by June 30,
1981 and by that same date it would submit a proposal to the NEC for the
deregulation on the trucking industry (paras. 2.09 and 2.24). For civil
aviation and coastal and intercoastal shipping the Government agreed to
continue its review of these industries and report to the Bank Group the
measures, if any, it intended to take to increase competition in civil
aviation and to deregulate the coastal and intercoastal industry (paras.
1.17 and 1.20). The technical problems relating to maintenance and design
standards are dealt with in the proposed project by providing consultant
assistance (paras. 3.09-3.12); for the domestic road contracting industry
the Government agreed it would continue to investigate ways to promote this
industry (para. 2.28).
Highway Transport
1.13      The provision of motorable roads in PNG has stimulated both local
(intra-provincial) and long distance (inter-provincial) traffic. In 1976,
the whole country was serviced by some 18,000 km of road (of which over 500



-5-
was sealed) and 43,800 vehicles (Table 1). However, the supply of highway
vehicles among the provinces varies greatly - in the Central Province there
are 98 vehicles per 1,000 population whereas in the Gulf Province there is
only one per 1,000 population (Table 2). For local use the most popular
vehicles are the multi purpose "Public Motor Vehicle" (PMV) which are
usually owned by villagers but operate to and from urban centers carrying
passengers and freight.
Civil Aviation
1.14      Air transport has long played an important role in providing
access to PNG's hinterland. In the 1920's PNG led the world in pioneering
the movement of freight by air and until 1965, the development of the
Central Highlands was almost entirely dependent on air transport. Although
the importance of air freight has declined in recent years, civil aviation
will continue to make a significant contribution in terms of passenger and
freight traffic to and from the more isolated parts of the country, and in
providing their local populations with essential services.
1.15      There are 414 airports and airstrips in PNG.  Only the inter-
national airport at Port Moresby can handle jets up to the size of the
Boeing 747. Seventeen of the airports are served by Air Niugini (the
National Airline) and are constructed primarily to the International Civil
Aviation Organization standards. The remaining airports do not meet any
international criteria and have been built or improved essentially to meet
minimum aircraft operations requirements.
1.16      Air Niugini, established under the National Airline Commission
Bill of 1973, has exclusive rights to the regional traffic under its charter
giving it a virtual monopoly in domestic civil aviation. In addition, the
Conmission can engage in any transport activity it desires and may set fares
and charges with approval of the Minister for Transport and Civil Aviation.
Its autonomy is only limited by the fact it must seek government guarantees
for any loans; thus the cabinet has a strong control in any capital spend-
ing. The "third level" /1 operators are obliged to operate small aircraft,
and are not allowed to compete directly with Air Niugini or with each other.
There is some evidence that this monopoly of Air Niugini and the regulation
of third level air services raises air transport costs and inhibits the
economic development of the industry.
1.17      The Government needs to examine the role of Air Niugini in the
civil aviation system and the market for air transport in PNG. From this
examination the Government should develop a rational and affordable aviation
plan for the country. This plan should be based on a thorough assessment of
technical, economic and financial factors with clear objectives and reason-
able goals. Strong consideration should be given by the Government, in view
of the successful development of air transport in PNG under competitive
conditions, to de-restrict its air transport industry, subject only to the
/1 First level operators operate on international routes, second level
on trunk routes and third level comprises general aviation.



- 6 -
compliance by operators to appropriate safety standards. An assurance was
obtained from the Government that it would continue its review of the civil
aviation system (in particular, air freight) and inform the Bank group by
June 30, 1981, of proposed measures, if any, to increase competition in
civil aviation for the Bank Group's comments.
Ports and Shipping
1.18      PNG relies heavily on water transport for interisland and coastal
traffic.  Of some 50 ports of various size in the country, 16 are managed by
PNG Harbours Board (Lae, Port Moresby, Kieta, Rabaul, Madang, Wewak,
Kavieng, Kimbe, Samarai, Alotau, Lorengau, Daru, Oro Bay, Aitape, Buka and
Vanimo) of these only the first 10 handle overseas trade. All cargo handled
at the major ports totalled 1.9 million tons in 1978 (Table 3). These
volumes do not include the exports of copper concentrates or timber which
are shipped from special ports at Bougainville and Madang and Morobe. The
volume of these two commodities is practically equal to the total volume of
all imports and all other exports combined (Table 4).
1.19      The main ports have adequate overseas shipping services which are
provided by 15 companies. Secondary coastal and interisland ports are
serviced by some 210 locally-owned small vessels exceeding ten meters in
length. About half of these vessels are less than 15 meters in length.
Coastal traffic is divided into two general trades: the intermain port
trade of larger craft (25 m and over) and the feeder trades which operate
into very small coastal and island harbors from the main coastal ports where
cargoes are transferred. Distributive services between villages and feeder
ports are undertaken by small open boats of about 10 m length. The coastal
fleet also includes a few tankers, tugs, fishing vessels and several small
liquid petroleum gas tankers.
1.20      Government regulations require these coastal and interisland
service vessels to have "trading licenses" and annual surveys. The licenses
are valid for one year and set limits to the route and volume of cargo to be
carried. Shipowners who wish to increase their licensed capacity must
justify that the demand exists for the increased capacity. To obtain a
license the shipowner must have his ship surveyed - which is an inspection
of the hull structure, navigation and radio aids, and other safety aspects
such as life saving devices. This survey is required for all vessels of
10 m and over engaged in coastal trading. However, the Maritime Division
has concluded that many regulations cannot be applied to vessels under 15 m.
One of the recommendations in the DTCA's tentative transport policy state-
ment is that the Maritime Division review these regulations and recommend
necessary changes such as requiring surveys for vessels 15 m and over and
whether the legislation is efficient and/or desirable for the development of
the shipping industry in PNG. An assurance was obtained from the Government
that it would continue its review of the coastal and intercoastal shipping
regulations, especially those covering trading licenses, and inform the
Bank Group by June 30, 1981, of proposed measures, if any, to deregulate the
coastal and intercoastal shipping industry for the Bank Group's comments.



- 7 -
C. Transport Administration
1.21      The Department of Transport and Civil Aviation (DTCA) was estab-
lished in 1977, based on recommendations by a UNDP study of the transport
system completed in 1969, for which the Bank was the executing agency. DTCA
is responsibile for transport planning, policy and administration, including
regulating the several modes of transport (Chart 1). These include:
(a)  Civil Aviation Division, responsible for the licensing of internal
air service operations, for approving airline timetables and for
setting fares and freight rates;
(b)  Maritime Division, responsible for provision and maintenance of
navigation aids and the administration of shipping regulations;
(c)  the Division of Land Transport, responsible for the regulation and
licensing of road traffic;
(d)  the Civil Aviation Agency (CAA), an autonomous agency whose oper-
ating expenses are paid for by a tied grant from the Australian
Government, provides for aircraft control, electronics, airworthi-
ness, and other safety related operations.
The Department of Works and Supply (DWS) has the responsibility for the
execution of all capital civil works and their maintenance. The DWS does
not have a policy role in planning infrastructure. The autonomous PNG
Harbours Board is responsible for the administration and maintenance of
ports including the provision of infrastructure. Since January 1, 1980 the
semiautonomous Government Ships Authority has taken over management of the
Government fleet and will hire out its vessels to official national and
provincial bodies. Air Niugini must only seek DTCA's approval of fare
increases and approval for capital expenditures by the NEC.
D. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.22      The DTCA, through its Policy and Planning Division in conjunction
with the National Planning Office (NPO), plans for the provision of trans-
port infrastructure other than ports and the national airline. The DTCA has
strengthened the capability of its Planning Division to more effectively
coordinate development of infrastructure and services in the transport
sector. DTCA has prepared a draft ten year (1979-1988) National transport
program at the request of the National Planning Council (NPC) for public



- 8 -
expenditure in PNG. The Plan also recognizes the lack of an explicit
transport policy, particularly on pricing and regulation. It recommends
corrective action and proposes that a program be drawn up for pricing and
that studies be undertaken of current regulations governing transport,
particularly the Licensing of Heavy Vehicles Act 1977 and the Merchant
Shipping (Coasting Trade) Act 1977. The Plan proposes that the two chief
objectives of government control should be safety and the avoidance of undue
wear and tear on the infrastructure. However, this plan has not as yet been
approved by the Government and the current official plan for transport is
contained in the NPEP 1980-83.
National Public Expenditure Plan 1980-1983
1.23      Transport is expected to play a substantive role to achieve
targets in three of the eight strategic areas in the NPEP:
(a) increasing rural welfare;
(b) helping less developed areas; and
(c) economic production.
TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS PROPOSED IN THE NATIONAL PUBLIC
EXPENDITURE PROGRAM 1980-1983
(K million )
1980   1981   1982   1983  Total
Total NPEP projects          117.8  119.2   89.2   73.5  399.7
Transport projects            19.8   19.2   13.7   13.4   66.1
Transport as a % of total    17%    16%    15%    18%    16%
Source: Table 5.
Transport projects comprise about 16% of the total estimated new project
expenditures for 1980-83. Transportation projects in the rural welfare
objectives have been allocated 20% of the overall budget for transport
projects; those in the less developed areas 6%; and economic production 70%.
The budget for transport is K 66.1 million (US$102.3 million) out of the
total of K 399.7 million (US$839.6 million) for the four years.]j
/1 The NPEP is updated annually and new projects are expected to
be added at each updating. The figures in Table 7 show only the amounts
for projects approved by the NEC for 1980 funding and not the projects
coming into the pipeline.



- 9 -
1.24      Six projects almost all roads comprise K 52.6 million (US$73.6 mil-
lion), about 80%, of the transport budget; with the exception of the Rural
Transport Sectoral Program (a program designed to provide provinces with
funds to extend transport services to rural areas) K 13.0 million (US$18.2
million). All these projects are for upgrading existing facilities.
Included in this is the funding for the proposed project, some K 23.5
million (US$32.9 million) or 36% of the total budget for new transport
projects in the NPEP. The largest portion is for sealing existing highways.
There are two reasons for this:
(a)  Most of the roads that fall in the access and feeder road
category will be funded out of the allocations to the provincial
governments' budgets - one exception to this is the Rural
Transport Sectoral Program for which funds will be distributed as
tied grants to provinces on a joint-funding basis for rural
transport projects expected to be mainly rural roads; and
(b)  Traffic on several existing roads is now sufficiently heavy to
justify sealing - these costs are high and will take a substan-
tial portion of the budget over the four year period 1980-83,
e.g. the proposed Third Highway Project - Kassam Pass-Daulo
Pass - will take 36% of the total budget for transport.
1.25      The thrust of the proposed investments is for the preservation and
improvement of the existing road system, largely to reduce maintenance
costs, rather than an expansion of the system. At present levels of local
contractor capacity, this program is realistic (para. 2.28). However, this
1.4% p.a. rate of growth of the road system is low, about one-half the 2.9%
rate of population growth. If the present system of transport is inadequate
for the population, the problem will be even greater in later years. The
Bank could assist in financing the expansion of the rural transport system
and this project proposes including a technical assistance component which
would inter alia, identify and prepare rural transport projects (para 3.12
and Annex 3).
2. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
2.01      The road network in PNG comprises just over 18,300 /1 km of
vehicular roads (of which 500 km are sealed), of which approximately
1,000 km are in urban areas.  Of this 18,300 km, about 5,000 km are maintained
by specific allocations from the Central Government, and the remainder are
the responsibility of the provincial and local governments. The roads are
/1 Based on the 1975 road network inventory.



- 10 -
primarily located in the areas containing the bulk of the population, that
is, in and near the main coastal towns, and in the Central Highlands.
Because of the high costs associated with the extremely mountainous terrain,
difficult soil and harsh climatic conditions, the road system is not linked
and consists of a number of regional networks.
2.02      The Government has classified the roads in three categories by
function:
(a) arterials which are highway and trunk roads, mainly servicing
regional transport numbering about 4,800 km;
(b) collectors which provide transport between main population
and/or commercial activities and connect to arterials; and
(c)  locals, which serve a local area sometimes connecting into the
collector roads. Collectors and locals number about 12,600 km.
The roads are classified into National and Provincial Roads for purposes of
administering consruction, improvement and maintenance programs. Despite
regionalization, the Central Government will continue to provide a major
portion of the funding for maintenance and construction of the road system,
through budgetary allocations to the provincial governments (paras. 2.26
and 2.30).
B. Traffic
2.03      Because of the low level of development and the concentration of
population in isolated pockets, particularly around the coast, road traffic
volumes are generally low, both for passengers and freight. Most road
traffic is short distance; long distance passenger traffic between main
centers is chiefly by air, and by sea for freight.  An important exception
is the Highlands Highway which runs for a distance of about 600 km from the
main port at Lae through Mt. Hagen to Mendi providing an essential facility
for the Central Highlands, where 40% of the population of PNG live. One
branch of this Highway connects to Wabag, the center of the important
agricultural district in the Enga Province. The Highlands Highway carries a
substantial average traffic volume in excess of 600 ADT, of which over 40%
are trucks and buses. Because of the improvements to the road there has
been a gradual shift from trucks of 5 to 7 tons capacity to 12 ton trucks
with 10 ton tailers, used particularly on the long distance runs.
Road Transport Industry
2.04      The main constraints on the development of the road transport
industry is the state of the road network consisting mainly of gravel or
earth roads, small unconnected regional networks and low population
densities (paras. 2.01 and 2.03). Another important constraint is
restrictive regulation.



- 11 -
2.05      There are no data on the number of firms providing transport
services in PNG. The industry is flexible, in that the same vehicles are
used for the carriage of passengers and freight, and there is no clear
demarcation between private and public use. Since there are few economies
of scale to be obtained from operating large numbers of trucks. the industry
is fragmented and consists mainly of one-vehicle firms. However, there are
economies in the bulking and scheduling of loads and this has led to the
emergence of firms usually controlled by expatriates that are essentially
freight forwarders.  Through its Licensing of Heavy Vehicles Act (1977) the
Government had hoped to assist indigenous vehicle owners in providing more
efficient, less costly transport. It has, however, resulted in expatriates
dominating the major long-haul market and subcontracting the peak loads to
indigenous operators. While efficiency can be said to have increased or,
at least, not diminished, the indigenous owner-operators who have invested
in the vehicles are subject to greater risks in that they are used during
the busy season and laid off when demand slackens. Further the expatriate
controlled firms give preference to their own vehicles for remumerative
return loads.
Regulation of Road Transport
2.06      Licensing of road transport in PNG is controlled by the Land Trans-
port Board, which is required under the Passenger Transport Control Board
Act (1968) to "exercise general supervision over licensing of Public Motor
Transport in Papua New Guinea in the interest of the Public, with a view to
its greater integration, safety, efficiency and economy." More importantly,
the Board, aside from examining procedures in the licensing of hire vehicles
and their accident and safety records, must also assess the supply of, and
demand for, the services of such vehicles and review the conditions of
their operation.
2.07      There is considerable question whether the board, or any delegated
body, can ascertain the effects on the "public interest" (which is not
defined) of the granting or withholding of a particular license. The board
has delegated some of its powers to the provincial authorities and transport
licensing will become a provincial government responsibility. There is no
evidence that interprovincial commercial traffic has been hindered by this
delegation. However, there is a possibility that each province could exclude
vehicles that do not bear their license thus restricting the free flow of
commerce. An assurance was obtained from the Government that it would
promote interprovincial commerce, free from undue regulatory interferences
or restrictions except for those resulting from regulations concerning safety
and damage to the system.
2.08      Under the Act the Board must also carry out the provisions of the
Licensing of Heavy Vehicles Act 1977. The Heavy Vehicles Act was discussed
with the Association prior to its passage and the Government representatives
assured the Association that the intention was not to inhibit competition
but rather to promote the sound development of an efficient and competitive
industry within certain administrative regulations. The Act favors the



- 12 -
indigenous truckers by permitting them, but not expatriates, to upgrade their
vehicle capacity. It also restricts vehicle entry by requiring new truck
owners to present a bank approved loan for their truck purchase and/or a
statement on the contracts they have obtained for haulages prior to issuing
a license. The licenses must also be reissued by the authorities every 12
months. The Act, inter alia, controls entry, routing and freight. These
controls result in public transport services that are both highly priced and
inadequate in quantity thus lending to excessive development of private
transport. The free entry system for heavy vehicles does not exist and
there appears to be only limited competition for the bulk of the cargo
moving in and out of the Highlands. As volumes grow, the transport supply
will be restrained by the number of licenses and freight charges will rise
to what the market will bear. These volumes are already being achieved
during the peak coffee season. Further, tariffs which range from 40% to
200% above resource cost, are indexed to a formula based on costs of fuel,
spares, tires, etc. The formula does not consider road improvement savings,
i. e., even if road improvements brought about a 10% reduction in costs, but
the noted costs went up 10% due to higher prices for fuel, spares, etc., the
truckers would get a tariff increase reflecting the higher costs. In
effect, road improvements would provide windfall profits to the truckers.
It is unlikely, therefore, that the users of the tranport services will
receive the benefits from the proposed improvements due to these regulations
and the price increase formula.
2.09      The DTCA is aware of the deficiencies in the existing regulations
and in its tentative transport policy paper has recommended a review of
regulations concerning the operations of carriers for hire. The purposes
of the review would be to:
(a) examine the aims of the legislation to determine whether they
are desirable not only from the standpoint of carriers or
shippers but also from the viewpoint of the consumers;
(b) ascertain whether the arrangements for implementation can be
efficiently achieved; and
(c) to decide, based on points (a) and (b) what changes (if any)
in the legislation are required.
For the project under consideration, the chief concern with respect to
deregulation is that the substantial user cost savings will not be passed
on to the farmers and consumers in the form of lower trucking rates given
the oligopolistic nature of the trucking industry. For this specific
reason and for the more general considerations that free entry will promote
additional employment as well as permit the long range development of the
trucking industry, the Government has been advised that the Bank's position
is that the trucking industry should be completely deregulated within a
reasonable time except for those regulations required in the interest of
safety and of preventing damage to the road network. During negotiations



- 13 -
the principals and timing for submission of the proposal for deregulation was
agreed between the Government and the Bank Group and an assurance was
obtained from the Government that it would submit, by June 30, 1981, a
proposal, as approved by the Bank Group, for the deregulation of the
trucking industry, to the National Executive Council (NEC) for consideration
and possible adoption.
2.10      The Land Transport Division of DTCA has been strengthened to
include a full time traffic counting unit. However, the demand for traffic
statistics outweighs the unit's ability to supply time. Most of the unit's
work is on an ad hoc basis and there is a need to increase its capacity and
equipment to carry out a careful systematic program of traffic counts for
road programs including maintenance. The project would therefore include a
technical assistance component for maintenance, and the traffic counting
equipment needed to initiate the program. An assurance was obtained from
the Government that it would, by not later than June 30, 1981, establish a
system of regular traffic counting, such system to be adequate to render
regular service to DWS, DTCA and the provincial authorities in need of it.
C. Highway Administration, Staff and Training
2.11      Under the reorganization in 1977 (para. 1.21) DTCA and the
Department of Works and Supply (DWS) were established each represented by
separate Ministers.
2.12      DTCA under the Minister for Transport and Civil Aviation is
responsible for national transport policy and planning as well as for the
administration and regulation of transport activities. Specific duties
involve the assessment of transport demand, including undertaking traffic
surveys, and preparing statistics and forecasts. DTCA is also responsible
for economic studies and the preparation of projects for funding through
NPEP. Under the present Government organization DTCA, through its Division
of Policy and Planning is specifically responsible for planning the national
road system. DTCA also advises the Government concerning national financial
assistance to rural transport development, although the provincial govern-
ments will assume responsibility for planning their road systems when they
have the capability.
2.13      DWS (Chart 2) under the Minister for Works and Supply is responsi-
ble for the technical investigation, design and construction of national
road projects as well as the maintenance of national roads. All other road
construction and maintenance activities come under the authority of the
various provincial governments and town councils although these bodies
generally engage DWS, on an agency basis, to carry out the required work.
Except for technical assistance for rural transport and procurement of
traffic counting equipment which are to be handled by DTCA, DWS will be
responsible for the execution of the project, as it was for the Second
Highlands Road Project Credit (CR677-PNG). DWS is a general purpose works
organization which deals with water supplies and sewerage, government
buildings and aerodromes, in addition to roads. It directly handles all



- 14 -
major works, both capital and recurrent, through its field organization
which consists of five Area Works Manager (AWM) offices (Port Moresby,
Madang, Lae, Rabaul and Mt. Hagen) and twenty subordinated Provincial Works
Manager (PWM) offices (one in each province).
2.14      DWS remains largely dependent on expatriate staff to fill its
technical positions; its Works Division has 154 professional posts of which
98 are filled, 86 by expatriates. The Government is continuing active
recruitment overseas, including the UK, New Zealand and Australia but since
the introduction at the beginning of 1979, of revised salary scales and
terms of contract, results have been disappointing. The deficit in skilled
personnel has been made up by short-term engagement of consultant staff for
key positions. DWS continues to pursue a comprehensive training program to
accelerate staffing with qualified nationals. However, it is acknowledged
that it will take many years to train local staff for all senior positions.
An assurance was obtained from the Government that it will continue the
existing program of road works and administration training of its DWS with
such modifications as shall be satisfactory to the Bank Group.
2.15      Through its local government branch, DWS provides an engineering
advisory service to many local government councils throughout the country.
This branch also conducts training programs for council staff which teach
the basics of low cost road construction and maintenance, bridge construc-
tion and water management.
2.16      In July 1974 the Government set up a Plant and Transport Authority
which assumed responsibility for the procurement, maintenance and operation
of all Government transport and mobile equipment. The Plant and Transport
Authority has since become the Plant and Transport Branch of DWS. There has
been considerable progress to date in the efficiency of this organization
which operates on a full cost recovery basis, charging national or
provincial clients for services provided.
2.17      The total number of staff employed by DWS is about 6,300, plus a
varying number of unskilled casual laborers. Since 1973, DWS has been
actively supporting the national apprenticeship program operated by the
Ministry of Labor and is currently the largest employer of technical man-
power in the country. In providing further assistance for staff training,
the continuing need to carry out the day-to-day responsibilities of the
department efficiently should be balanced against the desirability of
reducing the dependence on expatriate personnel as expeditiously as possible.
The present policy, which seems to be achieving this balance reasonably well
should be continued and the training element included in the project will
assist DWS to increase the number of local staff in supervisory positions in
the provincial workshops and in road maintenance operations.
2.18      DWS set up a training organization in 1973, to be mainly respon-
sible for participation in the national apprenticeship program and to
coordinate the various fellowship programs being offered to national staff



- 15 -
by the Australian Government.  Since that time the training function unit
has expanded within DWS to such an extent that it now embraces all manpower
development-related activities and is headed by an Assistant Secretary for
Staff Development and Training who is directly responsible to the Secretary
of DWS. The organization now carries out the training of:
(a)  heavy equipment maintenance mechanics at New Town Training Center
in Port Moresby;
(b)  road maintenance crews and equipment operators at the Civil
Engineering Training Center in Madang;
(c)  middle and upper management staff at DWS headquarters in Port
Moresby;
(d)  administrative and clerical staff in Port Moresby; and
(e)  accounting personnel at a small center in Lae.
In addition, the staff development and training section handles the
in-service training of the 600 or so apprentices employed in DWS as well as
the orientation work experience for newly-recruited engineers, architects
and surveyors from the Technical University in Lae. Various up-grading
training courses are also conducted on an ad hoc basis in the training
centers. Although training enjoys the full support of the DWS management
and is allocated an adequate budget, it will take a long time to produce
results which could improve the current situation. The main problems facing
the organization are:
(a)  the need to identify and train national instructors;
(b)  the need to up-date training curricula and improve the supply of
training equipment, and;
(c)  the need to introduce new courses aimed at developing supervisory
and middle-management skills of selected DWS personnel engaged in
the workshops and in road maintenance.
The training element under the project will assist the Staff Development and
Training Section of DWS to meet these objectives (para. 3.10).
D. Highway Planning
2.19      Transport planning, including highway planning,is the responsibility
of the DTCA under the Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation and is carried
out by DTCA through its Policy and Planning Division. Responsibility for co-
ordinating all economic and social planning, including transport, rests with
NPO which presents the annual investment programs to the Budget Priority
Committee (BPC). BPC reviews the program and submits the full program with



- 16 -
its recommendations to the National Planning Committee (NPC) who, in turn,
submit the program, together with their own recommendations, to the National
Executive Council (NEC). NPC and NEC review the program, giving considera-
tion to the Government's policy issues in the context of available funds.
With the receipt of a long-range commitment on aid from Australia, economic
planning is now on a rolling four-year basis. The provision of the
Australian guarantee of K 180 million (US$ 254 million) for 1979 declining
by 2% in real terms through 1981 then by 2.5% p.a., has permitted long-range
plans to be prepared in consultation with the provincial governments.
2.20      DTCA has been planning projects which are a continuation of
previous development programs, and preparing other projects of obvious high
priority. In general these are for:
(a)  connecting, with all weather roads, the major population, produc-
tion and resource areas to the ports and, in some cases, to each
other e.g., the Highlands Highway; and
(b)  gradually improving in stages, access roads to smaller
population centers and rural areas initially through the
"Rural Improvement Program" and more recently through a series
of integrated rural development programs and a rural transport
sector program.
The DTCA Policy and Planning Division carries out reconnaissance of existing
transport facilities and assesses improvements required to meet transport
demand. In addition, it incorporates into its program projects identified
by other government agencies, both central and provincial. Expenditures on
roads for the period 1968-78 and estimated expenditures for the year 1978/79
are given in Table 6.
E. Financing
2.21      Financing for the construction, improvement and maintenance of
national roads is provided through general revenues from the Government's
annual budget. In addition, provincial governments fund works on major
provincial roads through their untied grants and other internal funds or
through tied grants appropriated through the NPEP. In some provinces,
provincial governments make bulk allocations to district councils or
community governments for maintenance or improvement to minor roads.
Provincial governments have some revenue generating authority and may obtain
additional funds for road works through the levy of local taxes.
2.22      In 1979, the Government's allocation for road works was about K 30
million (US$42.3 million), which is exclusive of provincial untied grant
funds used for such activities. Of this total about K 17 million (US$24.0
million) was for capital and about K 13 million (US$18.3 million) for
maintenance works of national and some provincial roads. No figures are
available for provincial expenditures.



- 17 -
2.23      The Government's annual expenditures on roads increased substan-
tially during the period 1968/69 - 1974/75 from some K 12.0 million
(US$17.0 million) to about K 32.0 million (US$45.0 million). As a percent
of total current expenditures these expenditures have averaged about 14%
p.a. (Table 7). Since 1974/75 total expenditures on capital improvements
and maintenance have ranged from K 30.0 million (US$42.3 million) to K 36.0
million (US$50.8 million). Maintenance costs for the national system have
remained at about K 17.0 million (US$24.0 million) p.a. Although the
highway system has not increased substantially over this period, DWS reports
that maintenance costs are rising appreciably (on some sections about
K 6,000/km, US$8,500/km). This consideration and the fairly steady
expenditure pattern would indicate that some roads may not be receiving
adequate maintenance.
2.24      Revenues from the use and ownership of vehicles (road user
charges)are low and amount to less than 20% of the total national expendi-
ture on roads and about 30% of the administration and maintenance cost
(Table 8). Since the subsidy for road transport is so high, there are
questions of efficiency (overuse of underpriced goods) and diversion of
resources from the productive sectors. An assurance was obtained from the
Government that it would prepare a proposal on a general transport pricing
policy to increase transport user charges (including road user charges)
progressively to a level sufficient to cover, by December 31, 1986, the
cost of maintenance and administration of the transport infrastructure.
Further, that the Government will submit, by not later than June 30, 1981,
the above mentioned proposal to the NEC for consideration and possible
adoption and furnish to the Bank Group, by not later than December 31, 1981
evidence that the proposal had been submitted. The Government may also want
the road users to share in the cost of expanding the system which would
eventually require recovering the full cost of road services.
F. Engineering
2.25      DWS is responsible for the engineering of roadworks, and has
formulated design standards (Table 9) for various types of roads and
terrain conditions, which are currently under review. A large proportion of
design work on roads is carried out for DWS by consultants, most of whom are
subsidiaries of foreign, mainly Australian, firms. In the past two years
the Roads and Bridges Section of DWS undertook the design of some major
projects, namely the section of the Highlands Highway between Erap and
Kassam Pass (112 km), and the New Britain Highway (48 km), in addition to
other minor projects. Some minor road and bridge works are designed in AWM
offices. In general, the quality of engineering is satisfactory.
G. Construction
2.26      All major road construction works have previously been carried out
by foreign contractors, especially externally financed projects. Some road
construction works have recently been carried out by force account, namely,



- 18 -
the Poroma - Tari Road (K 7.6 million, US$10.6 million) which is being
implemented by the Australian Army, as part of the Southern Highlands Rural
Development Project (Credit 841-PNG), and some agriculture roads (K 4.0
million, US$5.6 million) in the Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development
Project (Loan 1333-PNG) which are being built with the use of labor and
plant hired under the supervision of consultant staff seconded to DWS. An
8.5 km section of the Highlands Highway near Kundiawa and some remedial
works were also built by departmental forces, and managed and supervised by
consultants, under the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project (Credit
677-PNG). After 1978, the provincial governments have employed DWS on an
agency basis either to construct, or call contracts for the construction of
provincial and village roads in all but a few provinces. Improvement of
village roads is carried out largely by manual labor but sometimes with
equipment, usually supplied by DWS, which also provides technical assistance
to the local government councils. Minor improvements to roads are usually
executed by force account on both national and provincial roads either
directly by DWS or on an agency basis for provincial governments.
2.27      Civil engineering contracts in PNG are not of a magnitude, either
in scale or frequency to support a comprehensive domestic contracting
industry. Local contracting firms can be divided into three categories:
(i) domestically owned and managed; (ii) domestically owned and managed by
expatriates; and (iii) subsidiaries of overseas contracting companies. The
firms in category (i) tender only for plant-hire contracts, while the firms
in category (ii) are able to bid for smaller civil engineering contracts.
Only firms in category (iii) would have the capacity to execute major
construction works, such as the Highlands Highway component of the project.
All contractors tendering for construction contracts are required to have
registered offices in PNG. Payments under construction contracts are made
exclusively in local currency, whether the project is externally financed or
not.
2.28      The Second Highlands Road Improvement Project (Credit 677-PNG)
includes a component providing technical assistance to domestic road con-
struction contractors. Under this component, a consultant started work in
1978. He drafted a contractor's manual and concentrated on field training
for a small number (6-8) domestic firms of category (i) which had been
identified as already owning a basic equipment fleet and having the entre-
preneurial spirit necessary for their further development. However, the
relative shortage of small civil engineering or maintenance contracts
(K500,000, US$700,000 and less), which were suitable for these contractors to
undertake, did not allow sufficient opportunity for training. DWS wishes to
promote the domestic road construction industry: however, it does not have
the authority to provide works for the domestic contractors. DWS can only
award contracts to the lowest bidder; also, because there is no agreed
criterion for identifying genuine domestic contractor versus domestic con-
tractors controlled by expatriate interests, DWS cannot select genuine domes-
tic contractors for bidding as a group. An assurance was obtained that the
Government would continue to investigate ways of promoting the domestic road
construction industry and developing experience amongst the domestic road
contractors, that it would furnish to the Bank Group by December 31, 1980,



- 19 -
a report on the status of these investigations and thereafter furnish to the
Bank Group an annual report for comments each year until 1984 on the
measures taken, if any, for the promotion of this industry.
2.29      Major construction projects which are externally financed are
usually supervised by the consultants who designed them. Otherwise
contracts are supervised from DWS Headquarters, AWM or PWM offices. The
quality of supervision is normally satisfactory.
H. Maintenance
2.30      Maintenance of national roads is carried out by DWS through its
AWM and PWM offices. So far, DWS has not established a Maintenance
Operations Section at its Headquarters. DWS has agreed to establish such a
section at its headquarters and the proposed project will provide technical
assistance to DWS for this purpose. The technical standard of maintenance
on nat _onal roads is on the whole satisfactory and the roads are being kept
passable all the year round. Emergency situations such as landslides,
culvert washouts, and bridge abutment erosion receive prompt attention.
However, the cost of road maintenance in PNG is high, due to extremely
adverse topographic and climatic conditions, and to some extent, due to the
past choice of road design standards. Most of the 5,000 km of national and
provincial roads were built in stages, some were started as tracks; and only
500 km are paved. Maintenance requirements are also increasing as a result
of traffic growth. So far, adequate funds have been provided by the Central
Government for maintenance of the national road network. However, some
minor improvement works are also being undertaken under the maintenance
program. It is understood that the Central Government intends to continue
allocating sufficient funds for maintaining national roads to a satisfactory
standard. It is also committed to a program of sealing selected roads to
reduce maintenance costs.
2.31      As mentioned above (para. 2.30), DWS has not yet established the
Maintenance Section at its Headquarters which would plan, direct and mDnitor
the road maintenance operations and their cost. Under current practice
actual maintenance expenditures are not properly monitored and verified
against budgets; they are often inflated by cost of minor new construction,
upgrading and reconstruction of roads, and are not recorded or analyzed even
on a sample basis, by road standards and conditions, or traffic levels and
composition. Lack of these data limits the scope for well-conceived
policies on maintenance spending levels, road standards and road
rehabilitation.
2.32      Maintenance of provincial and local village roads is the responsi-
bility of the provincial governments. Except for two provinces (Chimbu and
Bougainville), it is being carried out by DWS as an agent of the provincial
governments. The situation on the maintenance of provincial and local
village roads varies from province to province. Some provinces have
allocated sufficient funds for the purposes of road maintenance whilst



- 20 -
others allocate none at all and concentrate on building new roads. Thus the
standard of maintenance on provincial roads is not controlled by DWS and it
depends on the attitude of the provincial governments. The technical
assistance component under the proposed project will assist DWS and the
provincial governments to build the maintenance information system
(including cost accounting and traffic data) needed to develop a strategy
for maintenance of national, provincial and village roads.
I. Previous IDA/Bank Financed Prolects
2.33       The Bank Group's assistance in the transport sector has included
acting as executing agency for the UNDP-financed Transport survey of
1968-69, and financing the First Highway Project, the Second Highlands Road
Improvement Project, and the First and Second Port Projects. The UNDP
Transport Survey provided the framework for the subsequent reorganization of
transport administration and for the preparation of initial investment
programs. The First Highway Project was financed under Credit 204/Loan
693-PNG in 1970. It provided US$9.0 million for construction and
improvement of sections of the Highlands Highway totalling 150 km between
Kundiawa and Mendi, at the western end of the highway.  The work was
satisfactorily completed at the end of 1973, but there was a cost overrun of
about 90%, due chiefly to bid prices being 60% higher than estimated, but
also because greater than expected quantities of unsuitable soil had to be
replaced. After refusal of the Bank Group to provide supplementary finance,
the overrun was financed by the Government. The Project Performance Audit
Report of June 16, 1977, finds that (a) the Bank Group's refusal to provide
supplementary finance was unnecessarily harsh and; (ii) international
competitive bidding under the conditions prevailing in PNG during 1970 may
have contributed to cost escalation. Lessons learned from these main
findings led to arrangements during processing of the Second Highlands Road
Improvement Project which enabled bids to be received prior to negotiating
the credit, and also included execution of about 30% of the work by force
account. Finally, the audit concludes that the Bank should further
investigate the effects of the road works on the transport industry because
the inward-outward trade imbalance and back haulage arrangements distort the
competitive basis which may give larger firms an advantage.
2.34       The Second Highlands Road Improvement Project is financed under
Credit 677-PNG of January 25, 1977. The credit provides US$19.0 million for
construction and improvement of 68 km of the Highlands Highway between Asaro
and Garnigl, road engineering and feasibility studies, rural development
studies, and assistance to domestic contractors. The Government originally
proposed that the project include improvement and paving of all the 302 km
length of the Highlands Highway between Kassam and Togoba and this was
included in the appraisal in 1974. However, it was agreed that before
negotiating the credit, bids would be obtained for the works. When bids
were received in March 1975 they were found to exceed the cost estimates by
75%, and re-bidding in July 1975 failed to obtain lower prices. The



- 21 -
Government rejected the bids and decided, in consultation with the
Association in Mlarch 1976, to re-formulate a reduced project to cover
initially only the most urgent section, as described above.   It was agreed
also that new bids should be obtained before negotiating the credit for
about 50% of the works, including the most difficult sections near Kundiawa
and Asaro. Accordingly, after new international advertisement and prequali-
fication of contractors, the Government received bids in October 1976, which
were about 10% lower than those received in 1975 and were considered reason-
able. In addition, it was agreed that about 30% of the works would be
carried out by department forces under a management team provided by
consultants. The implementation of the project, which is now about 65%
complete, is proceeding satisfactorily and is expected to be completed in
August 1981. During the time of tendering for the First and Second Highway
Projects, PNG was a new, high risk market to international contractors who
priced their bids accordingly. Also, DWS had little experience in tendering
and cost estimating at that time.
2.35       The First Port Project in 1972 (Credit 326-PNG) provided US$9.2
million for improvements at the ports of Kieta, Lae and Port Moresby and for a
new overseas port at Alotau. Work on the First Port Project was satisfac-
torily completed at the end of 1976, except for a barge ramp at Alotau and
additional work at Kieta and Port Moresby. The Association agreed to this
additional work after the original works had been substantially completed at a
significant cost saving. The work was completed in July 1977, and included
reclamation of additional land at Port Moresby to increase the land available
for stacking the growing number of containers. PNGHB's performance has been
satisfactory; however, it has not met the full requirements of the covenant in
the Project Agreement for Credit 326-PNG which required the completion of a
costing study which is now being undertaken, and in addition has not achieved
the required 8% rate of return on net fixed assets because the tariff
adjustment was insufficient to keep pace with increased operating costs.
2.36       The Second Port Project (LN1551-PNG) of April 18, 1978, provides
US$3.5 million for port development. The Kuwait Fund is also providing
US$3.5 million. The project comprises a new container berth at Port Moresby
with additional stacking area, dredging alongside the berth, an improved
container freight station and improvement of an access road, also a coastal
berth at Samari, 3 pilotage launches, and consulting services and technical
assistance.
2.37      Work on the new container berth is proceeding satisfactorily and
will be completed by May 1980. The contractor, Pearson Bridge (NSW) Pty.
Ltd. (Australia), submitted the lowest bid amounting to K 4.8 million
(US$6.8 million); the number of firms prequalified was 23 and 11 tenders were
received. Final cost of the works is currently estimated to be K 5.3 million
(US$7.5 million) including variation of contract items of about K 0.6 million
(US$0.9 million) and escalation costs of some K 0.25 million (US$0.35 mil-
lion). One of the pilot boats has been delivered under a contract let to a
local firm, the lowest bidder of a number of international tenders received.
A tender has been let for the work at Samari.



- 22 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Description
Project Objectives
3.01      The first and main objective of the project is to promote further
development of the Central Highlands region. It will do this by assisting
the Government in completing its program to improve and pave the lifeline of
the region which is the Highlands Highway, from the main port of Lae through
the region up to Togoba. Second, the project will help strengthen central
and provincial governments by assistance in formulating a strategy for
maintenance of national, provincial and village roads; and third, by
assistance in budgeting, planning and project identification, preparation
and implementation at the provincial level.
3.02      A section of the Highlands Highway will be improved between Kassam
Pass and Daulo Pass (137 km). This section is presently of low gravel
standard, steep and subject to slides causing interruption to traffic. The
works, which will complete the improvement and paving of this section will
allow heavy vehicles to operate faster on paved surfaces and thus further
reduce transport costs. The section of the highway between Lae and Kassam
Pass is being reconstructed, and parts of the other section from Daulo Pass
to Togoba have already been paved or are now being improved, except for two
short stretches which are scheduled for sealing in 1980/81. Thus, the
improvement of the Kassam Pass to Daulo Pass section will complete the
sealing of the highway from Lae up to Togoba (475 km).
3.03      In line with the national development strategy with its focus on
rural developmenit, the project will also assist at national and provincial
levels to improve road maintenance throughout the country by introducing
new organization methods and intensifying training. The project's assis-
tance in strengthening the existing training will help the provincial
governments, in line with political decentralization, to improve the quality
of their staff. While shortage of trained and experienced staff is one of
the main problems facing the provincial governments, another problem is
their need to develop the capability for budgeting, planning, and identify-
ing and preparing projects. To assist in this the project will provide
technical assistance for rural transport and funds for simplified
engineering and rural roads.
Project Scope
3.04      The project consists of:
(a) improvement and paving of the Highlands Highway section between
Kassam Pass and Daulo Pass (137 km), including supervision of the
work by consultants, technical assistance to DWS in contract
management and training of PNG engineers on the works;
(b) improvement to road maintenance, including technical assistance
training of DWS and provincial government staff;



- 23 -
(c) improvement to rural transport, including technical assistance and
engineering of priority roads;
(d) engineering of the Togoba-Wapenamanda road; and
(e) procurement of traffic counting equipment.
Improvement and Paving
3.05      The Highlands Highway and the work to be carried out under the
project are described in detail in Annex 1. The highway descends from the
top of Kassam Pass (elevation 1,485 m) through mountainous and hilly terrain
into the open grasslands of the Ramu River valley (elevation 1,250 m),
climbs a mountain ridge up to a maximum elevation of 1,910 m, and then
descends again through hilly terrain to cross the Asaro River, ending at
elevation 1,540 m near the foot of Daulo Pass. Much of the region through
which the road passes is geologically young and movement of the existing
ground is still taking place. In several areas the road crosses steep
slopes which are subject to land slides. The existing road has a gravel
carriageway 5.0 to 6.0 m wide and its horizontal alignment is fair,
considering the difficult terrain it passes through in some stretches. In
the mountains, steep gradients of up to 15% are quite frequent and the
existing drainage facilities are poor. From the Kassam Pass to Daulo Pass
the road crosses 32 single-lane bridges in varying conditions.
3.06      The proposed works consist of improvements to the existing road
to DWS Rural Road One Design Standard (Table 9) and of paving a 6.5 m
carriageway with 0.5 m shoulder on both sides. The proposed horizontal
alignment will accommodate design speeds of 60 km/hour for flat/rolling
terrain, reduced to 50 km/hour in hilly terrain and 30 km/hour in the
mountains. The new center-line will follow essentially the existing
alignment except for a few minor realignments, mainly at bridge crossings.
The carriageway will have double bituminous surface treatment while the
shoulder will be provided with a single coat.  Of' the 32 existing.,
single-lane bridges on the highway, eight bridges, which are in poor
condition and unsuitable for repairs, will be replaced by new two-lane
structures, while the other structures will be repaired.
3.07      Detailed engineering for the Highlands Highway section between
Kassam Pass to Daulo Pass was originally prepared in 1974 when consultants
Valentine, Laurie and Davies (Australia) carried out the engineering for the
whole stretch between Waterais and Togoba under the Second Highlands Road
Improvement Project (Credit 677-PNG). Because of insufficient field survey,
this original engineering work has been of use only as preliminary engineer-
ing. Therefore, in 1979 the Government engaged local consultants Cardno and
Davies, PNG, Pty, Ltd., in association with Scott, Wilson and Kirtpatrick &
Partners, UK, to complete the engineering for the Kassam Pass to Daulo Pass
section in greater detail. This work, funded by the Government, is now
completed.



- 24 -
3.08      The project provides for consulting services to supervise the
improvement and paving works and the Government intends to engage the same
consultants, Scott, Wilson and Kirkpatrick & Partners, UK, as principal
partners in association with Cardno and Davies, PNG, Pty, Ltd., to carry it
out. The project also provides for specialized consulting services (claims
evaluation, etc.) of up to six man-months to assist DWS in contract
management. Furthermore, this component will provide for training of PNG
engineers on the contractors' site. It is envisaged that four or five PNG
engineers, employed by DWS, would be placed in the supervising team to
receive training on the works, under guidance of the consultants.
Improvement to Road Maintenance, including Technical Assistance and
Training of DWS and Provincial Government Staff
3.09      Technical assistance by consultants will be provided to DWS and
provincial governments to help improve the efficiency of road maintenance
operations. The consultant will provide two road maintenance engineers to
assist DWS in establishing a Maintenance Operations Section at its Headquar-
ters. After a review of the current status of DWS and provincial govern-
ments' maintenance operations, the road maintenance engineers will prepare
proposals for improvement in planning, programming, executing, monitoring
and cost accounting of the operations. Later, they will assist and
supervise the implementation of their proposals.
3.10      In addition, the consulting services under the project will
provide for two training officers, one in the field of heavy equipment
maintenance in provincial workshops, and one in road maintenance and
equipment operation. The former will be based at the Mechanical Maintenance
Training Center in Port Moresby, but will be responsible for the training,
both in the Center and in the workshops, of experienced local staff in
workshop organization and management, and in workshop preventive maintenance
systems. The second training officer will be based at the Civil Engineering
Training Center in Madang and will be responsible for preparing supervisory
and middle-management training programs aimed at upgrading more local staff
to foremen and road maintenance supervision levels.
3.11      Funds are also included in the project to enable DWS to procure
much needed training aids and equipment for the Port Moresby training
center. It is envisaged that consultant services will total 140 man-months
over a period of four years. Outline terms of reference for these services
are given in Annex 2.
Improvement to Rural Transport including Technical Assistance to
Provincial Governments and Engineering of Priority Roads
3.12      The project includes a component for technical assistance for rural
transport, to be carried out by consultants, to assist about four to six pro-
vincial governments in the preparation of future transport projects. The
effort is intended to: (i) assist the provincial governments in developing a



- 25 -
process for screening transport infrastructure projects based on development
potential and (ii) meet an urgent priority of the provincial governments to
develop the capacity for planning and project identification, preparation and
execution. One purpose of technical assistance will be to help determine the
feasibility of using staged transport, initially aircraft and/or coastal
shipping, to develop isolated areas with economic potential prior to
instituting road programs. It will also assess the feasibility of initiating
road programs in those areas of high potential. Outline terms of reference
for the technical assistance are given in Annex 3. This component also
provides for simplified engineering of some 300 km of high priority rural
roads which will be executed by DWS with the use of local consultants.
Engineering of the Togoba-Wapenamanda Road
3.13      Funds for the study and design of the Togoba-Wapenamanda Road
(67 km) were included in the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project
(Credit 677-PNG). Due to the cost overrun of that project, the Government has
requested that the Bank Group finance the engineering of this road in the
proposed project. The feasibility study has shown that the road, which
provides the main access to the Enga province, is justified with an economic
rate of return of 16% based on preliminary engineering. The Government is
willing to seek other external financing for construction of this road, if the
Bank Group does not include it in the proposed Enga Rural Development Project,
but would like to have the engineering prepared.
Procurement of Traffic Counting Equipment
3.14      The project will also provide for procurement of 24 traffic
counters.
B. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
3.15      The cost of the project, including contingency allowances, is
estimated at about US$42.4 million. The foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at about US$30.1 million or about 71%.  Estimated costs are shown in
Table 10 and are summarized on page 26. The estimated average per kilometer
costs (including physical contingency) of the improvement and paving works
on the Highlands Highway are US$214,000 at March 1980 prices and US$257,000,
taking into account price escalation during the contract period. These
costs do not include the costs of supervising the work and training PNG
engineers on the site, which represent 8.5% of construction costs and are
reasonable. A total of 430 man-months is estimated for supervision, with an
average cost per man-month of about US$5,300 excluding contingency allowances.
This man-month cost includes salaries, social costs, firm's overhead and
profit, subsistence and other allowances, and reimbursable items such as
international travel. In addition, another six man-months are provided in the
cost of supervision for assistance to DWS in contract management, at about
US$10,000 per man-month plus travel.



- 26 -
COST ESTIMATE /a
Kina (million)                US$ (million)          % Foreign
Project item                 Foreign   Local    Total   Foreign   Local         Total  component
A. Improvement and paving
of Highlands Highway
between Kassam and
Daulo Pass (137km)        13.230    5.670   18.900    18.654    7.995   26.649    70
B. Supervision of A /b
including Assistance
in Contract Manage-
ment and Training          1.327    0.332    1.659       1.872    0.467    2.339    80
C. Technical Assistance
for Maintenance and
Training                   0.680    0.170    0.850       0.959    0.240    1.199    80
D. Technical Assistance for
Rural Transport and
Road Engineering           0.590    0.160    0.750       0.831    0.227    1.058    80
E. Engineering of Togoba-
Wappenamanda Road          0.400    0.100    0.500       0.564    0.141    0.705    80
F. Traffic Counting
Equipment                  0.050    -         0.050      0.071    -         0.071   100
Subtotal A-F              16.277    6.432   22.709    22.951    9.070   32.021    72
G. Contingency Allowances:
a) Physical /c             1.628    0.643    2.271       2.295    0.907    3.202    72
b) Price I4                3.424    1.378    4.802       4.829    1.944    6.773    71
Subtotal C                 5.052    2.021    7.073       7.124    2.851    9.975    71
TOTAL COST OF WORKS       21.329    8.453   29.782    30.075   11.921   41.996    72
H. Land Acquisition          -          0.300    0.300    -           0.423    0.423      0
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT   21.329    8.753   30.082    30.075   12.344   42.419    71
/a  Prices as at March 1, 1980.
lb 8.5% of Item A and Assistance and Training.
/c 10% on all Items.
/d Price increases on Items A, B, C and part of D with physical contingencies estimated
rate of 10.5% for 1980; 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982, 7% for 1983 and onwards.
/e Kina 1.00 = US$1.41.



- 27 -
3.16      Cost estimates for the improvement and paving works on the Highlands
Highway are based on the lowest evaluated bid in an international competitive
tender, submitted by a prequalified contractor, Dillingham Corporation of New
Guinea, Pty, Ltd. (PNG and Australia). This lowest evaluated bid is about 1%
higher than the appraisal cost estimates, and is reasonable.
3.17      The cost estimates for technical assistance for road maintenance and
training are based on a forecast of about 140 man-months required to carry out
the work, an average cost of about US$8,000 per man-month (excluding contin-
gency allowances), and on the cost of similar services carried out on other
Bank projects. A sum of about US$71,000 is provided for procurement of
training aids and equipment.
3.18      The cost estimates for the technical assistance for rural transport
are based on the cost of similar consultants' services provided under the
Bank's projects in other countries; a total of 50 man-months has been
estimated, and a cost of about US$9,200 per man-month (excluding contingency
allowances). The cost estimates for simplified engineering of about 300 km of
rural roads are based on an average per km cost of US$2,000 (excluding
allowances).
3.19      The above man-month costs include salaries, social costs, firm's
overhead and profit, subsistence and other allowances, and reimbursable
items such as international travel.
3.20      The cost estimates for the engineering of the Togoba-Wapenamanda
road (67 km) are based on the cost of similar consultant's services in
PNG; the cost estimates average about US$10,500 per km (excluding contin-
gencies) and are reasonable.
3.21      The cost estimates for traffic counting equipment provide for
procurement of 24 traffic counters at an average cost of about US$3,000
each.
3.22      The consultants Cardno & Davies, PNG Pty, Ltd., and Scott, Wilson
and Kirkpatrick & Partners estimate that the foreign exchange component for
the improvement and paving works on the Highlands Highway is about 70%, if
carried out by international contractor. The foreign exchange component of
the consulting services is estimated at 80%, based on experience in recent
contracts with consulting firms. The cost of procurement of imported
equipment, materials, vehicles and spares is estimated to be 100% in foreign
exchange, or 65% of the total expenditures for item procured locally.
C. Financing
3.23      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$42.4 mil-
lion. The foreign exchange component of the project, estimated to be about
US$30.1 million, is to be financed, up to a total of US$30.0 million, by a



- 28 -
credit of US$13.0 million and a loan of US$17.0 million. The remaining
project cost of about US$12.4 million will be financed by the Government. The
Government has promptly provided the funds needed for expenditures under the
First Highway Project and the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project. The
implementation of the project works is scheduled to start by mid-1980, for
which an allocation of Government budgetary funds of about K 5.0 million
(US$7.0 million) is needed. At present, the Government has only allocated K
0.5 million (US$0.7 million) for the project in its NPEP budget for 1980. The
matter was discussed with the Government and an assurance was given that a
necessary increase in the allocation would be made by mid-1980.
D. Implementation, Procurement and Environmental Aspects
3.24      DWS will be responsible for the execution of the project, with the
exception of the technical assistance for rural transport and procurement of
the traffic counting equipment which the DTCA will handle. Consultants will
assist DWS in supervising the improvement and paving works on the Highlands
Highway, in providing technical assistance and training in maintenance, in
executing the rural road engineering, and in carrying out engineering of the
Togoba-Wapenamanda road. Consultants will also assist DTCA in providing
technical assistance to provincial governments for rural transport. The
equipment, materials, vehicles and spares (about US$71,000 before contin-
gencies) will be procured by international shopping following the Bank Group's
guidelines or, in the case of small items whose value is less than US$10,000
each, by local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. Domestic
manufacturers for the purposes of bid evaluation will be given a preference of
15% of the c.i.f. price or the customs, duties and tax prices, whichever is
less.
3.25      The improvement and paving works on the Highlands Highway will be
carried out through a single contract to be awarded after international
tendering. The Government completed, after international advertising, the
prequalification of contractors for the works; 12 contractors from 9 countries
were prequalified. The Government called tenders on December 3,1979, and
opened them on February 29, 1980; five contractors submitted competitive bids
which remain valid until May 30, 1980. The Government expects to award the
contract to the lowest evaluated bidder, Dillingham Corporation of New Guinea
Pty, Ltd. in late May 1980; the contract award will be made subject to the
approval of the proposed loan and credit by the Bank Group Board of Executive
Directors. The works are scheduled to start in June 1980, and would last for
three years. The project also provides for training of PNG engineers who will
be attached to the consultants' supervising team on the works.
3.26       The Government has already acquired the land for the right of way
in varying widths from 20 m to 40 m, and DWS prepared a report on the current
status of land acquisition in view of the new requirements. It has been
agreed that the Government will take the necessary steps to complete the



- 29 -
land acquisition in time prior to awarding the contract. The Government
confirmed at negotiations that necessary arrangements to acquire the land
needed were well under way.
3.27      A project implementation schedule (Table 11) has been agreed with
the Government. Procedures for reporting progress will be similar those
used for the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project (Credit 677-PNG).
3.28       In executing the construction, the contractor is free to choose
his own methods, including the most economical use of mechanical equipment
and labor, subject to his work complying with the technical specifications.
It would be impracticable to stipulate that contractor should carry out the
work largely by labor because of the relative shortage of construction labor
in the area, and because it would be technically difficult to achieve
satisfactory quality. Also,the works would take much longer to complete and
cost would be greatly increased. Nevertheless, it is expected that the
works will give direct employment, on average, to about 500 workers over a
period of 36 months.
3.29      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
ecological effects. Care has been taken in the design to minimize the risk
of slips by avoiding unstable soil areas as far as practicable, and by
providing adequate drainage. Paving the road will of course eliminate the
present danger and nuisances caused by dust, slippery and muddy surfaces.
E. Disbursements
3.30      Disbursements from the loan/credit will disburse the credit first,
and the loan will follow. Disbursements will be against normal document-
ation on the basis of: (i) 70% of the total cost of improvement and paving
works; (ii) 80% of the cost of consultants'services; and (iii) (a) 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of the imported equipment, materials, vehicles and
spares and (b) 65% of total expenditures for items procured locally. On
that basis, and on the schedule for execution of the project (para. 3.25), a
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements has been prepared (Table 12); this was
reviewed with the Government during negotiations. The quantities of work
performed by the contractor will be measured monthly and certified by the
supervising consultant. Payments will be subject to internal audit by the
DWS and to audit by the Government Auditor-General's Office.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01       The Central Highlands Region has a mild climate (ecologically
having close affinities to the temperate rain forests of Australia),
relatively fertile soils which are suitable for growing coffee, tea,



- 30 -
tobacco, and other upland crops such as pyrethrum (an insecticide),
vegetables and fruits and extensive grasslands suitable for livestock
raising. Having been opened up to the outside world only a generation or so
ago, the region is just beginning to be developed.
4.02      The region's development has been hampered by, among other
factors, the difficult conditions for providing transport. The main
corridor of the Highlands is now served by the Highlands Highway, the most
important and most heavily trafficked road in the region. The proposed
project will provide a paved road from Lae, the major seaport, through to
Garnigl less than 90 km from Mt. Hagen, the entrepot for the Highlands area
and will permit a reduction in vehicle operating costs, particularly for
heavy trucks.
B. Development Potential and Traffic
Development Potential
4.03      The majority of the people in the Central Highlands Region are
engaged in subsistence agriculture. The major commercial production is
coffee and tea and, recently, helped through past transport improvements,
has extended to cattle and minor crops, mainly vegetables and pyrethrum.
The people have been responsive to cash cropping and the region has
potential to expand productive activities but this is, however, constrained
by the following:
(a) disregard of local population for cash. Since the basic needs of
the people are obtained through subsistence agriculture, cash is
required mainly to fill a specific, usually social, objective and
with the exception of some demand for substitute staples, i.e.,
rice, is not required to maintain their normal consumption
patterns;
(b) limited extension services, particularly for the main crop,
coffee. Although the Government has undertaken a training program
for additional services, it will be some years before the results
will be seen in increased production;
(c) the land tenure problem. Land ownership is complicated due to the
concept of communal ownership and lack of surveys and arable land
may lie fallow because there is a jurisdictional dispute over
ownership or the owners simply have no incentive to cultivate the
land; and
(d) low population in some potentially productive areas (cultivable
land remains uninhabited due to severe endemic malarial
conditions).



- 31 -
The nature of these problems suggest that incentives for development
should consider needs not necessarily directly related to economic
production. The proposed Technical Assistance for Rural Transport will
consider these factors (Annex 3).
4.04      The Government has done much to encourage increased agricultural
production particularly in the provision of infrastructure. Through
improved communications additional assistance has been given by increasing
extension services. As noted above, the people are responsive to cash
cropping. This can be seen by comparing the production figures by
indigenous and nonindigenous growers for coffee between 1965 and 1977:
PRODUCTION OF COFFEE IN THE HIGHLANDS BY INDIGENOUS
AND NONINDIGENOUS GROWERS VERSUS TOTAL PRODUCTION
Year       Indigenous   Nonindigenous   Total production
(Tons)
1965         4,718          3,087               9,143
1972        17,287          7,641              29,015
1977        21,652          9,532              37,188
(p.a. growth rate)
1965-77         14%          10%                 12%
1965-72         20%          14%                 18%
1972-77          5%           4%                  5%
Source:  Bureau of Statistics, Rural Industries
Publications 1965, 1972, 1977 and mission
estimates.
4.05      The Highlands Highway has had an important impact on the
development of the region.  Although tll initial inducement to cash cropping
in the Highlands was civil aviation, the building of the Highway has acted
as a catalyst to promote increased development through better communications
among the growers and potential growers and less costly access to markets
and easier access to extension services. As noted in the table in para.
4.04, the rate of growth of coffee production declined substantially between
1972 and 1977. A major reason for this was that PNG was reaching its coffee
quota limit and the Government simply stopped its extension services to the
area. However, there are some indications that the population is reaching a
balance in the provision of labor for subsistence and cash cropping. The
proportion of the economically active population available for cash cropping
appears to be diminishing and large increases in production due to expansion
of the area under coffee production are unlikely. If more people were made



- 32 -
available for cash cropping it would probably mean a reduction in traditional
farming and an increase in import substitutes. Improvements to the Highway
itself will lead to some production increases even without the Government
taking complementary actions to promote additional development. The studies
financed under the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project in the Enga and
Chimbu provinces did address the question of development potential. The
initial findings (the Enga study is not yet completed) indicate that
positive, though limited, increases in production are possible, e.g., better
husbandry, i.e., provision of increased extension services, would increase
production of the cash crops in the region by about 10% p.a. According to
the studies, small-scale industries are possible, but the markets for such
industry are limited and the costs may outweigh the benefits. The
conclusion to date is that the present production base, i.e., agriculture,
will remain the most important regional income earner for some time.
4.06      The importance of coffee to the regional economy can be seen by
the decline in the proportion of government expenditures to total regional
income from 1965 to 1917. In 1965, government expenditures accounted for
52% of total regional income. In 1977, government expenditures were only
29% of total regional income supplanted largely by the increase in coffee
production. Income in the Highlands is dominated by agriculture and within
the agricultural sector coffee is by far the most important cash crop. In
1965, in constant prices, coffee contributed 86% of the total agricultural
output of K 7.1 million (US$10.0). Further, of the major income generators,
forestry, manufacturing and agriculture, agriculture accounted for 83% of
income generated. Thus coffee contributed 73% of the main sources of income
in 1965. In 1977 the equivalent figure was 77%, with tea, which was
introduced into the region between 1965 and 1977, amounting to 7%. Thus,
growth of income through 1984 based on coffee production is estimated to be
between 5 and 7% p.a.
Traffic
4.07      Due to the lack of consistent traffic counts it is not possible to
give precise trends in growth rates for traffic on the Highway. The data
which are available show that traffic on the Highway has been growing from
10% p.a. to 30% p.a. and on some sections over 35% p.a. These figures are
not unrealistic considering the low initial levels of traffic and the
high growth rates of coffee production (para. 4.04).
4.08      The low level of development and the dependence on imports are
reflected in the Imbalance of cargo movements between the port of Lae and
the Central Highlands, i.e. more inbound traffic than outbound. Based on
estimates from data collected at the Lae station weigh bridge, imports are
about four times as much in volume as exports. The capacity demand for
transport will probably be controlled by inbound movements for some time.
As evidenced by increasing incomes in the Highlands area and the lack of
consumer-oriented production in the area, it is likely that import volumes
will continue to grow, at least in the immediate future. The growth in



- 33 -
traffic will therefore be directly related to increases in income to pay for
the imports and the increases will largely be due to largest export earner,
coffee, estimated to grow from 5% to 7% p.a.
4.09       1979 traffic volumes on the project section ranged between some
370 to 1,000 vehicles per day (ADT). The proportion of bus and heavy truck
traffic varies between 30% and 50%, with an actual average for the four
segments of 40%. Based on regional growth (expected to average 3% to 3.5%
p.a.), growth in coffee production and the available traffic statistics it
is likely that traffic will grow about 7% p.a. over the next several years
declining to about 5% p.a. as more processing is undertaken in the
Highlands. The traffic growth rates for the Highway were estimated for the
period 1984-1987 to be 7% and declining to 5% beginning in 1988 through the
useful life of the proposed improvements (20 years) (Table 13).
C. Benefits of the Project
4.10       The immediate effect of the proposed project will be to lower
transport costs by reducing vehicle operating costs for vehicle operators on
the road and reducing the now very high road maintenance costs. Since the
proposed investment is for the improvement of an existing road, there is
little likelihood that there would be substantial generated traffic. Also,
since the present road tariffs, even under existing conditions, are
substantially lower than the alternative, civil aviation, no diverted
traffic is expected. Under the conditions prevailing in the road transport
industry, there is some question whether the vehicle operating cost savings
will be passed on to farmers and other users in the form of reduced
transport rates (para. 2.08). Should the relaxation of these regulations
increase competitiveness, then the expected benefits of the services would
accrue to the users, such as subsistence farmers with smallholdings in cash
crops, and consumers, either through reduced tariffs or by retaining present
tariffs for a longer time during a Deriod of inflation. The benefits in the
reduction of maintenance costs would result in either additional funds for
road maintenance or additional funds to general revenue.
4.11       Vehicle operating costs (VOC) and, hence, savings, were estimated
by consultants (Rendel Economics, Australia) to Government using the
Transport and Road Research Laboratory, UK, approach and compared with
actual vehicle behavior on the Highway. The VOC from the change from a
gravel (the present condition) to a bitumen road (the proposed condition)
are summarized below:



- 34 -
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS ON GRAVEL AND BITUMEN ROADS
(Kina/km)
Small         Medium          Heavy
Motor car    commercial    commercial    commercial         Bus
Gravel           0.1040         0.2110         0.4300         0.8202       0.6487
Bitumen          0.0792         0.1605         0.3473          0.6962      0.5805
VOC saving       0.0248         0.0505         0.0827          0.1240      0.0682
Source:  Department of Transport and Civil Aviation, Tables 14 and 15.
Commercial vehicles range from 50% to 60% of the total traffic on the dif-
ferent sections of the road. The small commercials are light four-wheel
drive vehicles carrying up to one ton. The medium commercials are light
trucks with a cargo capacity up to 6 tons. The heavy commercials are all
heavy trucks over 6 tons, including semi-trailers. The average capacity for
these latter vehicles was estimated by the consultants to be about 10 tons.
Although the sensitivity of maintenance cost savings to the economic return
for the proposed investment is negligible (see below), the concern of the
Government over the prevailing high cost of maintenance is considerable.
Present maintenance costs on the sections proposed for improvement are
estimated by DWS to be about K 6,000/km (US$8,400/km)./L As traffic grows
these costs are estimated to increase to about K 8,600/km (US$12,040/km) by
1984 and K 13,400 with the proposed improvements, maintenance costs should
average K 2,000/km (US$2,800/km). The Government is rightly concerned since
its proposed plan for sector expenditures allocates about K 15.0 million
(US$21.0 million) for maintenance in 1984 for all 5,000 km under its
responsibility. The sections of the Highway to be improved under the
project represent some 3% of the system being maintained by the Central
Government and would take about 10% of the 1984 allocation if not remedied.
Based on the vehicle operating cost savings and maintenance cost savings,
the average economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 18% with the
ERR for individual sections ranging from 21% to 14% (Table 16).  This ERR is
based on the most cost effective investment, since the improvements proposed
by DWS are the effective minimum required to carry the existing and future
traffic and no reduction in costs are sensibly possible. Further, given the
Government's budget limitation, it is not practical to consider improvements
which are more extensive than proposed.
LI  The precise cost is difficult to ascertain due to the lack of cost data
by different types of operations, i.e. rehabilitation, routine and
periodic maintenance.



- 35 -
4.12      The calculated ERR was tested for its sensitivity to variations in
costs and benefits. A 20% increase in costs decreased the ERR to 16%. The
elimination of maintenance cost savings decreased the ERR to 15% (Table 17).
The results of these sensitivity analysis indicate that the risk is
minimal in that neither overall cost increases nor benefit decreases
has an impact on the ERR that would put into question the proposed
improvements to the Highway.
4.13      While the benefit estimates, based on transport cost savings alone
for normal traffic only and maintenance cost savings, undervalue the full
extent of the benefits in that marginal increases in production of each
crop will likely occur as well as other changes in the level and structure
of regional activities which are expected to be positive but are not
possible to quantify, these estimates do illustrate the economic viability
of the investment. Furthermore, the improvement of existing transport
facilities normally lead to some production increases even without other
government measures and the proposed improvement is therefore consistent
with the Government's aim of increasing economic production as well as
aiding rural welfare by improving communications.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
it shall:
(a) continue its review of the civil aviation system and Inform the Bank
Group by June 30, 1981 of proposed measures, if any, to increase
competition (para. 1.17);
(b) continue its review of the coastal and intercoastal shipping regula-
tions, especially those covering trading licenses, and inform the
Bank Group by June 30, 1981, of proposed measures to deregulate this
industry (para. 1.20);
(c) promote interprovincial commerce, free from undue regulatory inter-
ferences or restrictions except for those resulting from regulations
concerning safety and damage to the system (para. 2.07);
(d) submit by June 30, 1981, a proposal as approved by the Bank Group,
for the deregulation of the trucking industry, to the National
Executive Council (NEC) based on the principals and time agreed
during negotiations for the NEC's consideration and possible adop-
tion (para. 2.09);
(e) establish by June 30, 1981, a system of regular traffic counting,
such system to be adequate to render regular service to DWS, DTCA
and the provincial authorities in needs of it (para. 2.10);



- 36 -
(f) continue the existing program of road works and administration
training of its DWS with such modification as shall be satisfactory
to the Bank Group (para. 2.14);
(g) submit to NEC, by June 30, 1981, a proposal on a general transport
pricing policy to increase transport user charges progressively to a
level sufficient to cover, by December 31, 1986, the cost of mainte-
nance and administration of transport infrastructure, and further,
submit to the Bank Group, by December 31, 1981, evidence that the
proposal had been submitted (para. 2.24); and
(h) continue to investigate ways of promoting the domestic road con-
struction industry and developing experience among the domestic road
contractors; furnish to the Bank Group by December 31, 1980, a
report on the status of these investigations and thereafter
furnish to the Bank Group an annual report for comments each year
until 1984 on the measures taken, if any, for the promotion of
this industry (para. 2.28).
With the above assurances the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$17.0 million for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
and for an IDA credit of US$13.0 million for a period of 50 years, including a
grace period of 10 years.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Highlands Highway Section
Between Kassam Pass and Daulo Pass
To be Improved and Paved
General
1.        The Highlands Highway extends for about 600 km from the port of Lae
to Mendi via Waterais, Goroka, Kundiawa, Mount Hagen and Togoba. It is the
only means of transport, apart from air transport, for the entire Central
Highlands Region. The highway has been gradually upgraded since World War II
from a primitive track, but is still inadequate for some of its length.
2.        The Government's Seven-Year Road Program (1976-82) includes improv-
ing and paving the Highlands Highway from Lae through the Central Highlands
Region up to Togoba, a total length of 475 km. The existing road between the
port of Lae has a bituminous pavement up to Erap (16 km). The next section
between Erap and the start of Kassam Pass (112 km) is under reconstruction
with ADB financing; it is being improved to bituminous standard with a 6.5 m
carriageway and shoulder 1.5 m on both sides. The contract works are now
about 50% complete and are scheduled to be finished in 1981. The section
through Kassam Pass (10 km) is paved and its condition is satisfactory.  The
following section is that between the end of Kassam Pass, via Henganoffi
and Goroka to Daulo Pass; the length of the existing road is 143 km of which
137 km will be improved and paved under the proposed project. In the next
stretch between Daulo Pass (Asaro) and Garnigl (83 km), the current Second
Highlands Road Improvement Project (Cr. 677-PNG) provides for construction
and improvement of 68 km of the existing road; a short section between
Watabung and Chuave (15 km) is scheduled for improvement by departmental
forces in 1981 for which DWS is preparing the detailed engineering. From
Garnigl the highway is paved up to Togoba (111 km), except for a short
section between Minj and Kudjip (13 km) which is to be sealed by DWS forces
in 1980. Thus, the improvement and paving under the proposed project of the
section from the Kassam Pass to Daulo Pass section will complete paving of
the Highlands Highway from Lae up to Togoba.
3.      Under the First Highway Project (CR204/LN93-PNG), three sections
totalling 150 km were reconstructed between Kundiawa and Mendi: (i) Kundi-
awa-Minj; (ii) Kudjip-Mount Hagen-Togoba; and (iii) Kaupena-Assissi. The
Government improved the remainder of the road between Mendi and Togoba from
its own resources. All these sections received a gravel surface except for
7 km of bituminous surfacing in Mount Hagen and an access road to the town's
airport near Kagamuga.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.      As mentioned above, the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project
(Cr. 677-PNG) included the construction and improvement, including
bituminous paving, of high priority sections, totalling about 68 km between
Asaro and Garnigl. The design standards for the road are generally "Rural
Class 1" (Table 6). The total width is 7.5 m, consisting of a 5.5 m
bituminous pavement and 1 m shoulders. The construction contracts are now
about 71% complete; the works are proceeding satisfactorily and are
scheduled to be finished by mid-1981.
5.        The Third Highway Project will improve the section of the highway
between Kassam Pass and Daulo Pass which is presently of low gravel
standard, steep and subject to slope slides causing interruption to traffic.
The works, which will complete the improvement and paving of this section
will allow heavy vehicles to operate faster and thus further reduce
transport costs. The proposed works consist of improvements to the existing
road for a length of 137 km to DWS Rural Road One Design Standard'(Table 9)
and of paving a 6.5 m carriageway with 0.5 m shoulder on both sides. The
proposed horizontal alignment will accommodate design speeds 60 km/hour for
flat/rolling terrain, reduced to 50 km/hour in hilly terrain and 30 km/hour
in the mountains. The new center-line will follow essentially the existing
alignment except for a few minor realignments, mainly at bridge crossings.
The carriageway will have double bituminous surface treatment while the
shoulders will be provided with a single coat. Of the 32 existing bridges
on the highway, eight will be replaced by new two-lane permanent structures.
6.        Detailed engineering for the Highlands Highway section between
Kassam Pass to Daulo Pass was originally prepared in 1974 when consultants
Valentine, Laurie and Davies (Australia) carried out the engineering for the
whole stretch between Waterais and Togoba under the Second Highlands Road
Improvement Project (Cr. 677-PNG). Because of insufficient field survey, this
original engineering work has only been of use as preliminary engineering.
Therefore, in 1979 the Government engaged local consultants Cardno and Davis,
PNG, Pty, Ltd., in association with Scott, Wilson and Kirkpatrick & Partners,
U.K., to complete the engineering for the Kassam to Daulo Pass section in
greater detail. This work, which was funded by the Government, is now
complete. A description of the Highlands Highway section included in the
project, and the work to be carried out, follows.
7.        The existing road is 137 km long and passes through mountainous and
hilly country. West to Kassam Pass it crosses the south western flanks of
the Bismarck Range. These flanks are strongly dissected in the eastern half
by the tributaries of the Ramu River. From the top of Kassam Pass
(elevation 1485 m) the road descends into the open grasslands of the Ramu
Valley and crosses it at elevation 1250m. It then rises over
semi-mountainous terrain to an elevation of 1675m before descending into the
gentle terrain of the Ramu Valley at Kainantu. Between Kainantu (elevation
1565m) and Henganoffi the road ascends gradually across the flank of the
valley and water streams of the Ramu River to a maximum elevation of 1910 m
before dropping steeply along narrow river terraces at Henganoffi. From



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Henganoffi the road traverses hilly terrain into the Asaro Valley and descends
gradually to low terraces of the Asaro River at elevation 137jLu before
ascending gradually along high terraces through Goroka. The road crosses the
Asaro River at elevation 1540 m near the foot of Daulo Pass.
8.        The predominant base geological units crossed by the highway are
Mesozoic and Tertiary metamorphic, sedimentary and igneous units which are
deeply weathered. Large basins of pleistocene sediments are recent alluvial
terraces comprising silty sands and gravels. Although the region through
which the road passes is generally in a phase of relative stability, much of
the region is geologically young and some movement of the existing ground is
still taking place.
9.        Slopes along the highway are grass covered.  Natural forest is
confined to high steep slopes of the mountainous sections.   Alluvial
terraces are intensively cultivated for subsistence and cash crops. The
nature of the soil mantle depends on the geological rock origin and
comprises residual and some colluvial soils.
10.       The existing road has a gravel carriageway 5.0 to 6.0 m wide.
Its horizontal alignment is fair, considering the difficult terrain it
passes through in some stretches. In the mountains, steep gradients of up
to 15% are quite frequent and the existing drainage facilities are poor.
Along this section the road is provided with 32 single-lane bridges in
varying conditions.
11.       The 137 km project route from the end of Kassam Pass to Daulo Pass
will be constructed mainly on the existing alignment, except for realignments
to new bridge structures. Eight of the existing bridges will be replaced by
new permanent two-lane structures; DWS will carry out necessary maintenance
and repair works on the remaining existing bridges. The present traffic
varies from 400 to about 900 ADT.
April 1980



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Maintenance
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
1.        Although the technical standard of DWS maintenance on the national
roads is satisfactory, its costs are extremely high and its degree of effi-
ciency is not known since supporting data are lacking. On provincial and
local village roads, the standard of maintenance varies from province to
province but it is in general, poor. Since January, 1979, the provincial
governments are responsible for maintaining provincial and local village
roads, and their concept of maintenance is unclear.
ObJectives
2.        The main objective of this technical assistance is to improve
efficiency of maintenance operations on national, provincial and local
village road networks, and some airfield strips. Also, it should assist the
Government in developing policies on maintenance spending levels, road
design standards, and road rehabilitation requirements.
Scope of Consultant Services
3.        After review of the current status of maintenance activities at
national and provincial levels, the consultant should prepare proposals on:
(a) build up of a maintenance information system at the national
and provincial levels, which includes road inventory and traffic
data, records on maintenance works and results, and maintenance
costs;
(b) methods of executing maintenance works (departmental units and
contractors);
(c) financing arrangements, programming and budgeting of maintenance
operations;
(d) interrelationship between road design and maintenance standards
including the economics of sealing as opposed to continuing unsealed
road maintenance;



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(e) feasibility of placing local road maintenance under Local Village
Councils; and
(f) identification of current manpower limitations in DWS and provin-
cial organizations both in equipment and road maintenance activi-
ties.
Staff and Training
4.        It is envisaged that the consultant would provide services of two
road maintenance engineers and two training officers in two stages. In the
first two years, the consultant engineering staff would establish a Mainten-
ance Operations Section at DWS Headquarters, review the current status of
maintenance activities by DWS, provincial governments and local village
councils, and prepare proposals for improvement of maintenance activities.
The two training officers (one for road maintenance and the second for work
shops) would start their training activities at the beginning of the first
stage and will continue for about two years. In the second two years, the
consultant engineering staff would assist in the implementation of their
proposals, as approved or modified by the Government. It is envisaged that
the scope of the consultant's services would total about 140 man-months.
Subject to availability of suitable local staff, the Government would
provide counterparts to the consultant's engineering staff.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Provincial Governments for Rural Transport
Introduction
1.        It is well understood that in Papua New Guinea the impact of roads
upon social and economic development is considerable, and with significant
proportion of the population yet to be integrated into the national economy,
the pressures for road access by rural populations are strong. The size of
the total population in relation to the country's land mass, however, is
generally small. Moreover, the terrain is mountainous, the geology young, and
the rainfall high. In many cases the physical isolation of pockets of the
rural population is difficuit to overcome in an environment in which the costs
of normal road construction and maintenance are high in comparison with other
countries at a similar stage of development.
2.        The Government of Papua New Guinea has decided, in consultation with
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) that a com-
ponent of the Third Highway Project would be a provision for a study into the
possibility of improving and increasing access into rural areas. Although the
local demands for road access are great, rural populations may be too small
for roads to be justifiable in economic terms at current levels fo production
and consumption, and at current road construction and maintenance costs.
Accordingly, it is intended to review various ways in which design and imple-
mentation procedures can be better filled to the particular situations in
Papua New Guinea. Also the study would examine the possibilities of providing
or improving access by means of other modes of transport, at least to the
stage where economic activity and income levels allow road access to be
economically justified. Another very important part of the transport study
would be to identify steps and measures to be taken in each province so that
over time capabilities be created to plan, construct and maintain simple rural
infrastructure projects. The maintenance element is being carried out by
separate consultants to the Department of Works and Supply. An outline of
their terms of reference is attached. The two consultant services would be
expected to coordinate their activities through their respective Department
Project Officers.
3.        For the rural transport study, several projects have already been
identified by provincial governments which might be suitable for inclusion
and would help formulate the basis for the screening process. They are:



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Project                        Status            Km             Province
Daga Area Access                  New               50+       Milne Bay
Jimi Valley Access                Upgrade           50        Western Highlands
Gaulim - Open Bay                 Upgrade           50        East New Britain
Slate Creek - Aseki -             Reconstruction
Menyamya                          & New            100        Morobe
Pongani - Afore                   Upgrade & New    50         Northern
Consideration should be given to other types of access, i.e. air strips,
feeder roads to airstrips, and jetties (para. 3.14).
Obilectives
4.        The principal objectives of the Rural Transport Study are:  (a) to
assist a few selected Provincial Government agencies in building up the
capacity for the identification, preparation and implementation of transport
projects; (b) to assist with the improvement of accessibility of selected
rural areas in those provinces; and (c) to prepare a transport investment
program for the selected provinces which will, while considering all modes,
will identify at least 300 km of rural roads for consideration for
construction or rehabilitation. The time frame will be for five years with
construction beginning in 1982. These principal objectives will be carried
out by:
(a) investigating alternative routes of access and modes of transport,
assessing their social and economic viability, proposing a program
of investment in appropriate modes for a particular area, and such
complementary investments as may be required;
(b) developing a simple method of screening transport infrastructure
projects proposed by provincial governments which would help rank
them considering their potential for development and their response
to the basic needs, i.e. health, education and communications, of
the community and recommending a practical method for provincial
government agencies to carry out the preparation of projects with
limited or no use of outside assistance.
(c) undertaking engineering studies necessary to assess the cost of
investments, and to enable construction work to be carried out.
These works would include small investments such as bridge or jetty
repairs;
(d) recommending standards of design sufficient to gain appropriate
access;



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(e) recommending methods and/or organization of construction compatible
with Government's aims of (rural) development; and
(f) based on the findings, prepare practical design and implementation
procedures which may be followed by the provincial government agen-
cies on a country-wide basis and the perceived training needs.
Scope and Methodology
5.         Consultants will carry out all work necessary to obtain the objec-
tives set out above. They will approach their tasks in the following manner:
(a) Economic evaluation. Carry out such investigation as required to
establish the demand for transport based on the present and future
levels of social and economic activity in an area. They will review
the adequacy of existing access and transport services, and whether
these are sufficient to meet existing and estimated future demand.
(b) Assess the benefits of improved access on the present and future
levels of social and economic activity in the area. It will be
necessary to identify possible increases in productive capacity and
social improvement resulting from improved access. Nontransport
investment required to realize productive potential must be
identified and their magnitude indicated.
(c) Assess the most appropriate type of transport investment to reach
any given level of increased activity. It is anticipated that
all (possible) modal types will be investigated as technically
appropriate. In difficult terrain, Consultants should pay parti-
cular attention to the feasibility of different means of transport
(aerial ropeways, for example, Attachment 1) as well as phased
investments._/
/1 Included where appropriate, phased investments for improved access
considering the duration of each phase, the cost of each investment, and
the benefits to flow from it. An example of such a program might be:
Phase I   - Improved air services together with extended/upgraded feeder
roads and/or walking tracks to airstrips.
Phase II  - Access by ropeway over difficult terrain, by basic road over
easier terrain.
Phase III - Continuous basic road access.
Phase IV  - Upgraded road access.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(d) Investigate the possibilities of initial improvement of existing
(air) services with regard to infrastructure and equipment; indicate
the amount, duration, and manner of any subsidy of air operations
required to achieve the phasing of transport improvement.
(e) Indicate the distribution amongst regions and sections of the com-
munity of benefits accruing from each transport investment.
(f) Indicate the sensitivity of the benefits of the investments to
changes in the determinants of transport demand, and to variations
in capital and maintenance costs of each appropriate investment.
The consultants will use their discretion as to the degree of
sensitivity testing required, since it is felt that this area can
become better known during the course of the study.
Specific Areas
6.        The consultants should, inter alia, review and make recommendations
on the following:
(a) means of using or increasing the capacity of the domestic contract-
ing industry for the construction of rural roads in their program;
(b) the feasibility of limiting vehicle sizes and weights to reduce
rural road costs in project areas; and
(c) information on costs to relate charges to the resources consumed
in providing the transport infrastructure.
In addition, the consultant will comment on the present regulations concern-
ing civil aviation, commercial road transport and coastal shipping to
determine their impact on rural development, particularly civil aviation
cargo transport capability.
Engineering
7.        The scope of possible engineering investigations is set out in
Attachments 2 and 3 and they are to be undertaken bearing in mind that
construction of any engineering works will be by methods which allow a
maximum of benefits to accrue to the local population.
General
8.        The executing agency in Government for this study will be the
Department of Transport and Civil Aviation. In 1977, however, many of the
functions of government were decentralized, with provincial governments
assuming regulatory and financial control in a number of areas and share
power with the central government in other areas. Provincial governments
are being financed through Central Government by conditional and unconditional



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
grants, Central Government refunds of certain revenues, and by their own
taxation measures. The degree of preparedness among the provinces to
assume their new responsibilities is varied. There are critical shortages
of qualified personnel and an absence in many provinces of the essential
institutions that would assist the provincial leadership in identifying
development investment priorities and planning their implementation. As a
principal objective of the assistance is, therefore, as far as is practic-
able, to assist provincial staff in identification, preparation and imple-
mentation work. It is anticipated that consultants will carry out their
assignments, again as far as is practicable, from a suitable base or bases in
the respective province or provinces.
9.        The Government shall provide the consultant with all available
information and reports relevant to the study. In connection with work by
the consultant which requires the cooperation of Government or other public
agencies, the Department of Transport and Civil Aviation and the Department
of Works and Supply will provide liaison, and will ensure that the consult-
ant has access to all available information necessary for completion of the
study.
10.       Consultants shall:
(a) present data and recommendations in a form which can be checked and
reworked at suitable intervals by DTCA;
(b) present engineering costs in a form suitable for economic analysis;
(c) update their findings based on the final engineering estimates for
the projects. The update will include all relevant economic data
especially traffic counts and commodity production. This update is
expected to occur six months after completion of the Draft Final
Report (below).
11.       Reports.  The consultant will indicate in the Inception Report,
which is due within one month of the commissioning of the study, any changes
in the terms of reference required to fulfill the principal objectives
particularly those regarding working arrangements with the selected provincial
governments for consideraticn by DTCA. The Interim Report will describe all
projects which have been identified by type, timing and estimated cost as well
as their preliminary recommendations for design and implementation procedures
to be carried out by provincial government agencies and for training. This
report will be due within five months after go-ahead and will be submitted to
the selected provinces as well as DTCA for their comments. At this stage the
Government may give the go-ahead to commence with the limited engineering for
the selected roads. The Draft Final Report, which is to include all findings
and recommendations, will be due within seven months after commissioning. The
Final Report will be due within three months after submission of the draft
final report to the Government or one month after receipt of comments from
Government whichever is earlier.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project-Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A-1 The National Public Expenditure Plan 1978-1981, Project Design List,
Government of PNG.
A-2 The National Public Expenditure Plan, 1982-1984, Government of PNG
A-3 Transport Policy & Programmed Expenditure 1979-1982, DTCA.
A-4 Transport Projects for International Finance 1980's, 1977, DTCA.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
I. Studies and Reports
B-1 Feasibility Study of the Togoba - Wapenamanda Road, 1979, by
Rendels and Partners (Australia).
B-2 Appraisal of the Highlands Road Improvement Project in PNG, 1977,
Asian Development Bank.
B-3 Technical Assistance to Local Civil Engineering Contractors, Final
Report 1979, Rendels and Partners (Australia).
B-4 The Highlands Highway, Kassam to Daulo Pass, Economic Re-evaluation,
1979, Economic Studies Group (UK).
B-5 Vehicle Operating Costs, 1979, Rendels Economics (Australia).
B-6 Highlands Highway Project Kundiawa, Intensive Construction Group,
Final Report, 1979, Snowy Mountains Eng. Corp. (Australia).
B-7 Rural Industries, 1965, 1969, 1971/72, 1972/73, 1976/77, Bureau of
Statistics, Port Moresby
II. Detailed Engineerying Reports
B-7 Detailed Engineering for the Highlands Highway Between Waterais
and Togoba, 1974, Valentine, Laurie and Davies (Australia).
B-8 Detailed Engineering and Tender Documents for the Highlands Highway
Between Kassam to Daulo Pass, 1979, Cardno & Davies PNG Pty. Ltd.,
and Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners (PNG and UK).
B-9 Highlands Highway, Bridge Investigation Report, 1979, Cardno & Davies
PNG Ltd., and Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners (PNG and UK).



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
B-10  Highlands Highway, Kassam to Daulo Pass, Prequalification of
Contractors, 1979, Cardno & Davies PNG Ltd., and Scott, Wilson,
Kirkpatrick and Partners (PNG and UK).
III.  Government Reports
B-11  Highlands Highway, Erap River to Kassam Pass, Final Engineering
Report, 1977, DWS.
B-12  Highlands Highway, Erap River to Kassam Pass, Tender Evaluation
Report, 1978, DWS.
B-13  Planning, Engineering and Construction of Penetration Roads, 1979,
DWS.
B-14  Department of Works and Supply, General Information, 1979.
B-15  Highlands Highway, Kassam to Daulo Pass, Draft Tender Evaluation
Report, 1980, DWS.
C.  Selected Working Papers
C-1   Parameters for Price Contingency Calculations.
C-2   Cash Flow Analysis and Contingency Calculations for Project
Components.
C-3   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis Calculations.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet - Number of Vehicles on Register, 1963-78
Vehicle             1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
Motor Cars
Highlands                  218      248     N/A      341      512      669     892   1,034   1,144   1,283   1,263   1,084   1,089   1,008   1,023   N/A
Other provinces          4,712   5,269      N/A   6,547   7,865   9,454  10,651  13,600  13,773  14,390  13,550  12,261  12,819  12,472  11,913   N/A
Subtotal             4,930   5,517   6,072   6.888   8,377  10,123  11,543  14.634  14,917  15,673  14,813  13,396  13,908  13.480  12,936   N/A
Station Wagons &
Jeeps
Highlands                   63      107     N/A      182      232      313     328      348      453      530     531      490      524      564      555   N/A
Other provinces            809   1,020      N/A   1,468   1,923   2,499   2,641   2,532   3,595   3,854   3,696   3,424   3,491   7,149   3,737   N/A
Subtotal               872   1,127   1,460   1,650   2.155   2,812   2.969   2,880   4,048   4,3R4   4,227   3,914   4,015   7,713   4,292   N/A
Motorcycles
Highlands                  177      183     N/A      258      278     348      418      552      580      531     528      618      627      668      760   N/A
Other provinces            381      501     N/A      878   1,242   1,687   1,813   2,305   2,414   2,516   2,421   2,790   3,188   3,198   2,676   N/A
Subtotal                558     684      896   1,136   1,520   2,035   2,231   2.857   2,994   3.047   2,949   3,395   3.815   3,R66   3,436   N/A
Tractors
Highlands                   82      109     N/A      175      296      313     397      462      487      547     560      496      381      415      513   N/A
Other provinces            348      414     N/A      524      694      798   1,013   1,255   1,262   1,374   1,380   1,328   1,405   1,338   1,299   N/A
Subtotal             . 430      523      598      699     990   1,111   1,410   1.717   1.749   1,921   1,940   1,863   1,786   1,753   1,812   N/A
Commercial Vehicles
Highlands                  534      637     N/A      966   1,309   1,819   2,209   2,598   2,797   2,921   3,150   3,165   3,479   3,747   4,868   N/A
Other provinces          4,208   4,562      N/A   5,922   6,345   7,559   8,874   9,981  11,658  11,752  11,752  13,174  14,427  15,483  16,419   N/A
Subtotal             4,742   5,199   6,286   6888   7,654   9,378  11,083  12,579  14.455  14,673  15,077  16,398  17,906  19,230  21,287   N/A
Total Vehicles
Highlands                1,074   1,284      N/A   1,922   2,627   3,462   4,244   4,994   5,461   5,812   6,032   5,853   6,100   6,402   7,719   N/A
Other provinces         10,458  11,766      N/A  15,339  18,069  21,997  24,992  29,673  32,702  33,886  32,974  32,977  35,330  39,640  36,044   N/A
Total               11,532  13,050  15,312  17,261  20,696  25,459  29,236  34,667  38.163  39,698  39,006  38,966  41,430  42,575  43.763   N/A
Sources:  Department of Transport and Civil Aviation and Bureau of Statistics.
October 1979                                                                                                                                                            I



- 50 -
Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Transport Statistics by Provinces, 1976-77
Motor      Km of
vehicles   roads
per        per
Province                  Population   Motorized    Km of        1,000      1,000
('000)     vehicles      roads      people    people
Western                        81           115        1,066       1.4       13.2
Gulf                           86            61          278       0.7        3.2
Central (including
national capital)           148        14,455        1,540      97.7       10.4
Milne Bay                     133           227          405       1.7        3.0
Northern                       73           450          504       6.2        6.9
Southern highlands            252           469        1,385       1.9        5.5
Enga                          186           347          773       1.9        4.2
Western highlands             210         2,636        1,043      12.6        5.0
Chimbu                        224           583          754       2.6        0.8
Eastern highlands             282         2,367        1,366       8.4        4.8
Morobe                        307         6,780        1,291      22.1        4.2
Madang                        207         2,287        1,099      11.0        5.3
East Sepik                    245         2,090        1,220       8.5        5.0
West Sepik                    116           309          537       2.7        4.6
Manus                          27           422           123     15.6        4.6
New Ireland                    63           770        1,377      12.2       21.9
East New Britain              114         3,787        1,146      33.2       10.1
West New Britain               81           906          817      11.2       10.1
North Solomons                100         3,514        1,327      35.1       13.3
Total                  2,837        42,575       18,351      15.0        6.5
Source:  Department of Transport and Civil Aviation.



- 51 -
Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
PNG Harbours Board Administered Ports
(Revenue '000 tons)
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977(1/2)    1978
Overseas Cargo
Imports                   717       849       655       749        435        896
Exports                   283       302       279       286        134        299
Subtotal          1,000    1,151         934    1,035        569      1,195
Overseas unitized             87        82       89       110         57        130
Oil tonnages               n.a.       n.a.      320       300        110        215
Coastal Shipping
Discharge                 196       222       214       231        125        265
Loaded                    157       180       160       189        100        217
Subtotal             353       402       374      420         225       482
Total              1,430    1,635    1,717    1,865           961     1,922
Source: PNG Harbours Board.
November 1979



* 52 -
Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Volume of Major Exports
(m tons)
1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77         1977P
Copra                      123.5         113.8        137.1       136.6          124.7
Coffee                      31.2          32.7         36.8        37.2           49.8
Cocoa                       22.1          28.7         35.5        30.4           28.0
Fish                         12.7         38.6         ,1.6        19.9           31.8
Palm oil                      8.1          8.7         18.4        27.1            26.9
Tea                           2.8          4.0          4.5         4.9             6.0
Rubber                        5.6          6.1          5.5         5.0             4.4
Subtotal              206.0        232.6        259.4       261.1           271.6
Copper concentrates        495.1         717.1        623.7       530.2          552.9
Timber                     468.2         703.6        427.3       418.3          546.7
Total               1,169.3      1,653.3      1,310.4       948.5         1.099.6
P = Preliminary
Source: Bureau of Statistics.
November 1978



- 53 -
Table S
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Nev Transportation Prolects Pro2wsed in the
National Public Expenditure Program. 1980-83
(r'000)
1980     1981    1982    1983    Total
Total NPEP projects                       117 800  119.200  89 200  73.500  399.700
Transport projects                          19.851   19 159  13.733  13.441   66.148
ObJective 1: Rural Welfare
3 x 25 meter barges                         420         -        -        -      420
Village-level low technology ship-
ping advisor                               20        20        -       -        40
Rural transport sectoral program          2,500    3,500   3,500   3,500   13,000
ObJective 2: Less Developed Areas
Huon Peninsula regional program           1,155       908      938      996    3,997
ObJective 4: Economic Production
Ramu dist. transp. & rural dev.             200         -        -        -      200
Hudrographic survey consultant              250         -        -        -      250
Backup vessel to MV Agilani                 345         -        -        -      345
Navigational aids vessel                    105       695        -        -      800
New lights structure - marine                100        -        -        -       100
Upgrading maintenance of national
airports                                   54        21        -       -        75
Fire fighting & safety equipment            420       420        -        -      840
Air navigation & radio network
improvement                               330       136        -       -       466
Baiyer River-Ruti road                       50         -        -        -        50
Minj-Ganiger highlands highway               765        -        -        -       765
Finschhafen-Wasu road                       296         -        -        -      296
Sowan River bridge                           50         -        -        -       50
4 bridges - north coast roads,
Madang                                     55         -        -       -        55
Goilala access road                         300         -        -        -      300
Hiritano highway - Kerema-Malalaua        1,000    1,260         -        -    2,260
Wewak-Aitape road                           250       250      400        -      900
Rumginae-Ningerum road, stage I              90         -        -        -       90
Waterais-Usinon road                        400       400      400   1,450    2,650
Mai/Luni Sepik highway                      500         -        -        -      500
Sepik highway - liewak Passam
sealing                                   700       400        -       -    1,100
Garnigl Chuave - Highlands Highway        1,775         -        -        -    1,775
Highlands highway - Markham Valley
sealing                                 4,950    2,213         -       -    7,163
Rigo road sealing                           690         -        -        -      690
Rigo road bridges                           200       200        -        -      400
Highlands highway - Kassam-Daulo
sealing                                   500    8,000   8,000   7,000   23,500
Aerodrome improvements - Momote             350       200        -        -      550
New terminal - Kieta                          50        -        -        -        50
Fire station & access road -
Jackson's airport                         223         -        -       -       223
Lorengau Wharf                               50         -        -        -       50
Drainage & pavements - Bewani                37         -        -        -       37
Upgrading Rabaul to F-28 standard           130         -        -        -      130
Objective 6: Training
Marine engineering lecturers                116         -        -        -      116
Nautical training equipment                   -        91        7        7        99
Oblective 8: Effective Administra-
tion
Policy & planning division                   88        88       88       88      352
Transport economist (UNDP-financed)           37        -        -        -       37
Transport inspectorate branch                 -        57      100      100      257
National government aircraft                300       300      300      300    1,250
Source: NPEP, 1980-83.
November 1979



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Roads. 1968-79
(K million)
Estimated
Type of project         1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
Capital
Highway                      1.3       2.4      3.5       8.2       7.9       7.5       9.3      9.7      13.5    14.70        16.1
Trunk                        2.1       1.3       2.3      2.3       1.9       -         -         4.3       3.2     3.00         -
VI-
Development, agri-
culture & resource         0.4      0.7       0.4       0.8       1.1       -        -         -         1.6      1.60        -
%0
Rural improvement            0.4       0.9       1.0      1.1       1.0       1.9       4.2      6.0       6.2      0.30        -
Urban                        1.7       1.5       1.6      3.6       1.5       -         -        -         -        0.05        -
Unclassified                 -         -        0.1       0.2       -         -         -        -         -        -           -
Subtotal                  5.9      6.8       8.9.    16.2       13.4       9.4     13.5      20.0      24.5    19.65        16.1
Haintenance
Roads & bridges              6.0       6.9      8.5       9.6       9.9      13.2      18.9     16.3      18.9    16.30        17.0
Total                    11.9      13.7     17.9      25.8      23.3      22.6     32.4      36.3      43.4    35.95        33.1
Source:  Department of Transport and Civil Aviation, October 1979.



- 55 -
Table 7
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Central Government Expenditure by Function, FY73-1978
(K million)
1977 La
FY73    FY74    FY75    FY76    FY77  Jul-Dec  1978 lb
General public services   50.0    57.1    82.2    96.7   104.8    54.1   111.4
Social services             66.0    73.6    90.8   106.3   116.0    68.6   116.5
Economic services            77.1    90.8   126.5   132.6   133.1    74.3   141.8
Transportation            29.7    41.9    65.4    65.3    55.3    33.0    58.5
Unallocable JC               57.3    86.0    74.4    79.6    55.5    14.1    94.5
Total                 250.4   307.5   373.9   415.2   409.4   211.1   464.2
Transport as % of total        12       14       17      16       14       16       13
/a Preliminary actuals.
lb Budget estimates.
/c Excludes interest on government securities paid to the National Debt Sinking
Fund.
Source: Department of Finance.
November 1978



- 56 -
Table 8
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Infrastructure - Composition of Expenditure and
Estimated Revenue from Road User Charges in 1976/77
(K million)
Estimated revenue                                  Expenditure
Source of revenue             Amount            Type of expenditure         Amount
Automotive gasoline tax           3.33              Capital                    24.2
Automotive distillate
(diesel fuel) tax              0.58              Maintenance                17.5
Motor vehicle registra-
tions and other fees            1.89             Administration              5.6
Import duties and mis-
cellaneous charges              2.40              Policing                   1.8/a
Total                        8.20                   Total                49.3
/a One-tenth of total police costs.
Source: Department of Transport and Civil Aviation.
November 1978



PAPUA IJEI ClINEA
TRIRD PIG1WAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Rural Roads
Maximum
liax. speed    Absolute    Desirable                                length at      1axiuum        Overall
Class of road    Terrain           Design      for sight      minimum      minimum       General    Absolute        absolute       length        width       Pavement
speed      distance        radius       radius        maxlmum      elaximus     maximum      desirable      between         vidth
benching        curve        curve       gradient    gradient        grade          grade       shoulders
(km/hr)     ('Kmhr) (n)                   (in)         (a/W)        (a/ )         (a)            (a)           (a) (m)
Primary           Flat/P.lling         80          100       200 paved        350          .04           .07              No limit                 12 /I         6.5
250 gravel                                                                           10.5
Hilly               60           80        125 paved       250            .06          .08         600          1,2Q0           11 /I         6.5
130 pravel                                                                           10
Hountainous         40           60         50 paved        90            .08          .10         250            500            8.5          6.n
60 gravel
Rural             Flat/Rolling        60            80       125 paved        250           .06          .nR          6n0         1,2nO            I0.5          6.0
class 1                                                      130 gravel                                                                             R.5
Hilly               50           60         95 paved       150           .Ot           .10          300           600            8.0           6.0           I
95 Fravel
Mountainous         30           50         30 paved        50           .10           .12          250           50n             7.5          5.5          -.
30 pravel
Rural             Flat/Rolling        60            80       130 gravel       250           .06          .08          600         1,20n             8.5          3.6
class 2           Hilly               40           so         60 gravel        75           .10          .12          25t           50O             7.0          3.6
Nountalnous         25           40         20 gravel       30            .12          .14          150           300             7.0          3.6
Rural             Flat/Rolling         50           60         95 gravel      150           .08          .10          500         1,000             7.0          3.6
class 3           Hilly                30          40         30 gravel        iO           .10          .12          250           500             6.0          3.6
mountainous         25           30         20 gravel       30            .12          .14          150           300            6.0           3.6
Access
class I                                                             As for rural class 3                                                            5.0          3.6
Access                                                              As for rural class 3                                                            3.6       Full width
class 2                                                                                                                                                       as required
Bridge Loadlng,  National Asaociation of Australian State road Authorities (HAASRA), Pridge Design Specification (1476): Standard Vehicle Loading Claas T 44.
Pavement:  Axle load 18,000 lbs (design based on projected ntmber of repetitions of "equivalent IP,000 lba axle loads").
/1  The higher is to be adopted where traffic voluse Is between 2,500 and 5,000 v.p.d.
/2  The higher is to adopted in rolling terrain where sight distances are limited.
Source:  Depart ent of UDrks and Supply. 
December 1979



58 
Table 10
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project /a
Kina (million)                  US$ (million)         % Foreign
Project item                 Foreign   Local    Total    Foreign   Local    Total   component
A. Improvement and paving
of Highlands Highway
between Kassam and
Daulo Pass (137km)         13.230   5.670   18.900       18.654   7.995   26.649         70
B. Supervision:
1. Supervision of works
including training /b  1.285   0.321    1.606          1.812   0.452    2.264         80
2. Assistance in con-
tract management        0.042   0.011    0.053         0.060   0.015    0.075         80
Subtotal B                  1.327   0.332    1.659        1.872   0.467    2.339         80
C. Technical Assistance
for Maintenance and
Training
1. Consulting services    0.630   0.170    0.800          0.889   0.240    1.129         79
2. Training aids and
equipment               0.050   -          0.050       0.070   -         0.070       100
Subtotal C                  0.680   0.170    0.850        0.959   0.240    1.199         80
D. Technical Assistance
for Rural Transport
and Road Engineering
1. Study services           0.260   0.065    0.325        0.366   0.092    0.458         80
2. Road engineering         0.330   0.095    0.425        0.465   0.135    0.600         78
Subtotal D                  0.590   0.160    0.750        0.831   0.227    1.058         80
E. Engineering of Togoba-
Wappenamanda Road           0.400   0.100    0.500        0.564   0.141    0.705         80
F. Traffic Counting
Equipment                   0.050   -         0.050       0.071   -         0.071       100
Subtotal A-F               16.227   6.432   22.709       22.951   9.070   32.021         72
G. Contingency Allowances:
1. Physical (10Z)/c         1.628   0.643    2.271        2.295   0.907    3.202         72
2. Price (20%)/d            3.424   1.378    4.802        4.829   1.944    6.773         71
Subtotal G                  5.052   2.021    7.073        7.124   2.851    9.975         71
TOTAL COST OF WO0RKS       21.329   8.453   29.782    30.075   11.921   41.996           72
H. Land Acquisition           -         0.300    0.300    -           0.423    0.423          0
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT    21.329   8.753   30.082    30.075   12.344   42.419              71
/a Prices as at March 1, 1980.
/b 8.5Z of Item A.
/c On all Items.
/d Price increases on Items A, B C, and D2, with physical contingencies at estimated rate
of 10.5% for 1980; 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982, 7% for 1983 and onwards.
/e Kina 1.00 = US$1.41.
Sources: Estimates by Department of Works and Supply, and Department of Transport and Civil
Aviation.
April 1980



- 59 -
Table 11
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Action                                                   Implementation
Start             Complete
A. Improvement and Paving of
Highlands Highway
1. Appoint consultants and
supervise improvement
and paving works                          May 1, 1980          June 30, 1983
2. Award of contract                                              May 30, 1980
3. Improvement and paving works               June 1, 1980        May 31, 1983
B. Technical Assistance for Road
Maintenance
1. Invite and evaluate
consultant's proposals,
appoint consultant                       March 1, 1980        July 1, 1980
2. Technical assistance program:
(a) Stage I (Review and Proposals)    August 1, 1980          July 31, 1982
(b) Stage II (Implementation)            August 1, 1982       July 31, 1984
3. Training                                 August 1, 1980       July 31, 1982
C. Technical Assistance for Rural
Transport and Road Engineering
1. Invite and evaluate consultant's
proposals, appoint consultant for
rural transport study                    April 15, 1980       July 31, 1980
2. Execution of technical assistance
for rural transport
(a) Stage I (Interim Report)             Sept. 1, 1980        Dec. 15, 1980
(b) Stage II (Technical Assistance)   Dec. 15, 1980           June 30, 1981
3. Simplified engineering for sample         January 1, 1981    Sept. 1, 1981
priority roads
4. Simplified engineering for other         January 1, 1981    June 30, 1982
priority roads
D. Engineering of Togoba-Wapenamanda
Road
1. Invite and evaluate consultant's
proposal, appoint consultant             June 15, 1980        Oct. 15, 1980
2. Detailed engineering                     November 1, 1980   Dec. 31, 1981
Source: Department of Works and Supply, and Department of Transport and Civil
Aviation.
April 1980



- 60 -
Table 12
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative disbursements
Fiscal year                                  at end of quarter
and quarter                                     (US$ '000)
IBRD Loan      IDA Credit
1981
December 31, 1980                                         5,300
March 31, 1981                                            7,300
June 30, 1981                                             9,300
1982
September 30, 1981                                       11,400
December 31, 1981                             500        13,000
March 31, 1982                              2,800
June 30, 1982                               5,000
1983
September 30, 1982                          7,000
December 31, 1982                           9,000
March 31, 1983                             11,000
June 30, 1983                              13,000
1984
September 30, 1983                         14,000
December 31, 1983                          15,500
March 31, 1984                             16,000
June 30, 1984                              16,500
1985
September 30, 1984                         16,800
December 31, 1984                          17,000
Source:  Estimates by Department of Works and Supply,
Department of Transport and Civil Aviation and Bank Group
April 1980



- 61 -
Table 13
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Projections on the Highlands Highway, 1979-2003
Annual Average Daily Traffic Volume
I              II              III               IV
Section                    Daulo Pas-        Goroka-        Henganofi-        Kainantu-
Goroka        Henganofi        Kainantu        Kassam Pass
Year and composition          (22 km)        (45.5 km)        (38 km)         (32.3 km)
1979 (Actual)
Car                            497             385            172               117
Small commercial               195             196              79               55
Medium commercial               87              89              61                43
Heavy commercial               137             188             130              121
Bus                             49              27              18                14
Total                       965            885             460               350
1984 (Estimated)
Car                            730             564            250               173
Small commercial               286             289            115                81
Medium commercial              128             131              88                63
Heavy commercial               201             276             189              178
Bus                             72              39              27               20
Total                     1,417          1,299             669               515
1987 (Estimated)
Car                            894             691            306               212
Small commercial               350             354            141                99
Medium commercial              157             160             108                77
Heavy commercial               246             338            231               218
Bus                             88              48              33               24
Total                     1,735          1,591             819               630
2003 (Estimated)
Car                          1,952          1,508             668               463
Small commercial               764             773            308               216
Medium commercial              343             349             236              168
Heavy commercial               537             738            504               476
Bus                            792             105              72               52
Total                    3,786           3,473           1,788             1,375
Source:  Department of Transport and Civil Aviation and mission estimates.
October 1979



- 62 -
Table 14
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs on the Highlands Highway
Total Operating Cost ('000 kms) on Unpaved Roads (1979 prices)
Motor    Small    Medium   Heavy
Component                      car      comm.     comm.   comm.       Bus
Fuel: Liters consumed
Flat terrain (56% of road length)        39.3     66.2      58.0    147.0    125.7
Hilly terrain (44% of road length)    65.0    107.7    135.3    243.3    189.1
Per 1,000 kms of road length            104.3    173.9    193.3    390.3    314.2
Cost/liter                             0.25     0.25      0.21      0.21      0.21
Cost                                 26.08    43.45    40.59    81.96    66.11
Maintenance parts:  Cost                   6.91    26.15    28.12    71.28    24.65
Maintenance labor:  Quantity               1.03      2.41    10.24    10.24       1.91
Cost/hour            11.0      11.0      11.0      11.0     11.0
Cost                11.33    26.51   112.64   112.64    21.01
Tires:  Quantity                           0.21      0.21     0.10      0.28      0.20
Cost/tire                           50        50       140       160      160
Cost                              10.5      10.5      14.0     44.8      32.0
Crew hours:  Quantity                         0        44      100        67        67
cost/hour                       0     0.50      1.00      3.75      3.75
Cost                            0    22.00   100.00   251.25   251.25
Lubricating oil:  Quantity                  2.4       3.6       8.0      8.0       8.0
Cost/liter             1.33      1.33      1.33      1.33     1.33
Cost                   3.19      4.78    10.64    10.64    10.64
Depreciation:  Cost                       36.56    25.27    17.41    44.14    82.05
Total running cost/1,000 kms              94.57   158.66   323.24   616.71   487.71
Overhead cost factor                       0.10      0.33     0.33      0.33      0.33
Overhead cost                              9.46    52.36   106.72    03.51   160.94
Total Operating Cost/1,000 kms   104.03   211.02   429.96   820.22   648.68
Cost/km (Kina)                     0.1040   0.2110   0.4300   0.8202   0.6487
Source: Department of Transport and Civil Aviation.
October 1979



- 63 -
Table 15
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs on the Highlands Highway
Total Operating Cost ('000 kms) on Paved Roads (1979 prices)
Motor    Small    Medium   Heavy
Component                     car     comm.     comm.   comm.      Bus
Fuel: Liters consumed
Flat terrain (56% of road length)      45.2     58.6      57.0    141.8    121.8
Hilly terrain (44% of road length)    61.3
Per 1,000 kms of road length          106.5    166.8    187.4    362.6    305.4
Cost/liter                           0.25     0.25      0.21     0.21     0.21
Cost                                26.63    41.70    39.35    76.15    64.13
Maintenance parts:  Cost                 3.50    12.40    16.98    43.05    11.02
Maintenance labor:  Quantity             0.72      1.60     6.61     6.61      1.02
Cost/hour          11.00    11.00    11.00    11.00    11.00
Cost                7.92    17.60    72.71    72.71    11.22
Tires:  Quantity                         0.07     0.07      0.07     0.20     0.14
Cost/tire                          50       50       140      160      160
Cost                             3.50     3.50      9.80    32.00     22.4
Crew hours:  Quantity                       0       44       100       67       67
cost/hour                      0     0.50     1.00     3.75      3.75
Cost                           0     22.0    100.0   251.25   251.25
Lubricating oil:  Quantity                1.2       1.8      4.0      4.0      4.0
Cost/liter             1.33     1.33     1.33     1.33      1.33
Cost                   1.60     2.39     5.32     5.32      5.32
Depreciation:  Cost                     28.86    21.06    16.96    42.99    71.11
Total running cost/1,000 kms            72.01   120.65   261.12   523.47   436.45
Overhead cost factor                     0.10      0.33     0.33     0.33     0.33
Overhead cost                            7.20    39.81    86.17   172.75   144.03
Total Operating Cost/1,000 kms    79.21   160.46   347.29   696.22   580.48
Cost/km (Kina)                    0.0792   0.1605   0.3473   0.6962   0.5805
Source: Department of Transport and Civil Aviation.
October 1979



PAPUA NEW1 GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Set Benefit and Cost Flown
(R'000)
Section 0 (22 ki)                            Section II (45.5 k1)                            Section III (38 km)                              Section IV (32.3 km)
Total proiect (all four sections)                     Daubl  Pass - Goroka                            Goroka - He.sanofi                             Henganofi - Kainantu                           Kainantu - Kassam Pass
Vehicle      Minte-   Total                   Vehicle       Mainte-   Total                   Vehicle       Mainte-   Total                   Vehicle       Mainte-   Total                    Vehicle       Hainte-    Total
Civil    operating       nance       net       Civil   operating        noses       net       Civil    operating        nance       net       Civil    operating        sance       net       Civil    operating         nance       net
Year    works   cost savings  savings    flow           weeks  cost savings  savings         flow      worhs   cost navisgs  savings    flow           works   cot savings  savings    flow             works    cost savings  savings    flow
1980  -5,331.5                              -5,331.5    -853.0                             -853.0  -1,759.4                              -1,759.4  -1,492.8                              -1,492.8  -1,226.3                               -1,226.3
1981  -6,356.9                              -6,356.9  -1,017.1                           -1,017.1  -2.097.8                              -2,097.8  -1,779.9                              -1,779.9  -1,462.1                               -1,462.1
1982  -5,536.6                              -5,536.6    -885.9                             -885.9  -1,827.1                              -1,827.1  -1,550.2                              -1,550.2  -1,273.4                               -1,273.4
1983  -3,281.0                             -3,281.0    -525.0                              -525.0  -1,082.7                              -1.082.7    -918.7                                 -918.7    -754.6                                -754.6
1984                2,907.7         909.0   3,815.9                  585.9       145.0       730.9                 1,267.2       300.9   1,567.3                     618.1       251.0       869.1                    436.5       213.0       649.5   o
1985                3,111.2         965.0   4,076.2                  626.9       154.0       780.9                 1,355.9       319.0   1,674.9                     661.4       266.0       927.4                   467.0        226.0       693.0   c
1986                3, 329.0      1,048.0   4,377.0                  670.8       167.0       837.8                 1,450.8       346.0   1,796.8                     707.7       289.0       996.7                    499.7       246.0       745.7
1987                3,562.1      1,130.0   4,692.1                   717.8       180.0       897.8                1,552.4        373.0   1,925.4                     757.2       312.0   1,069.2                     534.7        265.0       799.7
1988                3,740.1      1,199.0   4,939.1                   753.6       191.0       944.6                 1,630.0       396.0   2,026.0                     795.0       331.0   1,126.0                      561.5       281.0       842.5
1989                3,927.1       1,268.0   5,195.1                  791.3       202.0       993.3                 1,711.5       419.0   2,130.5                     834.8        350.0   1,184.8                    589.5        297.0       886.5
1990                4,123.6      1,336.0   5,459.6                   830.9       213.0   1,043.9                   1,797.1       441.0   2,238.1                     876.6       369.0   1,245.6                      619.0       313.0       932.0
1991                4,329.7       1,405.0    5,734.7                 872.4       224.0   1,096.4                   1,886.9       464.0   2,350.9                     920.4       388.0   1,308.4                      650.0       329.0       979.0
1992                4,546.2      1,488.0   6,033.7                   916.0       238.0   1,154.0                   1,981.3       491.0   2,472.3                     966.4       410.0   1,376.4                      682.5       349.0   1,031.0
1993                4,773.4      1,571.0   6,344.4                   961.8       251.0   1,212.8                  2,080.3        519.0   2,599.3                   1,014.7       433.0   1,447.7                     716.6        368.0   1,084.6
1994                5,012.1      1,571.0   6,583.1                1,010.0        251.0   1,261.0                  2,184.3        519.0   2,703.3                   1,065.4       433.0    1,498.4                    752.4        368.0   1,120.4
1995                5,262.7      1,571.0   6,833.7                1,060.4        251.0   1,311.4                   2,293.6       519.0   2,812.6                   1,118.7       433.0    1,551.7                     790.0       368.0   1,158.0
1996                5,525.9      1,571.0   7,096.9                 1,113.5       251.0   1,364.5                   2,408.2       519.0   2,927.2                  1,174.7        433.0    1,607.7                     829.5       368.0   1,197.5
1997                5,802.1      1,571.0   7,373.1                1,169.1        251.0   1,420.1                  2,528.6        519.0    3,047.6                 1,233.4        433.0   1,666.4                      871.0       368.0   1,239.0
1998                6,092.4      1,571.0   7,663.4                 1,227.6       251.0   1,478.6                   2,655.1       519.0   3,174.1                   1,295.1       433.0   1,728.1                     914.6        368.0    1,282.6
1999                6,396.9      1,571.0   7,967.9                 1,289.0       251.0   1,540.0                  2,787.8        519.0   3,306.8                   1,359.8       433.0    1.792.8                     960.3       368.0   1,328.3
2000                6,716.7      1,571.0   8,287.7                 1,353.4       251.0   1,604.4                   2,927.2       519.0   3,446.2                   1,427.8       433.0   1,860.8                   1,008.3        368.0   1,376.3
2001                7,052.6       1,571.0   8,623.6                1,421.1       251.0   1,672.1                   3,073.6       519.0   3,592.6                   1,499.2       433.0    1,932.2                   1,058.7       368.0   1,426.7
2002                7,405.1      1,571.0   8,976.1                 1,492.1       251.0   1,743.1                   3,227.3       519.0   3,746.3                   1,574.1       433.0   2,007.1                   1,111.6        368.0   1,479.6
2003                7,775.5      1,571.0   9,346.5                 1,566.8       251.0   1,817.8                   3,388.6       519.0   3,907.6                   1,652.9       433.0    2,085.9                   1,167.2       368.0   1,535.2
Ec-nonic rate of -etaco =                         181                                          21%                                             21Z                                              15%                                             14%
Soure:  Nlission estimateso
April 1980



- 65 -
Table 17
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Costs and Benefits on Economic Rate of Return
(%)
All      Section   Section   Section   Section
sections      I         II         III       IV
Best estimate of ERR                 18        21         21         15        14
Increase construction
costs by 20%                       16        18         19        13         12
Decrease vehicles operating
costs by 10%                       17        19         20        14         13
Eliminate maintenance savings        15        17         18         12        10
Decrease maintenance
savings by 50%                     16        19         20        14         12
Increase construction costs
by 20% and eliminate
maintenance savings                13        15         16        10          8
Source: Mission estimates.
April 1980
.






PAPUA NEW GUINEA: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT AND CIVIL AVIATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
STATUTORY SOD IES           : ItAATO I
El IO
POLICY& PLANNING                                                                                                        MANAGEMENT SERVICESDIVISION
ASST SeCRETA8Y~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~DGDCFEO                                            ACONS                |DTODLJDO  INEDNALf
COORDINATION            0                                                                                                  |ONEARO~  DEGT_E  I J
.1-1-ION                                               E--TIE                                                                 P- ENGAGT  ERITIO  STR  ITENL  ERON-OL OFIEUFD
OFFICER                                                                FNENOR'CERITRN
CIV|LAVIAT)ONDIVISiON                           MATITIMEEIVISION              TAISTFC                                      OIR            LKRR                        FCRR D                        FI
,LI-                                                 I II IN                                 PA                                        -
.1 RC.TPIOLLeR ]                                             [  DIRE .TOR  |                                        | WIEEAC                                 R     L         A     O
CIOILAVIATION DIVISION                             +MRTM   IIIN                                                <+                                                                  L:TASOTDVSO
ENRS CLONE



I



Chart 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF WORKS AND SUPPLY
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER FOR WORKS & SUPPLY
SECRETARY FOR WORKS& SUPPLY
FIRST ASSISTANT                                                          FIRST ASSISTANT
SECRETARY                                                                SECRETARY
WORKS                                                                    SUPPLY
ARCHITECTURE  L         ROADS&                                             GOVERNMENT|
l       l    i  ~~~~BRIDGES                                              STORES
GENERAL                                                                 GOVERNMENT
~~E   =ER    NER.D   G   E
MECHANICAL&                                                                 PROPERTY
ELECTRICAL           SUREY                                                  ADMIN
PLANNING    L  |  OCAL 
I LAFNIN             GOVERNMENT|
ILABORATORY  L         GUANTITY |
l l       l l l   ~~SURVEY
CONTRACTS
=  e  =   |   l ASSISTANT SASSSTANESECETAR
ASSISTANT SECRETARY               ASSISTANT SECRETARY]      ASSISTANT SECRETARY    A STAF   TSEVE L AMN
OPERTIONS                      PLANT & TRANSPORT        MANAGEMENT SERVICES   SA  TRAINING
_|HEAVY PLANT |            -|  ACCOUNTS  |   q   TRAINING
TCLERICAL]
-| IGHPLNT_| STAFF    l _|TRAINING
-| FIXED LANT |   l  SLARIES  l   jLOCALIZATION|
ARVIEIS               POLICY
-|AUDIT
| OFFICE 
SERVICES
PROVINCIAL|
SERVICES|
COMPUTERS|
A                     ~~~AREA=ORS
MANAGERS        OROKO              LAE             MAANG            MT.HAGEN           RAAUL
PROVINCIAL
WORKS       NAT. CAP GIST.
MANAGERS         BOROKO             LAE             MADANG           MT. HAGEN          RABAUL
S   CENTRAL . I                                                        W      k2I
-| BOROKO      _POPONDETTA |_         WEWAK                MENDI   l  t KIMBE
O ARU    l   |GOROKA                    VANIMO   l   |KUNDIAWA  |          KAVIENG
KEREMA                              LORENGAU  |   | WABAG                   KIETA
ALOTAU |
Sou,oe- Department of Works and Supply.                                            World Eask-2101 B






IBRD 11428R2
543       44                                       145                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14~  5470  DECE-MBER 1979
'  143°  \   144o   1 0   145°  '        al30                    PAPUA   NEW  GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
-,   ~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~'- ~~~~~~Existing Roads
F A   S    T            E  P    K                                                                                                                      Constructionand improvement   P FirstProject
W ES  P                                                                              -             NI     A -           A                                                       Feasibiity   Study         I    Lo r,n693/Credit2 O4
SEP{K,  W1?  '  M  A  D  A  N    G                                            Construction and improvement    1Credit 677      s.
-  -v-                                                                                                               Improvemrentand Paving- Third Highway Project
-v8>%,         >"  '    ~    ~ ~~~~ \    ~   >               t__-.>                 -S$                                                           Mountainous ArannM2,0003000n30
X-<  g  xk  ,.' ez,y,   <                  ~                 tMADANG   M- untainous Areas)Over 3,000m)
t_,                               %>~ -----A --  Provincial Boundaries
o Lake Kopiuge                                                                                                                                                                   9                  0
-> --           o           Lakesptaurt   E N O ,ABAG  ; /ES- Her--4kumbu KILOMETERS
<  ~~-   /8eneesmanda tIGHLXbS   Ci   . - >                                                                   Said              B i s m a  cak
tiz  T   ~~   ~~~~ (        >9          \>                                I"  Kf~TO     f WLM E                                  .,I,                              Se 
0->Tigibi  Mar-rima
[              '>0   'll~~~~~~~Mrganma   -                                             Y--.--',-- -.  '
W/ESTERN \<%7u 'for  I  ¢ rX+  $ 0 0  
SAC/EEC OCEAN                                                                                    >                                                    M5g         ,     S/UO7
[ 1 ! MANUS , tz ~~~NEW IRELAND \ 'S,t/O RO<BE\,
1 ~~      ~     ~~ SiNI --    5,                                                                                 XXsSuJl                                                                                     
[S                            I                                                        0 H                                w P                 I A
WESTERN                                                                                                                                       T n  \
SOS OON SA                                --.\.- 
Gulf   of   Pau~~~~~~~  »---      Q           1400~H                                                o 
AUST~IA~IA ~  I   CRAL SEA                                                                    P                              '-               KEEMA                        .-- OC-AN               a



