Dosuasato
Th. World Bank
flIR OFFICUL USE ONLY
C ,fe. /e )   7-cTo
Report No. 6601-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
April 27, 1987
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture A
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit officW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       CFA Franc (CFAP) al
US$1.00         =   CFAF 314
(West Africa Regional Rate for January 1987)
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APP     - Association pour la Productivite
DAF     - Direction Administrative et Financiere
DCV     - Direction de la Cooperation et de la Vulgarisation
DESA    - Direction des Enqugtes et Statistiques Agricoles
DGDR    - Direction G4n6rale du Developpement Rural
DRA     - Direction de la Recherche Agronomique
DRDR    - Direction Regionale du Developpement Rural
FEW     - Field Extension Worker
GTZ     - Federal Republic of Germany Aid Agency
IRAT    -  Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures
Vivritres.
IRCC    -  Institut de Recherches pour le Cafe, le Cacao et autres Plantes
Stimulantes.
IRCT    -  Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques
PDRN    -  Projet de Developpement Rural de Notse
PE      -  Points d'Essais
MDR     - Ministbre du Ddveloppement Rural
OPAT    - Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo
SEMP    -  Service des Engrais et Moyens de Production
SMS     -  Subject Matter Specialist
SOE     -  Statement of Expenses
SRCC    -  Soci6td Nationale pour la Renovation et le D6veloppement de
la Cacaoy4re et de la Caf6i4re Togolaises
SOTOCO  -  Soci6td Togolaise du Coton
USAID   - United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/ The exchange rate of the CFA Franc is fixed at 50:1 with the
French Franc, which is a floating currency.



Pog OFFICIAL US ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE  .........       ......................     i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .......................................             iv
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  .............. .............         vii
I.         INTRODUCTION                                                          1
II.        THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                               I
A.  Main Features                                                    1
B.   Government Sector Strategy                                      2
C.   IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience                            3
D.   Institutional Environment                   .........           4
E.   The Pilot Extension Test Zones                                  9
III.       THE PROJECT                                                          10
A.  General  ...........        .10
1.  Project Rationale                                          10
2.  Project Concept and Objectives  .........,....             10
3.  Project Description ......................*.               11
B.   Detailed Features                                              12
1e Extension Services                                          12
3.  Traenrng  ................,.....................           14
3. Research  ....15
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation                                  16
5.  Financial Management Systems                               17
C.    Project Costs and Financing                                    17
1. Cost Estimates ......17
2.  Financing Plan and Arrangements                            18
3.  Project Preparation Facility  ..................           19
4.  Procurement and Disbursement  ........o.......o.           19
5.  Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements......           22
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission which took
place November 10-27, 1986, consisting of Messrs. C. Ameur (mission leader),
B. de Chazal and M. Raine (IDA), Ms. A.-M. Gninofou (NDR) and Mr. 0. Farcy
(PDRN). Figures and draftiiig were checked by Ms. V. Mackrandilal. The report
was checked by Mrs. J. Ogang and Mrs. M.-L. Kpatchibo, and the secretarial work
was done by Mrs. H. Katele.
Ths document has a resktd distribution and may be used by fecipints on in th pefomnsce
of their offcial dutbs Its contents may not othrwise be disclosed without Wodd Ibak athoon.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
D.   Organization and Management         .......................   23
1. Extension Services  .........     .@ ........              23
2.  Research  ........                                        24
E.   Benefits and Risks   ..e..*999999..999990..e**o*9.*           24
1.  Benefits  *.*.... .....**. .. ....*...   ........ ...     24
29  Risks             ...99 9                                 25
IV.        ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................           26
ANNEXES
3-1   DGDR Organization Chart
3-2   DRDR Organization Chart
4-1   Characteristics of the Four Project Regions
4-2   Basic Population/Extension Agent Ratios and Area
Data of the Project Area
4-3   Incremental Staffing Requirements
4-4   Technical Assistance
4-5   Research Program
4-6   Technical Recommendations
4-7   Project Cost by Component and by Nature
4-8   Project Costs by Institution and Component
4-9 Disbursement Estimates
4-10  Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS:
IBRD No. 20103  Togo  - Agricultural Extension Project -
Agricultural Extension Area Responsibilities
IBRD No. 20104  Togo  - Project Area - Savanes Region
IBRD No. 20105  Togo  - Project Area - Kara Region
IBRD No. 20106  Togo  - Project Area - Plateaux Region
IBRD No. 20107  Togo  - Project Area - Maritime Region



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS                                                Code No.
1.  Agricultural Extension : The Training and Visit System,            PUBSU
D. Benor, J. Q. Harrison and M. Baxter, The World Bank;
1984.
2.  Training and Visit Extension, D. Benor and M. Baxter,              PUBSU
The World Bank; 1984.
3.  Etude de Synthese et de Diagnostic du Secteur Rural,             Abidjan
Louis Berger International, Agrer, SOTED, Consultant;            office
1984.
4.  Assessment of TOGO's Agricultural Production Potential,           D00820
GFA; 1985.
5.  Rapport Annuel, MDR; 1985.
6.  Report on the Donor's Conference for the Development of           D00821
Togo; June 1985.
7. TOGO - Second Structural Adjustment Program (Cr. 1599 TO);
May 1985.
8.  Etude de cinq terroirs Villageois et Suivi d'Exploita-       D00822(1-2)
tations Agricoles, CIRAD - IRCT/MDR; November 1985.
9.  R6publique Togolaise, Programme pour le Renforcement des    D00823(1-2)
Services de Vulgarisation - Mission de Preparation -
Rapport de Fin de Mission. MINSTER Agriculture Limited;
May 1986.
10.  Nouvelle Strategie du Developpement Rural, MDR, March 1985.       D00824
B.  STAFF WORKING PAPERS                                                Code No.
Technical Papers
1.  Services de Vulgarisation au Togo                           Bank Reports
2. La Recherche Agricole au Togo
3. Suivi et Evaluation
4. Definition de Poste et Terme de RAf6rences des Etudes
5. Programve de formation
6. Liens Recherche-Vulgarisation dans le Cadre du Projet
7.  Tableau des CoSts D6taillis
WAPAA
April 1987



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of Togo
Beneficiaries:      1finistry of Rural Development's Direction GUn6rale du
DUveloppement Rural (DGDR) and four Directions Regionales du
Developpement Rural (DRDR)
Amount:             SDR 7.6 million (US$9.7 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:        The project would, over a four-year period,
improve the efficiency of Togo's agricultural extension
system, thereby contributing to an increase in foodcrop
production and farmers' incomes. This would be
implemented through:
(a) rehabilitating and strengthening the DRDRs'
extension services and introducing the basic
principles of the Training and Visit system;
(b) providing systematic in-service training for
extension staff at all levels;
(c) improving research and extension linkages;
(d) setting-up a monitoring and evaluation system
within NDR and DRDRs to supervise extension and
research activities and provide feed-back on services
and technologies provided to farmers;
(e) providing assistance to improve DGDR's and DRDRs'
financial management.



Estimated Proiect Costs
Local     Foreipa     Total      Z of Base Cost
------- US$ million -------
Extension Services              1.5         2.8       4.3            39
Training                        1.1         0.3       1.4            13
Research                        0.9         1.1       2.0            18
Monitoring and Evaluation       0.4         0.6       1.0             9
Financial Management            0.3         2.0       2.3            21
Total Base Costs                4.2         6.8      11.0           100
Physical Contingencies          0.3         0.4       0.7             6
Price Contingencies             0.5         0.4       0.9             8
Total Project Costs a/          5.0         7.6      12.6           114
(Including Taxes)            =n-          _-
Taxes                           0.6         ...       0.6
Total Project Costs
(Net of Taxes)               4.4          7.6      12.0
a/ Including a US$0.2 million PPF for project preparation and
US$0.6 million for a second PPF for start-up activities.
Financing Plan
Government                       2.9      --      2.9
IDA                              2.1     7.6      9.7
Total                      5.0      7.6     12.6
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit
FY88     FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93   FY94
Annual               1.6       2.0    1.9    1.6    1.3      1.0    0.3
Cumulative           1.6       3.6    5.5    7.1    8.4      9.4    9.7
Benefits and Risks
Benefits would stem from (a) MDR's improved ability to plan and
coordinate agricultural extension at a national level; (b) Improved
efficiency and cost effectiveness of the country's extension services
through the strengthening of the DRDRs; tc) increased production and
productivity of foodcrops as farmers apply improved technologies and
(d) increased incomes for between 20 to 30S of Togo's rural community,
which represent the poorer half of the population.



- vi -
The major risks include those usually related to extension
projects of this sort: (a) ineffective management of funds and personnel;
(b) inadequate and/or untimely provision of budgetary resources by
Government; (c) slower than expected adoption rates by farmers of the
recommended cultural practices; and (d) slower than expected build-up of
applicable technology by research. The project was designed to focus on
these risks.
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6601-TO
Maps: IBRD 20103, 20104, 20105, 20106, 20107.
WAPAA
April 1987



- vii -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Unit                 Size
(1982 unless noted)
1. Population
Total                             (1985 - million)       3.0
Rural as % of Total                   %                  77
Density (average and variation)  Pop/km2 (range)         48 (20-100)
2. Economic Overview
GNP/Capita                          $ (1983)            264
Rural Income!Capita                 $ (1983)             96
GNP                              Value. CFAF, m.        303
Agriculture share of GNP         Value, CFAF, m.         93
Of which - Export crops                it                8
- Domestically
used crops                 "                69
- Non crop                                     16
3. Land Use
Total area                             000 km2           56.6
Forests (more than 50% covered)        000 km2            5.5
Perennial Crops                        000 km2            1.1
Annual Crops (Cultivated)              000 km2            4.8
Of which cotton                                          0.7
4. Output                                                   (1983/84)
Cereals             000 t (index 72/73 = 100)            307.4 (1.32)
Root crops           "                                   801.1 (1.04)
Cotton (seed)        "                                    30   (5.17)
Cocoa               *t                                    14   (0.75)
Coffee                                                     8   (1.18)
Cereals per capita                (kg)                   109
5. Inputs
Fertilizer                       (1985 - 000 t)           19
Chemicals                        (1985 - 000 1)        1,500
Improved seed                    (1985 - t)            3,957
6. Trade
Total Exports               billion   CFAF                  62.6
Of which agricultural
products                     if       o ()                 17.8 (28)
- cocoa                               i" "                 4.9 ( 8)
- coffee                              It tn                 6.3 (10)
- cotton                     "           It                 6.6 (11)



- viii -
Total Imports                                              128.3
Of which food and beverage  "                             34.9 (27)
- cereals/flour                                            5.7 (4)
- meat/fish                   "       "                  4.4 (3)
Of which agricultural
inputs                                "   "              33 (3)
WAPAA
April 1987



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Togo has requested IDA's assistance to improve
the operation of its agricultural extension services. This need was
identified following Government's analysis of the performance of the
agricultural sector over the late 1970s and early 1980s. The analysis
revealed that productivity was lagging, mainly due to ineffective links
between agricultural research and farmers via the extension system and
inadequate agricultural support services. Reform in this area was seen as
vital if sectoral and ultimately national growth objectives were to be met.
Following subsequent sector analysis conducted by IDA and Government, a
reform process was initiated by Government in 1985 and included (a) testing
and rationalizing extension staff; and (b) undertaking basic retraining of
key staff. In early 1986, Government, with IDA's technical assistance,
launched pilot activities in well defined areas to test the applicability
of the basic principles of the Training and Visit (T&V) system of extension
in the Togolese context. These tests have been positive and have helped
verify work methods and norms which Government is now introducing in
ongoing rural development projects. The present project would focus on
reinforcing extension services outside the responsibility of ongoing
projects while establishing a national extension management capability. It
would be executed over four years, at a cost of US$12.6 million, to be
cofinanced by Government and IDA.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Main Features
2.01.     Togo's economic prospects and the Bank's involvement in the
country are covered in Country Brief No. Sec-M-87-301 of March, 1987.
Togo's agricultural sector accounts for about 30% of GNP and employs about
1.0 million persons full or part-time (about 80% of the national labor
force). Domestic crop production assures a satisfactory overall level of
food self-sufficiency (about 1,800 calories per person per day). At the
same time, the sector produces cocoa, coffee and cotton which contribute
about 30% of Togo's export earnings with cocoa and coffee providing about
20%. Taxes from export crops and profits on export crop trading generate
about 10% of Government's revenues.



- 2 -
2.02      Farmers annually plant about 450,000 ha in foodcrops (maize,
rice, sorghum, cowpea, groundouts, yam, cassava), 70,000 ha in cotton,
while the area of perennial crops is 110,000 ha in coffee, cocoa and oil
palm. Foodcrops account for about 75% of agricultural production and the
cash crops for the remainder. Growth in the sector has been modest since
the early 1970s; about 2% p.a. for cereals, slightly less than 1% p.a. for
root crops, and an actual decline in coffee and cocoa production. The
major exception of these trends has been in cotton production which has
grown at 8% p.a. Most of the growth in annual crops has come from area
expansion.
2.03      It does not appear that this modest performance has resulted from
lack of resources or uncontrollable factors. An adequate land base exists.
Rainfall has been more sporadic in recent years than in the past, but Togo
has not been as severely affected as its northern neighbours. With more
than 50% of cultivated land found on farms of more than 2 ha, farm
structure has been adequate to permit the production of marketable
surpluses. Farmers themselves have been willing to innovate and to adopt
improved technology when this has beer shown to be in their interest. The
major constraint thus lies at the sectoral policy rather than at the farm
level. Farmers as a whole have not been adequately serviced, and equally
important, they have not received the prices required to permit and
encourage widespread investment in improved techniques. These issues are
being addressed under structural adjustment programs (SAL) as well as in
sectoral lending.
B.   Government Sector Strategy
2.04      To improve the sector policies, Goverr-aent has begun implementing
specific short and medium-term measures aimed at improving the incentives
framework and increasing the effectiveness of agricultural services.
2.05.     Short-term Measures.  The improvements to the incentives
framework have been carried out in the context of the SAL programs.
Prices paid to cotton, coffee and cocoa producers have been increased on
average, 60% in nominal terms and 25% in real terms since 1982.  This has
generated a substantial supply response particularly for cotton (para 2.02)
and coffee, and has stabilized cocoa production which was declining.
Nonetheless, the implicit and explicit taxation on the three products is
still about 30% of f.o.b. prices and Government is exploring means to
reduce this taking into account its precarious debt and budgetary
situation. Government has agreed to gradually phase out subsidies on
fertilizers and insecticides. Fertilizer subsidies were reduced from 40%
in 1984 to between 30% and 20% in 1985. However, cocoa and cotton
insecticides are still fully subsidized, while foodcrop insecticides are
not subsidized at all. In foodcrops marketing, Government is strengthening
both village level storage and private sector marketing, while limiting
State intervention to holding a food security stock of up to 12,000 tons.
Discussions on these measures continue under the SAL programs.



- 3 -
2.06      Medium-term Measures.  In parallel with putting in place a more
appropriate incentives framework, Government sees improvements in the
organization and effectiveness of agricultural services as imperative to
bring about a supply response. Extension, input supply, agricultural
research and eventually credit must be focused on. Government acknowledges
that inadequate institutional arrangements have been one of the causes of
the proliferation of externally-financed projects following different
operating norms, and that this tendency has failed to raise productivity.
Government's strategy as detailed in its "Nouvelle Strategie" 1/ would
therefore be to better organize, ;-armonize the approach, and improve the
quality of such major services as extension.   The proposed Agricultural
Extension Project thus represents a significant step in this strategy. It
is being followed up by the Agricultural Support Services Project presently
being prepared with IDA assistance, which would concentrate on MDR's
restructuring and strengthening the main agricultural services including
research, input supply and agricultural credit.
C.   IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience
2.07      IDA's assistance to Togo's agricultural sector has emphasised
increasing farm incomes as a means to generate sustained growth not only
for the agricultural sector itself but, through multiplier effects, in the
entire rural community. At the policy level, this has been achieved
through seeking reductions in export crop taxation and a commitment to
increase producer prices, liberalization of grain marketing, enhancing the
role of the private sector in servicing agriculture and increasing the
efficiency of essential public Government functions in agriculture. This
strategy is implemented through support to IMF short-term actions, two
structural adjustment programs and through the project program.
2.08      In agriculture, IDA has participated in the financing of five
projects, two of which are presently completed (Maritime Region Rural
Development Project (Cr. 638-TO) and the First Cocoa/Coffee Development
Project (Cr. 503-TO)). For a variety of reasons, both projects fell
considerably short of their targets. Presently, three additional projects
are being executed, i.e. the Second Cocoa/Coffee Development Project
(Cr. 945-TO), the Second Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas
(Cr. 1302-TO) and the Third Cocoa/Coffee Project. The first of these is
nearly completed, the second is scheduled to end in September 1987, and the
third was recently signed in January, 1987. Both the Second Cocoa/Coffee
and Cotton projects have either achieved or surpassed their objectives. In
addition to this proposed Agricultural Extension Project, future projects
in the sector's lending program include: (a) a Third Rural Development
Project in Cotton Areas; and (b) an Agricultural Support Services Project.
IDA also serves as a cooperating institution with IFAD assisting in the
supervision of one project (Notse Rural Development Project) and in the
preparation of a National Small Ruminants Project.
1/ Ministere du Developpement Rural, "Nouvelle Strat6gie du Developpement
Rural, Mars 1985".



- 4 -
2.09      Togo's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement has been mixed but has recently improved. The Government is
now familiar with the Bank Group's procurement and disbursement procedures;
however delays in both procurement and disbursement are frequent, due to
cumbersome administrative regulations dealing with contract awards and to
recently established additional procedures for withdrawal application
processing. The Government has been made aware of these problems and is
seeking appropriate means to simplify procedures. There have been cases of
project Implementation delays caused by shortages of counterpart funds.
D. Institutional Environment
2.10      Central Government Ministry.  The Togolese agricultural sector is
served by the Ministere du D6veloppement Rural (MDR) which is in charge of
policy formulation and coordination of production activities and includes
directorates for research, development, extension, cooperatives and credit,
livestock and training. The Ministare de l'Am6nagement Rural was disbanded
in March 1987 and most of its functions including engineering, geology,
plant protection, veterinary services, forestry and fisheries and quality
control are now covered by MDR. The latter Ministry is structured along
traditional administrative lines, and has little technical or financial
control of operations due in large measure to poor staff training, lack of
facilities, and the means to carry out operational work. This is
particularly evident in the field extension services which have no
operational direction and few staff with an adequate professional
background.
2.11      In 1980, Directions Regionales du Ddveloppement Rural (DRDR) were
set up in each of the country's five regions - Savanes, Kara, Centrale,
Plateaux, Maritime. They report administratively to the Direction Generale
du Developpement Rural (DGDR) within MDR. Their function is to act as a
regional MDR. Organization Charts for DGDR and the DRDRs are in Annexes
3-1 and 3-2. In addition, the DRDRs are to coordinate and harmonize all
rural development activities in their respective area of jurisdiction.
2.12      The DRDRs have been unable to play their appointed roles for a
number of reasons. They are structured as administrative organizations and
do not have clear operational mandates. This approach applies as well to
their field extension systems, which do not have clear, time-bound
monitorable objectives. The lack of resources for operations has virtually
eliminated the DRDR's presence in the field with the exception of some
donor financed projects such as Fonds Europden de Developpement projects in
Kara (recently completed) and Savanes, and Federal Republic of Germany
support through GTZ to the Central Region DRDR. In addition, the existing
financial management of the other four DRDRs is inadequate to record and
control their operations and the accounting personnel is not sufficiently
qualified or experienced to manage funds in accordance with generally
accepted accounting standards.
2.13      Development ARencies.  Because of weak Government institutions,
much of the implementation of agricultural development programs has been



entrusted to independent project entities such as Societe Togolaise du
Coton (SOTOCO), Societg Nationale pour la RUnovation et le Developpement de
la Cacaoyere et de la Cafeiere Togolaise (SRCC), and Societe Nationale du
Palmier a Huile. Other undertakings include a Federal Republic of Germany
(GTZ) assisted project in the Central Region, which promotes foodcrops and
animal traction and has a seed production farm; an International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) financed Rural Development Project at Notse
(PDRN) in the south-east of the Plateaux Region which promotes foodcrops
and cotton; and over 15 other smaller projects supported by various donors.
In addition to their crop-specific mandates, most of these agencies or
projects assume broad responsibilities for general extension, agricultural
research, input supply, seed production, marketing, credit, road
construction and maintertance, and social infrastructure development. Each
of these agencies work in specific areas and/or with specific types of
crops leaving to the DRDRs the areas not covered by them. These projects
have had mixed successes but have resulted in few spin-off benefits for the
regular institutions. Noting this, Government has launched a new policy of
institutional reforms which IDA supports.
2.14      Extension Services.  Agricultural extension services have been
and are currently provided by several agencies and/or projects (paras 2.12
and 2.13), each independently structured for carrying out extension
activities. There remain marked variability in both the approach and
systems used for transferring technology and other messages to farmers. To
a greater or lesser degree, all extension services have the following
shortcomings: (a) high field extension agent (FEW) to farmer ratios of
1:80-130 when lower ratios of 1:200 and over are recommended; (b) providing
limited crop specific information rather than for a wider range of crops
and for farm systems; (c) inadequate supervision and control by
supervisors; (d) no regular program of field visits by extension agents;
(e) insufficient and/or unsystematic training; and (f) inadequate links
with research. The DRDRa, which have jurisdiction over 25% of the country
and account for 25% of the total 1,330 FEWs, undoubtedly provided the least
effective services due to the above problems, combined with an acute lack
of vehicles and equ'pment, and almost no budget for operating costs other
than salaries. Further details of the existing extension services are in
Working Paper 1.
2.15      In early 1985, Government reviewed the agricultural sector's
overall performance. With regard to the existing systems of extension, it
identified the need for better planning and monitoring of the FEWs
activities, improving their communication skills and providing better
technical support through stronger links with research. As a result, the
following measures were swiftly introduced: (a) all 1,482 FEWs employed
took a professional competency test; (b) geographical areas of intervention
among the different projects and agencies were clearly demarcated;
(c) modifications to extension services were adopted within the country's
main projects; and (d) the DRDR were restructured. The details of this
plan, which are spelled out in the "Nouvelle Strategie" (para 2.06),
closely adhere to the main principles of the T&V system. Following the
test, the number of FEWs dropped to 1,035 and those who failed were
dismissed. New candidates were subsequently recruited bringing the current
level to about 1,330. While introducing the above measures, Government



requested IDA assistance to prepare a project to support the restructuring
of the extension services within the areas not covered by ongoing projects.
2.16      Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research is handled by some
14 institutes and/or development agencies spread among 3 Ministries (MDR,
Ninistere de la Recherche Scientifique, and Ministare du Commerce et des
Transports). The main commodity oriented research institutes comprise:
fiber crops - Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques
(IRCT); coffee and cocoa - Institut de Recherches du Cafe, du Cacao et
autres Plantes Stimulantes (IRCC); foodcrops - Institut de Recherche
Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivribres tIRAT) and the Direction
de la Recherche Agronomique (DRA) in MDR. Additionally, most of the
agricultural projects have their own research component. Further details
of the structure of current research establishments are in Working Paper 2.
2.17      To date, responsibility for agronomic research has been diffused
and has been financed through independent actions or subcontracts between
projects and research institutes. Apart from a very limited number of
externally-financed projects, this has led to inadequate operating budgets,
physical facilities, staff development and institutional linkages, shortage
of qualified technical personnel, investment periods too short to achieve
planned objectives, and a lack of a global strategy for the national
research system. Although there have been some useful findings with
potential field applications for export crops, important shortcomings exist
for agricultural research in generalt (a) fooderop research has so far
concentrated on cereals, with little attention to legumes and tuber crops;
(b) the crop specific orientation has detracted attention from the farm
system issues of more relevance to farmers such as mixed-cropping,
anti-erosion measures, financial viability of newly recommended
technologies and labor availability; and (c) insufficient diffusion of
results due to weak links between research and extension particularly with
the DRDRs.
2.18      Government is aware of these problems of efficiency and focus and
that gaps exist with the overall research effort. It has therefore been
studying means of rationalizing and coordinating the national effort with
assistance provided under the Second Technical Assistance Project
(Cr.1270-TO). Further strengthening of the Togolese agricultural research
will be considered under the proposed Agricultural Support Services Project
(para 2.06).
2.19      Input Supply. Consumption of agricultural inputs for foodcrop
production is low in Togo. Only about 152 of all cultivated land is
fertilized, most of which is under cotton. Annually, about 19,000 tons of
fertilizers and some 1.5 million liters of agricultural chemicals are
imported. Of these, 13,000 tons of the fertilizers and most of the
chemicals are used by SOTOCO, and to a much lesser extent by SRCC. The
Service des Engrais et Moyens de Production (SEMP) vhich comes under
DGDR/MDR, is responsible at the national level for evaluating, ordering and
distributing inputs through the DRDRa. Since 1982 SOTOCO has procured its
own inputs, ensuring its distribution and sale on credit in conjunction
with its seed cotton marketing activities. Procurement and regional



- 7 -
distribution of fertilizers by SENP and their local distribution and timely
availability by the DRDRs appears to be adequate for the small quantities
involved. Fertilizer subsidies are decreasing (para 2.05).
2.20      There are only two main pesticides purchased by foodcrop farmers:
insecticides for grain storage and for cowpeas grown in pure stand. Most
of these insecticides are provided by donors as grants, but in some cases
are bought by the DRDRs from agro-chemical companies located in Lom6.
Other than these sales in Lom6, no further private sector involvement in
agro-chemical sales exists in Togo.
2.21      Improved Seed Production.  Seed for cotton and foodcrops and
planting material for coffee are produced by several agencies including:
IRCT, IRAT, DRA, DRDR Maritime, Soutouboua seed farm and IRCC. In
addition, most development projects have their own seed multiplication
component based on foundation seed provided by their applied research
programs. In 1985/86, IRCT produced some 2,100 tons of commercial seed
cotton out of 100 tons foundation seed which was sufficient to meet the
needs of the country's cotton growers. By comparison, the total quantity
of seed produced for foodcrops, mainly for maize, sorghum, rice, cowpea and
groundnut, amounted to only 1,857 tons. Breeder seed was provided by both
the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and the
Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development Agency (SAFGRAD) both located
outside Togo. Although the use of seed for foodcrops increased tenfold
since 1978, it is estimated that only 12% of the seed used by farmers is of
improved quality. Government is now regrouping and better coordinating the
responsibilities in the seed sector assisted by proposals prepared under
the Third Technical Assistance project.
2.22      Credit.  Agricultural credit is the responsibility of the
National Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole -
CNCA) which is a Government joint venture with a private partner.
According to CNCA, some 1,200 farmers obtain seasonal credit each year.
This corresponds to a low ratio of 1 farmer in every 250. With the
exception of seasonal credit provided through SOTOCO for cotton fertilizer
(for which there is close to 100% recovery), experience of credit
operations with coffee, cocoa and foodcrop farmers remains discouraging.
Government has recently completed an agricultural credit study which will
be used as a basis for a reorganization of the credit system.
2.23      Agricultural Education.  There are three main levels of
agricultural education in Togo: (a) a basic level for the FEWs provided by
the Ecole d'Apprentissage Agricole (EAA) which, since 1986, trains all
FEWs; (b) an intermediate level provided by Ecole des Ingenieurs Adjoints
(EIA) suitable for middle level field officers; and (c) a higher level for
engineers (Ingenieurs des travaux) offered by the National Agricultural
Institute - Ecole Superieure d'Agronomie (Universite du Benin) for top
managers of the country's agricultural Ministries and parastatals. Both
EAA and BIA are within the Institut National de Formation Agricole (INFA)
in Tovg. In addition to the above, refresher courses for farmers, DRDR
FEWs, and heads of sectors and sub-sectors are provided by (a) the
Agricultural Training Center (Centre de Formation Agricole) in
Notse-Todome; (b) a Small Ruminant Project providing training on animal



- 8 -
production and the Animal Traction Promotion Project on ox-cultivation; and
(c) the Central DRDR, SOTOCO and SRCC have well equipped but insufficient
training programs for their field staff. All the above centers and
programs are funded by Government with varying levels of donor assistance.
2.24      Agricultural training at the graduate and diploma levels is
generally adequate although the number of graduates is constrained by lack
of operating funds. Base level training of extension staff, however, is
unsatisfactory, except to some extent for the training programs provided by
the development projects at Central DRDR, SOTOCO and SRCC. The training
programs are not systematic and training needs are not correctly diagnosed
or met, owing to a lack of appropriate instructions and proper funding of
training institutes. Improvements required to the current agricultural
education system described above include: (a) preparing job descriptions
for all staff to complement the introduction of a modified approach to the
existing agricultural extension system; (b) establishir.g training
requirements based on regular staff evaluations and needs; (c) identifying
existing training programs in Togo as well as training opportunities
overseas for staff to attend; (d) standardizing training programs at the
DRDR level that would address the needs, constraints and technical problems
faced by farmers and FEWs; and (f) emphasizing the importance of pedagogy
and the need for continuous training of trainers on communication skills.
While some of the above improvements are to some extent being carried out
by individual projects they would be fully addressed under the proposed
extension project.
2.25      Marketing.  Both.the Ministry of Commerce and NDR control the
State trading companies, the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT)
and TOGOGRAIN. OPAT was created in 1964 and is responsible for the
purchase of all export crops (cocoa, coffee, cotton, palm oil and palm
kernels, and groundnuts) on the domestic market, for their marketing
abroad, and for internal producer price stabilization. It purchases crops
at producer prices fixed annually by presidential decree prior to harvest.
OPAT's trading activities generate sizeable surpluses for the Government
which are used to fund the national budget and subsidies on fertilizers and
pesticides, and to support a variety of Government investments outside
normal budgetary channels. TOGOGRAIN was established by Government to
stabilize food prices and hold stocks mainly of maize, millet and sorghum,
so as to smooth out fluctuations in supply and prices. Due to poor
management, TOGOGRAIN has been unable to operate effectively as a
regulatory agency and has now had its operations limited to managing a
12,000 ton grain security stock.
2.26      Most foodcrop surpluses are handled relatively efficiently by
small private traders. Government has abandoned plans for further
involvement in foodcrop marketing, relying instead on private traders. A
study on grain marketing carried out by consultants to IDA, showed that
marketing is generally competitive and unexploitative to small farmers.
Small amounts of foodcrops are sold to neighbouring countries, particularly
the northern Sahelian areas. USAID is supporting a cereals trade
liberalization program aimed at strengthening the traditional private
marketing channels and removing legal constraints to the export of
foodcrops.



- 9-
E. The Pilot Extension Test Zones
2.27      Faced with the problems of inefficiency in extension services
(para 2.14), Government launched test activities in selected areas within
the zones covered by projects managed by SOTOCO and PDRN with a view to
improving their extension services. The objective was to introduce and
adapt the main principles of the T&V system of extension in four
sub-sectors each of the above two projects. In March and April 1986, staff
from the World Bank's Regional Mission in Western Africa's agricultural
extension unit contributed to the training of the personnel involved in the
test activities while the projects provided the financing required for
training purposes.
2.28      The test activities were initiated in March-April 1986 which
allowed little preparation other than basic training as the cropping season
had begun. Nonetheless, tangible results were achieved including: (a) the
establishment of and adoption by all field staff of a time-bound work
program based on a bimonthly schedule of fixed visits to groups of farmers;
(b) the setting up of regular training sessions for all extension staff;
and (c) some improvements of links with research, through DRA. By June,
the new methodology was extended by the SOTOCO and PDRN managers to their
entire areas of jurisdiction.
2.29      Surveys carried out by SOTOCO and PDRN monitoring and evaluation
units in October demonstrated positive results after the first cropping
season. Improvements were visible in both work organization and
management. Maps and programs of visits were in regular use by 98% of the
FEWs who, together with farmers, (over 90%) expressed satisfaction at the
new approach to extension. The number of farmers actually reached by
extension increased markedly and, by November, 98% were aware of FEWs
scheduled days of visit. Bimonthly training sessions of the PEWs had been
instituted and technical messages taught to farmers had become more
practical and spect.fic. Also extension personnel have better perceived the
need and benefits from closer links with research. It is estimated that
within the pilot areas farmers established some 12,000 demonstration plots
of between 0.1 to 0.2 ha, to test the FEWs recommendations. The technical
recommendations tested which were simple and did not require increased use
of modern inputs, included timely planting, proper spacing, thinning and
weeding. Preliminary results indicate yield increases of between 20% and
40%, when compared to traditionally farmed fields. Many farmers have
expressed their willingness to implement at least one demonstration plot
during the next cropping season (details of the surveys are in Working
Paper 3).
2.30      The pilot activities have demonstrated three factors essential
for an expansion of the system as proposed in this project: (a) the main
principles of the T&V system can be adapted to the Togolese context;
(b) production increases have resulted from higher productivity practices
introduced through the extension system; and (c) extension research links
can be improved, and a considerable body of simple, low risk research
results await transfer to farmers.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   General
1.   Project Rationale
3.01      Togo's overall economic growth will continue to depend heavily on
growth in agriculture over the coming decade. However, many simple well
tested research recommendations which could promote this growth have not
yet reached most Togolese farmers. To ensure a more dynamic transfer of
available technology to farmers, it is essential to improve the current
linkages between research and extension as well as the efficiency of the
country's extension services. Although extension is but one of the
agricultural services in need of improvement, it is central to achieving
results. Thus, as more complex research results become available and input
distribution and credit services improve, the existence of better extension
will be a precondition for having these results applied in the field. The
proposed project would contribute to the program of restructuring extension
services with the goal of harmonizing and eventually unifying extension
services; this has been identified by Government as a priority objective.
Through numerous agricultural extension projects in many parts of the
world, the Bank Group has wide experience to offer in this field. IDA's
continuous involvement both financially and through the provision of
technical advice would therefore be of importance for the success of Togo's
agricultural strategy. IDA participation at this stage should also assist
in harmonizing the approach to promoting agricultural growth which is
needed, given the current dispersion of efforts among 29 agricultural
projects and 12 donors. The project forms an integral part of Government
and IDA's agricultural sector development strategy and is closely related
to the extension efforts of the ongoing Second Rural Development Project in
Cotton Areas (SOTOCO - Cr. 1302-TO) and Cocoa/Coffee Project (SRCC -
Cr. 945-TO).  It is also related to Togo's structural adjustment program
ihich specifically calls for a reorganization and rehabilitation of
agricultural services.
2.   Proiect Concept and Objectives
3.02      One of the principal findings of Government's agricultural
performance review (para 2.15) was that due to the Ministries'
ineffectiveness, Government services had been replaced in many areas by
individual projects. Their combined effect, however, did not serve the
sector effectively. Following the review, Government completed a strategy
for the sector's development whereby extension and other supporting rural
development activities would gradually become the responsibility of
nationally administered services under the Directions Regionales du
Developpement Rural (DRDR) with the role of projects being to support
rather than replace institutions. Assisted by an IDA agricultural sector
review, technical consultations between IDA and Government led in January
1985, to a clearer understanding as to the focus, content and method of
implementing an agricultural extension project. Government requested a PPF
in March 1985, to prepare an Agricultural Extension Project, and also
indicated interest in a future Agricultural Support Services Project which



- 11 -
would complement the former project by covering other services including
research, input supply, seed production and a review of the institutional
set-up in the agricultural sector. In early 1986, Government asked IDA to
assist in starting-up pilot extension actions.
3.03      The main project objective would be to reorganize and strengthen
the existing extension services managed by four of the five DRDRs, in the
areas which are not presently receiving external aid, at both the national
and regional levels and to introduce principles similar to the Training and
Visit (T&V) extension system. Institution building would therefore be
dominant in the project and would be aimed at strengthening the Direction
G6n6rale du D6veloppement Rural (DGDR) within the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) and its decentralized regional operations, the DRDRs.
The project's investments and operating costs are the minimum deemed
necessary to make the best use of existing personnel. Special attention is
given to the organization and training of regional staff as well as to the
availability and the proper management of funds by MDR down to the DRDRs.
Following completion of this extension project, a follow-on project is
envisaged which would incorporate and harmonize under one MDR/DGDR national
extension service all of the currently dispersed extension projects.
Gradually as the system proves itself, the DRDRs would assume
responsibility for managing all extension services in their region as each
of the ongoing projects comes to an end.
3.   Project Description
3.04      The project would support, over a four-year period, Government's
program for improving agricultural extension services executed through the
DRDRs, with a longer-term objective of establishing a national service.
The project would concentrate on foodcrop production and would thus
complement similar extension and production efforts underway in the
IDA-assisted projects for cotton and rural development, executed by SOTOCO,
and coffee and cocoa development, executed by SRCC. The project would
include:
(a) reorganizing and strengthening MDR's agricultural extension
services at the DRDR level along the basic principles of the T&V
system;
(b) providing for systematic in-service training of extension staff
at all levels;
(c) improving the links between extension and research through a more
direct, decentralized involvement of DRA in adaptive research and
farm trials, with the active participation of extension staff and
farmers;
(d)  establishing a monitoring and evaluation unit within each DRDR to
supervise extension and research activities and to provide
sufficient feed-back from farmers so as to determine the
appropriateness of extension's recommended messages;



- 12 -
(e) introducing improved financial management practices for DGDR and
the DRDRs.
3.05      The project would finances
(a) the recruitment of a limited number of additional Togolese staff
for ti) improved technical support of field staff; (ii) expanded
training programs; (iii) adaptive research programs; (iv) the new
M&E units; and (v) improved financial management;
(b) the purchase of vehicles, field and office equipment for project
staff, and a small civil works program;
(c) incremental operating costs for the units involved;
(d) the cost of setting up six small experimentation sites and
rehabilitating six existing ones;
(e) the cost of technical assistance to MDR, consultancies on
financial management and training, and a study of women's role in
agriculture.
B.   Detailed Features
3.06      DGDR's Direction de la Cooperation et de la Vulgarisation
(DCV/DGDR) would have overall responsibility for the project and would
coordinate field programs and provide technical assistance to the DRDRs.
DCV/DGDR would be assisted by extension, training, research, monitoring and
evaluation and financial specialists. This is further detailed in
para 3.31.
1.   Extension Services
3.07      The project would better organize and strengthen the extension
services of the areas not covered by specific projects in four (Savanes,
Kara, Plateaux, and Maritime) DRDRs. The characteristics of the four
regions are in Annex 4-1. The reorganization would be carried out so as to
apply the basic principles of the T&V system which have already proven
successful in Togo through pilot activities (paras 2.27 - 2.30).
3.08      The three main principles of the T & V system of extension are
closely adhered to in the proposed projects (i) establishing and adopting
a time-bound and supervised work program; (ii) regular and continuous
training of staff at all levels; and (iii) the strengthening of links with
research. The project will introduce two variations in the manner in which
the three principles are implemented in the field based on the pilot
projects experience (para 2.27):
(a) substituting contact farmers for contact groups. The concept of
contact farmers that proved valuable in many countries, mainly in
Asia, has not proven appropriate in the West African context in
general, including Togo. Existing hierarchies at the village



- 13 -
level do not allow for the artificial addition of contact farmers
who are invariably perceived as having privileged relations with
extension services. To prevent any such ill feelings, the
alternative is for the field extension worker (FEW) to deal with
contact groups instead of contact farmers. This is proving
successful in COte d'lvoire, Burkina Faso, Togo and Guinea;
(b)  the PEWs temporarily taking on additional, non-extension
functions. One important feature of the T & V system is for the
extension staff to concentrate their efforts on working solely on
agricultural extension. However, and only on a temporary basis,
in the project the FEWs would continue to distribute inputs based
on programmed schedules which would be limited to a few hours of
their time per week. The proposed Agricultural Support Services
project would address input supply on a national scale and thus
eliminate this temporary arrangement.
3.09      An indicative ratio of 1 FEW per 200 farmers would be adopted as
a first step in improving the service. This ratio would be modified during
the project period to account for population densities, settlement
patterns, types of farming and communication facilities. The project has
not provided for any increase in the number of FEWs; instead, they would be
redeployed according to the average 1s200 ratio during the first two years
of the project. Basic population FEW ratios in the project area are
detailed in Annex 4-2. The number of heads of sub-sectors, the direct
supervisors of the PEWs concerned with the project, amount to 54 resulting
in a 1:7 ratio which is satisfactory. According to the Nouvelle Strategie
(para 2.06), a sector corresponds to a prefecture. Under this rule, there
are currently 13 heads of sectors within the project area at the costly
ratio of 1:4 instead of 1:7 or 8. The Government is aware of the excess
number of head of sectors, and the latter ratio would improve in the
medium-term when the number of head of sectors will be adjusted as ongoing
projects are completed. Twenty-three Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs)
currently exist in the fields of general agriculture, animal production,
forestry and cooperatives. The Government would consider recruiting a
limited number of SMSs for cooperatives and animal production should it
become necessary in the course of the project. The SMSs would have an
important role as they would liaise with farmers, extension and research.
As such they would spend a third of their time visiting fields and talking
to farmers and extension staff, one third at research to bring up the
problems, constraints and wishes of farmers while keeping updated with
on-going research programs. Finally, the SMSs would spend the balance of
their time training the FEWs and heads of sub-sectors. At present, MDR has
recruited higher level SMSs and is upgrading them through special courses.
Staffing requirements are at Annex 4-3.
3.10      As a second step to improve the extension services, the
effectiveness of the PEWs would be increased through regular support and
training including (a) technical support from heads of sectors and
sub-sectors; (b) training by SMSs on recommendations appropriate to
farmers' concerns and needs; and (c) annual refresher courses to improve
their basic technical and communication skills (para 3.12). As a third
step, links with research would be improved (para 3.14). Finally, the



- 14 -
project would provide the necessary financial support to make the DRDR
extension services operational. An internationally recruited technical
specialist in extension systems would be hired since such expertise is not
currently available in Togo. The specialist would mainly help project
management implement, harmonize and coordinate the new approach to
extension within the four DRDRs. He would be located at DCV/DGDR and would
work closely with a Togolese counterpart whom he would train according to a
well defined program including the transfer of responsibilities. Details
of the technical assistance to be provided is in Annex 4-4 and terms of
reference are in Working Paper 4. The project would also finance
(a) transport including vehicles for the heads of extension at the DCV/DGDR
and DRDRs, and the heads of sectors, and motorcycles for the heads of the
sub-sectors and the SMSs, and bicycles for the PEWs; (b) offices and field
equipment including audio-visual aids where lacking; and (c) incremental
operating costs. In addition, the project would assist in reducing the
extension agent's time devoted to input distribution by constructing 85
small 15-ton village level input suppl; stores made out of reinforced clay
and 12 30-ton DRDR operated input stores in areas where they do not exist.
The village stores in particular will reduce time spent selling inputs as
sales will be to groups rather than individuals.
3.11      Women's Role in Agriculture.  Women play an important role in
agriculture and are responsible for various agricultural activities such as
planting, weeding and harvesting. Their specific functions vary between
region and ethnic group. Despite their importance, it is unusual for FEWs
to contact women directly, or for women to be present at farmers group
meetings, although no formal constraint exists. Therefore, extension
messages do not usually reach women directly. While Government is
interested in increasing women's participation both as farmers and as FEWs,
the way to integrate them is unclear at present. Consequently, the project
would provide funds for a socio-anthropological study of women's role in
agriculture by region and ethnic group. The study would suggest how to
improve women's integration into extension service activities and increase
their participation to the development of the agricultural sector. The
study would be carried out in the project's first year so as to provide
guidance and a plan of action to the extension services at an early stage.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the study will be completed
by December 31, 1988 and its results implemented as agreed with IDA. Terms
of reference for the study are in Working Paper 4.
2.   Trainint
3.12      The project would emphasize the training of extension staff as
well as experimentation site managers, enumerators, M&E agents, accountants
and surveyors. Project training would aim at upgrading the technical and
communication skills of extension staff at all levels. It would also
improve the capacity of SMSs to train and provide technical support to PEWs
and head of sub-sectors, through (a) monthly technically specialized
workshops for the SMSs; and (b) bimonthly training sessions of the FEWs by
SMSs, on the technical recommendations to be taught to farmers during the
following two-week period. The project's four-year training program has



- 15 -
been prepared and agreed with Government. The program details the types of
training, the beneficiaries, the length of the various courses and/or
seminars, their frequency and the sources of training. The program is in
Working Paper 5.
3.13      The project would provide for the recruitment of an experienced
training specialist for the technical unit in DCV/DGDR, to head the
expanded training program and to ensure adequate programming and
implementation. He would also check the content of the various training
sessions and refresher courses as well as the objectives of seminars and
study tours to ensure they properly address the staff training
requirements. Each DRDR would have its own training specialist to deal
more specifically with the pedagogical aspects of training and who would,
together with the SMSs, translate research recommendations into technical
messages for farmers utilizing, among other methods, audio-visual aids. In
addition, the project would finance on a short-term basis, a consultant
training specialist to review and update the training program. He would
also consider the appropriateness of using radio broadcasts for extension
purposes. Terms of reference are in Working Paper 4. The project would
also finance: (a) four regional training centers equipped with the
audio-visual material and office equipment; (b) training rooms as part of
small sector offices; (c) transport for the training staff at both DCV/DGDR
and DRDR levels; and (d) incremental operating costs.
3.  Research
3.14      The research program would be limited to priority short-term
applied and adaptive research programs. Applied research would seek to
verify new technologies in various agro-ecological conditions under
controlled environment such as on the DRA research station, on
experimentation sites or points d'essais (PE) and on farmers fields.
Adaptive research would be confined to farm trials and be designed to
adjust general recommendations derived from applied research to different
farm situations including: (a) cropping sequences and mixes, (b) level of
farmers skills, and (c) farmers resources and risk situations. The
specific areas to be treated and from which the greatest impact on yields
is foreseen include: anti-erosion measures starting from land preparation,
improving seed quality, crop rotations and mixed cropping, restoring soil
fertility, and post-harvest storage. As an example, recommendations on
maize cultivation in the Maritime DRDR would focus on land preparation
(with or without ridging, using hand tools) depending on the type of soils,
seed quality, plant population by adjusting both spacing and the number of
seed per hill, thinning and timely weeding, and post-harvest storage.
Further details on the research component's organization and management,
PEs and farm trials, content of the research program and specific technical
recommendations to be further tested are in Annexes 4-5 and 4-6 and Working
Paper 6.
3.15      There is currently an adequate body of simple, low risk, low cost
and proven technologies ready for transfer to farmers which are detailed in
Annex 4-6. There is also an adequate pipeline of research results to be



- 16 -
tested under local conditions through PEs and farm trials. The above
combination of readily available results and of recommendations that remain
to be tested would provide extension with sufficient high impact technical
messages to be taught to farmers for the next three to four years. From
results obtained on the PEs, the SMSs would put together recommendations
for farmer groups within their region. Feedback information would come
from farmers' regular contacts with extension, SMS's diagnosis from both
field visits and during training sessions with FEWs, and from researchers'
regular visits to PEs and farmers fields/demonstration plots.
3.16        To carry out the above short-term research programs the project
would provide for: (a) infrastructure; consisting mainly of six
rehabiliteted PEs and of six new ones, (b) vehicles, (c) operating costs,
(d) the international recruitment of an agro-economist to be posted at DRA,
and (e) the cost of a Togolese counterpart to the above technical
specialist. Finally, training in the design and execution of foodcrop
trials would be provided for project staff through IITA, in Nigeria and the
International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT)
in Burkina Faso.
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation
3.17      The project's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system would be set
up to provide the DGDR/MDR and the regional directors with information on
the effectiveness of the extension services. The emphasis in the early
years would be on monitoring project progress. The M&E system would
comprise a central unit within DGDR and four regional units attached to the
four DRDRs. The M&E unit to be established in the DGDR would standardize
concepts, definitions and methods needed to allow for proper inter-DRDR and
project comparisons of the extension services. From project inception, the
unit would define with the DGDR and DRDR managers the type, amount, purpose
and timing of data and information to be collected, provide the necessary
staff training, and guarantee continuity in the collecting of data series
requiring extended time-periods.
3.18      The monitoring aspect of the delivery system would provide
project management with quantitative and qualitative information on the
number of farmers exposed to technical recommendations and whether these
farmers understand and adopt the recommendations. It would also indicate
whether the messages have been understood by the FEWs, are relevant to
farmers, or must be changed or adapted to local conditions. The monitoring
will be carried out through built-in mechanisms in the extension
organization (FEW logbooks, supervisors visits to farmers) and through
several farmer surveys carried out annually by the M&E units. In addition
to technical data, administrative and financial information would also be
collected. Successful programs of this type have been introduced by SOTOCO
and PDRN, which would serve as models for the type of M&E to be carried
out. The M&E component would be provided with an internationally recruited
specialist who would assist setting up and implementing the system for the
first two years, and with additional staff, vehicles and operating costs.
Details are in Working Papers 3 and 4.



- 17 -
3.19      Within the DRDRs, and separate from M&E activities, there is an
ongoing agricultural statistics program operated by Division de la
Plantification et de la Programmation (DPP/DRDR) under the technical
guidance of Direction des EnquOtes et Statistiques Agricoles (DESA) which
concentrates on national level statistics on area cultivated, yields and
production. The project would provide the regional DPP/DGDR personnel with
the transport and field equipment they currently lack. This project would
complement a USAID program to start in 1987, aimed at strengthening DESA's
capabilities to collect, transmit and analyze field data in time for
appropriate measures to be taken annually on the country's food security
situation.
5.   Financial Management Systems
3.20      DAF/DGDR and the four DRDRs would be responsible for keeping
separate accounting records consistent with sound accounting practices
which would reflect fairly, in accordance with internationally accepted
accounting principles, the overall financial situation of the DCV)DGDR and
the DRDRs, as well as record the detailed costs of the project components.
The DRDRs would maintain a simple, manually operated accounting system and
the DAF/DGDR would use a microcomputer to consolidate projects accounts,
and to prepare and monitor the annual budget. It is possible DRDR accounts
would be computerized during the project through other donors financing. A
cost accounting system would be introduced at DAF/DGDR and the DRDRs from
project effectiveness. The measures taken under the project to improve
financial management and accountability would include (a) recruitment by
Government of a financial management consultant to establish closing
balance sheets up to 31 December, 1986 for each DRDR and to design and
implement a financial management information system for the project. This
would be a condition of effectiveness; (b) strengthening the Direction
Administrative et Financiere (DAF) within the DGDR and the DRDRs by
recruiting additional suitably qualified personnel including an
internationally recruited financial management specialist; and
(c) providing transport facilities for the DGDR financial staff to allow
for adequate supervision. The consultant's and the specialist's terms of
reference are in Working Paper 4.
C.   Proiect Costs and Pinancing
1. Cost Estimates
3.21      The cost of the project is US$12.6 million for a project covering
four years. This includes taxes of US$0.6, and a foreign cost component of
US$7.6 million representing 602 of the total costs. A breakdown of cost
estimates, at November 1986 prices is given below. Exchange rate for the
dollar is assessed at CFAP 314. Annexes_4-7 and 4-8 give a breakdown by
institution, component and by nature of expenditure, and Working Paper 7
contains detailed cost tables.



- 18 -
Summary of Project Costs by Component
Foreign % of
Component                Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   As X of  Base
-- CFAF million ---  ---- US$ million ---    Total   Cost
Extension Services         474      872  1,346    1.5       2.8    4.3       65      39
Training                   337       97    434    1.1       0.3    1.4       22      13
Research                   266      356    622    0.9       1.1    2.0       57       18
Monitoring & Evaluation   124        188    312    0.4      0.6    1.0       60        9
Financial Management       107      617    724    0.3       2.0    2.3       85      21
Total Base Costs         1,308    2,130  3,438    4.2       6.8   11.0       62      100
Physical Contingencies    115       125    240    0.3       0.4    0.7       52        6
Price Contingencies        151      119    270    0.5       0.4    0.9       44        8
Total Project Costs a/  1,574    2,374  3,948    5.0        7.6   12.6       60      114
(Including Taxes)                      ===MM     -    -    =    ====a rnm,,,
Taxes                      192       --    192    0.6        --    0.6
Total Project Costs
(Net of Taxes)         1,382    2,374  3,756    4.4       7.6   12.0
a/ Includes US$0.2 million and US$0.6 million for the first and second PPF.
3.22      Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed on operating
costs, incremental personnel costs, locally manufactured office equipment
and 151 on buildings. Price contingencies have been included at an average
of 4% on local costs and of 1% on foreign costs for 1988, 1989 and 1990,
and 3.5% for 1991.
2.   Financing Plan and Arrangements
3.23      The financing of project costs including taxes would be shared in
the following amounts and proportions:



- 19 -
Financing Plan by Category of Goods and Services
(US$ million)
IDA        Government        Total
Buildings                         1.0            0.2             1.2
Vehicles                          1.2                            1.2
Equipment                         0.6                            0.6
Technical Assistance              2.0                            2.0
Consultants                       1.2                            1.2
Training                          1.3                            1.3
Operating Costs                   2.4            0.8             3.2
Personnel                          --            1.9             1.9
Net Financing Requirements        9.7            2.9            12.6
=         0     mm
Of which Taxes                   --            0.6
Share of Financing
With Taxes X                     77             23
Net of Taxes X                   81             19
3.   Proiect Preparation Facility
3.24      Funds have been requested for two Project Preparation Facilities
(PPF) for project preparation and to assist in project start-up activities.
The first PPF has been awarded and the second request is currently bein8
finalized. Details of the PPFs are as follows:
Cumulative Sumary of PPF Reauests
CIA?          US$
(million)     ('000)
Consultants
Project Preparation (awarded)                 63           200
Audit of DRDR                                 25            81
Management Information System                 33           106
Technical Assistance                          130           413
TOTAL                                    251           800
4.   Procurement and Disbursement
3.25      Contracts exceeding US$200,000 would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB). For those contracts below
US$200,000, but more than US$50,000 local procurement procedures, which
have been reviewed by IDA and found generally satisfactory with the
following modifications, would be used: (a) public bid opening sessions



- 20 -
would be held; (b) explicit criteria for bid-evaluation would be made
available to bidders; and (c) foreign firms not established in Togo would
be allowed to participate in the procurement exercises. Procurement for
less than US$50,000 would be on the basis of quotations from at least three
reputable suppliers. Disbursement for procurement under ICB and LCB would
be against full documentation. All other disbursements would be against
Statements of Expenses (SOEs). All procurement decisions in excess of
US$200,000 would be submitted to IDA for prior review. Procurement
arrangements are summarized below with figures in brackets representing
financing by IDA:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
----- Procurement Method ---------            Total
Procurement Element       ICB        LCB      Other        NVA           Costs
Buildings                            1.0       0.2 a/                     1.2
(0.8)     (0.2)                      (1.0)
Vehicles                 1.2                                              1.2
(1.2)                                           (1.2)
Equipment                            0.4        0.2                       0.6
(0.4)     (0.2)                      (0.6)
Technical Assistance                           2.0 bI                     2.0
(2.0)                     (2.0)
Consultants                                    1.2 b/                     1.2
(1.2)                     (1.2)
Training Sessions                                            1.3 c/       1.3
(1.3)       (1.3)
Operating Costs                                              3.2 di       3.2
(2.4)       (2.4)
Salaries                  _                     -            1.9 e/       1.9
1.2        1.4        3.6           6.4        12.6
(1.2)      (1.2)      (3.6)         (3.7)       (9.7)
a/   Constructed by farmers
kl   Procurement according to Bank guidelines
cl   Local and international transportation and subsistence
d/   Vehicle maintenance and office expenses
el   Financed by Government



- 21 -
3.26      Vehicles would be procured through ICB.  A small civil works
program of regional offices and training centers, houses and village input
stores is scattered geographically and not suitable for ICB and would thus
be procured through LCB. Technical assistance would total 10 man-years
(para 3.31), and is expected to be recruited under a single contract. All
technical assistance staff would be selected in accordance with IDA
guidelines and finalization of a contract acceptable to IDA and having the
staff in post would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.27      Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit.  The IDA Credit is to
be disbursed over a period of six and a half years, which corresponds to
the standard disbursement profile for Togo (Annex 4-9). IDA contribution
to operating costs would be on a declining percentage to allow Government
to build up gradually to its post-project funding responsibilities
(para 3.36).
Amount of Loan       % of Estimated
Allocated            Cost to be
(US$ million)          Financed
Categories
SDR       US$
1.   Buildings                      0.70      0.9             100%
2.   Vehicles and Equipment         1.25       1.6            100%
3.   Technical Assistance           0.94       1.2            100%
4.   Consultants                    0.55       0.7            100%
5.   Training                       0.86       1.1            100%
6.   Operating Costs a/             1.65       2.1        100% for 1988
90% for 1989
60% for 1990
44% for 1991
7.   PPF                            0.63       0.8            100%
8.   Unallocated                    1.02       1.3
7.60      9.7
a/   Other than salaries and wages
3.28      Under the project, claims for disbursements against training and
operating costs would be submitted on the basis of SOEs. Supporting
evidence would be available at the project sites for review by supervision
missions. Terms of reference for external audits would include specific
instructions for the verification of SOEs submitted to IDA which would be
kept at DAP/DGDR for review. Claims for other expenditures would be
reimbursed on the basis of supporting documentary evidence. Disbursement
claims would be submitted for amounts not less than US$20,000 equivalent.
To ensure efficient and timely implementation of the project, Government
agreed at negotiations to replenish the project account quarterly and in



- 22 -
advance on the basis of the Government's share of the DCVIDGDR and DRDR
annual budgets. Government would also open a Special Account at an
institution acceptable to IDA into which IDA would deposit, after loan
effectiveness, an initial sum of US$600,000. This would be used to finance
IDA's share of project expenditures corresponding to about six months of
IDA reimbursable expenditures. IDA would replenish the account upon
receipt of SOEs and other claims. Should any disbursement made from the
Special Account not be acceptable to IDA, Government would be required to
deposit the corresponding amount back into the Special Account, or if IDA
so requests, refund to IDA an amount equal to the non-eligible amount. The
above assurances were obtained at negotiations.
5.   Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements
3.29      The DAF/DGDR and the DRDRs would keep accounting records as
described in para 3.20, and would prepare annual budgets for project
implementation. Detailed budgets would be submitted to IDA for review and
comment not later than two months prior to the beginning of the
implementation year. The financial staff of the DAFIDGDR would be
responsible for the preparation and submission of quarterly budget
comparisons to project management and IDA. Annual audits in accordance
with internationally accepted auditing standards would be performed by
independent firms acceptable to IDA. Audit reports would contain a long
form report on the project accounts and a detailed report on internal
control. The auditor would also be required to express an opinion on the
reliability of SOEs procedures, the legitimacy of expenditures utilizing
the IDA Special Account and the utilization of goods and services financed
under the project. Audited accounts would be submitted to IDA not later
than six months following the end of DGDR and DRDRs financial years.
Failure to provide such accounts within 90 days of the above deadline or
unsatisfactory reporting would be cause for stopping disbursements or
reverting to disbursements on documentary evidence. Agreement on these
conditions were obtained at negotiations.
3.30      Reports would also be issued summarizing project's achievements,
comparing them to agreed annual programs and commenting on key problems and
future priorities and needs. To this effect the MDR would communicate to
IDA two months before the start of each fiscal year the DGDR and DRDRs
(a) programs of operations; (b) detailed annual training programs;
(c) annual adaptive research programs including the respective
implementation and financial responsibilities of extension and research;
(d) annual M&E program; and (e) annual budget and procurement plans.
Project implementation would also be monitored by DCV/DGDR which would
carry out regular supervision work, at least twice a year and prepare
corresponding reports within two months of the end of the semester. Key
indicators on both physical and financial aspects would be determined at
project inception by the M&E unit within DGDR. This latter unit would also
submit a final Project Completion Report within six months after the
project completion. Assurances on the above reporting requirements were
obtained at negotiations.



- 23 -
D.   Organization and Management
3.31      DGDR would have overall responsibility for the project whereas
implementation would be the responsibility of the Direction de la
Cooperation et de la Vulgarisation (DCV). DCV/DGDR would receive
additional specialist staffing as detailed below to assist in project
implementation. The need for further reorganization in the DGDR would be
assessed under the proposed Agricultural Support Services Project. As the
organization of the DRDRs is new as proposed under the 'Nouvelle Strat6gie"
(Annex 3-2 and para 2.06), an evaluation would be carried out two years
after effectiveness to assess its appropriateness and efficiency, and if
necessary, make proposals for improvements which would be discussed with
IDA for subsequent implementation. This was agreed at negotiations.
DCV/DGDR would be made up of, among others, a head who would also be in
charge of extension, and the training, research, M&E, and financial
technical specialists and their counterparts. The training specialist
would be a Togolese, back-stopped by short-term consultancies. Technical
assistance would total 10 man-years:  extension - 3 years, research - 2
years, M&E - 2 years, and financial management - 3 years. The technical
assistance in extension and financial management would be followed up in
PY4 by short term consultations and if necessary for M&E and research as
well. The above specialists would closely liaise or work directly through
each corresponding Directorate in the DGDR, e.g. Agricultural Training,
DAY, DRA (see Annex 3-1). The DRDRs would be responsible for project
implementation and day-to-day management within their respective areas. A
detailed implementation schedule is in Annex 4-10. The posting of
internationally recruited staff and their counterparts in DGDR, and the
head of DCV, would be a condition of effectiveness.
1.   Extension Services
3.32      Government would organize its extension services avoiding its
present weaknesses (para 2.16), utilizing its experience with pilot
extension activities (paras 2.27-3.30), and by adapting basic features of
the T&V systems. In each region, the basic field management unit would be
at the prefecture level, with a sector head in charge hierarchically of the
sub-sector heads and the FEWs. The sector head would be responsible to the
regional director (DR) who in turn would report to the general director
(DG) in the MDR. At the prefecture level, each FEW would be assigned one of
the designated extension zones which he would subdivide into eight
sub-zones, and visit each on a fixed day every two weeks. The FEV's
remaining time would be devoted to training (paras 3.12 and 3.13) and
completing short reports covering their activities. Sub-sector heads would
be responsible for planning and supervising the FEW's activities. SMSs
would An addition to training FEWs and subsector heads, be closely
associated with the research program (para 3.15). The M&E units would
closely follow project progress and regularly produce reports which would
allow management to monitor the effectiveness of the extension services
(paras 3.17 and 3.18).



- 24 -
2.   Research
3.33      DRA would establish a team to implement agreed upon applied and
adaptive research programs (paras 3.14-3.16). It would be the team's
responsibility to prepare and supervise the trials to be conducted on the
PEs and farmers fields and would backstop and train the DRDRs extension
personnel, in particular SMS8. The team would be headed by an experienced
internationally recruited agricultural economist, with considerable
experience in adaptive research in foodcrops as well as in the association
of agriculture and livestock. Other members of the team would include
DRA's foodcrop specialists for grain (maize, sorghum, rice) legumes
(cowpeas and groundnuts) and tubers (yams and cassava). The team would
also liaise whenever necessary with the ox-cultivation program, the small
ruminant project (para 2.23) and with the DRA forestry specialist.
3.34      Both the DCV/DGDR and the four DRDRe would have heads of research
and development to ensure linkages between extension and the various
research institutes and agencies dealing with foodcrops, cotton, livestock
and forestry. The staff in charge would see to it that annual adaptive
research programs are established based on a diagnosis of farmers past and
current problems, concerns and constraints. Together with DRA, the staff
would coordinate and supervise, the implementation of the trials program
within the four DRDR's PEs and farmers plots, follow up on the results
obtained and ensure that extension is kept up-to-date. The staff would
also have an important role together with the training officers in
evaluating the training requirements of PR managers, enumerators and SMSs
(para 3.12). Each of the 12 PEs would be managed by an agricultural
technician (Ing6nieur Adjoint d'Agriculture or an Ingenieur des Techniques
Agricoles), who would share their time between the PEs and on farm trials.
DRA would implement the annual work programs based on contracts between DRA
and DCV/DGDR. This was agreed at negotiations.
E.   Benefits and Risks
1.   Benefits
3.35      The T&V system has in many countries been associated with
significant yield increases because of its ability to teach farmers timely
application of improved cultural practices. It has also been the starting
point for additional institutional improvements. Thus the main results
anticipated from the project would include; (a) MDR's improved ability to
plan and coordinate agriculture extension at national level; (b) increased
production and productivity of foodcrops; and (c) increased incomes for
some 20 to 302 of Togo's rural community. The project would directly
benefit the poorer half of Togo's populationt agricultural (as opposed to
rural) population makes up about 55X of the total, and agricultural incomes
are estimated at US$120 per year and non-agricultural at US$375 per year.
(a) Imvact on Government Finances
3.36      Total incremental project cost over the development period would
be ClAF 3,756 million (US$12 million) net of taxes and duties, of which



- 25 -
Government would contribute CFAP 751 million (US$2.4 million), or an annual
average of CFAP 188 million. This corresponds to an annual cost/ha of
cultivated land of US$12.5 2/ or US$ 8.5 for the regional operations.
Government's contribution to project costs would gradually increase over
the period (para 4.26), so as to approximate its post-project funding
responsibilities after IDA funding is completed. Annual incremental costs
after the project development period in 1992 prices would be about CFAP 395
mailion (US$1.3 million) net of taxes (US$5.0/cultivated ha).  This
represents a 151 increase in real terms in the budget of the agricultural
ministry from its pre-project level. This is the minimum deemed necessary
for the extension services to achieve an acceptable level of efficiency,
and costs per hectare of cultivated land during and after the project
period are similar to other ongoing IDA or Bank supported West African
extension projects. In addition, much of this project's overheads
(research, M&E, financial management) are geared to setting up a national
level extension service, which would spread fixed overheads over a
considerably larger area, thereby reducing unit (e.g. cost/ha) costs. As
most of the incremental post-project expenditure constitutes non-personnel
costs (72X), this fits in with Government's structural adjustment program
which specifically calls for an increase in the non-personnel expenditure
in the agricultural sector. Against these incremental costs, the project
would generate some additional indirect public revenues as project
beneficiaries would spend part of their increased incomes on consumer goods
and services offered by the private sector, some of which will carry a tax
element, mostly in the form of import duties.
(b)   Economic Costs and Benefits
3.37      Attributing a precise level of benefits to an extension project
is difficult. as it is not possible to single out the proportion of
benefits that are due to extension alone. Other factors or combinations of
factors such as price policies, the availability and cost of inputs, credit
and climatic conditions to name a few, will also influence production. It
is also difficult to determine the adoption rates of recommended practices,
in particular when the project is spread out among regions having different
resource constraints and potentials as well as farmers at various levels of
technological development. For these reasons, a rate of return calculation
has not been calculated.
2.   Risks
3.38      The extension system has been tried in the pilot zones and is
thus adapted to Togolese conditions. Nevertheless, the risks foreseen,
which are comon to similar extension projects supported by IDA include:
(a) inadequate budgetary support from Government; (b) ineffective
21 Assuming 120,000 farm families with an average 2.0 ha cultivated,
gives 240,000 ha in the 4 DRDR regions.



- 26 -
management of personnel and funds; (c) lower than expected adoption rates
of technical recommendations by farmers; and (d) ilower than expected
build-up of applicable technology by research.
3.39      The project has been designed to focus on these risks.
Concerning funding, Government is showing its commitment to rural
development under its structural adjustment program by increasing budgets
for agricultural services, thereby reducing future risk. In addition, a
Special Account would be provided to assure adequate initial funding of the
project as Government progressively increases its budget allocations to the
project. Concerning the management of extension services, improved
management is expected as a result of the improved organization, training,
M&E, financial management and technical assistance to be provided by the
project. Concerning technical advice to farmers, the pilot extension
activities have shown that simple, low risk technologies are available and
adoption of these has proceeded at a satisfactory rate. There is still
room for sizeable improvements in foodcrop agriculture since most of the
country's farmers have not yet had access to the extension services and to
the technologies adopted in the pilot activities. The project also focuses
on the pre-extension testing of a sizable body of existing research
results.
IV.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      Assurances obtained at negotiations:
(a) the project would procure goods and services using ICB
procedures, and existing local procurement procedures with
modifications acceptable to IDA (para 3.25);
(b) Government's portion of incremental funding would be deposited in
the project account quarterly and in advance (para 3.28);
(c) the DAF/DRDRs would, under the supervision of DAF/DGDR,
(i) maintain appropriate records and accounts; (ii) have their
accounts, year-end financial statements and statements of
expenditures audited by independent auditors; (iii) submit
audited accounts and audit reports to IDA not later than six
months after the end of their financial year; (iv) submit annual
budgets and work plans to IDA for review and comments two months
prior to the beginning of the fiscal year; (v) submit biannual
progress reports two months from the end of the semester; and
(vi) prepare a Project Completion Report six months after project
completion (para 3.29 and 3..0);
(d) DGDR would carry out an evaluation of the DRDR's organizational
structure two years after effectiveness to determine its
appropriateness and efficiency, discuss any proposed improvements
with IDA and consequently implement any agreed changes (para
3.31); and



- 27 -
(e) DRA would implement the annual adaptive research programs based
on contracts between DRA and DCV/DGDR (para 3.34).
4.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be thats
(a) the audited accounts for the four DRDRs as of December 31, 1986,
have been submitted to IDA (para 3.20);
(b) an appropriate financial system would have been established in
DAFIDGDR and the DRDRs (para 3.20);
(c) all technical specialists to be recruited internationally would
be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines, a contract
acceptable to IDA would be finalized and the staff would be in
post (3.26); and
(d) appointment of the head of DCV and the counterparts to the
technical specialists (para 3.31).
4.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a credit of US$9.7 million to the Government of Togo on
standard IDA terms.
WAPA A
April 1987



- 28 -
lOG0
AGRIClTURAL EXTEMION PROJECT                           ANNE 3-1
Orgnboaonal Cha
Dlrectlon Genefole du Dvlopent Rural.
MIA DUi
ft-w      -      I
I  Toe I
et ~             t   ^ 
la
aft ~t                    U        Fs e
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ErI etL 
|   1   1   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al 90Xz i-  Z:  ,
Ivl~ee~ A                                                                            t      I



- 29 -
TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT                                                   ANEX 3-2
OrganIzaonal Chart
Dirotelon Regonale du Developp.ment Rurale
D.R.D.R.
Pwoom R0onale4 vO Weppement
RZonab dvauio
DAF.                 D.C.V.                 D.P.P.                D.AM.                 Q.M.P.C.
Dhbbn Admhb*         Divbbn de Coo.          DMvilon do b         Division de rA6      Dvson d$ Mo
trtltvo et FinO-      p6roIion et de        Pkk         of  IrgKmet Ot do 10            de Produoln et
clo              10 Vulgoron          de ba Pro -v _notlnW
I i
_~~~~~~~~~ _0
dePodd 0LK4096
IZones dnod_wl
WM Bnk 30.2



- 30 -
RPULIC 0F TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTSION PROJECS
Characteristics of the Four Prolect lssions a/
PARAU                   KAR SAAM                                           MARITuM
Total Land Area (ka2)         8,603          11,631         16,739         6,345
Total population ('0008)        329             427            650         1,640
Rural population ('000s)        299             345            577           611
Farmins Families ('000s)         30              49             72            87
Population density (/km2)        38              37             38           163
Average Family Size              10               7              8             7
of which Active Saba
Equivalents                  5               3              3             3
Averase Farm Size                 3.3             2              1.5           1.3
Perennial crops                   no              no             yen           yes
Rainfall                   950-1200 m        1100-1300 m  1000-1500 -  800-1250 m
p.a.               p.a.          p.a.         p.a.
monomodal                       bimodal       bimodal
pronounced        pronounced    longer wet    longer wet
dry season        dry season   season         season
Dominant Cash Crops        Cotton,           Cotton        Cotton, Co-  Cotton,
coa, Coffe   Vegetables
Dominant Fooderops         Cowpea, Sorghum   Millet,       Maize, Sorg- Maize,
millet, ground-   sorght=,      hum, root-    rooterops
nuts              cowpea        crops
Main Institutions          SOTOC0, MAR       SOTC00, MAR  SOTOC0, SRCC, S0TOCO, APP,
Project PD,       ILO, c/ PPR, PDRN, MAR,   MAR, PPR,
PDR k/            NGO t7        NGO t/
Incomes                    Lowest            Low           High          Highest
a/ Population and area filgures for the specific project areas within each
region is at Annex 4-1 population. Data from 1981 Census.
b/   PPR Project Petit Ruminants
c/  International Labor Organization
t/  NGO (Non-Governmental Organization)
WAPAA
April 1987



- 31 -                          MM  4-2
Page 1 of 2
REPLIC O  TOGO
AGRICULTUAL EtNSIN PROJECT
BASIC POPUIATION/ElMSION AGENT RMT)S. AND AREA DATA
F THE PROJECT ARIA
PoLulation aJ
Farm Pallies       No. Extmaion atent
Average/            at 1s200         b     /
Refion               No.      family      No.     ratio        Existing       km2
1. Savanes
Total             329,144                                                    8,603
Urban              29,883
Rural            299,261
- DRl region
(rural'        114,470                11.060        55          61        2.290
- Tone c/         82,020       11         7,460       37          32        1,320
- Oti  ci         32,450        9         3,600       18          29           970
2. Xara
Total            426,651                                                    11,630
Urban              81,519
Rural             345,132
- DRDR Region
(rural)        205.355                29.340       146         145        4.216
- Doufelgoli      46,887        7         6,700       33          44        1,120
- Kozah           92,134        7        13,160       66          49         1,693
- Binah           45,969        7         6,570       33          37           465
- Assoli          20,365        7         2,910       14          1S           938
3. Plateaux
Total             650,393                                                   16,793
Urban              73,425
Rural             576,968
- DRDR Region
(rural)       138.560                 18.3Z0       91          81        4 330
- Amou c/         59,300        7         8,470       42          40         2,930
- Kloto cl        79,260        8         9,900       49          41         1,400
4. Maritime
Total           1,040,241                                                    6,345
Urban             429,133
Rural             611,108
- MRDR Region
(Rural) a/     408.769                  603110     200          77         3.018
Golfe            72,307       6         12,050      60           4           345
Zio c/          45,710        7          6,530      32          16           830
Yoto c/          27,950       7          3,990       20         11           380
Vo              139,315       7         19,900      100         19           558
Lacs            123,487       7         17,640       88         27           905



- 32 -                            ANNMM  4-2
Page 2 of 2
Population a/
Farm Families      No. Extension aaents
Average/           at 1:200                  Area k/
ReRign              No.      family    No.       ratio       Existing      km2
5. Centrale (Not project area)
Total            273,138                                                  13,183
Urban             70,161
Rural            202.977       7        28.990      145        125
Sumiarv
Poaulation                                      Area
Total Country's Population      2,719,567          Total Countrys' area  56,604
Total Urban                       684,121          Total DRDR area       13,854
Total Rural                     2,035,446          2 DRDR area of total
are         25
Z Rural Population of total             75
Total farm families               262,500
Total DRDR rural population       867,163
X DRDR rural population of
total rural                      42
% DIDR rural population of
total population                 32
Total DRDR farm families          118,880
Footnotes to Table
at   Data from November 1981 National Census.  For discussion regarding updating of
figures and classification of urban and rural population where rural is
apparently overestimated,osee Working Paper 1, Annex 3.
bJ Data from Direction des Enqu&tes et Statistique Agricole, Ninist&re du
D6veloppement Rural.
c/ Data on the DMDR areas of those prefectures partially covered by the DiDRs is
unavailable. Estimates of population and area were made as follows by DRDR
officials and mission mmbers:
Prefecture          2 of Rural Population in DDER        2 of Area in DUDE
Tone                            35                               35
Oti                             50                               20
Amou                            80                               80
Kloto                           50                               S0
Zio                             25                               25
Yoto                             30                              30
WAPAA
April 1987



_33                                  ANNEX 4-3
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURE  (ENSION PROJECT
INCREMNTAL STAFFING RCQUIRMENTS
DGDR    DRA    SAVANE   LARA    PLATEAU    MARITIME  TOTAL
Extension
Service Chief              1       -        1        1        1          1         5
Trainer                    -       -        1        1        1          1         4
Prograumer                 -       -        1        -        -          1         2
Animal Production          -       -        -        1        1          -         2
Deputies                   _                2        3        2          1         8
5        6        5          4        21
Trainint
Service Chief              1       _       _        _        _          _
Research
Service Chief              1       1        -        -        -          -         2
Regional Manager           -       -        1        1        1          1         4
PE/Station Manager         -       1       2         2        2          2         9
Enumerators                                 4        4        4          4         16
1       2       7        7        7          7         31
Monitoring & Evaluation
Service Chief              1       -        1        1        1          1         5
Statistician               -       -        1        1        1          1         4
Enumerators                                 4        4        4          4         16
1       -       6        6        6          6         25
Financial Manaasent
Financial Director         1        -       -        -        1          -          2
Accountants                2       _        1       _         2          _          5
3       -       1        -        3           -         7
TOTAL                      7       2       19       19       21         17        85
WAPAA
April 1987



- 34-                         ANNEX 4-4
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Man/Months USS (million)
DGDR
Extension                             48 1          .7
Monitoring and Evaluation             24            .3
Financial Management                  48 1I         .7
120          1.7
DRA
Research                              24            .3
24           .3
TOTAL                              144          2.0
1/ These figures include the cost of short-term consultancies after the
full-time technical assistance contracts terminate.
WAPAA
April 1987



-35                      AMNE 4-5
Pae I of 4
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL IXTINSION PROJECT
RESEARCH PROGRAM
Present Situation
1.        It has been observed that in Togo as in many other countries,
research personnel criticize extension for non-delivery, and in turn
extension staff blame research for non developing appropriate technology.
Although the assertions of research personnel are true given the current
weakndmess of the DRDR agricultural extension service, it is also tru. that
most technical packages and/or recomendations are insufficiently adapted to
local conditions. This is mainly because (a) the DIDM extension services
have seldom generated an effective demand for technological informetion to
suit the needs of smallholder agriculture, and (b) the research staff does
not get sufficient opportunities to observe or analyse the smallholder's
problems. k feedback mechanism from smallholder via extension to research is
not yet routine practice.
Research Oblectives
2.       Major emphasis would be given to farming system research and to
adaptive research in the form of on-farm trials. Improved techniques would
be tested in an on-farm situation within both the mixed and monocultural
cropping systems that exist. The main techniques to be introduced and tested
are improved varieties, land preparation, timely and correct sowing,
fertilizer, weeding, pesticide use and soil conservation masures. In
general, the reorientation of rosearch design would be promoted by the
intensified farm trials program and the research demand generated by the
extension program.
Research Prograam Components
3.        The project would finands the followings
(a) Rehabilitation of six existing Pls or small applied research
out-stations;
(b) Establishing six new PEs by construction of field minor buildings/
stores, drying areas and walls;
(c)  Equipment, vehicles, mopeds, bicycles, basic experimantal
materials, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides for use in the research
program;
(d) Technical services from DRA including IRAT;



- 36 -                     ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 4
(e) Training of applied research staff through an intensive training
program and visits by researchers to the major research stations
in the sub-region (IITA, ICRISAT and SAIGRAD);
(f) Operating costs.
Organization and Managemet
4.        DRA/IRAT would be responsible tbrough annual contracts with the
DRDRs, for the preparing of adaptive research programs and for their execution
jointly with extension. More specifically an internationally recruited
agro-economist would be posted at DRA to be in cbarge of the above programs.
He would call, whenever necessary, on a team of DRA foodcrops specialists for
maize, rice, sorghum, legums and tubers. The agro-economist would contribute
to strengthening the current weak linkages betwen research and extension
through: (a) identification and understanding of the farmers' real needs, and
the constraints facing agricultural production; (b) design of suitable
experiments to properly address the problems once identified; and (c) the
correct conduct of experiments and the proper interpretation of results.
This would be possible by taking acount of farm systms work into research,
stronger orientation to adaptive research and increase of field level trials.
S.       In order to implement this strategy the following activities would
be adoptedt
(a) Organization of monthly workshops for research staff and SHSs;
(b) Setting up of a joint research-extension work group to properly
select new technology to be tested on PBs and on-farm trials;
(c) Improving the network of such Pgs and farm testing;
(d) Monitoring and analysis of results by research with the
collaboration of extension.
Adaptive research out-gtations
6.       DRA has in the past run up to 20 small out-stations or Points
d'Ussais (PR) ranging in size from 0.3 ha to over 100 ha. Six PUs
conveniently located in the project are would be rehabilitated whereas six
new ones would be establishad. All PUs would be standardized in size (10 ha)
as well as to their infrastructure, equipment and personnel. Staff would
include one site manapr and two surveyors. The latter would also be in
charge of on-fart field trials. Trials would be designed by DRA/IRAT in
close cooperation with extension after oetensive field visits, discussions
with farmers and the holding of at least two joint metings between DRA and
DRDRs. Trials would be implemented by DRA/IRAT personnel (the site managers
should whenever possible be seconded by DRk to the project) under mutually
agreed annual contracts between Research and Ixtension.
Farm Trials
7.       Agricultural research in Togo has in past years been focused
largely upon a network of sub-stations located in a range of ecological



- 37 -                              ANNEX 4-5
Page 3 of 4
zones. Research was uncoordinated and experiments originated from about 12
different research institutions. Also experiments on sub-stations tended to
assume optimal general husbandry standards in contrast to those imposed on
most smallholders through cash and labor constraints. Instances of agronomy
trials on smallholdings were rare. The interest now being shown in farm
trials on smallholdings by both research and extension derives from the fact
that this approach offers several potential benefitst (a) it provides a way
of generating research recommendations for a much wider range of agro-
ecological zones than those covered by the network of PEs alone, (b) by
arranging for smallholders to carry out the cultural practices, actual farm
conditions are simulated and data obtained that might otherwise have been
ignored, and (c) the wider distribution of trials provides a powerful learning
medium for extension staff.
8.        Growing population pressure in some regions and the consequent need
to increase food production has raised the importance of integrated agricul-
ture where crops and small livestock could form a more intensive production
system suited to specific areas. It should also help, if properly conducted,
better control soil degradation. MDR would be well suited to carry out
extension on integrated agriculture given their new responsibilities for
livestock.
Content of the Research Proaram
9.        The main technical practices to be further investigated by research
during the project first cropping season have been determined. The practices
to be tested and incorporated in future adaptive research programs would be
determined and selected as mentioned in paras 4 and 6. The potential increase
in yields from the future flow of new technologies is shown in Table 1.
Detailed information on the 1987 adaptive research program is in Working
Papers 4.
WAPAA
April 1987



ANNX 4-5
- 38 -                     Pago 4 of 4
REPULIC   TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
POTENTIAL YIELD INCREASES a/
Table 1
Average Yield ksiha b/
Traditional    Improved   Cultivation       Research
Cultivation    Medium          Max            kg/a
Maize                  700         1,500        3,500            4,500
Sorghum               550         1,000         1,700            2,500
Rainfed rice           850        1.200         3,000            3,500
Groundnut              950        1,200         3,500            4,000
Covpa                  300          800         1,500            2,000
Source : Planning Unit MDR.
/ The above yields are indicative. They translate average results
out of those regions best suited for the crops mentioned.
bl The yields also vary depending on varieties.
WAPM
April 1987



- 39 -
ANNEX 4-6
page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Technical Recommendations Readily Available
Per DRDR and for the Main Food Crops
Technical            ---Maritime----   ---Plateaux-    ----Kara-----   Savannes
Recommendations      M   R   S   G  C  M  S  R  G  C   M  S  R  G  C   S  R  G
Selection of field         +       +             +  +            +  +         +  +
Land preparation 1/   +   +   +           +  +             +  +            +
Anti-erosion measures                                      +  +  +  +  +
Seed quality 2/            +                     +               +            +
Plant population and
sowing in line       +   +       +      +      +  +      +  +     +      +     +
Fertilizers 31
Thinning               +                  +                +
Weeding 4/             +   +       +  +   +      +  +  +   +     +  +  +   +  +  +
Treatment                             +                +               +
Post-harvest                                              I
conservation          +   +   +          +  ++  +    + +                  +  +
M - maize; R - rice; S - sorghum; G = groundnut; C - cowpea
1/  With or without ridging.
2/   Germination test.
31 Advice to apply fertilizers although necessary for most crops would only be
given when husbandry is properly mastered.
4/   Priority crops.
February 1987
WAPA A



- 40 -
ANNEX 4-6
page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Technical Recommendations Requiring
further Testing by Research I/
Technical            ---Maritime----   ---Plateaux-   ---Kara---   Savannes
Recommendations      M  Ca   G   C  R   M  R  S  G  C  M  S R  G  C   S  R  G
Cropping Systems
Rotation of crops     +   +   +   +  +   +  +      +  +   +  +
in pure stand
Mixed cropping        +   +   +   +       +     +  +  +   +  +      +  +   +     +
Alley-cropping        +                   +
Improved varieties    +       +   +  +   +  +  +  +  +   +  +  +  +  +   +  + +
Retaining soil        +   +   +   +  +   +  +  +  +  +   +  +  +  +  +   +  +  +
fertility 2/
Plant population 3/   +        +      +   +  +  +  +       +  +  +  +      +  +  +
Date of sowing 3/     +        +   +  +   +  +     +  +   +         ++
Response rate to      +               +   +  +             +     +            +
Fertilizers 4/
Weed control 5/       +               +   +  +             +     +            +
Plant Protection          +
Storage and
Conservation         +               +   +  +            +      +            +
M - maize; Ca - Cassava; R - rice; G - groundnut; C - cowpea; R - Rainfed rice
1/   Indicative research program for the next four years on PE and/or on farm
trials.
2/   Anti-erosion measures and use of crop residues.
3/   In mixed cropping.
4/   Formulations and dosage.
5/   Manual or using herbicides.
February 1987
WAPA A



- 41 -                                Annex 4-7
REPUILIC OF TOBO
ASRICULTURAL EXTEKION PROJECT
Project Costs by Coponeot nd Nature
CFA (000)
180R ORA   SAM            KARA PLAfTEAU WITINE IOtAL   TAXES    TAIES
...  _...................... ... -     -----  -  -----.. -   - ----   ... -.....    ......   .....   _........
E17ENSION SERVICES         283,08           290,610  06,837  236,485 314,678  1,540,453   99,607  1,440,846
Vehicles                   4,663           53,913  -5,8    50,0    75,71    270,826          0   270,826
Buildings                     0            81,504   75,962  25,695  31,456   220,t61   33,092   187,523
Equipunt                   2,153           19,275  13,682  11,751   13,845    60,712   7,065        3,647
Perunnel                   9,139           49,258  7,98 "5,806   40,713   235,825  23,502   213,242
Operating Costs           11,21             4,661  153,422   89,618  146,883   495,801   35,868   459,933
Tecthnitl Assistance     223,S89                0       0        0        0   223,589        0   223,589
Consultants               33,004                0       0        0        0    33,084        0    33,084
TRAININ6                   57,277           112,726  148,631   98,971  110,471   528,075   16,288   511,787
Vehicles                   4,720                0       0        0        0      4,720     708      4,012
Audioviual Equipmnt        3,015            7,953   7,953   7,953   7,953    34,020   9,041    26,70?
Buildings                     0            28,030  12,666   4,222   8,685    53,6        5,769    47,835
Oloating Costs            105275            9,615   9,615   9,615   9,615    48,737        514    48,223
O tsions                  10,25            67,127  110,396  77,180  04,217   362,309         0   362,309
Personel                  12,56                 0       0        0        0    12,566   1,257    11,309
Consultants               11,311                0       0        0        0     11,311       0    11,311
RESEAIRCH                   16404 248,655  124,842  124,842  80,U11  124,842   720,197  48,137    672,060
Vehicles                      0   8,705   9,302   9,302   9,302   9,302    45,14             0    45,914
Buildings                     0        0   11,951   11,581   11,581   11,581    4,323    6,948    39374
Equipeent                  1,963   9,990   7,180   7,180   7,180    7,180    40,672   8,951        31,721
Persomel                  12,566  23,847   56,797  56,797   12,5    56,797   219,370  21,929   197,441
Operating Costs            19875   44,370   39,982   39,982   39,902   39,902    206,175   10,309    195,866
Technical Assistance          0  109714         0       0        0        0   109,714        0   109w714
Sessions                      0  39,288         0       0        0        0    39,288        0    39,288
Consultants                   0   12,741        0       0        0        0    12,741        0    12,741
-!;N1TORIN6 & EVALUATION   159,165 *         47,971   47,971   47,971  47,971    351,047   15,434   335,614
Vehicles                   4,663            8,443   8,443    8,443   8,443    30,434         0    3434
Office Equipeent           8,2              1,786    1,786    1,786   1,186    15,442    1,176     14,266
Personnel                 10,053           25,131   25,131   25,131   25,131    110,579  1t,058    9,521
Operating Costs           13,545           '12,610  12,610  12,610  12,610    63,9"    3,199    60,787
Technical Assistance     109,714                0       0        0        0    109,714       0   109,714
Consultants               12,091                0       0        0        0    12,891        0    12,891
FINM4CIAL MANABENENT       649,212           40,579  34,550   49,637   34,406    808,472   12,576   795,896
8uildings                 29,792                0       0        0        0    299792        0    29792
Vehiclins                 13                4,145   4,145   4,145   4,145    30:569          0    30,569
olffice Eaaip#t           12,59             S,720   4,725   4,125   4$653         PMt8       0    3278
POfieuie                  12,903            5,026       0   15,079        0    37,169   3,247    33,922
Opecating   5o7t2                                    4,237 2368 25,, 7 25,60   24,653    1863,  9,329    32,702
technical hsistancie    223,509                 0       0        0        0   223,589        0   223,589
Consultants              124,908                0                                                 1242,8
Audit                    143,074                0       0        0        0   143,074        0    143,074
TOTAL  (CfAF '0001    1,165,901  248,45   624,728  762,839 513,675  632,447  3,90,244  192,042 3,756,202
TOTAL USfleillion)         3.7      0.8      2.0     2.4      1.7      2.0       12.6     0.6       12.0
WAp1
April 1987



*42-                                               hBnlA
1451 a gm
is,    a    sm%      5901   sea       tu rn            MAL  sa   Fea    n       tTA    5055  la
1550500409880               93,701  51,448   51,40   51,410   245,310    32.0   2)2.5   205.        0.5     0.4     0.9      40   23
51*081                      "9,05    5,90    I0L02    4,54     S01,415    i5.s    31.01   50.5     0.t      0.5     LI        a0    5
mumf@                        4,110   2,90    2.400   2,0       55,470    85.3      2.2    WI       0.0      0.0     0.o       50    I
8138500550101505          10,110  51,90    50.90  IL,*4      ULM.3      5.1   810.0   50.5        0.5      L.4     0.5      15   54
Fteasa NsW 7                4809    90,450 0040 91    3.4Ik    W0,14      0.4   551.$   00.2        0.I     8.       8.9      49   Is
s0oL s. ea  n ~s          0424    ,51   540,30  54.)2   501.4           5    1.0   45.9  5,005.?   0.5      3.0     5.5-     49  540
90uw,as C,st,aICY           27,110   0,550   0,051    0,05     40.010     7.0    39.0    40.0       0.0     0.5     0.5       05    4
On tto OOiSo4            539, 145 5,445  55,557  514,55     W00)       13.7    4t.0     5.4      0.0     0.5      0.2      is    5
fl0t8.    529,404  239,550  5901,144  1914,509 5,0594   I12.5   993.4  5,5054      0.0     1.2     1.4       11  580
MSE                  04,715~~~9'  71,100   38,400   2L,5  22b     45.0   50.    22J.         0.2     0.0     0.0       a2  to
1611.   W118             90,1705   72,308  38,0    2.00    227,8115M,  41.0    WA5   227.    0.7     0. 0 0. 4 L           v   to0
ftsuud Cutagoy               2,110   2,150   too5    8,'50      L,91      2.1      .0      L.9      0.0     0.0     4.0       54    4
PrIce c.5,qo.y               8,210   1,490   7.133    2,115    52,440     4.0      0.0   I52.0          0.0     0.0 4.        0     5
Ital      542,00    03,40   1425  2.015   240,05        48.2   300.5   240.?       0.5     0.4     0.0       it  to9
1115550un5to               5191,51   50,00   460,5    45,015   350,500 5.1 5O 405    35.4.          0.5     0.5     0.0      v0   a
T0080100                   47,038  84,0"10  5,830  54,020    92,198    70.7    25.?    92.4        0.2      0,5     0.3       75   57
0005                        42,4001   504   59,00   22,240   503,97      05.1    419    540.0       0,2     0.5     0.1       0    20
nun"  I 01400550          55,405   7,7410   7,704   9,75      40,50     204A    81.9    00.5      0.5     0.0      0.8      19    0
953.88       0055           541,201   4,500   0,500   0,540    50,820    50.5    24    50.         0.0      0.5     0.5       la    I
fistiL  n c0555           051    7,4   9,4    90.835   514,700   225.9-   52.,9   520.0            0.0     00        . 4      1116 a - 540
04170(08 Cub.stqcr          21,40    1,007   0,085    7,005    47,441    27.2    20.3    41.        0.8     0.5     0,8       43    9
hicil otwisass              13,155    7,295   55,50    5.01    40,497    15.0    50.7    40.5       0.5     0.5     0.5       54 
IOtAL     21,070  95,920, 355,720  822,00    024,712   354.    209.    424.1       5.0     0.9     5.9       40  fill
081538  @9850              5440 40,050 6,225   74,335   3AM20    545.4   252.    540.2              5.4     0.4     8.8      00   54
100315                      40495  24,40   20,2034,1 0 Km     520,55     OL 51 3 5.2   I20.        0.3      4.0     0.4       53   IF
U8EdN                       42,05    89,04   t9,W4   22,240   305,979    Al.5    41.9   544.0      0.8      0.5     0.1       40   lb
Ott"05318""la4              15,455   ,140   7,14    `,406   40,5105    z4.0    5.9   40.5           0.5     0.o      .5       19    0
osw osu.iniw                54,00    550    5,01 5%   .1640    15,00      5.      24.2    20.4     0.O      0.5     0.        0     I
IOTaLJI 5520               2i0.55  8;00,4   III,=05,42        04,       3 42.5   300.5   44.        ..0   0         LO.      4184
f0trna5 CaOq09Cy            25,431  80,449   50,15   50,449    57,000    12.      25.5    57.0     0.5      0.5     0.2      48    I
Nrsb. Castisso              54,9021  50,407   54,90   V1.=0    W20M      45.9    19.2    42.5      0.3      4.1     0.2       31   to
8010 Mo           3213,12  801,700  545,240  809,4 49  0,5    430.8   54.0   742.          8.2      .0      2.5      45  Its
"T1 m 105 10FI180          09.235  20,405 5,035   44,495   2035          09.7   851.7   23.4       0.2      0.4     0.1       10  4a
200334                     29,295   84.40   54120  84,02       $1.45    40.0    11.0   40.1        0.2      0.0     0.2      54   It
mum                         A 35 150 55040  31,040  51-.440    44,710    20.      48.9    00.0     0.8      0.8     0.2      43   54
@A51N4 33OM15               55,440   7,105   ?. 1,0 9,740    40,405    24.4    5.4   40.5           0.5     0.0     0.5      v9    I
FUN"85          05o         57,5    0150   0,1110   #,005    42,544    57.9    24.7    42,6        0.5      0.5     0.8       a0   to
POyuiul Couquq             51.550   7,409   7,489   7.460   35,9111   25.         54.     24.      0.8      0.0     0.5      4a     I
Price eSaism                9,470   4,900  IL,%*  3540         48,40     VA.    54.#    48.9       LI       c,o     0.8      85   80
I05I.    207,824  09,532  502,501  585,314    53,02    W17.    2L4.   51O?        0461     0.1     5.4       40  in
031@5355                   8551,280  59,405  5,435100,013    AM597       97.5   JIM,   271.        0.2      0.0      .I      44   a5
5351505              5~~~~~4,59    t0,02   89,520  05,40  10,.11    14.    52.5    40        U.4     0.2  .   .        is   57
mum                 OWN~4240    50,8490  59,44   22,24    8AM92   45    48.9   J4.0         0.2      .0      0.       40   to
3055290055058               55,4 15  ,700   7,74    9.7140    40,000    24.       85.     40.5     0.8      0.0     0.8      30 
F5OM         Im             83,9"    5,00    58010  5,10       20,44      5.      24.4    35.5     LO       4.1     0.        a5    4
ft""8u  8.08490             54,99    9,04    9,59     9,409    44,1921   MA.    I9.?    40.2       0,I      0.5     0.5       44    9
Price o14180my              58,292   0,154   52,017   57,"?     0,0 3     821 1.0    30.  00.1     0,5      0.5     0.2       37    9
1958      2149,419   507W   5      ,8054,8   A43,6    235.   309.0   02.           8,0     0.9      5,       49  Its
1925. us  on40        0  5,0, 19 449,77  424,240  4317,5  1.5,440 8,20.4  ,20.0  3,34.7             0.2     a.    I5,0       02   M
Olyoka  C4)os01            40,410  43,491F  41,11 4041.15?    2010       585.7   824.4   240.      04       0.        7       85    0
Orla  oCat8o                4197,9541,496 438,1    %W   W1O,5               .05591.510.44           0.5     M,      0.        440I
8105 (5 WM=  ay Id 4m to W~
WM5
opit M34



I n I        I 0    a                    4           O
|   | " |   } } |   l > |   | u |   l                        a       l         a    no           I n
-~4   an               14    an14 U       It
*   U       i&                 anS             S m    m
or~~~~~~ w                                 a    UK   n        Itb
A~~~~~~~f    tu                              n    "W  wt        w 
wS~~~~~~~~~ ZU                                 U     -    M9    1
wz~~~~~~~ -                        U    0V          4 U19             Sf
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   04                                         CL   100   U      S . 
a           .    a    GMa   a      it
9'                                                                  LU,~~~~~~~~~~~~t a  a  a      U 4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t    U K                                                       l      t41K   01 J
I    au          a    &M   *U      I a
16         8    91   91        0
UMld BlLW3 UWT43lU-
ON. sm                 0 9. 
S31U O0id J.N3 Il3S:fl8SS
OWLmAm    um
0911 D 31Ud



- 44 -
A-NNEX 4-10
REPUBLIC Of TOGO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Calen4ar Yer                         1981  I988 loP 1989   I   1990               991 i    :V92
Q)uasRta                             I   3 A I I 2A 3       2 3 4 I    2 3,4 1  1 2 3- 2I 2
I   . OCDR/,D                              I                     I          tR
Request for PPI                          I                     I
Audit of DWRDS cloesing         I_        I!II!
b lancn sheets                I          I!I!!
- Appointment of Intrte tonal-t            I         I           I          !
ly rnecruite  personner    s  I          I!I
Extension Specialist                      I          I                           !
yeats)                    !        -                                            I
isnjnttal expert(O Years)l
*Agro-oconoa&st ORA A     I          I         I           I
years)                    !
*  b E Specialist Q yearsfl        _ ___ ___I
;    Coftsu&tancens               I         I          !II
Training                                   I                 _ I..
- Job desertption of DCV/DGDR  I           I         I
technical unit staff          1          I                     I          I!
2. RDR                          I                                I
(a) Mlnaemenc                   !          !
|   Recruitment of addition.stafft      _  I         !           I          I
j   Job des5rtptioW of key stafftl         I                     I
(b) Extension                   !          !                     I          !
j   Survey of in4ividual zones   I         I                     I                     I
(CZ)                          !      _.t             I    I
- Final redeployment of field  I                     I           I
staff                         I        .1          I           I          I
- Mleetings uith local authori-                                  I 
ties to explain new approach I                     I           I
;   Establishment eof laps and    I        s_        I           I          I
Programu  of visits (CZ)      I          !         I           I
(e) Training                    I                     I
I   Orieatation eourse for li      l       I                     I         -tI
field Staff                   I_         I                     I          !
Ref tetsher courses CA  (sMS)  I       _  I           I      _   I
*   Special courses Pi stff                   I               I          IS!
- CAs monthly worksahops
Establisnmmnt training        I          !
centers                       I
Finalizing annual training   I           J                     I
progras                       I       _ !        _I         _ !         _.!       _ 
(4) Research and Develoaent   I            I         ! 
- Rehabilitation of existing   I           I         !
Ps (O)                        II                               I 
-gstablishmat ofet     P   (6) 1           t                     !
*Finalizing annual research   I
programs                      I       -1f        -I        -f t           !       -
* Agreemnt annual  reserch   I             I         !           I          I
contracts (October) DMRI/hDR I           I       _ I        _ I         _ I       _
and DRA                                  I         !
(e) tonitoring aa4 iraluaCon   I
;   Define reporting requirements     -
Start surmys                           -
(f) Reportins                    I         !
- Ann     woth Ptrams, bu4gets
-and procuremet plans                    !
-Biannual                       p5*C                          5                 
- Completion                     ;         ;
- Audited Financial Statemnats             ;  *       ; * *          *       ;,
(g) Hud .es
* Weens' Role in Agticulture                I_ ;.!j;
- Itnameisl Nmsagme m s                     I!
'WAPA  .A
January    1987



MAP SECTION



To ~~~~   0010I/
To Ouw&ogod u -Ir  
MAURITANIA       |                                 NIWER           j
-'_ _              R        MALI       ,                          /
BURKINA  FASO                               SENEGAL                                                                  CHAD
THE
GAM.-             ~                       BURKIN
:iio    ~~GUINE                                  FAJOC     J
GUINEA                 C  t  AENIN                           I
SIERRA~~~~~>f   NIGERIA
J  (  ,    /         +                                9~~~~~~~~~~SERRAk       )      (1  wI iIER                  i 
LEONEf   N-OTE D'IVOIRE *
/.LIBERA          /GHANA                                  CERCAAL
--  mjye  X  I  0                      s%|CAMEROON
b)F THE1
GABON  (CONGOj
30
WNt {r*^-^r  T   O G   O
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
170                                       _                                           * AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION  AREA  RESPONSIBILITIES                100
'""'v 4    /S-PROJET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
ZONALIZATION DE RESPONSABILITES DE
VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
j-- \  ,AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT AREA - DRDR
L     K A RSITE DU PROJET DE VULGARISAT(ON AGRICOLE - DRDR
OTHER JOINT GOVERNMENT OF TOGO/EXTERNAt
DONOR FINANCED EXTENSION PROJECTS.
AUJTRS PROJETS DE VUILGARIATION AGRJCOLE
FiN-ANCES PAR GOUVERNEMENT DU) TOGO / AILLURS DE
FONDS:
z",~~~~_  AROJET FED SAVANES (FED)
7lSOTOCO (IDk CAISSE CENTRALE, FACQ
G   H  A   N   A   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~: PDRC (GMZ
(      I    /                                                         SRCC OIDA. CAISSE CETaLE. FAQ
-90                                                                                                       ASO AION POUR LA PRODUCTPATE (USAID)           o
-FORESTS. RESERVES, NATIONAL PARKS
FOREM, RESRVES, PARCS NATIONAUX
      -   ~~~MAIN ROADS)



-; -   -     TAA.   !                    SELECTED SECONDARY ROADS
.. ,a;:                     R ROUTES SfCONDAIRES CHOIS(ES
.  SOTOLUBOUA                   <,                                       MAIN RIERS
I ,,   \   v   /  /    }         iL ,--iw -. t    '  X                   COURS DEAU IMPORTANrS 
ISOHYETS IN MLUIMETERS
ISONYCTES iEN MIlilMETERS
o  SELECTED TOWNS
V*LLES CHOfSES
I PREFECTURE CAPITALS                       /
t~ .  . \   . . c:  . 6.    ; s    /            ' fCHEFS-LIEtX DES PREFECTURES
.,REGDON CASETAOSNS
CHfS-tEU X DESREGIONS
, -. *  INTENATIONAL CAPITALO A
.  .  -          t         .        >      ,     . ,; }             -Xa    j           -_ _ ti8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRFgECTURE OOUNDARtES
.AWA~                                                                                                            N IGERi A ! \.7  \  t' '    z   |   _,_IMEGN  1OUNDARIES
,*AT ;M~ ; jA  L   \    i ~~l  '   ;           *ONEt;BESNIAnoN
u                                                         r~~~~~~~~~~~~~/7
70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
1 IbVb**t8s
iO                                      KILOMEtaRS
~~~~~~~~or 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~olo
~~~~~~~e
dg,ed.wwtow*t
"ft  Fb~~~~'
omo no



*_ 1     >Rt , _, a                  B U R K I N A    F A S O
3OC~~~~~~~~0
B EN I N
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PRO ECT
PROJECT AREA - SAVANNA REGION                                              s.
PROJET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
SITE DU PRO JET - REGION DES SAVANES 
PROJECT AE
0 REGION HEADQUARTERS 



PROJECT AREA - SAVANNA REGION
PROJET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
SITE DU PROJET - REGION DES SAVANES
0~ N
:3 PROJECT AREA
=SITE DU PROJET
o    REGION HEADQUARTERS
CENTRE REGIONAL-
*    SECTOR HEADQUARTERS                             9                                       K                         )
CENTRES SECTEURSr
o    EXISTING INPUTS STORES
MAGASINS DE FACTEURS DE PRODUCTION EXISTANT                                                                                                                TO Kont4
o INPUTS STORES TO BE BUILT BY PROJECT
MAGASINS A CONSTRUIRE PAR LE PROJET
(OTHER SMALLER VILLAGE ASSOCIATION STORES NOT
SH4OWN WILL ALSO BE BUILT.
D'AUTRES MAGASINS OF GROUPEMENTS VILLAGEOIS
NON INDIQUES SUR LA CARTE SERONT CONSTRUITS.)
A EXISTING TRAINING CENTER                                                                                                                     K                    REGION
CENTRE DE FORMATION EXISTANT                                                                                       /
TRAINING CENTERS TO BE BUILT
CENTRES DE FoRMATION A coNsTRutRE .
3   EXISTING EXPERIMENTAL SITE                                                                             K> ToI(ant 
POINT O'ESSAIS EXISTANT                                                                         --
6    EXPERIMENTAL SITES TO BE SET UP (POSSIBLE LOCATION)                      #1                                                )
POINTS D'ESSAIs A ME7rRE EN PLACf (LOCATION POSSIlLE)                             " >                  |
.1 |FORESTS, RESERVES, NATIONAL PARKS
FORETS, RESERVES, PARCS NATIONAUX                                                                                                                       'BURKINA fASO'
MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                          -        --l
ROUTES PRINCIPALES                                                                                                                                     J
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                                                        uSAVANNAJ
ROUTES SECONDA1RES                                                                                                                                                         BENIN
RIVERS
RIVIERES                                                                                                                                            _j                               10
tC0-    ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS                                                                                                                               100
ISOHYETES EN MILLiMETRES                                                                                                                                     j    KARA   (
0._ ELEVATIONS IN METERS
ALTITUDES EN METRES                                                                                                                                  GHANA  /
o    SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                                                               )        9
VWLLES CHOISIES
PREFECTURE CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                CENTRAL
CHEF-LIEU DE PREFECTURE
o    REGION CAPITAL
CHEF-UEU DE REGION
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALE                                                                                                                                                   J j
-_ -  INPREFECTURE  BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                               ATEAU 
UMITES DE PREFECTURE                                                                                      O0       5      10     15     20
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                     KILOMETERS        j                                             7--
LIMITES DE REGION
._,_INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES                                   _kt                                                lwvtw d           I.                              A,* .TM
FRONTi&ERFS INTERNATIONALES                                                                                                                                          MARTIME
=4~I1d0o    Z     N                                          \LOM         a      -     "at   



OL.   lp  _    1,5  2.0
KILOMETEnS
SAVANNAER
REGION r. Toapmb
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
pya  O~1ojuo



1.7  fl P%l IN  P%                                                                                                                      ~
To Sokod,4 ~ ~ ~   ~     ToSood
Vt\ ~                                                                                                  CENTRAL REGION
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT AREA - KARA REGION
PROJET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
SITE DU PROJET- REGION DE LA KARA
MofI_t 0^ _t dW6
_if                                                                                                                  FORESTS, RESERVES, NATIONAL PARKS
. BURKItNA ASJECT                                                                                                                           - AR--FORETS, RESERVES, PARCS NATIONAUX
-;t -SITE DSITEDUPROJET                                                          -       OUTESPPNCIPALES
K SAVANNA t                                                0   REGION HEADQUARTERS                                                               SECoNDARY ROADS
';,  *  BENIN                                        CENTRE REGIONAL                                                                  ROUES SECONDAIRES
-10,  -'                                                  SECTOR HEADQUARTERS                                                              RIVES
loo       tk              ,   1I                                  CENTRES SECTEURS                              RMERS
KAR                                               EXISTING INPUTS STORESISYESNMLIETR
IARA                                                      MAGASINS DE FACTEURS DE PRODUCTION EXISTANT                              12G0    ISOHYETS IN MlLIMETERS
GHANA         .                                             INPUTS STORES TO BE BUILT BY PROJECT                                             ELEVATIONS IN mtwmETERS
GHANA  {                              _                             . ^s MAGASINS A CONSTRUIRE PAR LE PROJET                                       ALTJTUDfS EN METRES
;(    z      '.                                           (OTHER SMALLER VILLAGE ASSOCIATION STORES NOT
SHOWN WILL ALSO BE BUILT.                                                 o   SELECTED TOWNS
CENTRAL                                               D'AUTRES MAGASNS DE GROUPEMENTS VILLAGEOIS                                      V/UES CHOISIES
/  \    CENTRAL   f                                   NON INDIQUES SUR LA CARTE SERONT CONSTRUITS.)                             @     PREFECTUE CAWTALS
EXISTING TRAINING CENTER                                                         CHEFS-UEUX DES PRFECTURES
CE"CNTRE DE FORMATION EXISTANT                                                   REGION        PITAL
s  w    w  )    '  so  6>  TRAINING CENTERS TO BE BUILT                   i\   C          OE REGION CAPITAL
I!  '   !                                 CENTRES DE FORMATION A CONSTRUIRE                                                CE-IEUAO 'TAL
PiLAEA                                             o   EXISTING EXPERIMENTAL SITE                                                        NATIONCA L TAA
9;  8   @  PlAn AU                               F~~~~~~~~~~~~OINT D'fSSAIS EXlSTANT                                               CPTL
PLTA                                                      ON \SASEITN - 1                                                             - ___   PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
v f   *     I                                     @   EXPERIMENTAL SITES TO BE SET UP (POSSIBLE LOCATION)                               LIM/TES DE PREFECTURE
m ' j 0 - 7                                                      POINTS D'ESSAIS A METTRE EN ptACE (lOCATION POSSIBLE)       18                   REGION BOUNDARIES
MARITIME \   r                                                                                                                      ilMi7FS DE REGION
:  >   r  < MARlTIME                                                                                                          .    I,_lNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 
u > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRONTiERES INTERNATIONALES 
Ct  i          ,~~~~Lo                                                                                                                                                                          _
N  @ _ I ta.  _ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



CENTRAL REGION           ) 
0  5    10    15    20                                              
KILOMETER /                                       t v v 
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E NIN
m1XY--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lm
GHANA  }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t,b
(1)   )  __   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



K   LrtY  )  - HnI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  Aloti  ~~~~toApahL
<_g   ,,To Lom4    AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
To 15p.eAgo,t.  ''.                                  PROJECT  AREA  - PLATEAU  REGION
MA PROIJET VE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
SITE DU PROJET - REGION DES PLATEAUX
~d  Tlh.*h                   \ 
af.w    .W                                                                                                                   FORESTS, RESERVES. NATIONAL PARKS
__L,|J FORETS, RESERVES, PARCS NATtONAUX
URICINA fASO'<-'                            ___ PROJECT AREA                                                            MAIN ROADS
-;   -I- t   11     _    SITE DU PROJET                                                      ROUTES PRJNCIPALES
REGION HEADQUARTERS                                                SECONDARY ROADS
,SAVANNA          BENIN                               CENT  REGIONAL                                                     ROUTES SECONDA/RES
.      BENINF   SCEfZChtSTOR HEADQUARTERS                                                                _     RVERS
~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      +     CENTRES SE-CTEURS                                                  R IOE
to  j      '          10t                  o    EXISTING INPUTS STORES                                              ISOHYETS IN MliMETERS
.MA4GASINS DE FACTEURS DE PRODUCTION EXISTANT                            ISOHYETES EN MILMETRES
) KARA   I                                     -.-,ELEVATIONS IN METERS
GHANA' i                                          ^     EXISTING TRAINING CENTER                                           ALTITUDES EN METRES
CN     DE FORMATION EVJSTNT                                    SLCE  ON
90               9._ ~~~~~~~~~o             EXISTING EXPERIMENTAL SITES                                   0    ViLLS CHOISIES
9                            90 ( e.-'  1  -          POINTS DESSAIS EXISrANT                                            PREFECTURE CAPTALS
CENTRAL                                                                                                       CHEFS-LIEUX DES PREFECTURES
REGION CAPITAL
\ ;           I   !                                                                                                    CHEF-LIEU DE REGION
NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALE
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PLATEAU                                                                                                        LIMITES DE PREFECTURE
< t  1   j                                                                                          REGION BOUNDARIES
LIMITES DE REGION
w    -~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     -   - I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MAh rITIME-FRONT                                                                                                       NTERNATONtLES R3
w < < ~~MARtTIME  
a   .)  /,   ,  -   ....                                                                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PLATEAU                        REGION
To ApWm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oAIkoi
To A4:tionT Apgret*                        )A    voNS
/                       e$erv                         f'AReerve  6
*  .    ~~BENINP
-100                   I\A@                                                                          OIp
GHANA                                                                0 
90                      9 .0: 
;:\CENTRAL
10    15                   T
-I                                a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
*MARMUE



IBRD 20107
)                                                      AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
_Tog dcvg9/                                             PROJECT AREA - MARITIME REGION
Erst Reser
PROJET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
P}//~r~}C (V /                                               SITE DU PROJET - REGION MARITIME
;Thmeti.Koeid ii \ t                                                     t _I  PROJECT AREA
k0            +                       >                               SITE DU PROJET
0    A                                                                                         NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS, SIEGE
\ - +y -  S ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DIRECTION GENERALE DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
.t    <\                 v   6r                                                            Q    REGION HEADQUARTERS
B*.\99,  E  N   I'  N                     W    CENTRE REGIONAL
-Kb.to  '"E Gojen  V                        B  E  N    I N                                  SECTOR HEADQUARTERS
(K%d me         b.       *                                                                   CENTRES SECTEURS
"0oto   18te           Tokpli                                                     o    EXISTING INPUTS STORE
AIgaom.   /                                                                            MAGASIN DE FACTEURS DE PRODUCTION EXISTANT
-S I c Koadjf'                                                      *    INPUTS STORES TO BE BUILT BY PROJECT
MAGASINS A CONSTRUIRE PAR LE PROJET
(OTHER SMALLER VILLAGE ASSOCIATION STORES NOT
QIGul Koim,  i                                                               SHOWN WILL ALSO BE BUILT.
D'AUTRES MAGASINS DE GROUPEMENTS VILLAGEOIS
P@ 611 !4bligb.    ___*                                       NON INDIQUES SUR LA CARTE SERONT CONSTRUITS.)
.- \ X +0           a                                           EXISTING TRAINING CENTER
CENTRE DE FORMATION EXISTANT
Ag o"                                         ,#> t Siiii t  TRAINING CENTER TO BE BUILT
*  -  Ei  o \   -  8                         CENTRE DE FORMATIoN A CONSTRUIRE
oC   EXISTING EXPERIMENTAL SITE
POINT D'ESSAIS EXISTANT
.V */4,Am   \>,   , djL              G              :                                  g3   EXPERIMENTAL SlTES TO BE SET UP (POSSIBLE LOCATION)
POINTS D'ESSAIS A METTRE EN PtACE (LOCATION POSSIBLE)
't-1i:i FORESTS, RESERVES, NATIONAL PARKS
3- 7'w 4 . i t 4. .,- Es.@}O :> lW L FORETS, RESERVES, PARCS NATIONAUX
MAIN ROADS
ROUTES PRINCIPALES
-SECONDARY ROADS
ROUTES SECONDAIRES
.   RIVERS
RIVIERES
HUMID ZONES
ZONES HUMIDES
: -    ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
; , ...... C,C >) ) ttf r 2Cotonou ISOHYETES EN MILLIMETRES
ELEVATIONS IN METERS
00  ALTITUDES EN METRES
ApU4Si,                        :                       t_ o   SELECTED TOWNS
Dja.    .        /     .    *                                                VILES CHOISIES
- Togeoi&   Badpe,z5PF V gb                                            PREFECTURE CAPITALS
CHEFS-LIEUX DES PREFECTURES
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
Goumofo  ~   ~                                                               CAPITALE
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
LIMITES DE PREFECTURE
_.,_ REGION BOUNDARIES
LlMITES DE REGION
_. -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONITlRES INTERNATIONALES
bt4n~F                                                                                         1987
h__.E flu 
MdbhVPR
FEBRUARY 19B7



