Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1808 TO
 DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Agricultural Extension Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 31, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1808 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF TOGO (the Borrower)  and  
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
June 20, 1985 and September 19, 1985, between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)
"MDR" means Ministere du Developpement Rural, a Ministry of the Borrower 
responsible for rural development matters;
(d)
"DGDR" means Direction Generale du Developpement Rural, a general 
directorate within MDR;
(e)
"DCV" means Direction de la Cooperation et de la Vulgarisation, a 
directorate within DGDR responsible for farmers extension services operations;
(f)
"DAF" means Direction Administrative et Financiere, a directorate 
responsible for administrative and financial matters within MDR;
(g)
"DRA" means Direction de la Recherche Agronomique, a directorate 
responsible for applied agricultural research within MDR;
(h)
"DRDR" means Direction Regionale de Developpement Rural, a decentralized 
directorate of MDR responsible for rural development matters at the regional level;
(i)
"Project Area" means the area under the jurisdiction of the DRDRs, 
responsible, respectively, for Savannah region, Kara region, Plateaux region and 
Maritime region;
(j)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(k)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,600,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of  the  Project  Preparation  Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Page  3
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.O7. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 
1997, and ending April 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on April 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through DCV under the overall responsibility of DGDR with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the generality of the provisions of paragraph (a) 
above with regard to the provision of funds, the Borrower shall:
(i)
open and thereafter maintain in CFAF and in the name of DCV an 
account (the 
Project Account) in a commercial  bank  on  terms  and  
conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; and
 
(ii)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account on the first day of 
every calendar 
quarter commencing on January 1, 1988 an  amount 
equivalent to the financial 
requirements of the Project as assessed 
by DCV for that quarter.
(c)
Amounts deposited in the Project Account pursuant to paragraph (b) (ii) 
above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project.
Section 3.02. To assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
(i) employ at all times as heads of DCV, DAF and DRDRs, Togolese 
Page  4
nationals with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; (ii)  
designate as counterparts to the specialists referred to in Section II (b) of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement Togolese nationals with qualifications and experience satisfactory 
to the Association; (iii) redeploy extension staff during the execution of the Project 
so as to achieve a ratio of 1 extension agent for about 200 farmers no later than 
December 31, 1991; (iv) take all measures necessary to achieve a ratio of 1 head of 
sub-sector for  8  extension agents no later than December 31, 1991; and (v) not hire 
further subject matter specialists until December 31, 1992 except as required to fill 
budgetary positions with the Association's approval.
(b)
ensure that, each year, DCV, DRA, DAF and DRDRs: (i) prepare Project 
related work programs and budgets; (ii) submit them, not later than October 31 of each 
year, to the Association for its review and approval; and (iii) execute said work 
programs as approved by the Association; and
(c)
submit to the Association: (i) no later than December 31, 1988; (ii) no 
later than December 31, 1989 the results of the studies referred to respectively in 
Part C.3 (a) and (b) of the Project; and (iii) implement the recommendations of said 
studies as they shall have been agreed upon with the Association.
Section 3.O3. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied,  by  
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at  least  one  year after the completion of the 
audit for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  5
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such  
fiscal  year,  together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.Ol. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the organization, functions and 
responsibilities of DGDR, DCV and DRDRs shall have been amended in such way as to 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.O2. Pursuant to Section 7.O1 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.O1 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.O1. The  following  events  are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has furnished the Association with an audit satisfactory to 
the Association of the accounts of DRDRs of the Project Area for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 1986; and
(b)
the Borrower has: (i) established for DAF and the DRDRs of the Project 
Area a financial management system satisfactory to the Association; (ii) appointed the 
head of DCV; (iii) recruited the experts referred to in Section II (b) of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement and designated their counterparts. 
Section 6.O2. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
P.O. Box 387
Lome
Republic of Togo
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIE:TO
5286
 
For the Association:
Page  6
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works             700,000            100%
(2)   Equipment and         1,250,000            100%
      Vehicles
(3)   Technical               940,000            100%
      Assistance
(4)   Consultants'            550,000            100%
      Services
(5)   Training                860,000            100%
(6)   Operating Costs       1,650,000            100% during FY 1
                                                 90% during FY 2
                                                 60% during FY 3
                                                 44% thereafter
(7)   Refunding of            630,000            Amount due pur-
Page  7
      Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
      tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)   Unallocated           1,020,000
                            _________
         TOTAL              7,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: (i) the term "operating costs" means 
expenditures for current expenses (except for staff salaries) such as lubricants, 
fuel, office
supplies, and travel expenses required for the Project; and (ii) the term "Fiscal 
Year" means each consecutive Fiscal Year of the Borrower during which the Project is 
being implemented, starting on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the capability of the Borrower to 
deliver adequate and efficient agricultural extension services which are required to 
increase production and productivity in the Borrower's agricultural sector and thereby 
to increase farmers' income.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Building
 
1.
(a)
Strengthening of DGDR's technical capability and financial management 
through the reorganization of DCV and the strengthening of DAF;
(b)
streamlining of DAF's financial management and accounting system; and
 
(c)
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit at DGDR.
 
2.
Strengthening of  DRDRs'  technical capability and financial management through:
 
(a)
redefinition of responsibilities for delivery of extension services in 
the field; and
(b)
establishment of: (i) a monitoring and evaluation unit; and (ii) a 
financial management and accounting system.
Part B:
Training
 
1.
Formulation of short- and long-term training programs and carrying out of said 
programs for the relevant staff of DGDR and DRDRs at all levels through seminars, 
refresher courses and study tours.
2.
Construction and equipping  of four DRDR training centers.
 
Part C:
Research
 
1.
Construction and equipping of six new research out-stations and rehabilitation 
of six existing ones.
2.
Formulation and carrying out of applied and adaptive research programs.
 
3.
(a)
A study on the role and contribution of women in agriculture and rural 
development; and (b) a study to assess the current DRDRs' organizational structure and 
recommend
Page  8
appropriate changes.
Part D:
(a)
Construction of about 12 DRDR import distribution stores and about 85 
import distribution stores in selected villages;
(b)
construction of about 12 offices and housing for DRDRs; and
 
(c)
acquisition of  equipment, furniture, vehicles, supplies and spare parts.
 
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised  
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that:
(i)
all bids shall be opened in public and bidders' representatives 
shall be 
allowed to be present;
 
(ii)
criteria for evaluating bids shall be set out clearly and 
communicated to all 
bidders; and
 
(iii)
foreign companies shall not be required to be incorporated in Togo 
in order to 
participate in the bidding.
 
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 or more per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded through direct shopping on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three reputable 
suppliers.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
Page  9
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
(a)
In order to  assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying out the Project,   the   
Borrower    shall    employ   consultants   whose qualifications, experience and terms  
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such 
consultants shall be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures 
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of  
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing  Agency"  
published  by the Bank in August 1981.
(b)
Without limitations to  the  provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall employ the following experts:
(i)
1 agricultural extension specialist;
 
(ii)
1 agro-economist;
 
(iii)
1 monitoring and evaluation specialist; and
 
(iv)
1 financial management specialist.
 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible  Categories" means Categories 1 through 6 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFAF 150,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
Page  10
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits  shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of  Article  V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
or
(ii)
the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of  any  outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories  shall  follow  
such  procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be  utilized  in  making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
