CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 600 NEP
(Amendment)
Agreement
Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
ønd
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 18, 1979
'-


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 600 NEP
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT
AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AGREEMENT DATED JANUARY 9, 1976
BETWEEN KINGDOM OF NEPAL AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1979, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a Development Credit Agreement (Kulekhani
Hydroelectric Project) dated January 9, 1976, between the Borrower
and the Association (hereinafter called the Original Agreement),
the Association made a development credit to the Borrower in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million
dollars ($26,000,000>;
(B) supplemental financing is now require,d to cover the
estimated increases in the cost of carrying out the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Original Agreement;
(C)  by agreement dated January 8, 1979, the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development has agreed to make a supplemental loan
to the Borrower in an amount equivalent to two million Kuwaiti
Dinars (KD2,000,000) to further assist in financing the foreign
exchange cost of civil works included in the Project on the terms
and conditions therein set forth;
(D) by agreement dated December 27, 1978, the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund, an agency of the Government of Japan,
has agreed to make a supplemental loan to the Borrower in an
amount of one billion five million Japanese Yen
(Yen 1,005,000,000) to further assist in financing the foreign
exchange cost of equipment required for the Project on the
terms and conditions therein set forth;
(E) the Borrower, the United Nations Development Programme
(hereinafter called UNDP) and the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development, acting as executing agency for UNDP,
have entered into an agreement dated January 23, 1979 amending
the UNDP Pro ject Document Number NEP/75/010, pursuant to which
UNDP has agreed to contribute an ad'ditional amount of one million
dollars ($1,000,000) to provide technical assistance to assist the
Borrower in field investigation, preparation of detailed designs,


﻿-2-
specifications and bidding documents, procurement and supervision
of construction under the Project;
(F) by agreement of evenodate herewith (hereinafter called
the Special Action Credit Agreement), the Administrator of the
Special Action Account established by the Association with funds
contributed by the Member States of the European Economic Com-
munity is agreeing to make a loan to the Borrower in an amount
equivalent to about three million dollars ($3,000,000) to assist
the Borrower in the financing of the Project; and
(G) the Association has agreed to amend the Original
Agreement by adding an additional amount equivalent to fourteen
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($14,800,000) to the amount
of the development credit made pursuant to the Original Agreement,
upon the terms and conditions herein set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires and subject to the amendments made
herein, the several terms defined in the Original Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as defined therein) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "KHDB" means
the Kulekhani Hydro-Power Development Board of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. Section 2.01 of the Original Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to forty million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($40,800,000)".
Section 2.02. Section 2.04 of the Original Agreement is
amended to read as follows:


﻿-3 -
"Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1982 or such later date as the Association shall establish.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date."
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Paragraph (a) of Section 5.02 of the
Original Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(a) Except as the, Association shall otherwise agree
the Borrower shall cause NEC to take all such measures,
including necessary adjustments to its tariffs, as shall
be sufficient to provide NEC with revenues adequate to
produce an annual rate of return on the value of the NEC's
average net fixed assets in operation of not less than 4% in
each of its fiscal years 1979-80 through 1981-82, and of not
less than 6% in each of its fiscal years thereafter beginning
with its fiscal year 1982-83".
(b) The words "for fiscal year 1975-76" in paragraph (b)
(iv) of Section 5.02 of the Original Agreement are deleted and the
words "for any fiscal year" are substituted therefor.
Section 3.02. The date "July 15, 1976" in Section 5.08 of the
Original Agreement is deleted and the date    "July 15, 1980" is
substituted therefor.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Paragraph (c) (i) of Section 6.01 of the
Original Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(c) (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this para-
graph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan, credit or grant


﻿-4-
made to the Borrower for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof."
ARTICLE V
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 5.01. The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to the Original Agreement is amended to read as follows:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
"Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works for             31,800,000        100% of foreign
Part A of the                                 expenditures
Project
(2) Civil works                  7,000,000        100% of foreign
for Part B of                                 expenditures
the Project
(3) Unallocated                  2,000,000
TOTAL            40,800,000"
ARTICLE VI
Description of the Project
Section 6.01. (a) The words "about 3.5 million m3" in Part
A of Schedule 2 to the Original Agreement are deleted and the
words "about 4.5 million m3" are substituted therefor.
(b) The following Parts K and L are added to Schedule 2 to
the Original Agreement:
IA


﻿-5-
"Part K: carrying out of a program for the resettlement
of farmers displaced under the Project; and
Part L: provision of appropriate support for KHDB,
including staff quarters."
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date on which the Association dispatches to the Borrower
notice of its acceptance of the evidence furnished by the Borrower
that:
(a) the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action, including an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association or, if the Association so requests, a certificate
satisfactory to the Association of a competent official of the
Borrower showing that this Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its
terms;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Action Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c) the Borrower has caused NEC to take all such measures,
including necessary adjustments to its tariffs, as shall, in the
opinion of the Association, be sufficient to enable NEC to achieve
in fiscal year 1979-80 the rate of return specified for said year
in Section 5.02 of the Original Agreement, as amended in Section
3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by September 18, 1979, this Agreement and all
obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
shall establish a later date for the purposes of this Section. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Original Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
-              4r


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Padma Behadur Khatri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


