CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 600 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 9, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 600 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 9, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 1976, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund) a loan (hereinafter
called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount of KD5,000,000 to assist in financing
the foreign exchange cost of the civil works included in the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;
(C)   The Borrower intends to contract from   the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (hereinafter called OECF) an agency of the Government of Japan
a loan (hereinafter called the OECF Loan) in an amount of three billion Yen to
assist in financing the foreign exchange cost of the equipment required for the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
and
(D)   The Borrower, the Bank and the United Nations Development
Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) have entered into an agreement (hereinafter
dalled the UNDP Project Document) whereby UNDP will provide technical
assistance to the Borrower to assist the Borrower in the field investigation, and
in the preparation of detailed designs, specifications and tender documents,
procurement and supervision of construction, and the Bank will act as executing
agency for the purpose.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"NEC" means Nepal Electricity Corporation, a corporation established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an    -
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1981 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay .:o the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3,4 of Wr) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
April 1, 1986, and ending October 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later than
March 31, 1977, or such other date as the Association shall agree, a detailed plan
for the resettlement of the people living on the reservoir area and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and


﻿6
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of NEC
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NEC at all times to carry on
its operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of its power system
and maintain its financial position in accordance with sound engineering, financial,
administrative and public utility practices, and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NEC to operate and maintain its plant,
equipment, properties and facilities and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause NEC to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and ir such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that NEC does not, without the
consent of the Association, sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of
its properties or assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying out of
its business.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause NEC to take, at all times, all steps
necessary on its part to maintain its right to carry on its operations and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, to take all steps necessary to acquire and


﻿7
to retain such land, interests in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for the operation of the Project and the conduct of its business.
ARTICLE V
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NEC to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of NEC.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NEC to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of NEC and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause NEC to employ and maintain on its staff
a qualified and experienced internal auditor.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree the Borrower
shall cause NEC to take all steps necessary to set and maintain its tariffs at such
a level as may be necessary to provide NEC with revenue sufficient to produce
an annual rate of return on the value of the NEC's average net fixed assets in
operation of not less than the percentage shown against NEC's fiscal year below:
(i)          1975-76:    2.5%
(ii)         1977-78:    4.0%
(iii)        1980-8 1 and thereafter:       6.0%
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
operating income for the year in question to the average of the


﻿8
value of the net fixed assets of NEC in operation at the beginning
and at the end of such year.
(ii)        The term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross book value of such assets, less the amount of
accumulated depreciation.
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenue accruing from NEC's services; and
(B)   the operating and administration    expenses (including
taxes, if any), adequate maintenance and depreciation but
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)        For the purpose of calculating the rate of return fcr fiscal year
1975-76 in the event that a tariff increase is made during such
fiscal year, the term "gross operating revenue accruing from
NEC's services" include the revenue which would have accrued
to NEC if such tariff increase had been made at the beginning
of such fiscal year.
(c)   The Borrower shall review    the said tariffs and consult with the
Association not later than July 15, 1981, or such other date as the Association
shall agree, with a view to achieving a rate of return of 8% as defined in this
section as early thereafter as possible.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall transfer to NEC the Sunkosi hydroelectric
plant not later than July 15, 1977 or such other date as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association and the hydroelectric plants of Trisuli (2nd stage)
and Gandak promptly upon the transfer thereof to the Borrower.
Section 5.04. (a) Promptly upon the commissioning of the first
turbo-generating unit included in Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall transfer
to NEC the said turbo-generating unit and all such other parts of the Project as
shall have been completed and commissioned by the date of commissioning such
turbo-generating unit.
(b)   Promptly upon the commissioning of the second turbo-generating unit
included in Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall transfer to NEC the said
turbo-generating unit and such other parts of the Project as shall not have been
transferred pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿9
(c)   The said assets shall be valued for purposes of such transfer at their
cost.
(d)   On each of the said transfers, the Rupee equivalent of the part of
the proceeds of the Credit used for the financing of the assets so transferred shall
be deemed to have been lent by the Borrower to NEC and shall be repaid to
the Borrower in fifty equal semi-annual installments of principal and interest at
the rate of 8-1/2%  per annum starting from   the year of each such transfer.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall inform the Association of the terms and
conditions of the transfer of the assets referred to in Section 5.03 and 5.04 of
this Agreement and the Gandak-Hetauda power transmission facilities promptly
after any such transfer shall have been made. Such information shall include inter
alia the date of such transfer, whether such assets are transferred as equity or
debt and in the latter case, the terms and conditions of such debt.
Section 5.06. (a) With regard to any assets transferred to NEC as debt, such
debt shall equal the cost of such assets less any amount which NEC shall have
contributed toward their cost.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NEC to increase its authorized share capital
as and when needed to issue shares for assets transferred as equity.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall continue to provide to NEC the electricity
generated by the Sunkosi hydroelectric plant until the said plant is transferred
to NEC.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall settle all outstanding bills owed by it to
NEC not later than July 15, 1976 or such other date as the Association shall
agree, and shall thereafter pay its current bills to NEC promptly after the receipt
thereof by the Borrower.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall ensure that NEC does not declare any
dividend until the assets forming the Project shall have been transferred to NEC
pursuant to Section 5.04 of this Agreement.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall consult with the Association on any
proposed institutional changes in the power sector which may affect the Central
Nepal Power System.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of NEC or for the suspension of its operations;
(b)   the  Borrower  shall have   suspended, terminated, repealed  or
substantially amended the Nepal Electricity Corporation Act, 2019 (1962) or any
other legal provision governing the organization or operations of NEC in such
manner as would materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying out of the
Project, or the operation of the Project; and
(c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the OECF Loan or of the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the OECF Loan Agreement
and the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement, respectively, or
(B)   the OECF Loan or the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Fu the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, that any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)(i)(B) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement and the OECF Loan Agreement
have, or will concurrently with this Agreement, become fully effective; and
(b)   the Borrower has implemented tariffs at levels such that the rate of
return for fiscal year 1975-76 set forth in Section 5.02 of this Agreement will,
in the opinion of the Association, be achieved.
Section 7.02. The date May 10, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 5.01, 5.02
and 5.10 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Kathmandu
Nepal


﻿12
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s / D. R. Panday
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of
the proceeds c' the Credit, the allocation of the amount of the Credit to such
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works for               15,700,000          100% of foreign
Part A of the                                     expenditures
Project
(2)   Civil works                    2,100,000          100% of foreign
for Part B of                                     expenditures
the Project
(3)   Unallocated                    8,200,000
TOTAL        26,000,000
2.    For Lhe purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of a country other than the Borrower and for goods
and services supplied from the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
(b)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.


﻿14
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Assoc*.tion shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which is located about 30 km south-west of Kathmandu consists
of the construction and equipping of a hydroelectric power station and consists
of the following parts:
Part A:    a 107 m high rockfill dam on the Kulekhani River with a total
embankment volume of about 3.5 million m3;
Part B:    an open channel spillway controlled by two radial gates;
Part C:    an intake structure connected to a headrace tunnel of about 2.5 m
in diameter and 5.8 km long;
Part D:    a surge tank;
Part E:    a penstock of about 1.6 m in average diameter and about 1,340 m
long;
Part F:    an  underground   power  house   equipped  with  two   30 MW
turbo-generating units;
Part G:    a tailrace tunnel of about I km in length;
Part H:    a switchyard equipped with two step-up 35 MVA power transformers
and associated switching and protection equipment;
Part I:    a 66 kV about 200 m long double circuit transmission line to connect
the power station with the existing line between Kathmandu and
Birganj; and
Part J:    extension of the existing substation in Kathmandu to accommodate two
35 MVA step-down transformers with switching and protection
equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1982.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Civil works under Parts (A) and (B) of the Project shall be procured under
one contract to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the works included in Parts (A) and (B) of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
3.    In the event that all of the bidders prequalified under paragraph 2 above
are also prequalified for other civil works under the Project, then the Borrower
shall invite bids from all such prequalified bidders for the civil works under Parts
(A) and (B) of the Project together with the other civil works under the Project
for which such bidders have been prequalified.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed award and final contract.
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿17
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in the Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal Of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.


