Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21010
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$56.990
TO THE
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
BUENOS AIRES SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
November 7, 2000
Human and Social Development Group
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay CMU
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Peso
1.00 PESO = US$1.00
US$1.00 = 1.00 PESO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIJE                       Student Projects for Youth at School
(Proyectos Escolares Innovativos y Programas para Jovenes)
BASSEP                     Buenos aires Segundo Proyecto de Educacion Secundary
(Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project)
EGB3                       Educacion General Basica (Grados 7-9)
(Basic Education)
DGCyE                      Direcci6n General de Cultura y Educaci6n
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
(Producto Interno)
IDB                        Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Inter-Americano de Desarrollo)
OP                         Bank Operational Policy
(Poliza Operacional del Banco)
PBA                        Provincia de Buenos Aires
(province of Buenos Aires)
PEI                        Plan Educativo Institucional
(School Development Plan)
ProFEI                     Proyecto de Fortalecimiento Eduativo Institucional
SIS                        Sistema de Informacion Socio-Educativa
(Socio-Educative Information System)
TTI                        Teacher Training Institute
(Institutos de Formaci6n de Profesores)
UEP                        Unidad Ejecutora de Proyecto
(Project Coordinating Unit)
PISA                       Program for International Student Assessment
TIMSS                      Third International Mathematics and Science Study
OECD                       Organization for Economic Cooperation Study and Development
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:   Jamil Salni
Task Tean Leader/Task Manager:   Jacob Bregman



ARGENTINA
BUENOS AIRES SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        24
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                          25
2. Financial                                                                          25
3. Technical                                                                          25
4. Institutional                                                                      26
5. Environmental                                                                      27
6. Social                                                                             28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     30
2. Critical risks                                                                     31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     32



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              33
2. Other                                                                                33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      46
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             54
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Suumary      59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         66
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       75
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     76
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    77
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              80
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                                82
MAP(S)



ARGENTINA
Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: November 7, 2000                             Team Leader: Jacob H. Bregman
Country Manager/Director: Myma L. Alexander        Sector Manager/Director: Jamil Salrni
Project ID: P064614                                Sector(s): ES - Secondary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
Z Loan         FI Credit        E Grant          El Guarantee    C: Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 56.99
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                 Years to maturity:
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
!Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     114.70            2.10         116.80
IBRD                                                            48.69            8.30          56.99
Total:                                                         163.39           10.40         173.79
Borrower: PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Responsible agency: DIRECCION GENERAL DE CULTURA Y EDUCACION (DGCYE)
Directorate General of Culture and Education - DGCyE
Address: Avda. 13 entre 56 y 57, La Plata, Buenos Aires
Contact Person: Dr. Mario Oporto, Subsecretario Educaci6n Basica, DGCyE, Province of Buenos Aires
Tel: (54-221) 421-4535                Fax: (54-221) 427-3007                Email:
secsedu@ed.gba.gov.ar
Other Agency(ies):
Project Implementation Unit (Unidad de Ejecicion de Proyecto --UEP)
Address: Avda. 13 entre 56 y 57, La Plata, Buenos Aires
Contact Person: Dr. Ricardo Casal (Coordinator) and Dardo Becerra (Implementation Director)
Tel: 54-(0)221-424-0335              Fax: 54-(0)221-424-0863                 Email: rcasal@netverk.com.ar
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2001        2002       2003      2004        2005
Annual      9.0        17.3       18.6       10.0        2.0
Cumulative     9.0        26.3       44.9        54.9      56.9
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 02/05/2001  Expected closing date:  01/31/2005
OCS PAD I..n Rev M.-A, 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Ainex 1)
This project is a continuation of Bank support for the secondary education reform process in the Province
of Buenos Aires (PBA), and therefore follows in the footsteps of the ongoing PBA Secondary Education
Sector Reform Project (also known as Prodymes III). The proposed Buenos Aires Second Secondary
Education Project (BASSEP) is a small project, focused on improving equity, quality and access of
secondary education services.
The PBA government's strategy for its education sector aims to improve quality, equity and effectiveness at
secondary school level. To support these objectives the Provincial Ministry of Education ("Direccion
General de Cultura y de Educacion -- DGCyE") proposes to introduce a new pedagogic program and a
"Full Day Schedule" (extending school hours from an annual average of about 750 hours to up to 1,200
hours) in its lower secondary schools (grades 7 through 9 -- or EGB3 -- of the mandatory education cycle
of grades 1 through 9 or "Educacion General Basica"). This is known as the "Jomada Completa" Program
or "Full Day Schedule".
The DGCyE would implement the "Jomada Completa" Program initially as a program for about 200 EGB3
priority schools through the proposed "Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project (BASSEP)".
The agreed school selection criteria (see section C3) will target those urban EGB3 schools where most
student enrolment comes from households which are considered socially and economically disadvantaged
and among the poorest.
The BASSEP will be implemented in four years and on the basis of its results the DGCyE intends to
gradually extend the "Jomada Completa" at EGB3 level to all those secondary schools where students face
problems of inequity due to poverty and socio-economic disadvantages. The proposed BASSEP has the
following development objectives:
1. Increase access to quality education and improve equity by supporting the implementation of
a Full Day Schedule (known as the "Jornada Completa") in selected EGB3 schools serving
students from the poorest households;
2. Improve school management as a necessary complement to the introduction of a "Full Day
Schedule" in the selected EGB3 schools.
The new pedagogic model targets "at-risk" students in the age group of 12-16 years old who currently
attend EGB3 schools with two or three daily shifts. Improved access and equity, combined with better
teaching and learning conditions would: (i) reduce overcrowding in existing EGB 1+2+3 school buildings
where the need is greatest and improve the school environment; (ii) increase students' time in school (and
time-on-task in the classroom) from the current four hours to seven or eight hours per day in a 5-day
schoolweek; (iii) allow teachers as much as possible to be reassigned to teach in the same school to create
better continuity in learning and more communication with parents; (iv) allow more focus on and attention
to at-risk students and their learning problems, and promote better retention rates for the 12-15 year age
group; and (v) enable the school to offer better support services for students and teachers, and improve
school management. The new extended teaching hours in the selected EGB3 schools will allow the
DGCyE in some cases to reduce the number of "taxi-profesores" (teachers who teach at more than 3-4
different schools with work weeks of up to 60 teaching contact hours).
- 2 -



The BASSEP would target about 60,000 students (11% of the total EGB3 student PBA enrollment), about
3,200 teachers and about 400 school administrators in about 200 EGB3 schools (8% of the total number of
EGB3 schools in the PBA).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress made toward the objectives of the proposed Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
(BASSEP) development objectives will be measured using the following main performance indicators with
agreed baseline values and targets:
Project Development Objectives                      Outcome/Impact Indicators
I.    Increase  access  to  quality a. EGB3 level student completion rates (grade 9) in the selected
education  and  improve  equity  by    EGB3 schools are equal or exceed the provincial average EGB3
supporting the implementation of a Full   completion rate specified separately for girls and boys.
Day Schedule (known as the "Jornada
Completa") in selected EGB3 schools b. Student transition rates from EGB3 to the first year of Polimodal
serving  students  from  the  poorest   level in the selected EGB3 schools will be equal or exceed the
households                               provincial average for EGB3 transfer to "Polimodal" level (grade
10) as specified per gender).
c. Decrease in repetition rate for the EGB3 level in the selected
EGB3 schools to at least equal or better than the average
repetition rate at provincial EGB 3 level (average provincial
repetition rate for EGB3 in 1999 was 15% per grade)
d. Pupil learning performance results in the selected EGB3 schools
are equal to or exceed the learning performance of provincial
averages in the same subjects as in the the national achievements
test ("Operativo Nacional"). Pupil learning performance will be
tested by specially designed sample-based pupil tests in each grade
of the EGB 3 level for the selected schools and an equal
representative sample of EGB3 pupils in schools without the
"Jornada Completa" model. The assessment test will be designed
and applied with technical assistance from international
consultants (PISA and TIMSS).
- 3 -



2.    Improve school management as e. All school directors in the selected EGB3 schools have been trained
a necessary complement to the            and the majority is satisfied with the quality, relevance and
introduction of a "Full Day Schedule"   effectiveness of the training (based on annual random sample
in the selected EGB3 schools            surveys and personal interviews).
f. All school directors in the selected EGB3 schools have been trained
and the majority is satisfied with the quality, relevance and
effectiveness of the training (based on annual random sample
surveys and personal interviews)
g. Student, parents and community attitudes toward secondary
schooling in districts of selected EGB3 schools have improved
(based on representative annual surveys and a number of follow up
interviews with parents, students and community leaders).
h. Secondary school and classroom management criteria and best
practices have been evaluated and the results have been produced in
a coherent booklet and disseminated to all EGB schools in the
PBA, based on the best practices learned from this project and from
similar international best practices (notably with examples from
Chile and at least two other OECD countries)
i. All EGB3 school have improved management autonomy
regarding financial, administrative and pedagogic matters
(schools have a budget for learning materials and small
maintenance, maintain an adequate administration, and can define
and implement innovative school projects); this will be measured
by representative sample-based surveys and audits of schools, and
personal interviews with school directors, teachers and parents
from the selected EGB3 schools and from an equal sample of EGB
schools not included in the project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20354               Date of latest CAS discussion: 27/06/2000
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Socio-economic performance. While many social indicators have improved in the past ten years, povertv
levels have stubbornly stayed high despite rapid economic growth: The Bank's latest estimates put poverty
at about 30-35 percent in the "Conurbano", an urbanized ring around the "City of Buenos Aires". The City
of Buenos Aires has an independent education system, while the "Conurbano" is administered by the
Province of Buenos Aires. See the Bank's most recent Poverty Assessment for Argentina, entitled Poor
People in a Rich Country, report number 19992-AR, dated March 23, 2000. This situation is compounded
by rising income inequality and high unemployment, especially for the unskilled, indicating that the benefits
- 4 -



of growth have not been widely shared.
Argentina's education system has been one of the most advanced in the region and can still boast of a
literacy rate of 97 percent for the adult population, universal primary enrollment, and about 20 percent of
the population between the ages of 20 to 25 enrolled in higher education. For a country of its wealth,
Argentina under-performs in certain key education indicators. The secondary graduation rate in Argentina
is only 52 percent, compared to an average rate for the OECD countries of 80 percent. Of 100 students
entering primary school, only 84 will enter the seventh grade, 76 will enter the ninth grade, 40 will enter the
last year of secondary school, 35 will enroll in university and only 7 will graduate.
Changing labor market demand and returns to education. With reduced protection and lower cost of
capital in the early 1990's, the historic comparative advantage of labor over capital shifted in capital's
favor. This led to demand for more highly skilled workers and increased the wages of those with secondary
and university level education: As a result, 40 percent of the recent change in the Argentine Gini
coefficient is due to differences in returns to education. The incomes of professionals has grown on
average by about 5.6 percent per year over the 1990-98 period, while skilled wages have risen at a rate of
only 3.6 percent, and wages for unskilled workers have stayed flat or decreased.
Federal Government Education Strategy. With World Bank support, for the last seven years, Argentina
has undertaken an ambitious prograrn to transform the education system: new system structure and more
relevant curricula, increased access at preschool and secondary levels, improved quality and equity, more
autonomy to the provinces who implement education policies, more investments to improve infrastructure
and pedagogic materials, especially targeting the poorest populations. The provinces of Buenos Aires and
Cordoba are the most advanced with implementing their secondary education reform. In the PBA, with
about 40 percent of the total Argentine enrollment, this consists of a restructuring of the old five year
secondary education cycle into two three year cycles: educacion general basica 3 (EGB3) and upper
secondary ("Polimodal"). The EGB3 level reinforces core knowledge and prepares the children for further
secondary education or labor market entry.
In this context, in support of the ongoing reform in the PBA, the BASSEP addresses the CAS objectives by
promoting improvement in quality and equity of lower secondary education (EGB3). The project's
focus on the socially and economically disadvantaged population, with children in the 12-16 year age group
aims, to remedy inequalities in the type of education to which the poor have access, and consequently in
labor market entry and working life. The project's support for the "Jomada Completa" will in the longer
term boost demand for Polimodal level, reduce drop out and repetition rates for the EGB3 level and
improve the relevance of what is taught. These benefits will enable students to successfully complete lower
secondary education, improving their chances of entering the labor market and leading productive lives out
of poverty.
Province of Buenos Aires sector issues and strategy
With an estimated population of 15 million (about 38% of the country's total), the Province of Buenos
Aires (PBA) is the largest province in Argentina. It contains 134 municipalities, 29 of which are located in
the area surrounding the Capital Federal, known as the "Conurbano" which contains 70% of the provincial
population. In total almost 95% of the provincial population lives in urban areas. The PBA contributes
about 35% to Argentina's GDP, with an income per capita of about US$8,200. The growth of the
province's economy is closely linked the national economy. Provincial GDP declined by close to 3% in
1999 due to Brazil's devaluation of its currency. The PBA has the largest provincial education system in
Argentina.
-5-



Table I
Public Schools                    Private Schools
Education Level  Number of  Enrollment   Teachers   Number  Enrollment  Teachers
schools      1999                    of       1999
schools
Initial             2,439    331,000      19,000     2,057    206,000    12,700
EGB                 4,456   1,755,000     85,000      1,632    684,000    41,600
Polimodal           1,076    170,000      50,000      1,156    174,000    24,900
Secondary                     187,600
School                                     I_I
Teacher Training      185      54,200      8,100       280      49,800     5,500
Institutes
Total               8,156   2,497,800    162,100      5,125   1,113,800    84,700
Source DGCyE (March 2000)
Table 2
Total
Number   Enrollment
Education Level     of         1999        Teachers
schools
Initial             4,496      537,000     31,700
EGB                 6,088      2,439,000    126,600
Polimodal           2,232      531,600     74,900
Secondary School
Teacher Training    465        104,000     13,600
Institutes                   I
Total                13,281    3,611,600    246,800
Source DGCyE (March 2000)
Provincial Education Expenditure and Financing (see also annex 4). The province of Buenos Aires
(PBA) was the first province to widely implement the education reform and allocated a significant amount
of additional resources to its education sector,  The PBA's public spending in education increased
significantly since the Decentralization Law was put into effect in 1993, indicating the Provincial
Government's commitment to the reform  and a break in the pattem  of low  spending that predominated
during the 1980's. Total PBA education expenditure increased from US$1,860 million in 1993 to
US$3,345 million in 1998 (based on 1998 pesos): an increase of 81.5% in real terms and an annual
average growth rate of 13% (see table). These increases were especially high in 1997, when the EGB3
reform was started, mainly due to: (i) increased student enrollment (>17% over 1994-98), creating a need
for more teachers (more teacher work units -- cargos/horas catedras); (ii) application of a 15% average
salary increase in February 1998; and (iii) a significant increase in investment in infrastructure (from
UJS$69 million in 1995 to US$623 million in 1997 and US$280 million in 1998).
Table 3: Evolution expenditures in education by Jurisdiction (Source) (millions of 1998 pesos)
1,993     1994       1995       1996       1997      increase 1993-1997
Prov. of Buenos Aires             1,868     2,099      2,265      2,464       3,192        71%
Provinces (excl. PBA)            5,933      6,409      6,100      5,972       6,140       3.5%
All Provinces                     7,801     8,508      8,365      8,436       9,332      19.6%
PBA / Total Prov's                24%      24.7%      27.1%      29.2%       34.2%
Nat. Educ. Ministry               1,835     1,835      1,835      1,835       1,835       0.0%
Municipalities                     206        206       206        206         206        0.0%
Total Nat. Educ.                 9,842     10,549     10,406     10,477      11,373      15.6%
PBA / Total Educ.                  19%       20%      21.8%      23.5%       28.1%
-6 -



Source: Province of Buenos Aires; Provincial Ministry of Economy and DGCyE
From the total PBA education budget almost 93% is recurrent spending (almost entirely salaries),
distributed as follows: 76% for salaries of public teachers and administrative staff (non-teaching staff
represents about 15%  of the total), and about 15%  subsidizes a proportion of private school teacher
salaries.  Only 3%  finance non-salary recurrent costs. Infrastructure and equipment investment has
increased from about 6% in 1993 to 8% in 1998. For the whole 1993-1998 period more than US$1 billion
was spent on building new schools and classrooms to accommodate the increasing students numbers.
Tranfers to private schools make up almost 14% of the recurrent budget in 1998. Over 1993-98 total
teaching staff expenditures increased by 73.2% ($915 million). Expenditures in substitute staff, despite
scarce available data, show a decreasing trend: a 14.7% ratio in 1993 (expenditures on substitutes
compared to regular and provisional staff) and 13.7% in 1998. In terms of total education expenditures,
36% went to public primary level (EGB1+2) in 1998, 22% to public secondary level, 7% to pre-school
level, 3.5% to public tertiary level (Teacher Training Institutes) and 15% to transfers to private schools (at
all levels).  The remaining was spent on physical education, artistic education, special education,
psychology and social assistance and administration. It is important to mention that even though EGB3 is
included in primary level budgetary's classification, its structure of cost corresponds to secondary level
(lower secondary level). The distribution of spending across levels of education corresponds more or less to
OECD means, taking into account that the university level is financed entirely by the federal government.
Table 4: PBA composition of spending per education level (1998; percentages)
Category                           1994     1995      196      1997     1998
* Psychology                                                 5.4      4.7       4.3      4.1      3.8
!    Special Education (handicapped)                         5.1      4.3      4.2       4.0      3.8
* Pre-School                                                 7.8      7.1      6.9       7.1      6.8
* Primary (EGBI+2+3)                                        29.5     28.7      32.3     30.9     36.4
*  Secondary (composed of old 5-year phasing out and new    26.0     24.5      23.4     25.8     22.3
Polimodal)                                                                  _
Sub-Total Public Primary + Secondary                   55.5     53.2     55.7     56.7     58.7
* Adults Education                                           2.5      2.0       1.9      1.8      2.8
* Physical Education                                         3.0      2.6       2.5      2.6      2.1
* Teacher Training                                           3.4      4.0       3.6      3.4      3.2
* Arts Education                                             3.2      3.0       2.6      2.4      2.2
* Private Schools Subsidies                                 14.1     19.1      18.2     17.9     16.5
To schools a % of Total Education                             87.5     84.8      85.3     72.8     81.5
Education sector management. The PBA's management of its education sector is still inefficient, which is
illustrated by the high number of central level adminisrative staff in the DGCyE and, in spite of this, the
lack of specialist skills in areas such as financial management, pedagogy and curriculum, and monitoring of
performance. Compared to similar systems in industrial OECD countries, there appears also to be a lack
of structural and institutional capacity in the form of more autonomous institutions for learning assessment,
inspection, and teacher training. However, the new DGCyE Administration, which came in December
1999, started immediately to plan for significant and system-wide changes in the aforementioned areas.
The diagnosis of the system's performance is well underway, and the re-organization of the central Ministry
has begun. This is a sensitive, difficult and complex program of system-change, which can only be
gradually phased in, since it would otherwise risk the disruption of schooling. The design and introduction
of improved performance and efficiency monitoring through the "legajo unico electronico" and the
"Sistema de Informacion Socio-Educativa", which the DGCyE is currently undertaking, are important
milestones on the way to improved management and performance. The current PBA education system
suffers from (i) lack of a coherent and accessible information system in order to better plan, monitor, and
-7 -



supervise the sector; (ii) slow staff paying system; (iii) inefficient assignment and management of human
resources; and (iv) inefficient management of financial resources and high administrative cost. The new
teacher and staff monitoring system ("'Iegajo unico electronico '9 will allow the DGCyE to: (i) eliminate
the ghost teachers in the system and have better control over teacher work-loads ("cargos" allocated and
actually worked per teacher linked to salary pay out) at school level; and (ii) get a better control system in
place for teacher and staff absentism and the use of teacher substitutes. At the end of 2001 this monitoring
system will have been fully implemented, and will lead to significant recurrent salary savings. The
"Sistema de Informacion Socijo-Educativa" will allow the DGCyE to introduce District and
School-based monitoring of student performnance, linked to socio-economic status of the students. this will
assist the DGCyE to better focus its Polimodal scholarship program ("Programa de Becas"), and target the
delivery of additional support services. The ongoing Bank-fuianced secondary education projects also
finance an administrative reform, which support better and more effective management practices and
promotes decentralization of services.
Progress of the secondary education reform. The PBA's strategy is to keep students in school after
completing the EGB3 level. The introduction of the EGB3 level was completed by 1998, and the second
year of the "Polimodal" level started in school year 2000 (school years run from March to December). The
first "Polimodal" graduates will come out of the system by December 2001. "Polimodal" is a mixture of
specialized vocational and general academic courses, with specific timetables, and as much as possible
interaction with the local labor market and enterprises. The "Polimodal" curricula in the PBA are
composed of five "specialized learning tracks', with links to the world of work and the local labor market.
Each Polimodal school in the PBA can select two "specialization tracks", for which teacher training and
new pedagogic materials will be provided by the DGCyE. The DGCyE uses the national learning
assessment system ("Operativo nacional"), which annually test pupils of grades 6, 9 and 12 in two or three
subject matters, and the DGCyE is also developing its own targeted learning evaluation system. Both
EGB3 and Polimodal curricula also include an emphasis on social and cultural community values in order
to help poorer children to better succeed and combat youth crimne and violence.
Secondary school coverage. In the PBA coverage at the old five-year secondary level (1998) was close to
65 percent and the graduation rate was about 25 percent, while in OECD countries, secondary completion
rates average 78-80 percent. In Korea, this rate reaches 92 percent. Net enrollment at EGB3 level jumped
by more than 17 percent over 1996-98, compared to enrollment of the age group in the old secondary
system. Net enrollment at the new upper secondary structure ("Polimodal") jumped by more than 40
percent in 1999, and this trend appears to continue in the current school year (2000).
Quality of education. Despite progress as a result of federal and provincial efforts, the quality of education
in the Province of Buenos Aires needs to be improved, especially for the students from the poorer
households. The new EGB3 and Polimodal curricula are being implemented, but teachers need more
in-service training and better learning materials to teach their courses. The PBA results in the national
assessment tests are reasonable, compared to the results of other provinces (the PBA ranks on average in
the top-five). To make the reform effective and respond to its qualitative goals, the PBA needs to reinforce
the training and support of its teachers and school directors. It will also need to strengthen the support
mechanisms for pupils, especially at the EGB3 level for the 12-16 year old age group. These children, as
demonstrated also in other OECD countries, need school-based support mechanisms in "learning how to
leamn" and "information about social and cultural values and behavior". One of the important objectives of
EGB33 level education is to deliver pupils who can be effective citizens and productive workers. In mnost
countries in the world, reform of this level of education is ongoing and the problems faced in teaching this
age group are the more difficult ones. There is general consensus among PBA educators that, compared to
OECD countries, the quality and relevance of secondary education must be improved, and that school
- 8-



should be given the means to that.
However, the PBA government wants to do more and increase the learning and teaching time for "at risk"
pupils in the poorer schools. Through the proposed BASSEP the "Jomada Completa" will offer a full
school day to "youth-at-risk" in the 200 EGB3 schools. This will not only improve learning outcomes, but
also strengthen the school- and classroom environment (lower incidences of violence, better information,
more contact with the parents and communities, less street crime by "out-of-school" youth). This will also
attract more students to stay in school and increase enrollment and graduation results significantly, thereby
improving equity. Additionally, programs and inputs for student communities in the schools will be offered
to prevent and reduce youth violence and criminality. These Youth programs (Student Projects at School
for Youth -- "AIJE") will be similar to those financed under the First Buenos Aires Secondary Education
Project (also known as Prodymes III).
Equity in Secondary Education Performance indicators, such as average annual dropout and repetition
rates, are sharply differentiated by income groups; dropout rates increase significantly for the poor after
seven years of education. Only 24 percent of students in the lowest quintile complete secondary school
compared to 76 percent for the upper quintile (measured on the basis of data for the old five-year secondary
structure; since then Polimodal has increased enrollment in upper-secondary). However, significant
inequities continue to exist. About 35 percent of youth aged between 14 to 18 years were out of school in
1998, and these are mostly pupils coming from poorer households. In addition, children from low-income
families are more likely to be older than other primary school children due to late entrance and relatively
higher repetition among poorer children. About 32 percent of children from the poorest income quintile are
delayed in primary level compared to 9 percent for the richest quintile. Repetition and drop-out rates for
socially disadvantaged students at the EGB3 level are significantly higher than those for students from the
upper quintile (annual averages of about 20-25% and 10-12% percent respectively). The DGCyE strategy
aims to offer better in-school student support services, and to create an improved school- and classroom
environment by (i) reducing overcrowded school facilities; (ii) provide more and better learning materials;
and (iii) make what is being taught more relevant for the community and the job market.
National standardized tests results (1999) for the students in the last year of EGB3 point to a continuous
significant gap in student performance of low-income "socially at risk" students compared to students from
households with higher incomes. This situation has several negative consequences, such as: more children
and youth on the street; early entrance into the informal labor market; violence; drug consumption, and
increasing teenage pregnancies. The Gran Buenos Aires area concentrates some 40% of the unemployed in
Argentina, many of whom are young workers with incomplete secondary education.
Gender. In the area of education, there are little differences between the genders, with female students
outperforming male students in tenns of lower repetition, but losing ground at secondary school in terms of
educational outcomes. However, in the poorest areas there are severely restricting school environments for
adolescent youth, notably girls or young women, due to violence, criminality and lack of learning materials
and equipment. This causes increased repetition and drop out for the lower income quintiles.
The Jornada Completa program. One of the PBA government strategies for education is to introduce a
new program of Jomada Completa at EGB3 level, aimed at addressing quality and equity issues. Initially
the DGCyE will implement the "Jomada Completa" in 200 EGB3 schools and then gradually expand the
program to all EGB3 schools in the poorest districts of the province where it would be feasible and
cost-effective to implement. Education authorities hope that the schools will develop an innovative
institutional pedagogical model which can represent an incentive for other communities and institutions.
The Jomada Completa program has two main objectives:
-9-



a. Improve the quality and relevance of learning and teaching in EGB3 schools and
b. Improve equity by targeting students from socio-economically disadvantaged areas
To achieve these objectives Jomada Completa will: (i) increase the number of hours of instruction per year
that students receive from about 750 to up to 1,200 hours; (ii) promote leaming of the mother tongue, a
foreign language and improve skills in Information and Communication Technology (ICT); (iii) diversify
the supply of educational services through variety in quantity and quality of instruction; (iv) teach skills
relevant to multiple labor market demands; (v) support values and principles that promote collective
well-being; (vi) strengthen new forms of institutional organizational and management that encourage
collective action; and (vii) support ongoing teacher training to improve teaching performance and teachers'
role in the classroom. In addition, implementation of a better and more focused school environment will
help the decentralization of school services in favor of more autonomous administration and a more
participatory approach that involves school administrators, teachers, supervisors and other members of the
education community, empowered to become the implementers of the very same changes they are
supporting.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed BASSEP supports the new DGCyE Administration's actions to target secondary schools
serving students from poorer households with innovative and qualitative inputs embodied in the program
for the "Jornada Completa". In order to create the conditions to confront broader sector issues of
inequality, low quality and school management, the BASSEP project will address, in the selected (about
200) EGB3 schools (with about 60,000 students) the following issues:
a. Providing more equitable access in education: by improving retention rates at EGB3 level in
selected schools and increasing the transition rate between EGB3 (grade 9) and the new Polimodal,
and increasing retention rates at the Polimodal level, providing new infrastructure for about 35
additional secondary schools, and rehabilitation of about 400 classrooms in up to about 165
existing secondary schools in the poorest areas; the targeted secondary schools will be selected on
the basis of poverty criteria and implement a program of "Jomada Completa".
b. Improved quality and relevance of learning. by supporting the implementation of increased
leaming and teaching hours from annually about 750 up to about 1,200 hours in the selected EGB3
schools; providing support for the continued implementation of the Polimodal reforn (up-to-date
equipment, laboratories, school libraries and technical assistance from local experts and
institutions); providing teacher training and support services, including competitive scholarships
for the best performing teachers; and providing support for improving the PBA assessment and
examination system.
c. Making school management more effective and more autonomous: by improving training and
providing additional resources for secondary school management and teaching, supporting ongoing
administrative reform activities at central and district provincial levels, which will lead to
cost-efficient and effective monitoring and reporting; providing support for decentralization of
decision-making and better accountability in the secondary schools and their districts, and
providing incentives for evaluation of school performance, based on school development plans.
Strategic choices. Reinforcing the Bank's assistance for secondary education in the Province of Buenos
Aires is considered critical for the following reasons:
- 1 0 -



a. The Province of Buenos Aires is more advanced than almost all other provinces of Argentina in the
implementation of the secondary education reform. The increase in public spending on education
over the last nine years, and the current drive of the PBA government to make the education system
more equitable and cost-efficient, justify the Bank's support.
b. Progress made by the reform is fragile and the PBA needs to keep the reform in its education sector
on track. The PBA has the single largest educational system in the country and is leading other
provinces in implementing education reforms. The outcome of these efforts are crucial in
determining the willingness of other provinces to make changes and this potential multiplier effect
would benefit the country as a whole.
c. The proposed "Jornada Completa" Program  for selected EGB3 schools, is part of the wider
provincial strategy to give more resources and responsibility to the schools, and to improve the
teaching and learning for the students in households from the lowest income quintiles. The
BASSEP will be used to select best practices and to gain more experience in implementing the
upper-secondary reform across the PBA and possibly other provinces.
In order to accelerate implementation of the secondary education reform Argentina, BASSEP has been
designed to complement and reinforce the activities financed under the following ongoing projects:
a. The Federal Secondary Education I project (Prodymes I) (to be completed by December 2000):
in the PBA this project finances: (i) education sector administration and management; (ii) education
quality; and (iii) school access.
b. The Federal Secondary Education II project (Prodymes II) (to be completed by December
2001) : in the PBA this project finances: (i) essential educational resources (e.g., library, computer
and science laboratories); and (ii) school-based improvement projects in targeted secondary schools
serving low achieving students in disadvantaged areas.
c  The PBA Secondary Education III project (Prodymes III) (to be completed by December 2001)
: this is the first secondary education project loan directly to the Province of Buenos Aires and
finances: (i) expanding school access in EGB and Polimodal levels due to the extension of
mandatory secondary education; (ii) assisting priority schools with the transition to the Polimodal
cycle (including pedagogic support for school development plans and youth projects -- ProFEI and
AIJE), (iii) improving school management, providing educational materials, and training for 42
technical secondary schools.
- 11 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
._______.___._  (US$M}    Total         (US$M)  financing
1.    Creation of additional EGB3  Secondary           59.69       34.3     36.69       64.4
school spaces in the poorest urban  Education
districts and rehabilitation of
classrooms in about 165 existing EGB
3 schools to develop and apply a new
pedagogical model of the "Jomada
Completa"
2.    Provide pedagogic equipment    Secondary        102.50       59.0      14.80      26.0
(school libraries, science and language   Education
laboratories, and learning materials)
and other pedagogical services and
innovations for implementation of the"
Jomada Completa" in the selected
(about 200) EGB3 schools
3.    Provide support for more                          9.00        5.2       3.50       6.1
autonomous school management and
innovative school projects in the
selected (about 200) EGB3 schools and
their districts;
4.    Provide support for project                       2.00        1.2       1.40       2.5
administration and management
Total Project Costs                   173.19       99.7     56.39       98.9
Front-end fee                     0.60        0.3      0.60        1.1
Total Financing Required                    173.79      100.0     56.99      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the implementation in the Province of the Federal Education Law (Ley Federal de
Educaci6n) passed in 1993. This Law established (i) the change in education structure and curriculum; (ii)
the extension of mandatory education from 7 to 10 years; (iii) the responsibilities of the administrative
bodies of the sector as well as of the school community; (iv) the increase of total public education financing
20% annually.
- 12 -



The project will provide direct support for implementation of the PBA secondary education reform, which
aims to: (i) construct and rehabilitate school infrastructure necessary for the extension of mandatory
secondary education; (ii) provide teacher training for the implementation of the education transformation;
(iii) expand access to education at all levels, especially for the students from the poorest households; (iv)
improve education quality, equity, and efficiency; and (v) provide computer, library and other pedagogic
resources to the schools. The Province of Buenos Aires has already made progress in all these accounts.
The project directly supports the provincial program to apply a new pedagogical program of the Full Day
Schedule ("Jornada Completa") in selected (about 200) EGB3 schools, where the majority of the school
population comes from the most socio-economically disadvantaged households (see school selection criteria
below).
3. Benefits and target population:
Quality, equity and efficiency
a. Try out the Full day Schedule ("Jomada Completa"), with an increase in hours of instruction, and
in the near future, utilize the lessons from this experience to implement the Full day Schedule in all
provincial EGB3 schools in poorer districts;
b. Increase equity, since the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools targeted are selected among the
schools with highest NBIs levels and at-risk students.
c. Work in schools where the existence of liasic educational resources will help to increase the
motivation of school actors and facilitate the successful implementation of the Polimodal
transformation.
d. Support school Directors, teachers and administrative staff at provincial, district and school levels
to innovative and international school/learning experiences, and provide them with better access to
information, and improve the school and classroom management regarding pedagogic practices
e. Decrease repetition and dropout rates in the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools and increase the
transition rate to the Polymodal level.
School Management
a. Link to the improvement in education administration, partially financed by the BA Secondary
Education Project. School directors and administrative staff will receive technical assistance and
training to improve the schools' leaming environment and its management.
b. Provide the basis for a decentralization reform of administrative school procedures that will
transfer responsibility from the central level to districts and school levels.
Target Population.
The BASSEP will be implemented in selected (about 200) EGB3 schools providing education services to
socio-economically-disadvantaged youth in urban areas. The project will target about 60,000 students
(11% of the total EGB3 student PBA enrollment), about 3,200 teachers and about 400 school
administrators in the selected schools (about 8% of the total number of EGB3 schools in the PBA).
Poverty and equity considerations:
a. Socio-economically disadvantaged youth. The Gran Buenos Aires urbanized area concentrates
some 40% of the unemployed in Argentina, a segment of the population vulnerable to be afflicted by
other social ills. In the province unemployment is high among young people (about 450,000) and
young workers with incomplete secondary education, especially for those looking for their first job.
- 13 -



Recent studies, show that workers with completed high school earned 30% more than those with
incomplete high school.
b. EGB3 level schools that precede Polimodal level. Concurrent with the PBA's efforts to implement
education reform from the Federal level and it's own obligatory Polimodal, the PBA has at stake a
high investment in education reform. Therefore, it must ensure an effective transition from EGB to
Polimodal level.
c. Urban areas. The PBA has 134 municipalities, 29 of which are located in the area surrounding the
Capital Federal known as Conurbano, which concentrates most of the urban population in the PBA
and close to 95% of the population in the province lives in urban areas. In addition, about 1,800
schools --predominantly in rural areas-- of a total 4,425 public EGB schools in the province have
less than 20 students rendering the implementation of Jomada Completa not cost-effective and
difficult to implement.
d Public and Private schools. Private schools in the PBA already enjoy on a general level some of
the pedagogical benefits of "Jornada Completa" such as the large number of hours of instruction and
relative school autonomy. Unlike students in public schools, students in private institutions have the
socio-economic means to complement school services with extracurricular activities such as sports,
classes, travel and tutors.
e. School institutionalfactors. These include repetition and drop-out rates, transfer rates from EGB3
(grade 9) to Polimodal (grade 10), total pupil enrolment (per gender and per section), degree of
overcrowding, school population age distribution, extent of support services, complexity of
articulation (linkage) in schools between EGB 1-2 and 3, if a school facility is shared with Polimodal
and the average distance between an EGB3 school facility and its corresponding Polimodal school
facility, composition of the school teacher force, and the average hours taught per individual teacher
per school in the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools, and factors related to teacher and school
director qualifications and inservice training.
f Innovative School Education Projects (PE] or ProFEI). This project will be closely linked with
the ongoing School projects and Youth programs in the ongoing Prodymes III project. The selected
(about 200) EGB3 schools will receive technical assistance and staff training to develop innovative
school projects and to agree on an Institutional Education Project (PEI) for each school (similar to
those defined under Prodymes III). The selected (about 200) EGB3 schools can also use funds for
Youth programs (similar to the AIJE programs as defined under the Prodymes III project) and apply
the best practices from these experiences. Success will depend on the involvement of all members
of the education community (students, parents, local enterprises, and community leaders).  The
definition and quality of the Schools' PETs or ProFEIs will be used as one of the selection criteria
for the application of the "Jomada Completa". This larger margin of institutional autonomy means
that proposals presented will go through a process of permanent review that will contribute to the
creation of a school model with improved quality and equity. In order to target more effectively the
varied circumstances surrounding the schools and the most disadvantaged population, different
"Jomada Completa" models that are flexible enough to allow the schools to define their own
institutional options will be proposed during the implementation of the in the selected EGB3
schools.
- 14 -



COMPONENT                INPUTS and INSTITUTIONS              BENEFICIARIES
Infrastructure   for   the 35 new schools                     26,000 students (new schools)
implementation of "Jomada 400 classroom expansions            35,000 students (expansion)
Completa" in selected EGB3 Rehabilitate existing school facilities  About 60,000 total students
schools in the urban poorest about 200 EGB3 schools           400 School Directors and Deputies
districts in the PBA                                          About 3,200 school teachers
Related  non-teaching  staff  and
parents
Equipment and  Learning Equiping about 200 priority EGB3 schools About 60,000 students
Materials                with  labs,  furniture,  PCs,  learning About 400 School Directors and
materials and libraries              Deputies
About 3,200 school teachers
Related non-teaching staff and
parents
School Development Plans  Institutional   and   pedagogical   and About 3,200 teachers will have
("Programa     Educativo improvement plans for the selected (about received relevant training
Institucional  --  PEI)"or 200) EGB3 schools (School Development About 400 School Directors and
"Programa             de Plans   and   performance   monitoring Deputies will have received relevant
Fortalicimiento   Educativo indicators developed by school clusters)   training
Institucional --ProFEI")                                      Parents and Local Communities will
have improved communication and
coordination with the schools of their
children
Innovative School projects Innovation school-based projects developed About 60,000 students and 3,200
and training for teachers, and proposed by the selected (about 200) teachers will have formulated a
school   directors   and EGB3 schools and application of Youth school project and improved their
administrative     staff; programs by students in the schools (AIJE) school environment
application of school-based                                   About 400 School Directors and
Youth programs (AIJE)                                         Deputies will have improved their
school-based   management  and
improved communications with their
local    communities    (related
non-teaching staff and parents)
Selection criteria for the (about) 200 EGB3 schools financed by the project
Criteria for selection of the (about 200) EGB3 schools in the Prodymes IILA project are as follows:
1. The selection will be based on the socio-economic profile of the school population, measured
by various characteristics prepared by schools directors in cooperation with teachers and
the school community (see below);
2. All the education Regions (16) should be included in the sample of the selected EGB3
schools;
3. Land availability for access expansion should be legally ensured for all the schools;
4. Ownership of the Jornada Completa" program and its implementation should be shown
through a "Programa Educativo Institucional (PEI)" or "Programa de Fortalicimiento
Educativo Institucional (ProFEI)" in each of the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools; this is
- 15-



equivalent to a School Development Plan (complying with DGCyE guidelines) and the
selected schools (through their Directors and Teacher-Parent Association) must agree to
establish such a School Development Plan, with the related school performance indicators,
during the first year of project implementation.
Socio-economic profile of the school population. Selection criteria under item 1. have been determined
on the basis of the schools' student population living in socio-economic disadvantaged conditions. These
conditions are measured against various characteristics of the household and / or the student. The family
information data are determined by the school director in cooperation with teachers, and the parents or
children's supervisors (community). The data are available per school and are comparable with district
averages.
Methodology. The DGCyE will compile the basic statistical database for at least 400 poor EGB schools, in
order to select about 200 EGB schools which will not implement the Full School Day as a control group,
and the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools which will implement the "Jornada Completa". This tentative
list of EGB3 schools must show their location, and comparative "socio-economic" school population data
at district and regional level. The data will be supplied as outputs from the SIS and legajo unico
information systems; if necessary it will be complemented by data resulting from specific baseline surveys
and studies. The results from the database for the 400+ EGB3 schools will be presented in an organized
way and will be analyzed according to the project objectives and components.
The schools in the PBA include normally three cycles (EGBI+2+3) in one building. In the poorer urban
areas the schools are for the most part over-populated, and there is a severe shortage of space to (i)
accommodate the transfer enrollment into the EGB3 level (grades 7-9) in agreement with the new curricular
requirements and (ii) respond to the increased demand for further education from the communities, which
often live in poor conditions (housing, sanitation and other public services).
The project will finance
3   extensions to existing buildings (construction of additional classrooms for EGB3 students
(including laboratories and libraries) for implementation of the "Jomada Completa" (about 165
schools); and
3   in some areas the construction of new buildings to respond to the increasing demand for EGB3
school places in Jornada Completa.(around 35)
A school can be selected into the project if the percentage of its student population at EGB level
"living in disadvantaged socio-economic conditions" is higher than District's average for its student
population.  This "poverty-composite" indicator is based on the following socio-economic data from
student and their households.
For a student to be categorized as "living in disadvantaged sociao-economic conditions", he/she needs to
fall into one of the following categories ("matricula en dificultad"):
1.  Pupils from "villas de emergencia" (recognized slums) or pupils with similar problems
2.  Pupils from families who occupy land illegally
3.  Orphans or pupils who have been abandoned by their parents
4.  Pupils who go to a neighborhood "care center" during the day ("Centros Complementarios")
5.  Pupils from families with at least 4 of the following characteristics:
5.1. Families with more than 4 children below 18 years old;
5.2.  Single-parent households with the head of the household unemployed;
5.3. Children from households in extremely poor conditions;
- 16 -



5.4.  Children with one parent who is illiterate;
5.5.  One or more of the siblings have dropped out of school prematurely;
5.6.  Students from households which receive social assistance.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 4 years
a. Project coordination. All education projects co-funded through external means in the PBA, are
managed by the project Coordination Unit (UEP), which is part of the management and
administrative structure of the PBA's DGCyE (provincial Ministry of Education). The BASSEP
project will also be managed by the UEP, but it will be supervised by the "Project Supervisory
Council", which will ensure coordinate and integration with ongoing projects, and with the
DGCyE's reform sector strategy. The UEP also coordinates the IDB-funded PRISE project for
Basic Education. UEP operations are managed by a General Coordinator, who is a member of the
Director General's Cabinet.  The UEP's project coordinator reports to and works under
supervision of the General Coordinator. The project coordinator is responsible for (i) superving
all adrninistrative staff in both the central and local offices, (ii) selecting and contracting of goods
and services, (iii) implementing all project activities, (iv) managing project performance
monitoring and auditing, and (v) producing regular project reports and the agreed studies' reports.
The UEP has a team of about 40 professionals providing services for: (a) procurement and
contracting, (b) accounting administration, (c) auditing and legal activities, (d) monitoring of
project activities at district level and in the schools, and (e) keeping the education and pedagogical
administration. The proposed project will finance about 50 percent of all UEP staff involved in
the management of the BASSEP.
b. Financial Management. The Province of Buenos Aires would maintain adequate financial
management systems --including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems-- to ensure
that they can provide the Bank accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures, in accordance with:  (i) the Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing
Handbook (Washington, D.C.;World Bank, 1995), and (ii) the Bank's Operational Policy (OP)
and Best Practice (BP) 10.02, dated July 1996. Efforts are being made on a country basis to
discuss with the Government the revised Bank financial management standards to comply with OP
and BP 10.02, dated August 1997. With respect to auditing the Bank confirmed that the audit
firm "Estudio Llanos y Asociados" (presently residing at in LaPlata, Province of Buenos Aires) is
eligible to provide audit preparation services as long as it meets criteria of independence, quality,
capacity and timeliness in the opinion of the Bank. This auditing firmn has already audited the
ongoing Prodymes III project (L43 13-AR), and up to now the financial management of Education
Sector projects has been satisfactory. The Bank's Resident Mission financial management
specialist reviewed the procedures and found that they are consistent with Bank procedures and
regulations. During project implementation, the Bank will provide assistance to improve and
update a financial management practices and reporting.
c. Executing agencies. The provincial DGCyE will be the responsible party and the main executing
agency of the project. Managed by the DGCyE's Sub-Secretariat for Administration, several
depending local executing agencies and main stakeholders (Cooperadoras and school
communities) will be responsible for various aspects of project implementation. The UEP will be
responsible for daily coordination and management of the implementation of the project, and the
UEP's General Coordinator will report to the DGCyE Sub-Secretariat of Education and the
- 17 -



Sub-Secretariat for Administration. The Secretariat for Education will be responsible for the
implementation of the "Jornada Completa", the school-based pedagogic and innovative programs,
and the supply of related equipment and learning materials. The infrastructure Coordinator of the
UEP, under supervision of the UEP General Coordinator, will manage all contracting and
supervision of civil works and rehabilitation of classrooms for the "Jomada Completa" in the
selected EGB3 schools. The DGCyE's Public Works Office will oversee planning, budgeting,
management and quality ensurance of the proposed civil works and classroom rehabilitation.
d. Education Stakeholders. There will be an active involvement of school communities composed
mainly of teachers, students, parents and school administrators who are beneficiaries and
participants of this project. These stakeholders will: (i) administer and monitor the public works
and supply of learning materials and equipment in their school through their "Cooperadoras"; (ii)
benefit from technical assistance and training; (iii) develop school development plans and provide
regular feedback to the UEP and DGCyE Secretariats about the quality and effectiveness of the
goods and services supplied, and (iv) run extracurricular programs such as the Youth program
(AIJE) at the school level.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a. Quality and equity intervention in all secondary schools. It was decided to target the quality
interventions to the 200 EGB3 schools in order to: (i) test the "Jomada Completa" and its
corresponding pedagogical models with the accompanying increase in instructional hours (increased
"time-on-task") on a basis. This will allow the "Jornada Completa" to be tested, before it will be
applied on a wider scale in the PBA system. This will allow the DGCyE to improve the model, and
prevent costly mistakes. The complexity of the "Jornada Completa" in terms of teacher and staff
management and its additional costs at the school level also need to be analyzed, before it can be
applied on a wider scale. In the near future, the lessons from this experience will be used to
implement the best practices and principles of the "Jornada Completa" in the other secondary schools
of the PBA in the poorest districts. The implementation of the "Jornada Completa" in the selected
EGB3 schools will (i) increase equity, since the schools are selected with highest NBIs levels and
serving at-risk student populations; (ii) help to increase the motivation of school actors and facilitate
successful implementation of the EGB3 curriculum by providing additional educational resources;
and (iii) provide access to national and international school/learning experiences for school principals
and teachers.
b. An innovative School Fund to finance school environment improvements. The original idea of a
special fund for teacher training institutes was rejected because: (i) the current TTI structure is not
well-prepared for implementing this bottom-up approach; and (ii) TTIs' quality-of-output and
cost-efficiency need to be assessed, and they need to have clear guidelines and criteria for
accreditation in order to quality for public financing before targeted interventions in TTIs can be
adequately determined.  Instead, this project provides incentives for improved learning and
management at the school-level for a selected number of EGB3 schools in the poorest districts based
on agreed and transparent eligibility criteria This can provide valuable insight in the mechanics of the
necessary pedagogic change and the cost-impact of the "Jornada Completa". Selected TTIs will be
involved in assisting and guiding the 200 EGB3 school in planning and implementing the "Jomada
Completa" and the necessary staff and teacher training. This can have a two-way positive effect on
- 18 -



the quality of learning and teaching.
c. Institutional strengthening. It was decided not to include a specific component on institutional
strengthening, because extensive technical assistance for this purpose is already being provided under
the Prodymes I, II, and III. Instead, by targeting EGB3 school in the urban poorest districts with
transparent, management-related criteria and setting performance indicators for the main project
interventions, the effort will have an impact on the selected EGB3 schools and their communities.
Lessons from this will then be applied on a wider scale.
d. Funding TTIs to offer in-service training: The BASSEP will not directly fund TTIs and universities
to provide pre-packaged teacher in-service and upgrading training. Instead, the project will support
the preparation of comprehensive plans at the school level to contract training services from qualified
suppliers of teacher training such as universities and accredited TTIs, according to the management
and pedagogical needs of the schools. In addition, school teachers can apply for distance learning
programs.
- 19 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
_________________________ _  |__  (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Need to strengthen the institutional    Federal Secondary Education I  S         S
capacity of the provincial ministries of (P005992-Ln. 3794-AR)
education and to increase the coverage
and quality of secondary education.
Need to improve the quality of    Federal Secondary Education II   S             S
secondary education.              (P006057-Ln. 3971-AR)
Need to improve coverage, efficiency,  Buenos Aires Secondary      S             S
quality, relevance and equity    Education (P050714-Ln.
4313-AR)
Need to promote greater equity, quality El Salvador Education Reform  S
and efficiency in the provision of  Project (P050612-Ln 43200)
education services.
Need to improve the internal and  Chile Secondary Education        S             S
external efficiency, quality, and equity  Project (P06673 - Ln3883)
of all the municipal and
government-subsidized private
secondary schools (about 1,600), and to
strengthen sectoral managerial
capacity.
Other development agencies
Need to improve quality and coverage  PRISE - Programa de
of primary education in targeted areas. Reformas e Inversiones en
Educaci6n, IDB  (AR-0122)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Chile education reform lessons. The Chilean experience of education reform during the 1990
teaches several policy making and implementation lessons.  The proposed BASSEP is a small
poverty-focused secondary education investment project, executed by the PBA government in the context of
a larger national secondary education reform. Therefore the following lessons from the Chilean experience
- 20 -



are applicable. A comprehensive reform effort to transform and upgrade the education opportunities
offered by a national schooling system can be best undertaken when four conditions, existing in Chile in the
1990s, are present:
*      Social consensus about the need for changes
*     Political support at the highest level within the government
*     Sufficient financial resources to fund the changes in the system
*     A time horizon that is longer than the term of the government
Chile initiated the frill school-day concept (or "Jomada Completa" --JC) in 1996 in primary and
secondary education as a modality to be applied progressively system-wide. To date (October 2000) the JC
involves about 5,000 schools representing 50% of the total system and 22% of total enrollment in primary
and secondary education. Primary school teaching increased from 30 pedagogical hours (45 minutes) to 38
pedagogical hour weekly and secondary school teaching increased from 36 pedagogical hours to 42
pedagogical hours weekly. The reasons for establishing the Jornada Completa in Chile were: (i) the need
for more students' learning time devoted to basic skills (languages, information and communication
technologies (ICT), mathematics, sciences, and teamwork) in the framework of the new curriculum; (ii) to
allow teachers to spend more time in getting information for preparation of their classes as well as
participate actively in the development of pedagogical projects in line with the objectives of the Education
Reform; and (iii) to provide additional time especially "at-risk-students" attending schools located in poor
rural and urban areas to improve their learning achievements. The Jomada Completa was financed by
increasing about 30% the subsidy paid by the government to public (municipalities) and private providers.
An additional fund was created to finance the infrastructure (new schools and remodeling) and equipment
required for implementation of the Jomada Completa.
Since the inception of the Jornada Completa the Chile Ministry of Education (MINEDUC) carried out three
studies: two internal and one external developed by the Center of Research and Educational Development
(CIDE) dated April 2000. The main conclusions are as follows:
?   80 % of the teachers indicate that the Jomada Completa has allowed them to improve significantly
their pedagogical practices.
O   90 % of the teachers are convinced that their working relationship with students is much better now
as a result of more and regular interaction and problem solving discussions.
*   67 % of the teachers consider that the Jornada Completa is helping them to improve the quality of
education.
*   Over 55% of the students indicate a positive attitude toward the Jornada Completa as a good way
to improve their performance
*   78% of the parents say they are fully in favor of the Jomada Completa because their children are
learning more and different things, are more motivated and it is better to have them in the school
rather than in the street.
*   62% of the School Principals indicate that teachers have more time for class preparation and that
this is also expressed in less conflicts and a better school and classroom environment.
* the general perception of school Principals and teachers is that students under the Jomada Unica
are improving significantly their learning and that at the end of the school cycles they will have
better results (which is indicated in the 1998 and 1999 National Assessment Tests where schools
under the Jornada Completa shown a clear tendency of improvement in comparison with schools
that are still in the "Jornada Simple").
*   60%  of the teachers indicate that the Jornada Completa has positive effects on: (i) the
reorganization of the school management; (ii) the effectiveness of the team work approach among
teachers and pupils; and (iii) the commitment of the school to education reform.
- 21 -



Lessons learned from the Chile experience that were taken into consideration in the design of BASSEP are:
*   The Jornada Completa is a modality with an high social and equity content; therefore the
implementation should target with priority schools where a majority of the students population are
socially and economically vulnerable.
*   The Jornada Completa is most successful when it is linked to a School Improvement Project (PEI)
where the schools' main actors (directors, teachers, parents and students) have the opportunity to
rethink the school environment and design their own proposals for improvements within transparent
and flexible criteria.
*   The Jomada Completa will bring more benefits when it is related to pedagogic and administrative
decentralization processes, because these facilitate the decision making process at school level.
* The Jornada Completa must include special provisions and regulations concerning time limits spent
by teachers in class preparation and in extra-curricular activities.
*   An increase of the number of school hours is not a solution by itself to improve quality and equity
in education; to have a real impact the Jornada Completa concept should apply at the same time to
a new pedagogic and curricular model as well as to concurrent training for teachers and Principals
and to timely provision of education inputs (libraries, laboratories for sciences, languages, and
additional teaching and learning materials).
*   To avoid frustration, parents, students and communities must be informed timely about objectives,
expected outcomes, new procedures, and additional pedagogic modalities which are to be applied in
the schools and class rooms, especially concerning home work (amount, organization, support for
pupils), recreation possibilities within the school, and procedures for work shops and group work.
3   Given the intrinsic complexity of the application of Jornada Completa, close monitoring of the
implementation, monitoring of additional costs, periodic assessment of learning improvement,
evaluation of the schools' Development Plans (PEI), and the overall pedagogic concept of the
Jornada Completa must be carried out; therefore the project design and the impact indicators
reflect special provisions for: (i) student performance evaluation and motivation; (ii) the opinion of
the teachers, school director, parents and pupils regarding the improvement of the school
environment and implementation of the "Jornada Completa"; (iii) the use of time during the longer
school day; (iv) changes in pedagogical practices; and (iv) effectiveness of the school PEI in
managing the schools and making the school more autonomous.
The PBA has a large consensus in the education community regarding the need for change. It has
also demonstrated strong ownership for its secondary education reform process and corresponding projects
co-financed by international agencies. The political will to support and move forward is strong and extends
to the highest levels. The financial resources to fund the change are made available, but this happens in a
time of considerable budget constraints. This hampers the reform process to a certain extent. So far, the
support and a scaled-down budget continue to support the transformation process, but additional resources
at the school level remain scarce. The time horizon of this reform is longer (a decade) than the term of
government, and this PBA government, which took over in December 1999, has endorsed the reform
agenda completely.
Simple project design. Simplicity in the design of a project helps assure successful implementation. This
lesson stems from the difficulties faced during the first stages of the implementation of Secondary
Education I due to its complexity. Simple projects are less vulnerable to changes stemming from budgetary
constrains because they are flexible enough to adjust their implementation. The proposed project has few
components and simple implementation mechanisms.
Synchronization with government policies. Experience in Argentina Secondary Education Projects I, II
- 22 -



and III shows that synchronizing the implementation of the project with government policy andlor different
stages of the reform is crucial to avoid administrative and implementation delays or obstacles. Projects
linked to long-term reform policies maintain their viability despite political and management changes. The
implementation activities of this project are designed to coincide with the timetable of the implementation of
the Polimodal transformation in the PBA.
Articulation with ongoing secondary education projects. Bank operational experience indicates that,
especially in countries as large as Argentina, not one single project can work on all sector issues (e.g.,
sector management, education quality) at all levels (e.g., federal, provincial, school levels). In some cases,
the most effective alternative is to articulate the components of several projects working at different levels.
This is the approach that we have adopted for the Secondary Education I, II and III. The proposed
BASSEP is a small project, but it will deliver important data and lessons on: (i) pedagogic improvements
and bottlenecks for reform at school level; (ii) the costs of the introduction of the Jomada Completa; and
the changes that need to be made in the schools and classrooms to get a better link with the local
communities. These results and information are complementary to the ongoing projects, and together they
will support the comprehensive and complex secondary education reformn in the Province of Buenos Aires.
School community participation. Experience in other Latin American countries such as Brazil, Chile and
El Salvador, demonstrates that strong school community participation in the education process has
advantages such as increased accountability, greater communication, and improved school management. In
the proposed BASSEP the Jomada Completa concept encourages and promotes more participation by and
better information to parents and local communities. These elements are also expressed in the project
impact indicators.
Institutional strengthening. Experience shows that an adequate institutional capacity at the central level is
crucial to the success of the project. Projects that support reform do not produce immediate outputs;
therefore, they require participation at several levels, an implementation strategy, well-defined goals, and
clear procedures and responsibilities. Since the project is linked to the Secondary Education I project,
which focuses on administrative reform, the proposed project does not necessary to include an ample
institutional strengthening component at the provincial level.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The legal framework and provincial commitment are conducive to the implementation of the reform. The
PBA passed the Provincial Education Law in 1995, which endorsed the transformation launched by the
Decentralization Law (1992) and Federal Education law (1993). Additionally, the PBA and the Federal
Government signed the Federal Education Pact in which, among other things, the Province agrees on the
phasing of the reform between 1994 and 1999. Currently, a provincial draft law to extend mandatory
education to the Polimodal has been submitted to the provincial legislation. In addition, the PBA is more
advanced, in comparison to most other provinces, in the implementation of the reform. It has shown
commitment to the reform by completing the EGB transformation one year in advance (1997), and by
continuing to provide substantial support and resources to the ongoing Polimodal transformation. The
proposed BASSEP will be financed for over 67% by the DGCyE, and preparatory actions have already
begun.
Some important actions that demonstrate provincial commitment are:
a. Secondary education reform. The DGCyE's Administration Secretariat and Basic Education
- 23 -



Secretariat have taken the lead in the Polimodal transformnation by preparing extensive
quantitative and qualitative diagnostic studies of the secondary education transformation. Based
on the findings of these studies, the DGCyE will implement the proposed project.
b. Decentralization. The DGCyE team, in charge of the Administrative Reform in the education
sector, has confirmed the current and near-future implementation of five institutional reforms
necessary for the feasibility and sustainability of the quality improvements financed under the
proposed project. These reforms are: (i) decentralized school budgets for learning materials and
small maintenance, particularly in technical schools; (ii) incentives for concentration of teaching
hours in the same school (keeping teachers together as much as possible in one school; currently
most teachers in urban areas have a timetable in 3-5 different schools: "taxi-profesores") ; (iii)
incentives for teachers tied to training and career development; (iv) availability of paid staff hours
and school facilities for the development of extracurricular activities; and (v) decentralized
decision-making to the districts and an effective MIS. In addition, the PBA is implementing an
effective staff- and teacher MIS (legajo unico informatizado) which will deliver significant
savings in the medium term.
c. Quality. The PBA is implementing a structure to measure quality in education while supporting
annual assessments carried out nationally by the Federal Ministry of Education.
d Teacher training. The PBA is carrying out: (i) a reorganization of the supply of teacher training
careers according to curricular reform requirements; (ii) an assessment of teacher training in the
public and private sectors in the framework of PRISE; and (iii) in-service training for school
directors (principals) and inspectors.
e. Private Sector. The PBA has institutionalized policies geared to: (i) strengthen the private
institutions' supervision and (reconocirniento) tools and mechanisms; (ii) improving targeting
criteria to define and quantify subsidies to the private schools and institutions; and (iii) defining
internal efficiency variables in subsidized private schools, non-subsidized private schools and
public schools.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's financial and technical assistance will provide valuable contribution to the project's design and
implementation, particularly because the Bank has substantial experience with Argentina's education
system. In the ongoing Federal Secondary Education I project, the Bank is working with seven provinces,
the Federal Secondary Education II project is financing secondary schools in all provinces and the PBA
Secondary Education (III) project is finalizing the expansion and rehabilitation of EGB3 and Polimodal
schools and supporting the transition from the traditional secoindary structure to Polimodal. Furthermore,
Provincial Reform Loans (PRLs) are also working directly or in preparation with other provincial
governments (Catamarca, Tucuman, Cordoba, Salta, Santa Fe). In addition, the Bank provides a balanced
expert opinion in project design and implementation. Particular to this project, the Bank's team offers
expertise and familiarity with the latest international developments on secondary education   and
implementation of the Jornada Completa and pedagogical decentralization programs (school-based
programs for youth) particularly in Chile and El Salvador.
- 24 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$195 million; ERR = N/A % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
1. Economic Analysis (see Annex -4): Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$195 million
The Economic Analysis indicates that the project is justifiable on economic grounds. The analysis
considers both the direct project costs as well as the future recurrent costs. It also takes into account the
combined effect of the reduction of repetition and drop-out rates on enrollment and incremental costs. The
main benefit of the project derives from the increase in students' expected income due to an increase in the
EGB3 completion rate (grade 9 completion) that can be expected from the reduction in drop-out rates
produced by the implementation of the "Jomada Completa" in the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools.
Various simulations were done to assess the sensitivity of the calculations to different assumptions
concerning the impact of the project on drop-out and repetition rates (50%, 33%, or 25% decrease in both
rates). The NPV reaches a maximum of US$195 million under the most favorable assumption and a
minimum of US$23.6 million under the least favorable one.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
2. Financial Analysis (see Annex 4):
The Financial Analysis indicates that the project has a slightly positive NPV which derives, basically, from
two counteracting effects on personnel costs: an increase produced by the implementation of the "Jomada
Completa" and a decrease associated with a reduction in pupil repetition rates, an improvement in the
efficiency of teacher deployment and a reduction in the number of substitute teachers.
Fiscal Impact:
Additionally, a financial analysis was performed to evaluate the recent fiscal performance of the Province
of Buenos Aires and the fiscal impact of the proposed BASSEP. The project would have a relatively minor
fiscal impact, with a total cost of US$173 million over four years. It would represent only approximately
0.5 percent of projected provincial revenues over that period. However, it should be pointed out that the
Province of Buenos Aires faces a serious fiscal imbalance (representing around 20 percent of its current
revenues) and an increasing debt to revenue ratio (projected to reach 65-70 percent at the end of this fiscal
year). This will require a future fiscal adjustment which might make it difficult for the Province to expand,
or continue the implementation of the "Jomada Completa" on a larger scale.
3. Technical:
The project is technically justified on the basis of the public nature of the education problem it addresses:
improving quality and equity of education service delivery and learning for socially and economically
disadvantaged students from the poorest urban areas in selected (about 200) EGB3 schools, which are part
of the PBA effort to transfonn its secondary education sector. The BASSEP will respond to this problem
- 25 -



in a cost effective and appropriate manner by:
a. Supporting the reform process in the PBA education for the mandatory Basic Education cycle
(EGB3); the PBA has taken the lead in implementing the national education reform; the PBA
serves almost half of all pupils in basic education in Argentina;
b. Addressing the problems related to the lack of motivation for schooling among youth by
providing more attractive educational services, involving students in extracurricular activities
and raising chances of successful graduation.
c. Introducing the Full Day Schedule and innovative pedagogic programs for EGB3 schools in the
poorer districts.
d. Promoting a better exchange of education performance and experiences between PBA schools
and districts.
e. promoting more decentralized education management in Districts and EGB3 schools, with
increased school autonomy in using financial resources.
f. Improving the efficiency of learning and the management within the EGB3 schools.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies. The Provincial government is committed and institutionally ready to implement the
project. The PBA's Directorate General of Culture and Education (DGCyE) will be the responsible party
and the main executing agency of the project. The project will be implemented by the Administration and
Basic Education Secretariats, several executing agencies and main stakeholders (Cooperadoras and school
communities). There will be an active involvement of school communities, composed of teachers, students,
parents and school administrators, who will all be beneficiaries of the project implementation. They will:
(i) supervise and administrate public works in their school; (ii) be provided with technical assistance and
training for the implementation of the "Jomada Completa; and (iii) run the extracurricular programs for
students (innovative school projects, and Youth programs -- AIJE) at the school level.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Provincial government is committed and institutionally ready to implement the project (see Indications of
Client commitment and ownership, above). The PBA's Directorate General of Culture and Education (DGCyE)
will be the responsible party and the main executing agency of the project. Within the DGCyE: the Subsecretariat
for Education, the Subsecretariat for Administration, and the Project Implementation Unit (Unidad Ejecutora de
Proyecto -- UEP) will be the main implementing and managing units.  Education Stakeholders (school
administrations, teachers, and local school communities) will be also be involved in planning and implementation
at the local level.
4.2 Project management:
For the technical pedagogic aspects of the "Jornada Completa", their related teacher and school director
training and consultant services, and the innovative school and youth projects  the project will be
supervised by a "Project Supervisory Council", which will be appointed by the Director General of the
DGCyE. The "Project Supervisory Council" means the council referred to in Section 3.06 (e) of the Loan
Agreement, composed by: (i) the administrative sub-secretary; (ii) the sub-secretary of education, assisted
by: (A) the provincial director for planning; (B) the provincial director of higher education and teacher
training; and (C) pedagogic specialists; and (iii) the Project Coordinator of the UEP.   The "Project
Supervisory Council" will meet at least twice per year, and will be responsible for: (i) monitoring and
evaluation of the implementation of the "Jomada Completa"; (ii) designing and monitoring the required
specific studies and surveys related to the project impact and project implementation indicators; (iii)
-26 -



delivery of the bi-annual project progress reports to the World Bank in accordance with a pre-agreed
format.
The UEP is satisfactorily coordinating three Bank education projects and one IDB project at the provincial
level. In order to manage the BASSEP as well, the UEP was appropriately reorganized and provided with
additional staff. The UEP's dynamic working relations and open communication with the EGB3 schools
and other primary executing agencies established during project preparation will facilitate project
management. The UEP will be responsible for: (i) daily project management; (ii) all administrative project
requirements under supervision of the "Project Supervisory Council"; (iii) preparation and production of
the bi-annual project progress reports in close coordination with the relevant pedagogic departments in the
DGCyE; and (iv) implementing and monitoring all civil works and procurement of goods and services.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the agency in charge of implementing procurement actions for the project has been
carried out identifying the organizational structure of the proposed PCU, the capacity and experience to
implement procurement and interaction between the project's unit and the Ministry of Education and other
provincial authorities (Tribunal de Cuentas de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, Auditoria Interna de la
Direcci6n General de Cultura y Educaci6n -DGCyE-, etc.). The Bank's task team and the Borrower's
representatives agreed on a specific action plan to address the weaknesses and potential risks identified in
the Agency Capacity Assessment, defining a time table for implementing the corresponding activities. A
satisfactory action plan and the implementation of the early activities is a condition of loan effectiveness.
The project's risk factor has been determined as "AVERAGE".
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project satisfies the Bank's minimnum financial management requirements. However, the project does
not yet have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR) as required by the Bank/IDA
for PMR-Based Disbursements. It has been established that the PCU/UEP maintains: (i) adequately
trained and qualified staff; and (ii) separation of functions and responsibilities, which ensure adequate
intemal management control and which prevents conflicts of interest. It was agreed that there will be
SOE-based disbursement for transition period of six-month (6) from the effectiveness. An action plan by
the borrower to remedy the situation has been agreed (see Annex 6).
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed project has been rated category "C" based on information provided at the appraisal stage.
Currently the Bank has three secondary education projects and one higher education project under
supervision with similar construction and rehabilitation components. The Bank has ample experience in
supervising these projects, and all have followed the normal provincial and federal practices for school
construction and rehabilitation, which require: (i) adequate student and staff sanitation facilities; (ii) use of
approved building materials for school environments; and (iii) adequate facilities for waste disposal from
science laboratories. School sites for new construction are located in areas where there is no risk of
flooding, or archeological and cultural importance. All these ongoing projects were categorized as
environmental category "C". All Bank supervision reports have rated project performance as satisfactory
or above. All new school buildings have been approved by the local authorities and are currently in use
without any complaints or defects.
-27 -



In the past 3-4 years of education project supervision the Bank and the project authorities have not received
any complaints from the local population (parents, students, communities), nor from other representatives
(local, provincial or federal authorities) about any environmental aspects of the education projects.  This
is a small scale project, with the major objective being a new pedagogic model in 200 secondary schools.
There are no indigenous people involved, nor will any population or group be displaced. The Bank's
supervision task teams ensure careful selection of new school sites in order to avoid issues related to
resettlement and to negative impacts on natural habitats and on cultural property.
a. Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment
emerging from this analysis: N/A
b. What are the main features of the EMIP and are they adequate? N/A
c. For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA and date of receipt of final
draft: N/A
How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environmental management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used, and which groups were
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Background
To date, considerable information about the social sectors in Argentina has been gathered: (i) in 1998 and
1999 the Bank carried out a poverty study in Argentina that focused on poverty data by province and the
link between this variable and the educational level achievement and labor market participation in the
provinces; (ii) in 1999 the Bank carried out a study on the management of social risk that focuses on social
risks by age group and the type of coverage available through social programs, including educational
services; and (iii) a study on institutions which provide services to the socially-excluded, focusing on the
city of Buenos Aires. As part of the preparation of BASAL project ( Buenos Aires Social Adjustment
Loan) the PBA, with the support of the Bank, carried out a survey on the social sectors. A Social
Assessment (SA) was carried out to determine the impact of education reform in areas of high incidence of
- 28 -



poverty and to identify obstacles to be considered in its implementation. The SA has two phases; Phase I
was completed during project preparation, and Phase II will be completed during the first year of project
implementation.
Methodology
Phase I Focus groups of parents, youth from the community (including those who attend and those who
do not attend school), teachers, and school administrators in the five pre-selected priority schools in
socio-economic disadvantaged communities were organized to act as control group to the schools selected
for the implementation of Jomada Completa. The focus groups were interviewed on a range of issues
pertaining to (i) the concept of Jomada Completa and its usefulness; (ii) perception of the quality of
education provided in public schools; (iii) perception of the relationship between secondary education and
access to the labor market; (iv) factors that will improve the quality of education; (v) perception of the
scholarship program and its relation to Jomada Completa; and (vi) opinion on the implementation of
education reform in the PBA.
Phase II. A review of the interviews carried out for the AIJE study and the selection of beneficiary groups
under first BA Secondary Education Project (Prodymes III) will be used to determine the impact of the
proposed project. Other outputs include (i) a summary report on the poverty situation in the PBA; (ii) the
impact of the scholarship program among the poorest and in academic performnance; and (iii) control
groups in schools for future comparison.
Conclusions. The assessment concluded that the proposed project will adequately respond to the social
issues raised by the stakeholders by including the following:
*   Increased psychological and pedagogic assistance to youth in schools at risk
*   Determine the impact of the scholarship program on youth attending Jomada Completa schools
*   Increased communication campaign to encourage parents to send their children to school
*   Determine if consensus (through school development programs, PEIs) to transform education in
Jomada Completa schools is the most efficient/effective agent of school reform
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The focus groups included teachers, supervisors, students, parents , and community based organizations
(basically Cooperatives or "Cooperadoras") .
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project design received inputs of "Conciencia" one of the biggest NGO's in the education area and,
especially the consultations with "Cooperadoras Escolares" (parents organization at each school) and
students centers in the Social Assessment. OIM (International Migration Organization) carried out the
Social Assessment. CEB (Centro de Estudios Bonaerenses) carried out the BASAL Survey.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The eligibility criteria of the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools, are based on social assessment
conclusions and will be monitored before and during project implementation. During supervision the World
Bank will supervise the following agreements to respond to the social issues raised by the stakeholders:
- 29 -



*   Increased and improved psychological and pedagogic assistance to Youth in schools at risk (Youth
Programs in schools or AIJE)
*   Determine the impact of the scholarship program on Youth attending "Jomada Completa" selected
EGB3 schools (also using a control group)
*   Increased communication campaign to encourage parents to sent their children to school
*   Specially designed training program for teachers in the selected "Jomada Completa" schools,
including training in dealing with social problems such as teenage pregnancy, adolescent sexuality;
and problems related to how to deal with Youth from socio-economically disadvantaged
backgrounds, their legal guardians and their parents.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
At least 200 EGB3 schools selected on the same eligibility criteria (in the poorer urban areas and with a
majority of pupils enrollment categorized as "matricula en dificultad") will act as control group to check if
the "Jomada Completa" will accomplish its objectives of improving quality and attendance among the
poorer Youth.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do anv of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Given its size, the project would have relatively minor fiscal impact, and will be sustainable because the
additional cost of: (i) extending the school day in the 200 schools targeted by the project; and (ii)
maintaining the pedagogical equipment and the pedagogical services will be offset by a reduction of
current expenditures in the following two main areas: (1) raising of the pupil teacher ratio together with a
reduction in the repetition rate; and (2) cutting the number of substitute teachers (see financial summary in
annex 5).
The project will carefully monitor during its implementation the cost effectiveness of the "Jornada
- 30 -



Completa"in the 200 targeted schools before applying it on the wider scale in the PBA Education System.
Because of the difficult fiscal situation of the province, a decision will have to be made whether or not this
extension would be financially sustainable. Part of the answer lies in the capacity of the provincial
governnent to carry out the envisioned improvement of the management of teaching staff, as well as its
effective redeployment among the school system.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continuity of the Federal policy for       N         The project is part of an overall reform, which is
education; and Stability in the Provincial           almost completed (EGB and Polimodal). This
Administration and in higher level staff in          project will support 200 selected EGB3 schools
charge of the education policy.                      during a three year implementation period and
includes a participatory approach to involve all
key stakeholders. The new PBA government
has declared that ongoing education reform is
one of its main priorities.
Weak commitment by the PBA to take        M         The Province of Buenos Aires is installing the
actions regarding teacher and staff                  "legajo unico" staff monitoring system in all
absentisms, staff reductions resulting               schools, and it will be operative before the new
from the application of the "legajo unico"           2001 school- year starts. It will be applied with
and implement the Administrative Reform              priority for the selected (about 200) EGB3
agenda agreed with the Federal                       schools.
Government.
Cooperation from teachers and school       M         The training and consultant services, combined
directors to implement the "Jomada                   with close cooperation with the parents, and
Completa" is important for success. This             with annual surveys of these groups in the
will involve changing the working                    selected (about 200) EGB3 schools and in an
conditions of school teachers and staff.             equivalent "control group of schools, will ensure
that the Jomada Completa will be implemented
and at the same time remain flexible enough to
address upcoming problems and issues
Fiscal constraints in the PBA public       H         The overall estimated additional costs for the
budget may limit the available resources             "Jomada Completa" in the selected (about 200)
for education                                        EGB3 schools represent less than I percent of
the DGCyE's annual budget. In addition, the
PBA has reached a formal agreement with the
Federal Government to eliminate the provincial
budget shortfalls by the year 2003
From Components to Outputs
- 31 -



Resistance from private secondary            M         The selected (about 200) EGB3 schools will be
schools to participate and apply the                   selected according to agreed criteria related to
lessons and standardized norms for                     poverty, school director and teachers' interest in
performance in their schools                           participation, and interest from the community,
students and parents
Reluctance from the staff and teachers in    S         The selected (about 200) EGB3 schools have
the schools and at district level to                   been selected in a process of full participation
participate and apply the new pedagogical              from the schools, and teachers and staff in the
model.                                                 selected schools will need to express their
interest. Training programs have also been set
up to explain the benefits and motivate the
teachers and school directors.
Inefficient administration, monitoring and   M         Progress in implementing the ongoing Buenos
performance evaluation could affect the                Aires Secondary Education project (Prodymes
timely and synchronized school level                   III) has laid the foundations for sound
implementation of the various educational              administration and effective monitoring and
inputs necessary to improve quality and                performance evaluation. In addition, the
equity.                                                DGCyE cabinet is involved in bi-annual project
evaluation meetings, which will allow timely
corrective action.
In most of the selected EGB3 schools         H         Two components will make the school more
considered for participation in the project,           attractive to teenagers: (i) participatory
the teenagers feel alienated from their                extra-curricular activities; (ii) laboratories, ICT
school and have dropped out. The student               equipment and the multi-media libraries,
motivation for the new "Jomada                         financed under the project. In addition, the
Completa" may not be sufficient to get                 student programs, focused on extra student-led
them back in school and get successful                 activities, have been successful in the Polimodal
graduation                                             and EGB3 schools financed under the ongoing
Prodymes III project.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The selection of the limited number of EGB3 schools (about 200) in the poorest urban districts may lead to
problems in the relationship of DGCyE with other schools in the same districts, which will also want to
benefit from the project. However, the DGCyE has started an intensive campaign of public awareness and
has developed criteria to allow more EGB3 and Polimodal schools to apply the "Jomada Completa" in the
coming years.
- 32 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Project Operational Manual (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement). A project operational manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be submitted before the Loan effectiveness, including, inter alia:
(a) scheduled local workshops and training sessions at Selected EGB3 Schools;
(b) the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for PCU staff;
(c) the administrative rules and procedures for planning, preparing, proposing, financing, supervising, and
carrying out the Innovative School Subprojects;
(d) the standard outline terns of reference for consultants' services to be procured under the Project;
(e) the criteria and procedures for the review and approval of loan withdrawal applications to the Bank, in
conformity with the instructions that the Bank may give to the Borrower in this respect;
(f) the environmental criteria for selection of the sites for construction of new schools, as well as
mandatory safeguards for any action which could possibly have a negative impact on natural habitats
and cultural property; and
(g) the schedule for construction, rehabilitation and equipment of the Selected EGB3 Schools, including the
external evaluation report for equipment bid specifications through (an) independent consultant(s)
satisfactory to the Bank.
Financial Procedures Manual. Within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions the
following was agreed as a condition of Loan effectiveness: the Financial Procedures Manual has been
adopted by the PCU.
The School and Parents Project Information Guide (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement) will be
submitted to the Bank before Loan effectiveness. The Borrower, through DGCyE, shall prepare a
pedagogical and technical information guide on the Full Day Schedule (the School and Parents Guide) for
the selected EGB3 Schools, satisfactory to the Bank, said guide to include, inter alia: (a) objectives of the
Full Day Schedule; (b) action plans for the implementation of the Full Day Schedule; (c) methodology of
teachers and school directors' training and evaluation of the results of such schedule in teaching and
management; (d) guidelines for curricular changes; (e) school level monitoring indicators; and (f) available
resources and schedule of approximate delivery to Selected EGB3 Schools.
Student and School Performance database (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement). The Borrower,
through DGCyE, shall prepare and submit to the Bank before Loan effectiveness, within SIS, the baseline
data for school and student performance. The baseline data, satisfactory to the Bank, shall include
evaluative comparisons of student and school performance for (i) the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools;
and (ii) a "control" group of at least 200 EGB3 schools (with a socially comparable student population)
which do NOT apply the "Jomada Completa".    The "SIS" means Sistema de Informaci6n
Socio-Educativa, the Borrower's social and educative information database, created pursuant Provincial
Resolution No. 13252, dated December 7, 1999.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Project Management and Project Supervisory Council. Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement: The
Borrower, through DGCyE shall:
(a) maintain within the DGCyE, during the execution of the Project, a unit (the PCU) for the overall
management, coordination and monitoring and evaluation of the Project with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank;
- 33 -



(b) ensure that the PCU is headed, at all times during the execution of the Project, by a project coordinator
(the Project Coordinator) with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank;
(c) cause the PCU to have key staff with functions, experience, responsibilities, and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, in adequate numbers;
(d) ensure that the PCU prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, adopt, and update on a
regular basis a manual for the implementation of financial procedures; and
(e) appoint and maintain during the execution of the Project a "Project Supervisory Council", with
membership satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for: (i) the monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of the Full Day Schedule; and (ii) the delivery of the semi-annual progress reports
referred to in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement. The "Project Supervisory Council" means the
Council referred to in Section 3.06 (e) of the Loan Agreement, composed by: (i) the Administrative
Sub-secretary; (ii) the Sub-secretary of Education, assisted by: (A) the Provincial Director for
Planning; (B) the Provincial Director of Higher Education and Teacher Training; and (C) pedagogic
specialists; and (iii) the Project Coordinator of the UEP.
Performance Monitoring Indicators and Midterm Review. Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement: The
Borrower shall:
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, and shall by February 28 and August 31 of each year of Project execution,
provide the Bank with semi-annual progress reports on the execution of the Project, in a format
acceptable to the Bank, and including the Monitoring Indicators referred to above; and
(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank by not later than
February 28, 2003, a mid-term implementation review report, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project, during the period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date.
Project Closure Report. Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement. The Borrower shall
(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's
objectives; and
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
Project Completion and Closure dates. The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2004, and
the closure date is established as January 31, 2005.
The following items will be agreed in a Supplementary Letter to the Loan Agreement:
Student and School Performance database. Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement: The Borrower,
through DGCyE, shall prepare and maintain, within SIS, a database, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to
provide statistical, management and pedagogic information on improvement of school performance of
Selected EGB3 Schools located in poor areas of the Borrower's territory. The "SIS" means Sistema de
Informaci6n Socio-Educativa, the Borrower's social and educative information database, created
pursuant Provincial Resolution No. 13252, dated December 7, 1999. The data submitted to the World
Bank will be:
*   analyzed regarding comparable student and school performance;
- 34 -



*   effectiveness of "Jomada Completa" program in the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools,
*   analytically compared with a "control" group of at least 200 EGB3 schools which do NOT
apply the "Jornada Completa" but also have a majority of their student population coming from
poorer households.
The analytical reports will be submitted once per year as part of the semi-annual progress report before
February 28.
Learning Achievement Assessment. DGCyE will design and implement annual learning achievement
tests for the last two years of the EGB3 cycle (grades 8 and 9) in at least three academic subjects which are
covered by the "Jomada Completa" curricula for (i) the total pupil enrollment of grades 8 and 9 in the
selected (about 200) EGB3 schools; (ii) total pupil enrollment of grades 8 and 9 in a "control group" of at
least 200 EGB3 schools with comparable student enrollment from poorer households; and (iii) a
representative sample of grades 8 and 9 pupils in EGB3 in the Province of Buenos Aires. The leaming
achievement test results will be analyzed (a) per district, per school, per subject and per gender; and (b)
compared with the leaming results for the Province of Buenos Aires from the annual national achievement
tests ("Operativo Nacional") for the two most recent years for which these results are available. The first
achievement tests will be executed at the end of the school-year 2001 and each year thereafter.
Staff and Teacher Monitoring System ("Legajo Unico Electronico"). The staff and teacher monitoring
system ("Legajo Unico Electronico") will be fully operational in the 200 selected EGB3 schools before the
end of school-year 2001. The DGCyE will submit a comprehensive monitoring report to the Bank before
February 28, 2002, based on the "Legajo Unico" monitoring results and include strategic staff and teacher
deployment recommendations.
Project Social Assessment. The second part of the project "social assessment", according to the agreed
termns of reference, will be executed in a timely manner in the first year of project implementation by an
organization independent from the DGCyE, under a contract issued by the project implementation unit
(UEP).
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
C 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Financial Procedures Manual (within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions)
needs to be adopted by the PCU.
The Project Operational Manual (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement)
Student and School Performance database (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).
The School and Parents Project Information Guide (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement)
Baseline data for project performance impact indicators (see Annex 1) will be established during the first
school year of project implementation.
- 35 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
N
(y  Jacob H-I. B    an            Jamil Sakmi                        Myrna L. Alexander
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                     Country Manager
- 36 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Key Performance
Hierachy of Oblecives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaiuation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve the quality and equity elncrease in Province of  *Project Monitoring Reports  *Continuity of the Federal
of secondary education     Buenos Aires test scores of  *Household and poverty   education policy
the "Operativo Nacional' (the  surveys              *Argentina's and the PBA's
national assessment tests) for *Specific surveys and sample  economies improve
grade 9 (EGB3 level)      testing                   *The PBA recovers from its
*Increase in Transition and   *DGCyE's Social and     budget deficit
Retention rates at EGB and   Educative Information  *Stable Provincial
Polimodal levels          System ("Sistema de        government relations with
*Increase in access to     Informacion Socio-Educativa  education stakeholders
schooling for students from    -- SIS")              (teachers and Unions)
socio-economically
disadvantaged households
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Increase access to quality *EGB3 level student    *Project bi-annual        *Education stakeholders
education and improve      completion rates (grade 9) in  Implementation Monitoring   participate and support the
equity by supporting the   the selected EGB3 schools   Reports (PIMR)            EGB3 schools and the
implementation of a Full   are equal or exceed the   *Midterm Project Review     "Jornada Completa" program
Day Schedule (known as the  provincial average EGB3   (MPR)                     *Budget allocation for the
"Jornada Completa") in     completion rate specified    *Specific consultancy reports  implementation of "Jornada
selected EGB3 schools      separately for girls and boys. *Individual School statistics   Completa" is provided
serving students from the                             and monitoring reports    * EGB3 schools' have the
poorest households        *Student transition rate from  *DGCyE's Social and     capacity to manage and
EGB3 to the first year of  Educative Information     monitor the schools'
Polimodal level in the    System ("Sistema de        pedagogic improvement
selected EGB3 schools will  Informacion Socio-Educativa  programs (PEIs)
be equal or exceed the    -- SIS") and other DGCyE   eContinued demand for EGB3
provincial average for EGB3  reports and statistics  and Polimodal education
transfer to "Polimodal" level *Operativo Nacional de
(grade 10) as specified per    Educaci6n results
gender)                  *Household and poverty
*Decrease in repetition rate    surveys
for the EGB3 level in the
selected EGB3 schools to at
least equal or better than
the average repetition rate at
provincial EGB 3 level
(average provincial
repetition rate for EGB3 in
_1999 was 15% per grade)   I
- 37 -



*Pupil learning performance                            *Accurate targeting of EGB3
results in the selected EGB3                           schools' beneficiaries based
schools are equal to or                                on verifiable and realistic
exceed the learning                                    social assessment criteria
performance of provincial
averages in the same subjects
as in the t national
achievements test
("Operativo Nacional").
Pupil learning performance
will be tested by specially
designed sample-based pupil
tests in each grade of the
EGB 3 level for the selected
schools and an equal
representative sample of
EGB3 pupils in schools
without the "Jornada
Completa" model. The
assessment test will be
designed and applied with
technical assistance from
international consultants
(PISA and TIMSS)
Improve school             *EGB3 level student         *PIMR                       * schools' capacity is
management as a              completion rates (grade 9)                             adequate to manage the
necessary complement to   in the selected EGB3         *MPR                         increased administrative and
the introduction of a "Full  schools are equal or                                   financial resources
Day Schedule" in the         exceed the provincial     eSpecific school performance
DaylSctedule in schools      exceraged the prom tio    reports (PEI and AIJE)      *School Directors, teachers
selected EGB3 schools        average EGB3 completion   results                      and community leaders
rate specified separately                              accept and support the
for girls and boys.       *School and community        "jomada completa" model
*Student transition rate    surveys and interviews with
from EGB3 to the first     parents, students and
year of Polimodal level in   community leaders
the selected EGB3 schools
will be equal or exceed    *Ministry of Economics
the provincial average for   financial reports and DGCyE
EG133 transfer to          annual statistics and the
EPoimoal trnsere to ad     "Legajo Unico" system
"Polirnodal" level (grade   *DGCyE's Social and
10) as specified per       Educative Information
gender)                    System ("Sistema de
Informacion Socio-Educativa
-- SIS")
- 38 -



*Decrease in repetition rate
for the EGB3 level in the
selected EGB3 schools to
at least equal or better
than the average repetition
rate at provincial EGB 3
level (average provincial
repetition rate for EGB3 in
1999 was 15% per grade)
*Pupil learning performance
results in the selected
EGB3 schools are equal
to or exceed the learning
performance of provincial
averages in the same
subjects as in the the
national achievements test
("Operativo Nacional").
Pupil learning performance
will be tested by specially
designed sample-based
pupil tests in each grade of
the EGB 3 level for the
selected schools and an
equal representative
sample of EGB3 pupils in
schools without the
"Jomada Completa"
model. The assessment
test will be designed and
applied with technical
assistance from
international consultants
(PISA and TIMSS)
*All school directors in the
selected EGB3 schools
have been trained and the
majority is satisfied with
the quality, relevance and
effectiveness of the
training (based on annual
random sample surveys
and personal interviews)
- 39 -



*AII school directors in the
selected EGB3 schools
have been trained and the
majority is satisfied with
the quality, relevance and
effectiveness of the
training (based on annual
random sample surveys
and personal interviews)
*Student, parents and
community attitude
toward secondary
schooling in districts of
targeted selected EGB3
schools has improved
(based on representative
annual surveys and a
number of follow up
interviews with parents,
students and community
leaders)
eSecondary school and
classroom management
criteria and best practices
have been evaluated and
the results have been
produced in a coherent
booklet and disseminated
to all EGB schools in the
PBA, based on the best
practices learned from this
project and from similar
international best practices
(notably with examples
from Chile)             _
-40 -



*All EGB3 school have
improved management
autonomy regarding
financial, administrative
and pedagogic matters
(schools have a budget for
leaming materials and
small maintenance,
maintain an adequate
administration, and can
define and implement
innovative school
projects); this will be
measured by representative
sample-based surveys and
audits of schools, and
personal interviews with
school directors, teachers
and parents from the
selected EGB3 schools
and from an equal sample
of EGB schools not
included in the project.
- 41 -



Key Perforance
Hiearchy of Obives    :          lnkators            Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. ACCESS AND EQUITY  *60,000 youth enrolled in    PIMR                          *Accurate targeting of
200+ EGB3 schools of     DGCyE annual reports and     schools' beneficiaries based
EGB3 youth from the most    Jomada Completa          statistics; and DGCyE's Social  on poverty and social
socio-economically                                    and Educative Information   assessment
disadvantaged households in  *200+ EGB3 schools with    System ("Sistema de      *PBA is able to construct,
the urban areas enrolled in  adequate spaces (classrooms, Inforrnacion Socio-Educativa   expand and rehabilitate
Jomada Completa schools     dining rooms, labs and    -- SIS')                    infrastructure as scheduled
library) for the
implementation of Jomada
Completa
*Construction of 30+ EGB3
schools, 400 classrooms and
20 dining rooms
2. QUALITY, RELEVANCE *All teachers and school        PIMR                       *Efficient administration for
AND SCHOOL                  administrators in the     Specific consultant reports    timely school level
MANAGEMENT                  schools are adequately    Specific surveys and        implementation of various
trained, provided with   interviews with parents,     educational inputs to
All School Development Plans  guidance, and adequately   teachers, community leaders   improve education
(Programa Educativo         supervised on their outputs  and students; and DGCyE's
Institucional) in the schools   linked to the Schools' PEIs  Social and Educative  *The PBA economy grows
contain clear school        during the development and  Information System ("Sistema  sufficiently to allow an
objectives, have formulated a   implementation of the PEI   de Informacion        adequate budget allocation to
strategy how to achieve them, *Teaching loads (cargos) of  Socio-Educativa -- SIS")  the education sector
and have been provided with   all teachers in the selected
the adequate resources.     EGB3 schools are                                     *Availability of resources to
concentrated in one or two                            allocate to schools and
Innovative and relevant     schools to optimize the                               districts and the political
curricula taught at Jomada  school community culture                              approval to decentralize
Completa schools           *Schools have established                              fund management
institutional links with local
All teachers in Jornada     enterprise networks and are                          *Adequate management
Completa schools are qualified  informed about local labor                        capacity and financial
and teach only at a single  market demands                                        controls will be established
school                     *AIl teachers and school                               and approved to allow more
administrators in the selected                        school autonomy
School decentralization     EGB3 schools adequately                              *Teachers, Parents and
(autonomy)                 trained in school                                      Community leaders will
management and                                        cooperate with and support
administration, pedagogical                          the proposed reform
supervision and performance                           measures in the selected
monitoring linked to                                  EGB3 schools as well as on a
increased school autonomy  I_wider scale
-42 -



*Adequate financial resources
are transferred each year
from DGCyE to the selected
EGB3 schools and the
selected EGB3 schools are
autonomous in managing
their allocated recurrent
non-salary budget
-43 -



00: 0  X    Key Perforance   f        0       0        '
Hierarchy of Obectives   i        ndlcators          Monitoring& Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Creation of additional             59.6           Bi-annual Project          DGCyE institutional capacity
EGB3 school spaces in the                            Implementation Monitoring   and the UEP (Project
poorest urban districts and                          Reports (PIMR)              Management Unit) capacity
rehabilitation of                                    Consultant and Architect    are sufficient to prepare,
classrooms in about 165                              Survey Reports              complete and deliver the new
existing EGB3 schools to                              Specific Studies           construction, rehabilitation
and learning materials and
develop and apply a new                                                          equipment on time (within
pedagogical model of the                                                         the first implementation
"Jornada Completa"                                                              year)
There is adequate
coordination within the
DGCyE and between its
various departments and the
UEP
1. I Construction of new             47.4                                       All selected EGB3 schools
school facilities                                                                will have an approved School
development Plan within the
first project implementation
year, and the technical
assistance and training
activities have been designed
and scheduled
1.2 Expansion of existing             11.9
school facilities and
rehabilitation
1.3 Consultants (design,              .3
supervision and evaluation
2. Provide pedagogic                 102.5            Studies and specific pedagogic DGCyE institutional capacity
equipment (school                                    surveys;                    and the UEP (Project
libraries, science and                               DGCyE's Social and          Management Unit) capacity
language laboratories, and                           Educative Information System  are sufficient to prepare,
learning materials) and                               ("Sistema de Informacion   complete and deliver the new
Socio-Educativa -- SIS') and  construction, rehabilitation
other pedagogical services                            other DGCyE Monitoring     and learning materials and
and innovations for                                   Information Systems (MIS)   equipment on time (within
implementation of the"                               Project Midterm             the first implementation
Jornada Completa" in the                             Implementation review (PMR) year);
selected (about 200) EGB3
schools                                                                          There is adequate
coordination within the
DGCyE and between its
various departments and the
UEP
-44 -



2.1 Human Resources                   81.4            PIMR and PMR               All selected EGB3 schools
Required for Jornada                                  Provincial Ministries of   will have an approved School
Completa                                              Economy and Education      development Plan within the
statistics                 first project implementation
Education District and EGB3  year, and the technical
School statistics          assistance and training
activities have been designed
and scheduled
2.2 Rehabilitation of labs,            7.0                                        School Directors, teachers and
libraries & facilities in EGB3                                                    parents in the selected EGB3
schools                                                                           schools have been adequate;ly
informed about the project and
suppport the proposed reform
2.3 Equipment and teaching            11.4
aids
2.4 Technical assistance               1.3
2.5 Training and internships           1.4
3. Provide support for                 9.0            DGCyE's Social and          DGCyE institutional capacity
more autonomous school                                Educative Information System  and the UEP (Project
management and                                        ("Sistema de Informacion    Management Unit) capacity
innovative school projects                            Socio-Educativa -- SIS");    are sufficient to prepare,
in the selected (about 200)                           Surveys among School        complete and deliver the new
inthe sehoolec d (bth2)                               Directors, Teachers and     construction, rehabilitation
EGB3 schools and their                                Parents;                    and learning materials and
districts;                                                                        equipment on time (within
the first implementation
year)
3.1 Seminars and workshops             0.5            PIMR and PMR
for school principals and
administrators
3.2 Computer equipment                 2.0
3.3 School operating                   4.8
expenses
3.4. Incentives for school             0.7
performance
3.5 Innovative projects fund           1.0
4. Provide support for                 2.0            PIMR and PMR                DGCyE institutional capacity
project administration and                                                        and the UEP (Project
management                                                                        Management Unit) capacity is
adequately strengthened and
capable of completing and
monitoring all project
acitivities in a timely manner
-45 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
The Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project has the following Development Objectives:
a. Increase access to quality education and improve equity by supporting the implementation of a
"Full Day Schedule" (known as the "jomada Completa") in the selected EGB3 schools serving
students from the poorest households.
b. Improve school management as a necessary complement to the introduction of a full school-day in
the selected EGB3 schools.
In order to accomplish these objectives the project has four components:
1. Creation of additional EGB3 school spaces in the poorest urban districts and rehabilitation of
classrooms in about 165 existing EGB 3 schools to develop and apply a new pedagogical model of
the "Jomada Completa"
2. Provide pedagogic equipment (school libraries, science and language laboratories, and learning
materials) and other pedagogical services and innovations for implementation of the "Jornada
Completa" in the selected EGB3 schools
3. Provide support for more autonomous school management and innovative school projects in the
selected EGB3 schools and their districts;
4. Provide support for project administration and management
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$59.69 million
Creation of additional EGB3 school spaces in the poorest urban districts and rehabilitation of
classrooms in about 165 existing EGB 3 schools to develop and apply a new pedagogical model of the
"Jornada Completa
Jomada Completa's new curriculum and pedagogical inputs require adequate and innovative school
facilities to develop the new methodologies and reap their benefits by reducing a persistent overcrowding in
many urban school facilities. The Project of Jornada Completa (PPJC) will provide facilities to expand the
number of hours spent by EGB3 students. Where feasible -- given school demand for EGB3 and space to
build -- new especially designed school facilities would be built. Where constrains make it impossible to
build new facilities, school spaces in existing facilities will be especially adapted to the needs of Jornada
Completa. About 35 new EGB3 schools and about 400 new classrooms in existing 165 EGB3 schools
would be built. These schools will be selected following social, poverty and educational criteria as
described in section E and Annex 11 of this document.
Civil work will be carried out according to a master plan designed by UEP following DGCyE standards
and regulations. Each of the new schools will have a single civil work project which include all the facilities
to develop the new pedagogic model and curricular for Jomada Completa. School rehabilitation will be
done according to specific school's needs in the framework of Jomada Completa which should include
facilities, such as libraries, labs, dining rooms, classrooms, etc. In both cases, the School "Cooperadoras"
will select companies to take on the construction and rehabilitation works. However, the final selection,
award, contracting, and supervision will be made by UEP.
- 46 -



Project Component 2 - US$102.50 million
Provide pedagogic equipment (school libraries, science and language laboratories, and learning
materials) and other pedagogical services and innovations for implementation of the "Jornada
Completa" in the selected (about 200) EGB3 schools
This component will include (i) incremental human resources and operating costs of schools to be financed
by the DGCyE annual budget. This will allow to concentrate in one place teachers working today in several
schools, provide new teachers, principals and support staff for "Jornada Completa' s" new schools;
(ii) rehabilitation of labs, supply of labs, libraries, and technical facilities in the 200 EGB3 schools such as
about 200 ICT and technology labs, 200 Language labs, 110 School libraries;
(iii) Learning materials and teaching aids, laboratory equipment for the sciences and Information and
Communication Technology (ICT) for the implementation of the new "Jornada Completa" curricula
including audiovisual materials, libraries with at least 300 volumes, and specific hardware and educational
software; (iv) technical assistance to schools for laboratory equipment installation and use in the form of
in-service teacher training and tutorial support to link this instruccional resource with the curricula to
ensure the disemination and application of best practices; (v) training for teachers linked to the development
and management of innovative school projects for quality improvement as part of the "Jomada Completa"
implementation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.00 million
Provide support for more autonomous school management and innovative school projects in the
selected (about 200) EGB3 schools and their districts;
This component will include (i) local and international seminars and workshops for school directors and
administrators which should include school management, crossfertilization activities and study tours in
other provinces and nearby countries; (ii) supply of Information and Communication teaching and learning
equipment to the 200 EGB3 schools composed by computers, infornation network, and distance learning
websites; (iii) increased School operating expenses made by the provision of petit cash for incidental
expenses, such as payment of school repairing and small services; (iv) funding competitive and innovative
EGB3 school project proposals, which will include the financing of small project identified and prepared
by the school community based on their diagnosis of the school situation and aiming to solve learning and
teaching problems; (v) providing annual incentives to about 50% of the selected EGB3 schools, based on
improvements of school performance indicators.
Project Component 4 - US$2.00 million
Provide support for project administration and management
This component will complement the financing of the current UEP which is already implementing
Secondary Education I, II and III and PRICE (BID). For the purpose the project will finance: 8 higher and
lower level staff for civil work, accounting, procurement, supervision and monitoring; technical assistance
and training in administration, mangement and information technology; utilitary vehicles; and office
material and operating expenses.
-47 -



Definition and Description of Jornada Completa
The "Jornada Completa" aims to develop a new culture of learning in the classroom by applying a new
pedagogical model in the third cycle of General Basic Education (EGB3) which will allow increase quality,
retention and graduation as well as facilitate the access and success of the studentes to Polimodal by
augmenting the real time of the students in front of the teachers from about 750 hours to up to 1200 hour
per year to:
The implemention of improved school facilities for the "Jornada Completa" students will
*   Allow more focus on and attention to at-risk students and their learning problems, and
promote better retention rates for the 12-15 age group in the selected (about 200) EGB
schools
*   Facilitate the application of better support services for students and teachers, and improve
the school management
*   Allow the use of different teaching and leaming strategies, by using the new spaces and
facilities in different ways (laboratories, seminars, student projects and workshops, teacher
projects)
*   Reduce overcrowding in EGB1+2+3 schools, in the school catchment areas of the districts
where the new and rehabilitated EGB3 schools will be situated
v  Allow the teachers to concentrate more teaching hours in one EGB3 school, and so improve
their performnance and working conditions, and reduce their stress; this will allow the
DGCyE in some cases to an reduce the number of "taxi-profesores"(teachers who teach at
more than 3-4 different schools with working weeks of up to 70 teaching contact hours
*   Strengthen the management and knowledge base of the school director and allow school
directors to promote teamwork in their schools (equipos de conduccion and school
administration teams).
*   Allow the selected EGB3 schools to develop school plans
The curricular changes by subject and time on task increase to be implemented are shown in the
following table:
Modulo / Discipline     Current       New    Model Time Increase
Model        Additional    (%)
Languae                 4             3             75
Mathematic              4             3             75
Social Science          4             1             25
Natural Science         4              1            25
Sport and Recreation    2             1             50
Artistic Education      2             1             50
Foreign Language        2             1             50
Informatics             2             2             100
Total                   22            13            59
- 48 -



Teachers and school directors professional training.
The objectives of the teachers training are as follows:
*   Reinforce the pedagogic skills of the teachers
*   Promote more teamwork amnong teachers within the school and among pupils
*   Promote the use of modem leatrming and taching materials conform the needs of the new curricula
The training will take place using prepared courses by pedagogic experts, trainers from teacher training
institutes near the selected schools and classroom work with tutors. Each teacher in the selected (about
200) EGB3 schools will receive about 150 hours of training, divided over five modules:
*   Pedagogical organization of the " Jomada Completa"
*   Problems in teaching at EGB3 level
*   Working in teams to prepare action plans
*   Evaluation and assessment in the classroom
*   Innovative school project and pedagogical and technical suppor
The total number of teachers benefitting from the training in the 200 EGB3 schools is about 2,000. Thre
modules will be offered during the school vacation (February), and two modules during the school year.
About 250 trainers will be contrcted from the teacher training instituts. These trainers will be trained by
specialists of the DGCyE.  The project will finance (i) the hiring of trainers, (ii) the transport and
subsistance costs for teachers; and (iii) course and training materials and equipment.
The outcomes of the training will be measured by evaluating (i) the irnproved learning of pupils in the
classroom in specific subjects (an annual sample-based assessment test will be prepared by the Evaluation
and Monitoring Department of the DGCyE); (ii) the reduction the repetition and drop-out rates in the
selected (about 200) EGB schools; and (iii) the annual surveys among teachers , school directors and
parents (communities) regarding the school and classroom environment.
School Directors:
The objective of the school directors' training are as follows:
*   Change the role of the schoool director from an administrator to a better pedagogical advisor and
school manager
The training will take place using prepared courses by experienced school directors and pedagogic school
experts, trainers from teacher training institutes and the national university located in the province.
Training for the trainers will take place before March 2001, the start of the new schoolyear. The training
will consist of four modules:
*   Pedagogical organization of the " Jomada Completa"
*   Supervision of pedagogical practices and interventions in the classroom
*   Evaluation and assessment at school level
*   Innovative school projects and pedagogical and technical support
Each school director will receive about 100 hours of training. About 60 trainers will implement the
training. The project will finance (i) the training contracts with the teacher training institruts and the
university, and (ii) subsistence and transport costs for the school directors.
- 49 -



PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Second Secondary Education Project
Project Articulation Graph
Secondary Education I
Administrative reforn                       US$8.2                            Improving
Rehabilitation of classrooms                US$7.6                         management of the
2nd Phase of Polimodal                      US$1.7                           education sector
transformation
Loan Total                                 US$17.5
Secondary Education II                                                           andingaccess
Basic Education. resources                                                    mandatory Basic
School-based improvement                                                      Education (EGB)
projects (PEI)
Loan Total                                 US$47.C
Secondary Education III
Build 9th grade classrooms                 US$94.0                          Improvmg qua    n
and rehabilitation of sec. Schools                                             200 Polimodal
Improve quality and relevance              US$23.7o
Project implementation                      US$1.3
Loan Total                                US$119.C
2nd Secondary Education (BASSEP)
Jornada Completa Infrastructure            US$35. I           Improving quality an
Quality and relevance of learning                                      Ieqpo in selected (aout 200)
in EGB3                                     ussO.'/                     equity       ho in slce(aoth200
Support Decentralizacion                   US$10.5                           G     s        i t
Project implementation                      US$0.4                        poorest urban district
Loan Total                               LIS$56.99
Notes: Secondary Education I and II loan totals correspond to the portion of the loan directed to the
Province of Buenos Aires; all dollar figures are in millionsof US$.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Local    Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $
million
1. Creation of additional EGB3 school spaces in the poorest  53.6    1.7       55.4
urban districts and rehabilitation of classrooms in about 165
existing EGB 3 schools to develop and apply a new pedagogical
model of the "Jomada Completa"
2. Provide pedagogic equipment (school libraries, science and  96.3  5.5       101.8
language laboratories, and learning materials) and other
pedagogical services and innovations for implementation of the
"Jomada Completa" in the 200 EGB3 schools
3. Provide support for more autonomous school management  6.9        2.1        9.0
and innovative school projects in the 200 EGB3 schools and
their districts;
4. Provide support for project administration and management  1.6    0.4        2.0
Total Baseline Cost                                      158.5       9.6       168.1
Physical Contingencies                                 4.5         0.1        4.7
Price Contingencies                                    0.4        0.1         0.5
Total Project Costs                                      163.4       9.8       173.2
N/A        N/A        N/A
Front-end fee                       0.0        0.6         0.6
Total Financing Required                163.4       10.4       173.8
-51 -



Estimated Project Costs                                  Total Cost % of Total  Bank      % of
w/Conting.  Project  Financing  Bank
Project Component                                        (US$ millior   Cost   (US$M)   Financing
1.     New Schools and Remodeling for Application of                 59.74     34           36.69    64
Classroom Based Pedagogical Model
1.1.    EGB3 schools (35)                                            47.48     27           29.06    51
1.2.    Remodeling & Expansion for EGB3 "Jomada Completa" (165)       11.92     7            7.29    13
1.3.    Consultants (design,supervision,evaluation)                    0.34     0            0.34    1
2.     Pedagogical Improvement & Innovation                         102.51     59           14.84    26
in EGB3 Schools
2.1.    Human Resources Required for "Jomada Completa"                81.37    47            0.00    0
2.2.    Rehabilitation of Labs.,Librares & Facilities in EGB3 schools  7.02     4            4.29    8
2.3.    Equipment and Teaching Aids                                   11.38     7            7.96    14
2.4.    Technical Assistance                                           1.31     1            1.31    2
2.5.    Training and lntemships                                        1.44     1            1.27    2
3.    Decentralization of School Management                           8.97      5            3.52    6
3.1.     Seminars and Workshops for Principals & Administrators       0.47      0            0.42     1
3.2.     Informatics Equipment                                         2.00     1            1.40    2
3.3.     School Operating Expenses                                    4.80      3            0.00    0
3.4.     Incentives for Schools Performance                            0.70     0            0.70     1
3.5.     Innovative Projects Fund                                      1.00     1            1.00    2
4.     ProjectAdministration and Management                            2.02     1            1.38    2
4.1.    Personnel                                                      0.94     1            0.94    2
4.2.    Technical Assistance                                           0.29     0            0.29     1
4.3.    Office Equipment and Vehicles                                  0.21     0            0.15    0
4.4.    Operating Expenses                                             0.57     0            0.00    0
TOTAL PROJECT                                                 173.24    100          56.44    99
Front-end fee                                                   0.56                  0.56    1
Grand Total                                                   173.79                 56.99    100
- 52 -



PROPSED  RNAMNG
LOCAL          FOREIGN               TOTAL               TOTAL
DGCYE    DGCyE           DGCyE           DGCYE    DGCyE              PRGIECT
PFETCOST          MGET PROECT  B4WK  PROECT BRNK  PRESUP. PFIET BA4W
CATEGCRYlf                           LOCL FOC          TOTAL      %        %       %        %       %     EJ              1Uj
CK VAR                               64,423.9  1,9B25  66,416.4               0.4    0.6        0      1           25,769.6  40,646.9  66,416.4
TRANING                               1,357.6   334.6   1,692.2                        1        0      1                  0   1,6922    1,692.2
CONSULTANT SER?ACES (CM Vuts
eiab                                   2B9.7    67.4    337.1                         1         0     1                   0    337.1     337.1
C0NSULTANT SRVICES (t SdW
eLe0)                                  930.3   66&7   1,599.0                         1         0     1                  0   1,599.0   1,599.0
NCREMENTALHLN RESOURCES              86,170.0     -    86,170.0       1               0         0      1    86170         0        0      86170
AND CENTRALDSCFOOLS
OPERATION
EUIPMENTANDWHICLES                    6,911.9  6,6821   13,594.0              0.3    0.7       0.3   0.7            4,078.2   9,515.8   13,594.0
INIWATE PRIJBETS RND &
INCENTNES                             1,700.0    -      1,700.0                       1         0     1                -      1,700.0   1,700.0
TEAS4HGMATERI,SAANDS.UPRES              121.9    54.6    176.5                 1       0        1      0              176.5      -        176.5
UEPCCONSULTANTS FOR
A AT IN                                944.6      -      944.6                         1        0      1                -       944.6     944.6
PFCIECT CERATNGD7:ENSES                614.8      -      614.8                 1      0         1     0               614.8      -        614.8
FRONTENDFEE                              -      564.3    564.3                         1        0      1        0       -       564.3     564.3
TOTAL                               163,444.7  10,354.2  173.799                                             86170  30,639.0  56,990.0  173,799.0
Total Projed id. Reajrrent i 0.4957742  0.2     0.3       1.0
Toda Prcped e,d. Reamert ats           0.3      0.7       1.0
- 53 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Economic Analysis:
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
On the benefit side, the main benefits of the project will consist in (a) an increase in future earnings related
to the decrease in drop-out rates and (b) cost savings related to the decrease in the repetition rate.
A decrease in drop-out rates will lead to higher completion rates and, thus, to higher productivity and future
labour earnings.
Repetition increases the average number of years a student takes to complete a certain school level, which
in this particular case corresponds to the three EGB levels. Consequently, it increases both the cost per
graduated student and the total cost of the corresponding school level. A decrease in the repetition rate will
bring to a decrease in both the unit and total costs.
On the cost side, two main categories of costs can be detected: (a) the direct costs of the project and (b) the
future recurrent costs.
The implementation of the jornada completa, the central aspect of the project, is necessarily associated
with a significant increase in recurrent incremental costs, that is, those project-related expenses which will
be maintained even after the project implementation process, or, even, permanently. Future recurrent costs
were precisely estimated differentiating the ones generated by the building of new schools from those
related to the expansion of existing facilities.
Calculation of Benefits:
Benefits associated with lower drop-out rates
The economic value of labor market insertion after completion of the EGB has been evaluated in terms of
the income differential between the groups with 6 schooling years and 9 schooling years over the whole
working life of the individuals. The opportunity cost of staying longer in school has been supposed null
considering the young age of the children attending the third cycle of EGB (from 12 to 14 years).
The calculation of the income differential was carried out on the basis of the Informe sobre la pobreza en
la Argentina. As can be seen in Table 1, the difference in the average monthly wage associated with 6 and
9 schooling years is US$ 123,70, representing US$ 1,484 annually. Considering income streams over a
working life of 48 years, from EGB completion to retirement, the present value of the annual wage
difference reaches US$ 11,034 at a 10% discount rate (see Table 2).
In a second stage, this value was multiplied by the number of children who would complete EGB under
three different assumptions in the decrease of the drop-out rate: decrease of 50%, 33% and 25%, leading
respectively to approximately 30,000, 20,000 and 15,000 new students completing EGB (see Table 2).
- 54 -



Benefits associated with the lower repetition rate
The combined effect of the decrease in drop-out rates and repetition rate leads to a slight decrease in the
number of students enrolled in EGB in the 200 schools with jornada completa producing some cost saving
expressed as the product between the unit cost of EGB in the 200 schools and the reduced enrollment in
these same schools (see Table 3).
Three different alternatives were considered in calculating this cost saving: an immediate and constant 50%
decrease in both the drop-out and repetition rates, a decrease of 33% and one of 25% (this last one is the
one assumed in Table 3).
Main Assumptions:
.It is assumed that the pupil/teacher ratio remains constant leading to an unmodified cost per student in the
"without project" scenario.
.The incremental unit costs in the 200 schools with jornada completa were calculated on the basis of a
precise estimation in the increase of personnel expenses in 165 existing schools and 35 new ones. It is
assumed that in all case the schools are second category ones with 12 third level sections of EGB
distributed as following: 4 sections for each of the grades of the third cycle (7, 8 and 9th), and an average
number of 30 students per section. In the case of the implementation of the jornada completa in existing
schools, one third of the costs is imputed to directors, librarians and counselors, the cost for 4 instructors is
added and the number of modules is increased by 50%. For new schools, only the variation strictly related
to the implementation of the jornada conipletaa was considered. This variation consisted in the allocation
of a director of 3ra, 4 instructors and 50% new modules.
.Between 1996 and 1999 total EGB enrollment expanded at an annual rate of 10.3% from 1,306,717 total
students to a total of 1,782,188 students. This evolution does not offer an adequate basis for projections
since it expresses the progressive incorporation of new cohorts. The projections were elaborated on the
basis of a cohort analysis, which, on average, shows a growth of 2% annually.
.The initial number of students in the 200 schools was extrapolated from the enrollment of 147 schools with
characteristics similar to the ones in the project. It was then assumed that this initial value increases at the
same rate that total enrollment (2% annually).
.Finally, it should be pointed out that the lack of reliable data on drop-outs has made it necessary to base
the estimations on the proportion of "difficult cases" enrolled out of a total sample of 147 schools with
characteristics similar to the schools included in the project, even if these data tend to overestimate drop-out
rates.
Cost-Benefit Analysis:
As shown in Table 3, the total fiscal benefits of the project were worked out as the difference between cost
- 55 -



savings and the incremental costs associated with the implementation of the jornada completa. To these
benefits, estimated in present values terms through the application of a 10% discount rate, was then rested
the present value of the investment costs (assuming that investment costs are executed in 4 years)
producing an NPV initially negative. However, the NPV turns positive when we add the present value of
the income differential associated with the completion of the EGB.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Tlhree different assumptions were made concerning the impact of the project on drop-out and repetition
rates. A first alternative assumed a decrease of 50% in both rates, a second one a decrease of 33% and a
third one a decrease of 25%. The NPV remains positive under the three different assumptions. It is found
to reach a maximum of US$195 million under the most favourable assumption and a minimum of
US$23.6 million under the least favourable one (shown in the table). According to these results, the project
appears to be justifiable on economic grounds.
TABLE 1
Monthly income expected with 6 vears of schooling    455.40
Monthly income expected with 9 years of schooling    579.10 
Monthly difference                             123.70
Annual difference                            1,484.40
- 56 -



TABLE 2
Projections of expected annual incomes
Year                Base value     Discount rate      Expected
income
1                    1.48             1.1
2                    1.484            1.21
3                    1.484           1.331
4                    1.484           1.4641           1.013.59
5                    1.484           1.61051          921.45
6                    1.484          1.771561          837.68
7                    1.484       1.9487171            761. 53
8                    1.484         2.14358881         692.30
9                    1.484        2.357947691         629.36
1 0                   1.484        2.59374246          572.15
11                    1.484        2.853116706         520.13
12                    1 484        3.1 38428377        472.85
13                    1.484        3452271214          429.86
14                   1A484         3,797498336         39078
15                  1.484          4,177248169         35526
16                    1.484        4.594972986         322.96
17                    1.484        5054470285          293.60
18                    1.484        5.559917313          61
19                    1.484        6.115909045         24265
20                    1.484        6.727499949         220,59
21                    1.484        7.400249944         20053
22                    1.484       88140274939          182.30
23                    1.484        8.954302433         165.73
24                    1.484        9.849732676         150.66
25                    1.484        10.83470594         136.97
26                    1.484        11.91817654         124.52
27                    1.484        1310999419          113.20
28                    1.484        14.42099361         102.91
29               ,    1484         15.86309297         9355
30                    1.484        17,44940227         85.05
31                    1.484         19.1943425         77.31
32                    1.484        21.11377675         70.29
33                    1.484        23.22515442         63,90
34                    1.484        25.54766986         58.09
35               1.484             28.10243685         52.81
36                    1,484                            48.01
t   =   37      [ J1,484           34 00394859         43.64
38                      A.484      37.40434344         39.67
39              1     1,484        41.14477779         36.07
40               . 1.484           45.25925557         32.79
41                    1.484        49,78518112         29.81
42                    1,484        54.76369924         27.10
43                    1.484        60.24006916         24.63
44                    1,484        66.26407608         22.40
45                    1.484        72.89048369         20.36
46                  1.484          80.17953205         18.51
47                    1.484        88.19748526         16.83
48                    I484         97.01723378         15.30
49                    1.484        106.7189572         13.91
50                    1,484        117.3908529         12.64
51                    1.484        129.1299382         11.49
PV difference In Individual income                                 11.034.59
Decrease In drop-out rate by 50%                                    31.058
PV difference in total income 50 %                               342712.254 12
Decrease In dropnout by 33%0/                                     20.705
PV difference in total Income 33 _L                             228.471 15788
Decrease In drol-out rate b 25by                                    15.529
PV difference in total Income 25%                               171 356.127.06
- 57 -



TABLE 3
EXPECTED COSTS AND BENEFITS (with decreas of 25% in repetition and drop-out rates)
Enrollment of  Cost per pupil          Cot  Pupils of EGB   Cost per pupil  Pupils of EGB200
Year      Total Cost of EGB  EGB without the  wthout the          r       200 with no       of the 200  adjusted by lower  Tola svings    ol iscal         Toal
projed  P-isd     Eadjuswithtprojects                            repetition and drop-                benefits     investment
1999      $  1,085,000,000        1754900  $       618  S                       212456 S          618            212456 S         - S,
2000      $  1,108,700,000        1789992  S       618 S                        218705 S          618            216705  $             S
2001      S  1,128.834,000        1825486  S       618  $    32,547,973         221039 S          766            209987  S   8,461,650 $   (24,086,323) $  20,000,000
2002      $  1,151.410,680        1891956  S       818  $    33.1988932         225480 S          766            214187  S   8,630,883  S   (24.568.049) S  20.000,000
2003      S  1,174,438.894        1899235 S        618  S    33,862,911          229969 S         789            218471  S   8,803,501  $   (25,059,410) $  23,106,516
2004      $  1,197,927,671        1937220  S       618  S    34,540,188         234589 S          766            222840  $   8.979,571  $   (25,560,598) $  23,106,516
2005      S  1,221,886,225        1875965  S       618  S    35,230,973         239280 S          766            227297 $   9,159,162  $   (26,071,810) $            ,
58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Financial assessment of the proiect
Summary
Financial assessment of PRODYMES III A gives net present value at five years as slightly above zero.
The project will be financially viable to the extent it fulfills either of the following conditions:
(a)    some significant savings are generated within the education system as a whole, through reduction
of personnel costs;
(b)    the education sector receives additional resources (fundamentally, in the form of a higher budget
appropriation).
Method of calculation underlying the financial appraisal
For purposes of the financial appraisal, use was made of the method generally recommended by the
Argentine Provinces Financial Rationalization and Economic Development Program, known as the
Provinces Program.
Table 1 shows a five-year period of financial flows, grouped to reflect major budget categories. Only
incremental financial flows produced by the project are recorded.
The following sources and/or assumptions were used in estimating values:
1.     Total revenue
The project will not produce any change in total revenue.
2.    Increase in current expenditure
Current expenditure will increase in two areas:
2.1 Higher payroll costs
This increase reflects the cost of extending the school day in the 200 schools targeted by the
project. The figures have been estimated in conjunction with the Ministry of Economy,
on the basis of the increase in staffing in the 165 existing schools and the need to staff the 35 new
schools.
2.2      Higher interest costs
Annual interest expenditure has been assumed equivalent to 10% of World Bank financing.
- 59 -



3.     Reduction in current expenditure
Current expenditure will be reduced in two areas:  (a) raising of the pupil/teacher ratio, together with a
reduction in the repetition rate, the two together resulting in elimination of over 16,000 regular teaching
posts accumulated over five years; and (b) cuts in the number of substitute teachers equivalent to roughly
4,000 regular teaching posts in year 2, and to 5,000 such posts in year 3. (The lists used as the basis for
these calculations are attached.)
The reduction in expenditure on substitute teachers could be greater if these cuts were extended to years 4
and 5 also. However, the assumptions used by BASAL have been retained.
Appraisal of financial feasibility
Table 2, "Appraisal of Financial Feasibility," shows the present value of revenue, expenditure, and
investment, calculated on the basis of the figures given in Table 1 and on a 10% annual discount rate.
Estimate net present value is slightly above zero (0.42).
Provincial education and fiscal situation and impact of the vRoiect
Note: The Fiscal Analysis was prepared in parallel with a possible adjustment loan (BASAL). Project Files
contain the reports with more details on the fiscal analysis.
Provincial education expenditure and financing. The province of Buenos Aires (PBA) was the
first province to widely implement the education refonn and allocated a significant amount of
additional resources to its education sector. The PBA's public spending in education increased
significantly since the Decentralization Law was put into effect in 1993, indicating the Provincial
Government's commitment to the reform and a break in the pattern of low spending that
predominated during the 1980's. Total PBA education expenditure increased from US$1,860 million
in 1993 to US$3,345 million in 1998 (based on 1998 pesos): an increase of 81.5% in real terms and
an annual average growth rate of 13%. Education expenditure represented approximately one third of
the total Provincial Budget in 1997-98 (see Table 3). The increases were especially high in 1997,
when the EGB3 reform was started, mainly due to: (i) increased student enrolment (>17% over
1994-98); creating a need for more teachers (more teacher work units -- cargos/horas catedras); (ii)
application of a 15% average salary increase in February 1998; and (iii) a significant increase in
investment in infrastructure (from US$69 million in 1995 to US$623 million in 1997 and US$280
million in 1998).
From the total PBA education budget almost 93% is recurrent spending (almost entirely salaries),
distributed as follows: 76% for salaries of public teachers and administrative staff (non-teaching
staff represents about 15% of the total), and about 15% subsidies a proportion of private school
teacher salaries.  Only 3%  finance non-salary recurrent costs. Infrastructure and equipment
investment has increased from about 6% in 1993 to 8% in 1998. For the whole 1993-1998 period
more than US$1 billion was spent on building new schools and classrooms to accommodate the
increasing students numbers. Transfers to private schools make up almost 14% of the recurrent
budget in 1998. Over 1993-98 total teaching staff expenditures increased by 73.2% ($915 million).
Expenditures in substitute staff, despite scarce available data, show a decreasing trend: a 14.7% ratio
-60 -



in 1993 (expenditures on substitutes compared to regular and provisional staff) and 13.7% in 1998.
In terms of total education expenditures, 36% went to public primary level (EGBI+2) in 1998, 22%
to public secondary level, 7% to pre-school level, 3.5% to public tertiary level (Teacher Training
Institutes) and 15% to transfers to private schools (at all levels) (see Table 4). The remaining was
spent on physical education, artistic education, special education, psychology and social assistance
and administration. It is important to mention that even though EGB3 is included in primary level
budgetary's classification, its structure of cost corresponds to secondary level (lower secondary
level). The distribution of spending across levels of education corresponds more or less to OECD
means, taking into account that the university level is financed entirely by the federal government.
Provincial fiscal situation and impact of the project.
Overview. With an annual budget of $10 billion, the Province of Buenos Aires represents nearly one-third
of the aggregate provincial public sector in Argentina. During the mid 1990s, the Province was known for
fiscal stability, generating positive balances on current account to finance investments, and thus
maintaining low levels of indebtedness. During the late 1990s, the Province launched a successful
privatization program that resulted in the sale of its electricity and water utilities. These sales provided the
province with a windfall of approximately $1.7 billion, all of which had been spent by end-1999. These
proceeds were used both to finance an ambitious expansion in investment, plus a current account deficit
that had opened -- the latter largely due to payroll expenditures that had ballooned from $3.6 billion in
1996 to $5.2 billion in 1999. During the second half of 1999, with its privatization proceeds spent, the
province began to incur additional debt at a rapid pace -- both through bond issues and short-term loans
from the provincial government-owned bank (BAPRO).
Credit Ratings: In recent years, the province has received the same credit rating as the federal government
for long-term foreign debt issues. However, Standard and Poor's lowered its outlook from "stable" to
"negative" earlier this year, while the federal government received a "stable" outlook.
Prospects: The province's fiscal deficit in 1999 was approximately $2.1 billion, or 25 percent of annual
current revenues. For the year 2000, cuts in capital expenditures will lead to an expected reduction in the
deficit to $1.8 billion, or 21 percent of current revenues. Revenues have displayed negative growth so far
this year. The province has made a commitment to the federal government to reduce its deficit to zero by
2003; however, they have not yet devised a fiscal plan for reaching that target. The overall indebtedness of
the province is not high in relative terms and represented about 50 percent of current revenues at end- 1999.
As mentioned above, the province now faces a rising debt to revenue ratio in the upcoming years--projected
to already reach 70 percent of current revenues at the end of this year. The province has issued nearly $1.2
billion on international markets this year. The government plans to restructure its short-term debt with
BAPRO, and they hope to secure loans guaranteed by a fiduciary fund set up to manage provincial assets
(mostly back-taxes owed to the province). The latter plan is pending legislative approval. On the
expenditure side, the province plans to exert administrative controls to assure cuts in non-personnel
expenditures. In addition, the investment program has been cut to a minimum (approximately $600 million
per year over the 2001-2003 period). There are plans, pending legislative approval, to re-capitalize
BAPRO, costing $500 million over the next 8 years. Table 5, below, reports summary indicators from
fiscal projections, based on the assumption that administrative expenditure controls are enacted for minor
reductions in primary current expenditures, and the levels of investment described above. Three cases for
revenue growth were simulated to show the degree of sensitivity of fiscal outcomes to the revenue
- 61 -



assumptions.
The proposed Prodymes project -- with a total cost of $173 million over five years -- would represent
approximately 0.5 percent of cumulative projected provincial revenues over that period. Despite this
relatively small scale, it is possible that the province's required fiscal adjustment in future years will make it
very difficult for the province to expand the implementation of the jornada completa. The Bank loan of
$57 million would represent less than 0.6 percent of projected annual revenues in the year 2005.
-62 -



TABLE I
INCOME AND EXPENDITURES
I. Date of valuation at September 2000 prices                           II. Exchange rate (U$S) used: U$S 1= $ 1
III. Financial flows (in thousands of U$S)             Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4         Year 5
1. TOTAL INCOME                                        $         .         $           $         .    S          .    $
1.1 CURRENT                                          $                $         .    $         .    $          .    $
a. Tax revenue                                    S         .      $ S             S        .    $          .    $
b. Non tax revenue                                $         .      $         .    $         .    $          .    $
1.2 CAPITAL                                          s                $         .    $                         .    $          l
2. TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                 $   5.745.00     $ (41.872.71)   $ (55.280.82)   $ (12,971.07)   $  23.198.11
2.1 INCREASE IN CURRENT EXPENDITURES                $   5.745.00      $ 38.292.97    $  38.292.97    S  38.292.97   $  38.292.97
a. Personnel                                      S                $ 32.547.97    $  32.547.97   $  32.547.97   $  32.547.97
b. Goods and services                             $                $               $        -    $          -    $
c. Transfers                                      $                 $              $        .    $          .    $
d. Interests                                     $   5.745.00      $  5.745.00    $   5,745.00   $   5.745.00   $   5,745.00
2.2 DECREASE IN CURRENT EXPENDITURES                  $         -     $ 80,165.68   $  93.573.79   $  51.264.04    $  15.094.86
a. Personnel                                      $         .      $ 80,165.68   $  93.573.79   $  51,264.04   $  15,094.86
b. Goods and services                             $         .      $         .    $         -    $          .    $
c. Transfers                                      $         .       $                .    $         .5            $
d. Interests                                      $         .       $        .    $         .    $                $
3.NETCURRENTBENEFIT                                   $  (5,745.00)     $ 41,872.71    $  55.280.82   $  12,971.07   $ (23,198.11
4. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                               $  23.229.51      $ 23,194.51    $  20,194.51    $  20,194.51    $
4.1 Amortization                                      $                $        .    $          .    $               $
4.2 Physical investments                            $  20.194.51      $ 20.194.51    $  20.194.51    $  20.194,51    $
4.3 Investments in institutional building           $   3,035.00      $  3,000.00     $         -    $          |    $
4.4 Investments in maintenance                        $        .       $              $        .    $                $
5. NET TOTAL BENEFIT                                  $ (28.974.51'     $ 18.678.20    $  35,086.31   $  (7.223.44)  $ (23.198.11
6. REQUIRED FINANCING                                 $  15,888.75      $ 15.853.75   $  12.853.75    $  12.853.75     $
7. PROMVNCIAL COUNTERPART                             $   7.340.76      $  7.340.76   $   7.340.76   $   7.340.76      $
7.1 NONBANKABLE CAPITAL                               $        .       $        .    $          .    $          l    $
EXPENDITURES
7.2 PRO\VNCIAL COUNTERPART                          $   7,340.76      $  7,340.76   $   7.340.76   $   7.340.761    $
BALANCE



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF FINANCIAL VIABILITY
Item                        Nominal amount           Present values      Factor(1+0.10)
B (p)
Year1                            S                       $                          1.1000000
Year 2                           $                 .     $              |           1.2100000
Year 3                           $                 .     $                          1.3310000
Year 4                           $                       $                          1.4641000
Year 15                          $                       $                          1.6105100
S - $-
0 (p)
Year 1                           $          5.745.00     $       5.222.73           1.1000000
Year2                           $         (41.872.71)    $    (34.605.55)           1.2100000
Year 3                          $         (55.280.82)    $    (41.533.30)           1.3310000
Year 4                          $         (12.971.07)    S     (8.859.421           1.4641000
Year 5                           $         23.198,11     S      14.404.20           1.6105100
$        (81,181.49)    S    (65,371.331
NET INCOME                       S          81.181.49     $     65.371.33
Year 1                           $         15.888575     $      14.44432                1.100
Year2                            $         15.853.75     $      13,102.27           1.2100000
Year 3                           $         12.853.75     $       9.657.21           1.331000
Year4                            $          12.853,75    $       8.779.28           1.464100
PVof I (t)                       $          57.450.00     $     45.983.09
NPV                              $              0.42
Table 3 Provincia de Buenos Aires - Evolution of the Educational
Expenditures 1993-1998; (in Mlns of 1998 pesos)
1993    1994      1995 1996   1997   1998
Total Expenditures DGCyE            1737    2,013     2,192 2,365  2,770  3,286
RecurrentExpenditures               1,732   1,997     2,187 2,319  2,554  3,065
Staff                          1,453   1,643     1,759 1,861  2,053  2,496
Goods and services             44      43        66   78      95     114
Rec. transf. (pnv. Schools)    234     311       361  380    406    455
Other                          1       0         0    0       0    0 
Capital expenditunes               4        15        4    45     214    220
Other expenditures                  0       0         1    1       2      1
'Fondo Reparaci6n Conurbano'       105      68       53   30      112   28
Recurrent costs                12      2         4    3       36     6
Capital costs                  93      66        49   27      76    22
Ministry of Public VV\rks           19      10        11   59     297   32
Total PBA education sector   a      1,860   2,091     2,256 2,454  3,179  3,345
Provincial Public Expenditures b   6,888   7,770      7,521 8,363  9,714  10,588
alb (1) 27                                 27        30   29      33    31.5
-64 -



Source: Province of Buenos Aires; Provincal Ministry of Economy
Table 4: PBA composition of spending per educaton level (percenta es              .
Category                                           1994      1995      196       1997       1998
Psychology                                         5.4       4.7       4.3       4.1        3.8
Special Educaton (handicapped)                     5.1       4.3       4.2       4.0        3.8
Pre-School                                         7.8       7.1       8.9        7.1       6.8
Primary (EGB 1, 11 and 1I1)                        29.5      28.7      32.3      30.9       38.4
Secondary ()                                       26.0      24.5      23.4      25.8       22.3
Sub-Total Public Primary + Secondary               55.5      53.2      55.7      56.7       58.7
Adults Education                                   2.5       2.0       1.9        1.8       2.8
Physical Education                                 3.0       2.6       25        2.6       2.1
Teacher Training                                   3.4       4.0       3.6       3.4        3.2
Artistic Educaton                                  3.2       3.0       2.6        2.4       2.2
Private Schools Subsidies                           141      19.1      18.2       17.9      16.5
Total to Schools                                   100       100       100        100       100
Schools a % of Total Education                     87.5       K8      85.3      72.8       81.6
Table 5:
Table 1: Current Balance as % of Current Revenues (in %)
1998        1999         2000         2001        2002         2003
Revenue Scenarios:
High Case                      -4%        -16%         -16%          -7%          -1%           2%
Middle Case                    -4%        -16%         -16%         -12%          -7%          -3%
Low Case                       -4%        -16%         -16%         -13%         -12%         -10%
Table 2: Overall Balance as % of Current Revenues (in %)
1998        1999         2000         2001        2002         2003
Revenue Scenarios:
High Case                    -14%         -25%         -21%         -10%          -4%          0%
Middle Case                  -14%         -25%         -21%         -15%        -10%           -5%
Low Case                     -14%         -25%         -21%         -17%         -15%         -13%
Table 3: Debt Stock as %  of Annual Current Revenues (in %)
1998        1999         2000         2001        2002         2003
Revenue Scenarios:
High Case                     32%          50%          70%          75%         75%          72%
Middle Case                   32%          50%          70%          83%         89%          90%
Low Case                      32%          50%          70%          86%         98%         108%
- 65 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank guidelines on
procurement of goods, works and services, and using standard contract documents acceptable to the World
Bank guidelines, "Procurement Under IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits", January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and guidelines on "Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999),
and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table
A.
Procurement activities will be carried out by a project unit in the Ministry of Education of the Province of
Buenos Aires, currently managing the PRODYMES III project. The Operations Manual will include, in
addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding Documents to be used in each case, as well
as contracts to be awarded on the basis of quotations. Where no relevant standard contract exists, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank will be used
Procurement of Civil works
The project will finance civil works for the total amount of US$66.4 million equivalent, out of which
US$40.65 million will be financed under the loan. These civil works comprise building about 35 new
schools for secondary education and the refurbishment and upgrading of classrooms, laboratories, libraries
and other facilities in about 165 existing schools in the Province of Buenos Aires.
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Civil works, including building of new schools and upgrading
of infrastructure of other schools and existing laboratories and libraries estimated to cost more than
US$350,000 per contract shall be procured following NCB procedures, using model bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank. It is expected that contracts for the total amount of approximately US$51.1 million
equivalent will be placed following this methodology;
(b) Price Comparison (PC). Civil works, including upgrading and refurbishment of infrastructure of
existing schools, laboratories, libraries and other facilities expected to cost less than US$350,000
equivalent may be procured through comparison of at least three quotations from qualified contractors
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts, up to an aggregate amount of US$15.3 million equivalent. The
school Cooperadoras will preselect local companies to take on the construction and rehabilitation works,
with the fnal selection and hiring done by the UEP. Each Cooperadora will follow a predetermined
evaluation criteria provided by the PIU in order to assess the capacity and experience of each of the
construction companies invited to submit quotations. The PIU will keep records at central level of the
capacity assessments for each company carried out by the Cooperadoras, as well as keep performance
records for those companies awarded contracts under the proposed project. A team of inspectors financed
by the project will assist the Cooperadoras and provide technical assistance during the rehabilitation and
construction works.
No individual civil works contracts are expected to cost more than US$1.45 million for building new
schools and US$0.2 million for upgrading and refurbishment of existing infrastructure.
- 66 -



Procurement of Goods
Goods including computer hardware and software, office equipment, vehicles, teaching material and
supplies, for the total amount of US$13.6 million, out of which the Bank will finance US$9.5 million
equivalent shall be procured.
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for teaching materials and supplies and computer
hardware and software estimated to cost more than US$350,000 shall be procured following ICB
procedures, using Bank's standard bidding documents.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Contracts for other equipment and vehicles estimated to cost
less than US$350,000 shall be procured following NCB procedures using model bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$4.0 million equivalent.
(c) Price Comparison (National /International shopping). Goods such as office and computer hardware
and software, and vehicles procured separately, among others, estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million equivalent would be procured through
price comparison.
Teaching and training materials shall also be procured for the estimated amount of US$180,000 and will be
financed entirely under national proceeds.
Consultants' Services
Consulting services including, among others, technical assistance, scholarships, teacher intemships and
other training activities, for the total amount of US$0.8 million equivalent, financed 100% by the loan shall
be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised on September 1997 and January 1999).
Consulting firms for technical assistance and architcctural design of new schools construction will be hired
through Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) for contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent
or more, totaling about US$0.3 million equivalent.
It is expected that about US$0.5 million equivalent of the total amount assigned to this category will
finance individual consultants as follows:
(a)    an estimated 0.3m would be allocated to the financing of contracts with individual engineers and
architects who will be responsible for the supervision of small civil works construction (refurbishment of
165 schools with a cost not to exceed US$0.2m equivalent per contract), managed by the central PIU and
working in coordination with inspectors and staff of the provincial infrastructure directorate (Direcci6n
Provincial de Infraestructura);
(b)    about US$0.2m will be allocated to the financing of contracts with individual staff charged with
the responsibility of providing technical assistance to eligible schools for the formulation of the Innovative
Projects, to be carried out at school level.
Scholarships, teacher internshins and trainin!
About US$2.8m equivalent would be allocated for the financing of the contracts for technical staff and
trainer for pedagogical institutional strengthening activities under the Quality and Equity component,
implemented at school level. This category shall be financed 100% under the loan funds.
-67 -



Individual consultants, trainers and visiting professors would be hired on the basis of their qualifications, in
accordance with the procedures described in Section 5 of the Consultant Guidelines. Whenever possible,
the Project may publish requests for notes of interest in individual assignments in national and international
media.
Innovative Proiect's Fund
The project will also finance the total amount of US$1.7 million for innovative projects presented by
eligible schools throughout the Province of Buenos Aires under Component II. Grant recipients will be
selected based on the criteria outlined in the Operational Manual and financed 100% (excluding taxes)
under the loan account. The total cost of each individual project shall not exceed the amount of US$5,000
equivalent.
Project Coordinating Unit (PCLT)
The loan will finance about US$950,000 at 100% from the loan account for the fees of consultants hired in
the Project Coordinating unit (PCU). It is expected that the same PCU that is currently managing the
Secondary Education III project (PRODYMES III) will take over the responsibility of implementing the
proposed project.
The PCU shall be adequately staffed at all times with qualified personnel headed by a Project Coordinator
and assisted by technical specialists and support staff. Key managerial positions in the PCU, irrespective
of contract amounts, shall be approved ex-ante by the Bank. As much as possible, PCU positions should
be filled following competitive open procedures with vacancies advertised in local media.
Recurrent PIU costs for the estimated amount of US$600,000 shall be financed entirely by national
counterparts.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The Bank's prior review would be required for:
(a) Civil works:
(i) all NCB contracts estimated to cost more than US$750,000 equivalent;
(ii) the first NCB contract each year regardless of the amount;
(b) Goods:
(i) all contracts to be awarded under ICB;
(c) Consultants' services:
(i) for consulting firms, all contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more;
(ii) for individual consultants, all contracts estimated to cost US$50,000/year or more:
(iii) contracts of a critical nature, and managerial positions in the PCU, regardless of the
estimated cost, as may be reasonably determined by the Bank;
(iv) extensions of contracts with consulting firms raising the total contract value at
US$ 100,000 or above;
(v) extensions of contracts with individual consultants raising the total contract value at
US$50,000/year equivalent or more;
-68 -



(vi) fitms selected on single source; and
(vii) key staff positions at the Project Coordinating Unit.
(d)   the first 5 subprojects to be financed under the Innovative Project's Fund.
Under current prior review arrangements it is expected that 32% of the contracts for goods, 45% of
the contracts for civil works and 12% of consulting services contracts would be subject to prior
review, representing 80%, 65% and 25%, respectively of funds allocated to each category.
Procurement Plan
At pre-appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods. At the beginning of each
calendar year, the Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for
the coming year which shall include ICB and NCB procedures, smaller procurement and consulting
services and training as well as the number and estimated costs for the subprojects to be financed under the
proposed loan in accordance with the original Procurement Plan.
Procurement Audits
The project will carry out procurement audits carried out by an independent external firm under
terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank, in order to determine compliance with Bank's
guidelines in project procurement. These procurement audits may be combined with the annual financial
audits or carried out independently, as the Bank may reasonably determine.
Assessment of the aLency's caDacitv to imDlement Drocurement
An assessment of the agency in charge of implementing procurement actions for the project has been
carried out identifying the organizational structure of the proposed PCU, the capacity and experience to
implement procurement and interaction between the project's unit and the Ministry of Education and other
provincial authorities (Tribunal de Cuentas de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, Auditoria Intema de la
Direcci6n General de Cultura y Educaci6n -DGCyE-, etc.). During loan negotiations, the Bank's task
team and the Borrower's representatives will agree on a specific action plan to address the weaknesses and
potential risks identified in the Agency Capacity Assessment, defining a time table for implementing the
corresponding activities. It is expected that a satisfactory action plan and the implementation of the early
activities will be a condition of loan effectiveness.  The project's risk factor has been determined as
AVERAGE".
Disbursement
The proposed loan will disburse over a period of 4 years. The expected closing date is
December 31, 2004. Disbursements will be made for (i) Civil works: 65% of eligible expenditures, totaling
US$40.65 million; (ii) Goods: 100 % of foreign expenditures and 65% of local, for the total amount of
US$9.5 million; (iii) Consulting services and Training: 100 % (excluding taxes) of the total US$3.6
million, among which 0.3 million will be used for (a) activities implemented at central level and US$3.0 for
(b) activities at school level; (iv) Subprojects under Innovative Project Fund: 100% (excluding taxes) of
the total of US$1.7 million; and (v) Project Administration (PCU) 100% of consultants' fees - excluding
taxes and operational costs up to the amount of US$0.95 million.
- 69 -



Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project is expected to be completed over a 4-year period. Funds will be disbursed according to
the categories and percentages shown in Table C of this annex. The Government's counterpart funds
needed for each fiscal year to cover the share of total project expenses not financed by the Bank will be
allocated in each year's budget made available for the Project.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements of the loan proceeds for contracts valued at less than US$350,000 for goods,
US$750,000 for civil works and US$100,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 with individual
consultants will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation supporting
claims under SOEs will be retained by the PCU and made available for review and examination by auditors
and Bank supervision members.
Financial Manaeement
The objective of the review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial
management system as required by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
The review, which included visits to PCUILJEP, was based on the Bank's guidelines for "Review of
Financial Management System". It was also focused on assessment of the project's accounting system,
staffing, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well
as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in
support of Withdrawal Applications. The project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. However, the project does not yet have in place an adequate project financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project (PMR) as required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements. It has been established that
the PCU/JEP maintains: (i) adequately trained and qualified staff; and (ii) separation of functions and
responsabilities, which ensure adequate internal management control and whcih prevents conflicts of
interest. It was agreed that there will be SOE-based disbursement for transition period of six-month (6)
from the effectiveness. Below is the agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
ACTION PLAN
The following actions will be taken by PCU:
1. Development of the Financial Procedures Manual, and updated by PCU on a regular basis.
2. Selection of performance indicators to measure the project implementation, deviation analysis to
apply an action and to monitor the efficiency of sources.
3. Definition of a chart of accounts after the appraisal period to submit quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs) and annual Financial Statements for stakeholders and Auditing.
4. Submisssion of PMRs within a period of six months from the date of effectiveness.
5. Selection of disbursement method to be used at the time of PMRs submission.
- 70 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
ToitI Cm ot
Epeu~ r Caote       -  -             P!0rueiit   _~Q                         (muling
1. Civil works                    0.0         51.1        15.3                     66.4
(0.0)      (29.4)      (11.15)                  (40.64)
2. Goods                          8.8          4.0         0.8                     13.6
(6.0)        (3.0)       (0.5)                   (9.5)
3. Consulting Services and
Training
(a) at central level                                      0.3                     0.3
(0.3)                   (0.3)
(b) at school level                                       3.3                     3.3
(3.3)                   (3.3)
4. Grants for subprojects                                   1.7                     1.7
(1.7)                   (1.7)
5. Project Administration*
(a) Consultants                                          0.95                    0.95
(0.95)                  (0.95)
(b) Operating costs                                                 0.65         0.65
(0.0)        (0.0)
6. Teaching and training                                              0.2           0.2
material
(0.0)        (0.0)
7. Recurrent costs                                                   86.2          86.2
(0.0)        (0.0)
8. Front-end fee                                           0.6                      0.6
(0.6)                   (0.6)
Total                           8.8         55.1        22.95     87.05        173.90
(6.0)      (32.4)      (18.5)      (0.0)       (56.99)
- 71 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
consultant                                  Selection   Method
Servies
ExPenditure     QCBS    QaS         SF13       LCS       CQ       Other     N.BSFX   Total Cost'
Category                .     .
A. Firms           0.30      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.30
(0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      3.30      0.00      3.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.30)    (0.00)    (3.30)
Total   0.30      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.30       0.00      3.60
_  (0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.30)    (0.00)    (3.60)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure           Contract Value            Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)               Method                 Prior Review
US $ thousands                                   US S millions
1. Civil Works
Refurbishment and                >350                     NCB                    All >750
upgrading
<350               Three quotations             None
2. Goods
Hardware & soft., office         >350                     ICB                      All
eq, teaching and
Training material, vehicles     100-350                  NCB
<100            National/Intl' Shopping         None
3. Consulting Services and
Training
- Firms
Technical Assistance             >200                    QCBS                      All
- 72 -



Technical Assistance             <200                 QCBS/LCS                    All
T/A, Training                    <100                    LCS                   ToRs only
Training                         <50                     SCQ                   ToRs only
- Individuals                 >50                  Individuals                 All
<50                  Individuals             ToRs only
4. Administration Costs
Staff (Consultants)              >50                   Individuals                All
<50                 Individuals              ToRs only
- 73 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
1. Civil works                            37.000                  65% of expenditures
2. Goods                                   9.000            100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost),
and 65% for other items procured
locally
3. Consulting Services & Training                            100% of expenditures before taxes
and Audits
(a)    at central level                    0.300
(b)    at school level                     3.000
4. Grants for Innovative  School           1.200                100% of amounts disbursed
Subprojects
5. Project Administration                  0.950                         100%
6. Front-end Fee                           0.569
Unallocated                                4.970
Total                                      56.990
- 74 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       16                            11
First Bank mission (identification)              12/01/99                      12/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                      10/16/2000                    09/18/2000
Negotiations                                     10/30/2000                    10/11/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness
Prepared by:
Direccion General de Cultura y Administraci6n
Preparation assistance:
UEP (DGCyE)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jacob Bregman                      Senior Education Specialist and Task Team Leader
Sandra Cesilini                   Social Sector Specialist
Luis Pisani                       Education Specialist, Consultant
Marcelo Becerra                   Economist, Consultant
Mariana Montiel                   Lawyer, LEGLA
Anita Artaza                      COSTAB specialist, Consultant
Alejandro Yepes                   Operations Assistant
Jose Moscoso                      Procurement specialist
Susana Cirigliano                 Financial Management specialist
Ruth Izquierdo                    Administrative Assistant
- 75 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A. Project Implementation Documents:
1. Project Implementation Plan for the Expansion of Access Component
2. Implementation time table and budget for Improvements in Quality and Relevance of
Education Component
B. Bank Staff Assessments:
1. Economic Analysis: Cost-Benefit and Cost-Effectiveness
2. Financial Analysis
3. Social Assessment
C. Project history documents:
1. Aide Memoires for Identification, Preparation and Pre-Appraisal missions
2. Back-to-Office Reports for Identification, Preparation and Pre-Appraisal missions
3. Project Concept Document
4. Comments on Project Concept Document
5. Minutes of the PCD review meeting
6. Detailed Cost Tables
D. Project background documents presented by the DGCyE:
1. Project Preparation Documents in each sub-component
2. "El Polimodal: Programa de Transformaci6n" (The Polimodal transfornation program)
3. "Informaci6n Basica Preliminar" (Basic education and socio-economic infornation for
the Province of Buenos Aires)
4. Situation of Secondary Schools Report
5. Provincial Education Sector Administrative Reforrn program
6. Document on Buenos Aires School Infrastructure
E. Relevant Legal Documents:
1. Federal Education Law
2. Provincial Education Law
3. Federal Education Pact
4. Law for the creation of the COPRET
F. Other projects' documents relevant to the proposed project:
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files
-76 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                      IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm RevJd
P044447       2001 Argentina                 AR Catamarca Provincial Reform                    70.70       0.00       0 00      70.70       0.00      0.00
P057449       1999 Argentina                 AR State Modemization                             30.30       0.00       0.00      26.61      21 61      0.00
P043418       1997 Argentina                 AR-AIDS AND STD CONTROL                            1500       0.00       0.00       3,50       2.77      0.00
P058526       1999 Argentina                 AR-DRUG PREVENTION (LIL)                           4.75       0.00       0.00       4.70       2.21      0.00
P063388       2000 Argentina                 AR-HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE UNINSURED              4.90       0.00       0.00       4.90       1.40      0.00
P045687       1996 Argentina                 AR-HEALTH INSURANCE TA                            2500        0.00       0.00       0.85       0.85      0.00
P034091       1996 Argentina                 AR-HIGHER ED. REFORM                             165.00       0.00       0.00      76.54      76.54      2.20
P006059       1997 Argentina                 AR-MATERNAL & CHILD HLTH & NUTRITION 2           100.00       0.00       0.00      59.08       0.08      0.00
P006030       1996 Argentina                 AR-PROV. HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                101.40      0.00       0.0       47.98      45.68      0.00
P055482       2000 Argentina                 AR-PUB. HLTH. SURV. & DISEASE CONTROL             52.50       0.00       0.00      52.50       6.83      0.00
P005992       1995 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARY ED 1                                190.00       0.00      2131       31.02      52.32     32 32
P006057       1996 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARY ED. 2                                115.50      0.00       0.00      68.17      60.11      0.00
P050714       1998 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARY EDUCATION 3                          119.00      0.00       0.00      31.08      29.42      0.00
P049269       1998 Argentina                 AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 3                           284.00       0.00       0.00      72.28      72.28      000
P006058       1999 Argentina                 AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 4                            90.75       0.00       0.00      75.51      10.54      0.00
P039584       1997 Argentina                  B.A.URB.TSP                                     200.00       0.00       0.00     141.49      69.83      0.00
P055935       1998 Argentina                 EL NINO EMERGENCY                                 42.00       0.00       0.00      32.88      32.88     15.55
P006052       1997 Argentina                 FLOOD PROTECTION                                 200.00       0.00       0.00     165.33      98.67     35 00
P006040       1996 Argentina                 FORESTRY/DV                                       16.00       0.00       0.00       8.57       381       0.00
P006055       1996 Argentina                 MINING SCTR DEVT                                  30.00       0.00       0.00       1.82       0.52      0.00
P055477       1998 Argentina                 MININGTA                                          39.50       0.00       0.00      13.84      13.84      0.00
P050713       1998 Argentina                 MODEL COURT DEV.                                   500        0.00       0.00       4.15       3.45      0.00
P006060       1995 Argentina                 MUNICDEVTII                                      210.00       0.00       0.00      69.92     -51.40      0.00
P040808       1997 Argentina                 N.FOREST/PROTC                                     19.50      0.00       0.00      13.46      -1.20      0.00
P052590       1998 Argentina                 NAT H,WY REHAB&MAINT                             450.00       0.00       0.00     271.66     165.92      0.00
P046821       1997 Argentina                 PENSIONTA                                         20.00       0.00       0.00       8.81       7.97      0.00
P006050       1998 Argentina                 POLLUTION MGT.                                    18.00       0.00       0.00      17.58      10.05      0.98
P006010       1997 Argentina                  PROVAG DEVT I                                    125.00      0.00       0.00     116.21      30.89      6.27
P006018       1995 Argentina                  PROV DEVT II                                    225.00       0.00       0.00      85.22      -1.12      0.00
P005980       1997 Argentina                 PROV ROADS                                        300.00      0.00       0.00     265.05     166.39      0.00
P037049       1996 Argentina                  PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                                 16.00      0.00       5.50       7.25      12.75      0.00
P006043       1999 Argentina                  RENEWENERGYR.MKTS                                30.00       0.00       0.00      29.10       3.30      0.00
P005968       1987 Argentina                 SEGBAV                                           276.00       0.W        0.00      32.24      32.24      0.00
P006041       1998 Argentina                 SMALL FARMER DV.                                  75.00       0.00       0.00      42.21      22.19     17.88
P055461       1999 Argentina                  SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS                              1000        0.00       0.00       7.25       4.25      0.00
P062992       1999 Argentina                  SPEC REPURCHASE                                  505.05      0.00       0.00     500.00       0.00      0.00
P062991       1999 Argentina                  SPECIAL SAL (SSAL)                             2525.25       0.00     250.00     500.00     750.00    500.00
P006046       1999 Argentina                 WATER SCTR RFRM                                   30.00       0.00       0.00      30.00       8.34      0.00
Total:    6736.10        0.00      276.81     2989.46   1766.21    610.20
- 77 -



ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
20-Sep-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998              AUTCL                          5.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              AceiteraChabas                 0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00
1994              Aceitera General               7.50    0.00    6.90    0.00    7.50    0.00    6.90    0.00
1960/95/97/99     Acindar                       50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96        Aguas                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977/84/86/88/94/96  Alpargatas                 10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50   10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50
1999              American Plast                10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Arg Equity Inv.                0.00    2.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.84    0.00    0.00
2000               Argentina SMMC                0.00   12.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/99           BGN                            0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00
1989/91/96        Banco Frances                  4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99           Banco Galicia                 50.00    0.00    0.00  245.00   50.00    0.00    0.00  245.00
1995/97           Banco Roberts                 30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Bansud                         3.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.39    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Bco Hipotecario              25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50   25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50
1996              Brahma - ARG                  14.93    0.00    0.00   16.50   14.93    0.00    0.00   16.50
1988/93           Bunge y Born                   0.53    0.00    0.00    4.01    0.53    0.00    0.00    4.01
1996              CAPSA                          9.82    0.00    5.00   27.00    9.82    0.00    5.00   27.00
1999              CCI                            0.00   20.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    6.00    0.00
1995              CEPA                           6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20    6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20
2000               Cefas                        10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Correo Argentino              63.00    6.82    5.18    0.00   63.00    6.82    5.18    0.00
1994/95           EDENOR                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              F.V. S.A.                     11.25    0.00    4.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    4.00    0.00
1998              FAID                          0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00
2000               FAPLAC                       10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1992              FEPSA                          2.75    0.00    2.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    2.00    0.00
1997              FRIAR                         10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00
1996              Grunbaum                       6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33    6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33
1997              Guipeba                       13.93    0.00    5.00    0.00   13.93    0.00    5.00    0.00
1998              Hospital Privado               9.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
Huantraico                    0.00   17.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Kleppe/Caldero                 6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97           MBA                            0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1996              Malteria Pampa                 3.50    0.00    1.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    1.00    0.00
1992/93/96        Mastellone                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Milkaut                        7.50    0.00   10.00    3.00    7.50    0.00   10.00    3.00
0/97               Minetti                      30.00    0.00   14.00  100.00   30.00    0.00   14.00  100.00
1978/81/86/87/91/93/9 Molinos                    0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00
6/99               Nahuelsat                    17.50    5.00    0.00    0.00   17.50    5.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94           Neuquen Basin                  0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.81    0.00    0.00
1995              Nuevo Central                  3.13    3.00    0.00    3.75    3.13    3.00    0.00    3.75
1996/99           Oleaginosa Oeste               1.53    0.00    2.50    0.62    1.53    0.00    2.50    0.62
1993              PAE-Argentine                  9.09    0.00    0.00   18.18    9.09    0.00    0.00   18.18
1992
1992/95
Total Portfolio:      646.13  127.46  180.96  882.97  626.03   76.35   161.96  882.97
- 78 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               ALEF                         25000.00      0.00      0.00 150000.00
2000              APSF                          20000.00      0.00   5000.00  30000.00
1999              American Plast                    0.00      0.00    350.00      0.00
2000              Argentina SMMC                100000.00     0.00      0.00 450000.00
1999              Biopork                        5200.00   2000.00      0.00   5000.00
2000               CAG Fund                         0.00      0.00  10000.00      0.00
1999              DI TELLA                       9000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Galicia BLINC                     0.00      0.00      0.00  75000.00
1998              U.Belgrano                    15000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               USAL                          10000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Unisoy                         5000.00   2000.00      0.00   4000.00
Total Pending Commitment:    189200.00   4000.00  15350.00 714000.00
- 79 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARGENTINA: Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Amerka   middle.                          -     -----
Argentins   & Carit.  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-year (miions)                         366        SC9       573                  Life expectancy
GNP per caPita (Atlas method, USS)                    7.600     3,840     4,900
GNP (Alts mthood. US$ billions)                       277.9     1.955     2,811
Averag annual growth 1993-9S
Population (6)                                          1.3        16        1,4
Labor force (#)                                         21        2.5        21      GNP           A                  Gross
per                             pn mary
Most recent eatinate (tateet year available, 190341f1                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty ( of populaton below noanel poiwety line)       18
Urban populabon (t of Ml populatIon)                    90         75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years;                        73         7(1       70
Infant mortality (per 1,OM Ihe births)                  19        31        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               2          8         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (X Of populbon)         65         75        78
IliteracV (% of popubion age 15-)                        3         12        IC
Gross pDmaery enroltment (3 ofschool-ego populdation)  111        113       109            Argentina
Male                                                 1t1          -         - ..         --Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               111
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM TRENOS
1979     1989      1998       1        9S9t9  '
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           69.3      76,6     298.1     282.8
Gross domestc investmentlGOF                  25.9     155       199        19.1
Exprts of oods and servwcesIGOP               685      13.1      10.4        9.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   26.0      22.0      174        17.4
Gross national savings/GOP                   25.2      13.6      151       14.8
Current account balance/GDP                   -0.e     - 17       -4.68      4.3     D
Interest pavments/GDP                          1.4      2.0       24         2.8     Domesicg                     Investment
Total debtfGW                                 350.2    85.6      47.1      S1.2      Sawngs
Total debt service/exports                   22.7      36.4      52.8      69,6
Present value of debtGODF                                        50.5
Present value of debtlevorts                                    410.1
Indebtedness
1S7949  1989-99      1996      1999   199943
(4verage -nnulo/rowfvl
GOP                                  -0.4      5.0      39 6      3.1        3.8        -A rgen tina
GNP per capita                       -2A4     4.1       24        -4.1      2.9               Upper-middle-income group      a
ExportS of goods and seNices         Z.        6.9     10.1      -1.1        4,1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
Anriculture                                    7.8      9.6        5.7       4.6     20
IndustrV                                     44.0      42.3      28.7      2683      1D
Manufacturinn                               32.7     30.9       19.1      18.2 o
Services                                     48.2      48.0      65.6       67.1    910                      97   9
Private consumption                          63.0      73.5      70.7      69.7    -20
General government consumption                11.0      4.5       11.9      12.9              -GDI         - 0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                  6.3      6.6      12.9       11.5
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(avera.ge annual growth)
Agrculture                                     0.5      4.0      10.3       -0.5    30
Industrb                                      -1.2      4.6        3.2      -5.1    20 
Manufacturing                               -0.9      3.6        1.6      -6.9
Services                                       0.5      5.0       4.7       -1.4         / 
Private consumption                                     3.8      12.1       4.2      0
General govemment consumption                           1.3      -1.1        1.2            94          9 s6s 7w1\s5
Gross domestic investmenl                     -4.6      9.3       6.6       -7.6    I( I
Imports of poods and services                 -5A4     19.6       8.4      -11.2    |                 Exports   ---Imports
Gross national producl                       -1.0       5.4       3.5       -3.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrY (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 80 -



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1979    1989       1998      1999     Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                       1-
Consumer prces                             159.5  3,066.3       0.9     -2.2     1 |s
Implicit GOP deflator                      147.4  3,057.6      -2.0     -2.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, indudes current grants)                                                9     94   95    9    97
Current revenue                              8.0    15.5       18.8     19,3    -5
Current budget balance                       3.7    -3.5       -0.3     -1.5            -GDP deflator -C-CPl
Overall surplusideficd                      -1.4    -6.3       -1.4     -1.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             11979    1989      199S      1999     Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   9,656    26,441    23,315    35o000
Food                                        ..   1,016      3,056    2,428
Meal                                        ..    716         836      653    28,000-
Manufactures                                ..   3,186    17,387   15,082    21,000                lMII11III1
Total imports (cifl                           ..   4,230    31,404    25,538 d5
Food                                        ..       ..        ..      466
Fuel and energy                             ..    389         852      674      7,000
Capital goods                               ..   1,450    15,649   11,909          0
Export price index (1995=100J                 ..       ..       92        80
Import prioce index (1995=100)                 ..      ..       92        85                aExports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..       ..       101       94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP 1%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              9,176   11,759    31,123   27,758     0
Imports of goods and services              8,773    6,254    38,568    32,557
Resource balance                            403    5,505    -7,445    -4.799
Net income                                  -973 -6,818  -7,335  -7,847    :1111111
Net current transfers                        26        8       388       394
Current account balance                     -544   -1,305   -14,392   -12,252    A
Financing items (net)                                107    10,954   11,051
Changes in net reserves                        ..   1,198     3,438    1,201    -s
Meno:
Reserves including gold (US$ mirlions)        ..  10,814    24,906   26,407
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWlLS$)         2.79E-8  4.23E-2       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      20,942   65.618   140,489  144,657
IBRD                                      367    2,281      7,417    8,591                       A: 7,417
IDA                                         0        0         0         0                            C: 5,442
G. 30,956              D: 1,705
Total debt service                         2,251    4.385    19,690   23,571    |:7,400
IBRO                                       59      417       725       998
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            -2       54        31         6
Official creditors                        233      660      2,072    1,538
Private creditors                        4,334    -732      9,527    2,882
Foreign direct investment                 206    1,028      6,150    11,120
Portfolio equity                            0        8        50   -2,093                            F 87,569
World Bank program
Commitments                                96       35      3,815      132     A -IBRD                    E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              39      316      2,029    1.573     B - IDA    D - Othler mutilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       24      221       350       445     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                   15       96      1,678    1,128
Interest payments                          36      196       375       553
Net transfers                             -21    -101       1,304      575
Development Economics                                                                                             9112100
-81 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Second Secondary Education Project
Social Assessment
Note: The complete Social Assessment Document is available upon request
Background
To date, considerable infornation about the social sectors in Argentina has been gathered: (i) 1998 and
1999 the Bank carried out a poverty study in argentina that focused on poverty data by province and the
link between this variable and the educational level achievement and labor market participation in the
provinces; (ii) in 1999 the Bank carried out a study on the management of social risk that focuses on social
risks by age group and the type of coverage available through social programs, including educational
services; and (iii) a study on institutions that provide services to the socially-excluded, focussing on the city
of Buenos Aires. Based on the information from the previously-mentioned studies and in light of the new
challenges under the auspices of the proposed project, a Social Assessment (SA) was carried out to
determine the impact of education reform in areas of high incidence of poverty and to identify obstacles to
be considered in its implementation. The points of view of the various stakeholders potentially affected by
the project were considered including students, youth out of school, parents, school directors, teachers and
participating community organizations. Emphasis was made on the potential impact of the project's
extra-curricular activities for youth, on the improvement of youth's skills to enter the labor market and on
improving the leaming process.
Social Assessment Methodology
In order to gather more information, are also taken into account the results based on the enquiry of the
Province of Buenos Aires on the BASAL. Focus groups of parents, youth from the community who attend
and do not attend school, teachers, and school administrators of two groups of five schools in similar
social-economic level of disadvantages were selected. The first group of five schools would be part of the
Jornada Completa program (following poverty criteria), whereas the second group is meant to act as a
control group. The focus groups were interviewed on a range of issues pertaining to (i) the concept of
Jomada Completa and its usefulness; (ii) perception of the quality of education provided in public schools;
(iii) perception of the relationship between secondary education and access to the labor market; (iv) factors
that will improve the quality of education; (v) perception of the scholarship program and its relation to
Jomada Completa; and (vi) opinion on the implementation of education reform in the PBA.
The methodology used was qualitative and semi-structured, and consists in knowing the opinions of the
group as a whole and the positions taken by the representatives of the selected educational community, with
respect to expectations, demands, degree of satisfaction and level of information with reference to the
contents evaluated.
The work in groups is used as a strategy through which the interaction of the individuals allows each
participant to produce and reproduce categories; particular emotions, beliefs, values and attitudes are
rebuilt in a way that it is possible to identify contextually and reproduce the global society functioning.
Investigation was done in the schools of the Province of Buenos Aires, in the localities of Aimirante Brown,
- 82 -



Marcos Paz, Jose C. Paz, Pehuajo and San Fernando, corresponding to different social-demographic
characteristics. One of the characteristics taken into account was the one related to poverty indicators.
Another important indicator relates to those students categorized as living in disadvantaged social -
economic conditions ("matricula en dificultad").
In the selection of the schools, as mentioned before, were included five that will be selected as full-time turn
and five with part-time turn, to be used as a control group.
Almirante Brown - 8 groups - 70 participants
Marcos Paz - 8 groups - 65 participants
Jose C. Paz - 8 groups - 78 participants
Pehuajo - 10 groups - 80 participants
San Fernando - 8 groups - 78 participants
Directors - 10 groups - 24 participants
Teachers - 10 groups - 89 participants
Students - 10 groups - 120 participants
Parents - 10 groups - 127 participants
Supervisors - 1 group - 2 participants (Pehuajo)
Social Service Volunteers - 1 group - 9 participants (Pehuajo)
Total: 42 groups - 371 participants
After one year of implementation, a comparison between the first group and the control group will assist in
spelling out the benefits of the reform and to monitor progress.
EGB3 Schools in Jornada      Partido     Enrolment  EGB3 Schools in Control   Enrolment
Completa                                              Group
School No. 39, Maestro        Almirante       260     School No. 47, Prof. Eduardo   630
Ignacio F. Rodriguez           Brown                            Toffes
School No. 12, Tte. Gral.    Marcos Paz       183        School No. 9, Hip6lito      600
Pedro E. Aramburu                                              Irigoyen
School No. 18, Blas Parera   Jose C. Paz      300        School No. 11, Fragata      512
Sarmiento
School No. 48, Francisco       Pehuaj6                School No. 13, Gral. Jose de   382
Gortari                                                       San Martin
School No. 23               San Fernando      303       School No. 37, Malvinas      600
Argentinas
Total Students                     About 1000        Total Students        About 2500
Source: Social Assessment, 2000
Main findings of Social Assesment
On the expansion of the school day to Jornada Completa, the SA found a wide acceptance for the
implementation among the poorest part of the population, due to the fact that a full school day would be
considered as a benefit for the student in relation of the learning and in order to take the scholar off of the
street. But, it was not agreement on the targeting of Jomada Completa, around 50 % of the population
thought that JC should be universal (based on the BASAL survey). It is essential to focus on the benefit of
the Jornada Completa in social disadvantaged areas , reflected by the fact that it would lead to a reduction
in repetition rates ( i.e in the Report N 18122-UR, Document of the World Bank, the estimation of the
- 83 -



reduction is 0.35) which is one of the main problems for the schools in the poor areas.
The following are the main problems and solutions coming out from the qualitative study:
Problem                                     Proposed Solution
Alcoholism, drug use, violence, teen-age pregnancy,    Social Emergency Teams which can deal with these
sexual abuse.                                   issues.
Active participation of Direction of Psychology and other
professionals in preventing these situations.
School drop-out and absenteeism due to the need of    Scholarships which may grant class attendance. Massive
students to cooperate with their parents in family  implementation of Full Day Schools.
economy._
Students who baby-sit their younger siblings while  New Day Care Centers and Kindergartens for younger
parents are at work.                           siblings of students who attend Full Day Schools.
Large number of parents with low level of formal  Semi-presential courses to allow parents of students
education.                                      enrolled in Full Day programs to finish primary school
and EGB3; this should help parents in assisting their
children to improve performance at school.
Rigid and structured schools with no possibility for    Workshops for teachers and school directors to re-think
innovation in the learning process.             the school as a supportive environment opened to the
community.
Decreasing institutional cohesion; no links within and   Work with the educational community in order to
among schools.                                  encourage better communication among its members.
Hegemonic communication with disqualification of    Workshops aimed to generate sinergy among components
others.                                         of the educational system.
Implementation of Full Day Schools projects not yet   Monitoring and follow-up of implementation of Full Day
developed.                                      Schools project which may grant success and replication.
Physical exhaustion of teachers as a result of by an 8   Classroom based project planning which may facilitate
hour teaching period in the same room with the same   work and make it more dynamic throughout the day.
group of students.
Lack of work/labor oriented workshops and activities.  Promotion of workshops and training activities (i.e.
computer skills) with community organizations.
Lack of student driven workshops and leisure time  Workshops: theater, fine arts, music, farming.
activities.
- 84 -



High teacher turnover, substitute teachers, and  Guarantee of no teacher vacancies in Full Day Schools
vacancies.
Lack of adequate buildings. Some schools hold EGB   Building of classrooms for grades sections in Full Day
III and Polimodal together because of lack of room to  School buildings, in order to avoid commuting of
have separate sections.                        teachers and students.
Lack of use of school dining-hall for social activities.  Use of school dining-halls as social activity centers.
25% salary reduction produced by the loss of one  Complementary lump sum for those teachers who go into
regular appointment, as teachers go into the Full Day   Full Day School regime.
School regime.
Poor school management, extremely centralized, with   Continuous socio-pedagogic support with province own
neither pedagogic support, nor training to face risky and resources, intemships, and community support (i.e.
violent situations.                            church groups, NGOs)
Autonomy to partially define the curricula according to
the needs and the institutional educational project.
Pilot project status with new teachers' regulation which
should include:
- salary
- recruitmnent
- autonomy in school resources management
Administrative overload                        New administrative tasks for school employees whose
previous main tasks were related students discipline, in
order to free teachers from performing those
administrative tasks; gradual incorporation of self
discipline system in the Polimodal cycle.
Quality of Education at each school depends directly on Competitive selection of schools which will enter into the
teachers/management teams                      Full Day School program.
Training and advisory services in project design for
management teams, teachers and the whole educational
community, in order to get every school to have equal
______  opportunities in the selection process.
Agreement on proposed solutions obtained from the Social assessment
- 85 -



The PBA agree with the following actions and solutions:
Active participation of Direction of Psychology and other professionals integrating social Emergency
Teams for Jomada Completa schools in order to deal with alcoholism, drug use, violence, teen-age
pregnancy, sexual abuse.
Work with the educational community in order to encourage better communication among parents,
students, teachers, and school principals.
Teachers who go into the Jomada Completa regime will have a 100 % salary increase to avoid lack of
motivation. Complementary lump sum for those teachers who go into Full Day School regime. Poor
school management, extremely centralized, with neither pedagogic support, nor training to face risky and
violent situations, assisted with special training programs.
Continuous social-pedagogic support with province own resources, intemships, and community support
(i.e. church groups, NGOs). Autonomy to partially define the curricula according to the needs and the
School Development Plans. Project status with new teacher's regulation which should include concourse
selection for vice-directors in EGB III.
Quality of Education at each school depends directly on teachers/management teams. Competitive
selection of schools which will enter into the Full Day School program. The PBA will include "ownership"
as eligibility criteria for the JC schools selected in the project.
Training and advisory services in project designed for management teams, teachers and the whole
educational community, in order to get every school to have equal opportunities in the selection process.
Eligibility criteria
Based on the Social Assessment results, the WB and the PBA agreed on the eligibility criteria for the 200
schools. This criteria are taken into account on social-economic and poverty issues, educational risk,
regional representativeness, ownership by the educational community and land legal possession.
1. The selection will be based on the social-economic profile of the school population, measured
by various characteristics prepared by schools directors in cooperation with teachers and the
school community (see below);
2. All the education Regions (16) should be included in the sample of the selected (about200)
EGB3 schools;
3. Land availability for access expansion should be legally ensured for all the schools;
4. Ownership of the "Jormana Completa" model and its implementation should be shown
through a PEI ("Proyecto Educativo Institucional)" in each of the selected (about 200) EGb3
schools, which is equivalent to a school development plan.
Socio-economic urofile of the school Population. Selection criteria under item 1. have been determined
on the basis of the student population living in social-economic disadvantaged conditions. These
conditions are measured against various characteristics of the household and / or the student. The family
- 86 -



information data are determined by the school director in cooperation with teachers, and the parents or
children's supervisors (community). The data are available per school and are comparable with district
averages.
Methodolo2. The DGCyE will compile the basic statistical database for at least 400 poor EGB schools,
in order to select at least 200 EGB schools as control group, and at least 200 EGB3 schools which will
implement the "Jornada Completa" (full-time). This tentative list of EGB3 schools should show their
location, and comparative "social-economic" school population data at district and regional level.
The schools in the PBA include normally three cycles (EGB 1+2+3) in one building. In the poorer urban
areas the schools are for the most part over-populated, and there is a severe shortage of space to (i)
accommodate the transfer enrolment into the EGB3 level (grades 7-9) in agreement with the new curricular
requirements and (ii) respond to the increased demand for further education from the communities, which
often live in poor conditions (housing, sanitation and other public services).
A school can be selected into the project if the percentage of its student population at EGB level "living in
disadvantaged social-economic conditions" is higher than district's average of the student population. This
"poverty-composite" indicator is based on the following social-economic data from student and their
households.
For a student to be categorized as "living in disadvantaged social-economic conditions", he/she needs
to fail into one of the following categories ("matricula en dificultad"):
1.  Pupils from "villas de emergencia" (recognized slums)
2. Pupils from families who occupy land illegally
3.  Orphans or pupils who have been abandoned by their parents
4.  Pupils who go to a neighborhood "care center" during the day ("Centros
Complementarios")
5.  Pupils from families with at least 4 of the following characteristics:
5.1. Families with more than 4 children below 18 years old;
5.2. Single-parent households with the head of the household unemployed;
5.3. Children from households in extremely poor conditions;
5.4. Children with one parent who is illiterate;
5.5. One or more of the siblings have dropped out of school prematurely;
5.6. Students from households which receive social assistance.
- 87 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Education System*a6nd  Rrm iin  the
Provinodf Buenos Aires
Previousystern
______   __________                  i             __0
Basic General Education                  TTP
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~~opIoy 10 .er                                -_                      :
New ~system
*f.dem &A*KmmIn Low ApI1-
*Prvb~bI AacUaeI Lw-  ecebe1994
6                                                                HDW 2UK -     W0%  1ank
Table A: Enrolment per level of education in Argentina (Public and Private combined)
Province                   Primary            MedioToaShr
Cordoba                                390,436            193,325          583,761                8%
Santa Fe                               429,235           181,497           610,732                9%
City of Buenos Aires                   384,006           206,680           590,686                8%
Other Provinces                       2,004,400          774,384          2,778,784              3 90/o
Total      4,979,190         2,144,372         7,123,562             100%
Fuente Direcci5n General Red Federal de Informaci6n Educativa Secretaria de Programaci6n y Evaluaci6n Educativa
Mmnisterio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n
(*):- Docentes en actividad de educaci6n comz4n del sector privado
(*):A lumnos en educaci6n comt~n del sect or orivado
- 88 -



Table B: Pupils and Teachers by Province for Public and Private Sectors
Primary                          Medio
_______________________      PuDijs       Teachers        PuDiIs            T    ers
Prov Buenos Aims               07.100       272 ,                            : 11,2
Cordoba                       85,147         4,713         82,982             10,291
Santa Fe                      101,797        5,903         58,624             7,466
City of Buenos Aires          123,622       10,655         105,240            13,807
Other Provinces              233,776         15,068        157,649            20,900
Private Sector subtotal    1.0&Q~71.        63091         67.6                9.6
Prov. Buenos Aires           1,240g4        6ta6%         '51717              52,110
C6rdoba                      305,289        17,960         110,343            13,369
Santa Fe                     327,438        18,577        122,873             13,587
City of Buenos Aires          160,384        12,868        101,440            12,200
Other Provinces              1,870,624      110,033       616,735             69,478
Public Sector subtotal       3.927.819      221,137       1.468,408          160,814
TOTAL                        4,979,190      284,228       2,144,372          244,680
Fuente Direcci6n General Red Federal de Informaci6n Educativa Secretaria de Programaci6n y Evaluacion Educativa
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Nacion
(*): Docentes en actividad de educaci6n comun del sector privado
(**):Alumnos en educacion comun del sector orivado
- 89 -



Table C: Total Provincial Public Expenditures, Social, and Education & Culture
expenditures compgrison, 1995 & 1 98                lillions)
P S   t:  A  C6rdoba    Santa Fe    Mendoza
PROVINCE                       *        1+J;!    1998           1998        1998
a. In millions of dollars            _.                                         $           $
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                         l46$ 0                 3,071        3,125        1,336
PUBLIC SOCIAL EXPENDITURE                t52          7.920      2,030        1,848        775
Education & Culture                     g9214       $           678          769          381
Basic Education                 ~Z2                            623         666          325
Higher Education & University             1 641                             46           19
Culture                                   1         $710                    6            9
Education & Culture non-defined           S        4$           4           50           28
b. As %of Public Exp.                                                          %%
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                            I          i         100          100         100
PUBLIC SOCIAL EXPENDITURE                                          66          59           58
Education & Culture                        2           922                    25          29
Basic Education                                     2220                    21          24
Higher Education & University                                   1            1           14
Education & Culture non-defined                                 0            2           2
c. As % of Public Social Exp.                                      %           %            %
PUBLIC SOCIAL EXPENDITURE                    I100                              100         0oo
Education & Culture nton-defined      P' 0,,g>        3;                                 4 
Education & Culture                                              10 1200                  100
Basic Education                                                92           87           85
Higher Education & University            2O3                    6           6            2
Education & Culture non-defined                                 0            3           4 
e. In pesos/dollars per Capita E                                   %              .
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                        .  t                     1,015       1,037        860
PUBLIC SOCIAL EXPENDITURE                                         671t22       613         4985
Education & Culture                                             224          255          245
Basic Education                                                9 13   206   221         20
Higher Education & University                            6~11               15           12
CultureI                                                                                 2
Education & Culture non-defined           261                               17           18
Source: Elaboracion en base a datos de DNPGS, Presupuesto y Cuenta de Inversion de la Provincia de Cordoba e
IIVDEC
-90-



Table E: Primary Le el Expenditure per Stud nt, 1998
Province           Expenditure/Student        Expenditure/Student
In Primary level          In Media level
Prov. BuenosAimrs                $1,287                     $1.557
C6rdoba                          $1,207                     $1,878
Santa Fe                         $1,418                     $1,894
City of BA                       $2,138                     $2,261
National Average                  $1,258                    $1,697
Fuente: Educaci6n para Todos, Llach et al.
Table F: Education Efficiency I dicators (la  est provinces in Primary and Media
Primary          Coverage       Retention     Repetition      Student/Teacher         Over aged
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ __   _ ____ ____ ___R atio   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
. Benos AireS           965%           7.8%            30Yo                19                   9.3
CUrdoba                 96.5%          72.8%           5.2%                18                   8.6
Santa Fe                96.2%          71.2%          5.8%                 17                   9.6
City of BA              96.9%          84.0%           2.4%                12                   7.3
National Average        96.1%           76%           4.5%                 17                  9.6%
Media
Prov. Buenos Aires      54.1%          38.2%          10.6%                 9                 11.0%
C6rdoba                 57.4%          52.7%           9.3%                 8                 10.9%
Santa Fe                55.1%          47.0%           8.1%                 8                  9.5%
C. B. A.                71.8%          51.2%           8.7%                 8                 11.9%
National Average       54.7%          41.5%          9.9%                  8                 11.7%
Fuente: Educacionpara Todos, Liach et. al.
Table G: Ranking By Language And Math Scores For Different Grade Levels. 1997 &
1998 (Ranking From 1 - 25: 24 Provinces + City Of Buenos Aires)
3er ailo EGB           6to afio EGB          9no aflo EGB       5to/ 6to afio sec.
Grade Level            EGB 1                  EGB 2                  EGB 3             Polimodal
Subject      Language    Math    Language    Math          Language    Math    Lang.  Math
Year        1997 1998 1997 1998 1997 1998 1997 1998 1997 1998 1997 1998  1998    1998
P8A        .        I    6    3    8    3    6    8    8    6    2    5    2              2       2
C6rdoba            10    9    12   11    8    5    6    5    10    9    11    8           5       4
Santa Fe           6    2    2    2    6    4    3    7    3    5    3    3               6       7
City of Buenos     3    1    4    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1               1       1
Aires
Gran Buenos Aires    2    5    1    4    2    2    2    2    2    15    2    9            3       3
Source: Elaboraci6n propia en base al Operarivo Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Finalizacion del Nivel Educativo
Ministerio de Cultura v Educaci6n de La Naci6n
-91 -



Prov. Buenos Aires: Education Sector Expenditures and
Percentage Share of Provincial Budget, 1994-2000
4,000                                               35%
~~~  3,000   27%~~~~~~3% 3  0c
30% 29%_%
2,000     27099
0 ~
Ci)
4U)
w      1,000
0                                                              0
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Fiscal Year
Table H: PBA Population by Age Group
Age               1990         1995         2000     % share of     2005          2010
total DOP.
0-4                        1.211.652    1.240.216    1.264.116    8.9%       1,285,896    1,287,417
5-9                        1.193.227    1,214,491    1,245.872    8.8%       1.270.392    1,292,039
10-14                      1.240.639    1.201.380    1.225.520    8.6%       1.257.569    1.281.649
15-19                      1.069.287    1.261.906    1.225.699    8.6%       1.251,964    1.283.193
Rest of the PBA            7,856.909    8.461,408    9,253,494     65.1      9.979,744    10,691,619
Total                     12,571,714   13,379,401   14,214,701    100%       15,045,565   15,835,917
Source: Proyecciones de poblacion por sexo y grupos de edady por Provincia
(Versi6n revisada - Febrero de 1996), Serie Andlisis Demozr6fico, INDEC
Table I: PBA Enrolment. number of teach ers. and ratios Der level. 1999
Level               Students           Teachers             Ratio
Inicial                      537,000            31,700               16.9
EGB                         2,439,000           126,600              19.3
Polimodal/secondary          531,600            74,900               7.1
Teacher Training Inst.       104,000             13,600              7.6
Total                       3,611,600           246,800              14.6
Source: Lic. Bordon. March 2000 at HD
- 92 -



Table J: PBA Enrolment, number of teachers, Public and Private, 1999
Nivel         Public Students    Private Students      Public Teachers  Private Teachers
Inicial                   331,000             206,000               19,000            12,700
EGB                      1,755,000            684,000          85,000 (20.6 ratio) 41,600 (16.4 ratio)
Polimodal                 170,000             174,000               50,000           24,900
Secondary                 187,600
Teacher Training Inst.     54,200             49,800                8,100             5,500
Total                    2,497,800           1,113,800             162,100            84,700
Source: Lic. Bordon, March 2000 at HD
Table K: PBA School establishments by level, 1999
Nivel              Public           Private         Total
l Establishments   Establishments
Inicial                     2,439            2.057           4,496
EGB                         4,456             1,632          6,088
Polimodal & Secondary       1,076             1,156          2,232
Teacher Training Inst.       185              280             465
Total                                                        135 T 25  3281
Source: Lic. Bordon, March 2000 at HD Week
Table L: Socio-economically disadvantaged Target Population in 66 schools selected for
Jornada Completa
School Enrolment           Distribution        %                                  %
% who are disadvantaged        Of Schools       Schools        Students            Students
100%                                             _ 15  _ 23%       2,677               33%
90-99%                               8              12%             525                6%
70-89%                               13             20%            1,893               23%
50-69%                               8              12%            1,176               14%
Less than 50%                        22             33%            1,944               24%
Total        66             100%           8,215               100%
From PBA documents on Jornada Comvleta, send June and Julv, 2000.
- 93 -






IBRD 29347
'70                                                 610                                              51O'
-20.       8    r)           BOLIVIA                                                                                                     20'
.~~~'  jy                                      ,                         '-
Y~---~-~. ~PARAGUAY
N    '-San aIvador                ~~B                                      A     I
i  z  ^~ ~~ad _3$Jaujvuyv   R                                                   B R A Z I L
S A LTA 
* e   _   SA L TA;   z                 \>.,Formosac
'1     Tulum6n       jCHACO                          j  "-
TUrCUMv~N                     Yeiteca           Posadas,
) 5   %   t    @ SANTIAGO          ResistenciaGs.,...     s    ,...o
-%       J      aSantiao del stero  _     orrientes
DEL 
f           * -,., 1@Cajamarca                        x/
L Q  |-   '  '   ESTERO
1.  I~   \ -RIOJA\                         SANTA
-301     SAN\                                  f E r;30
JUAN             *        6rdoba!Sna,.
( r     i>San Ju'n   |      I         Fe (Parann    2
z                  .~~~~~\C,ORDOBAI\
Mendoza\ juis                 ,           S        URUGUAY(
\  SAN~~~~  /~~7   Zorate,%,_
4        /                         JI \ USA               Compana-       s Aires
I MENDOZA:                   l
/    -Santoa@ R          BUENOS                                          A T L A N T; 
LAsa             AIRES
PAM PA
_NEUQUENX
U   I            ) \Neuqueo                -O C E A N
A )   ,!   2   RIO                          IX
-X4  |    z  /    ~~~N E G R O                                                                                                   A013
NEGR rJ   -----,.ARGENTINA
JT /  0 CFPuerto Madryn
0     SELECTED CITIES
CHUBUT
c>    PROVINCE CAPITALS
    9 NATIONAL CAPITAL
-  -_ - - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-  - ---   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SANTA
aa  (r < CRUZ                                FALKLAND ISLANDS
(MALVINAS)
sGoIItge                                  >100 200  04o .500 600KI.OMETERS
t~~~~~~~ ~~~A %'WfCONa-N6 50vFA9C4 IVfk                           I      I       I
M55DS 5tSrF S&hVEVE5N AGNtNA Wt5C1s CLAIMS
THISMECWS4MAN THKWCNt*LAVM5TE5k          0      100    200    300    A00 Miles
Ushun,                                    This mop wee produced by the Mop Design Unit of The World 6ank.
The boundaries, colors, denomiwntions and anyother inl6rmation shown
,~tRRA                             an this mop do not imply, on the port of The World Bank (3roup, on),
n  tos DE1 fIJEGO   -gmet  theole istatus f oany territory, or any endorsement or
PEL FUEGO                    c~~~~~~accptance of suds boundaries.
701~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
JANUARY 1998



