Report No. PID9349
Project Name                     Argentina-AR BA Secondary Educ Reform II (+)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Secondary Education
Project ID                       ARPE64614
Implementing Agency
Address
Directorate General Of Culture And Education - Dgcye
Avda. 13 Entre 56 Y 57, La Plata,
Buenos Aires
Contact Person: Lic. Jose Horacio Ordeix
Tel: (54-221) 421-4535
Fax: (54-221) 427-3007
Email: Ordeix@Ed.Gba.Gov.Ar
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                July 17, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September  18, 2000
Projected Board Date             January 16, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Argentina has a Federal Government and 24 provinces. Each
province has its own administrative structure headed by the
elected Governor. The Province of Buenos Aires (PBA) is most
populated province in Argentina and holds about 35t of the
country's total number of pupils in the education system. The
City of Buenos Aires (with about 3 million people) has a separate
governing structure and is not included in the province if Buenos
Aires. However, the larger suburban area around the City of
Buenos Aires (the so-called "conurbano") is part of the Province
of Buenos Aires. Thus, the largest concentration of the PBA
education system is in the urban areas around the City of Buenos
Aires. There are also significant differences in GDP per capita
in Argentina. The PBA has an estimated GDP per capita of about
US$9,000, while the City of Buenos Aires GDP per capita is close
to European standards and estimated at around US$25,000. Overall
Argentina's GDP per capita is estimated at about US$8,000.
While social assistance programs can mitigate poverty in the
short run, long-term poverty reduction will depend both on rapid
growth combined with substantial investments in human capital.
The most important type of human development investment remains
education, especially as Argentina's labor demands shift to
higher skill levels. Argentina's education system has been one
of the most advanced in the region and can still boast of a
literacy rate of 97 percent for the adult population, universal
primary enrollment, and about 20 percent of the population
between the ages of 20 to 25 enrolled in higher education. In
fact, for a country of its wealth, Argentina under-performs in
certain key indicators. The secondary graduation rate in



Argentina is 52 percent, compared to an average rate for the OECD
countries of 80 percent. Of 100 students entering primary
school, 84 will enter the seventh grade, 76 will enter the ninth
grade, 40 will enter the last year of secondary school, 35 will
enroll in university and only seven will graduate. While
expenditures have increased, recurrent spending represents 95
percent of the total, with little going to investments.
Experiencing rapid economic changes, with a more open economy and
a dominant service sector, the Province of Buenos Aires requires
more and better qualified workers. It has more than 13 million
inhabitants (out of the total of 36.1 million in 1998) and
produces about 35t of the national GDP. The PBA is particularly
in need of better secondary education quality and coverage to
respond to new labor market demands. Based on a survey of
private employers (1997) and results from the ongoing secondary
education reform project it can be concluded that employers
require substantially higher skilled workers due to new
productive process and growing labor market competition.
Completion of secondary education is now a minimum requirement to
enter formal employment. However, a recent study (1998)
indicates that about 70t of the unemployed between the ages of 14
and 24 did not finish secondary school. Youth in households from
the poorest quintiles are most affected.
With the passage of a comprehensive Federal Education Law in
1993, Argentina has taken important steps to restructure primary
and secondary education. Some of these changes include modifying
the curriculum and increasing mandatory Basic Education education
from 7th to 9th grade (third cycle of EGB). The PBA has the
largest educational system in the country (roughly 4 million
students and 300,000 teachers). Also, it is more advanced than
the other provinces of Argentina in the implementation of the
education reform. For example, it completed the building of
needed infrastructure for the new EGB (Basic Education) 8th grade
one year in advance of the federal Government timetable and in
March 1998, the first cohort of students are expected to enter
the new 9th grade. The Province is also contemplating: passing a
provincial law that would make the Polymodal level (from 10th to
12th grade) mandatory; raising the education budget in order to
finance the expansion; increasing teachers' salaries; improving
the conditions of services; and creating a scholarship program
for underprivileged children.
In spite of these efforts, the Province of Buenos Aires is still
facing major education issues:
Low secondary school coverage, efficiency and equity:
Although Argentina has one of the most developed
education systems in Latin America, it lags behind
competing nations with similar per capita income. For
instance, in the Province of Buenos Aires, although
coverage at the secondary level is close to 65w, only
about 25t graduate from secondary. This compares with
OECD secondary completion rates averages of 78-80%.    For
- 2 -



example in Korea, a country with a GDP per capita level
similar to the PBA, this rate reaches 92%. Low
educational efficiency at the secondary level in the
Province of Buenos Aires is illustrated by the schools'
inability to retain students. Drop-out and repetition
rates are high, reaching more than 60% and 15%
respectively. These coverage and efficiency issues are
more acute in poverty areas. For instance, only 52% of
the population of the lower income quintile between the
ages of 14 and 18 attend school, while this number is
85% in the upper quintile.   The ongoing reform of
secondary education has boosted the retention rates in
the EGB3 cycle and is already showing a significant
increase in enrolment for the Polimodal cycle.
Low quality and relevance of education: Recent
evaluations and results from the ongoing secondary
education projects show that the quality of education in
the Province of Buenos Aires remains low, especially in
poorer areas. National standardized tests results
(1999) for the students in the last year of secondary
school indicate that, although there has been some
improvement in the last 4 years, an important gap
between the performance of low-income educationally at
risk students and more privileged students still
persists. In the coming year Argentina will participate
in the upcoming international assessment tests (the
TIMSS and the OECD's PISA). This will provide valuable
comparative information about the quality and relevance
of secondary education in the country and also
specifically in the PBA.
Relevance of what is learned and the skills that
graduates possess when they leave secondary school needs
to be evaluated. However, the goals of the secondary
education reform are to improve the quality of the
curriculum and to introduce more participation from
society in determining what is being taught. National
youth unemployment rates (about 26% among the population
between 14 and 24 years of age who have completed
secondary education) indicate that there is a mismatch
between the secondary graduates' skills and what is
needed to get a job. This also causes low student
motivation and early dropouts. This situation, in turn,
has several negative consequences, such as: more
children and youth on the street; early entrance into
the informal labor market; violence; drug consumption;
teenage pregnancy; etc. In fact, recent provincial
statistics indicate that, in the last five years, there
has been a 40% increase in the crime rate among youth
(age group of 12-19).
Inefficient management and unbalanced spending: by
improving training and providing additional resources
for secondary school management and teaching, and by
supporting ongoing administrative reform activities at
the central and district provincial levels, which will
lead to cost-efficient and effective monitoring and
- 3 -



reporting; by providing support for decentralization of
decision-making and accountability to secondary school
and district levels in the 200 pilot secondary schools
and their Districts; these efforts will build upon the
results of the ongoing secondary education reform
project of the PBA.
Low quality of teaching. The teachers in the PBA are
paid an annual salary of about 0.7 times provincial GDP
per capita for a normal workload (about 24 teaching
hours per week), compared to an OECD average of 1.4.
This situation causes teachers to work 60-70 hours per
week in order to supplement their salaries. However,
total education sector spending in the PBA, over 95t of
which is spent on staff salaries, represents about 29.7w
of total public spending in the PBA's. This indicates
that the teachers are underpaid, but also that there are
too many teachers and staff in the system. This causes a
significant shortage of resources for in-service teacher
training and other activities to enhance the quality of
teaching. Furthermore, the PBA, like all the other
provinces, needs to overhaul its pre-service teacher
training system, which currently caters mainly for the
first two cycles of basic education. At the Polimodal
level the urgency of improving teacher training and
support services is even greater, since the new streams
("modalidades") require different teaching methodlogies
and academic skills. The poorest schools encounter most
of the problems to implement the new regime, and are
most urgently in need of assistance.    In summary, the
main problems in teaching at EGB3 and Polimodal levels
include (i) weakness of staff management and lack of
adequate control which lead to high levels of
absenteeism; (ii) late pay checks, the absence of
incentives and insufficient attention to teachers
working conditions which negatively effect teachers'
motivation and commitment; (iii) teachers' economic
necessity to work in several schools which hampers team
work and pedagogic improvement; (iv) centralized
management which results in lack of accountability among
directors and teachers; (v) absence of a decentralized
school budget for maintenance; and (vi) lack of
information from secondary schools to students and
parents and limited possibilities for parent and
community participation in secondary school management
and governance.
2. Objectives
This project follows the ongoing secondary education sector
reform (AR-50714 or Prodymes III) in the Provincia de Buenos
Aires, which to date disbursed over 75%. It also complements the
two ongoing Federal Secondary Education Projects (Ln. 3794-AR and
3971-AR).
This proposed Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Reform
Project (BASSERP or Prodymes IIIA) has the following objective:
- 4 -



Improve schooling and learning conditions for students in the 12-
18 year age group from households in socio-economically
disadvantaged areas of the province by expanding access and
providing resources for increasing the annual number of teaching
hours from about 800 to 1,200 in about 200 pilot secondary
schools with EGB3 and Polimodal cycles (implementation of the
"jornada completa").
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's financial and technical assistance will provide
valuable contribution to the project's design and implementation,
particularly because:
The Bank has substantial lending experience with Argentine
provinces. In the ongoing Secondary Education I Project,
the Bank is working with seven provinces, the Secondary
Education II project is financing secondary schools in all
provinces and the Secondary Education III project is
finalizing the expansion and rehabilitation of EGB and
Polimodal schools, and supporting students transition to
Polimodal. Furthermore, Public Sector Reform Loans in
several provinces are working directly with provincial
governments. For the PBA a provincial reform loan (BASAL)
is in preparation and will be presented to the Board
simultaneously with this project.
The Bank provides a balanced expert opinion in project
design and implementation. Through continuous dialogue and
cooperation between the Province and the Bank, the Province
has redefined the project's priorities and restated its
commitment to institutional strengthening and education
quality interventions. The Bank's team can also offer
expertise on the latest international developments in
secondary education reform.
Bank team members are available to contribute cross-country
knowledge and experience, with links to operations in Chile
and Uruguay.
4. Description
Expanding access for the 12-18 age group in socially most
disadvantaged areas of the Province of Buenos Aires (PBA) and
rehabilitating school facilities to allow an increase in the
number of annual teaching hours from about 800 to 1,200
("Jornada Completa") in 200 pilot secondary schools in socio-
economically disadvantaged areas, by building 30 new
secondary schools, about 20 school cafetarias, and
rehabilitating about 400 classrooms and providing adeqequate
sanitary facilities in each targeted school;
Improving the quality and relevance of learning and teaching
in the pilot 200 "Jornada Completa" secondary schools, by
providing incremental staff and teacher resources, learning
materials and equipment (including laboratories for
technology, computers, language instruction),technical
assistance and training for the implementation of the "jornada
completa" in the 200 pilot schools and for district
administrative staff, and incentive-based teacher and staff
scholarships;
-5-



Provision of project management support at provincial,
district and school level, including support for monitoring
and supervision by the project implementation unit and the
DGCyE administration).
Expansion of Access
Improvement of Quality and Relevance in EGB3 and Polimodal Schools
Project Management and Implementation
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       143
IBRD                              57
IDA
Total Project Cost               200
6. Implementation
Implementation period: 3 years (2001-2003)
Project coordination: The proposed project will be jointly
managed by the DGCyE with the support of the Project
Implementation Unit (UEP) which has been coordinating both
ongoing Secondary Education projects and a Basic Education IDB
project (PRISE). The General Coordinator will continue to manage
all UEP operations while a Project Coordinator will be
specifically responsible for the three Secondary Education
projects. Three Sub-coordinators (Infrastructure, Education and
Administrative Reform, respectively) will be in charge of all
aspects pertaining to their area in all secondary education
projects in the PBA which have international financing. The sub-
coordinators will report to the Project Coordinator. The project
Coordinator will report to the Directors of the respective
departments and the Director-General (Minister of Education for
the PBA) of the DGCyE. The relevant Departments in the DGCyE
will be responsiblke for implementing the activities related to
defined project outputs and be involved closely in monitoring
results (for example in the areas of (i) learning assessment and
testing; (ii) edcuation budgeting and auditing; (iii) polimodal
reform implementation; and (iv) development, implementation and
minitoring of secondary school development plans and tproviding
the necessary technical assistance). In addition, the UEP has a
team of 25 professionals providing services for: contracting,
accounting administration, auditing, legal, and educational
administration.  The proposed project will finance about 50t of
all UEP staff involved in the joint management of these three
projects.
Financial Management: The Province of Buenos Aires would maintain
adequate financial management systems --including accounting,
financial reporting, and auditing systems-- to ensure that they
can provide the Bank accurate and timely information regarding
project resources and expenditures, in accordance with: (i) the
Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook
(Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 1995), and (ii) the Bank's
Operational Policy (OP) and Best Practice (BP) 10.02, dated July
1996. Efforts are being made on a country basis to discuss with
- 6 -



the Government the revised Bank financial management standards to
comply with OP and BP 10.02, dated August 1997. With respect to
auditing, the Bank has confirmed that the AuditorUa General de la
Naci6n (AGN) is eligible to provide audit preparation services as
long as it meets criteria of independence, quality, capacity and
timeliness in the opinion of the Bank. The AGN is already
auditing existing projects, including Education Sector projects
being implemented in the Province of Buenos Aires, and up to now
the financial management of Education Sector projects has been
satisfactory. The Bank's Resident Mision financial management
specialist reviewed the procedures and found that they are
consistent with Bank procedures and regulations. During project
implementation, the Bank will provide assistance to improve and
update a financial management practices and reporting.
Executing agencies: The PBA's Directorate General of Culture and
Education (DGCyE) will be the responsible party and the main
executing agency of the project. Managed by the Administration
Secretariat, several executing agencies and main stakeholders
(district administrations and secondary schools) will be in
charge of different aspects of project implementation. These
include: (i) the implementation of the "jornada completa" related
to technical assistance, equipment and learning materials,
individual school development and improvement projects, youth
projects in the pilot secondary schools. The supervision,
monitoring and coordination of all these activities will be the
responsibility of the project Implementation Unit General
Coordinator, and the respective department Directors in the
DGCyE. The infrastructure component for the implementation of
the "jornada completa" in the 200 pilot EGB3 and Polimodal
secondary schools will be the responsibility of the UEP
Infrastructure Sub-Coordinator, while the Public Works office of
the DGCyE will be in charge of planning, budgeting, managing and
ensuring the quality of all civil works. The project will also
encourage active involvement by secondary school communities and
parent associations, composed of teachers, students, parents and
school administrators. This means that the responsibility for
certain project activities at the school level will be
coordinated and implemented by the school-level education actors,
with adequate oversight from the project's General Coordinator's
Office and related DGCyE department staff.
7. Sustainability
The proposed project is linked to the BASAL operation and both
operations are under preparation. The BASAL operation would
provide budgetary support for the governmment of the Province of
Buenos Aires, while it makes its public sectors more cost-
efficient and streamlines its public budgetary process. This
project would be sustainable, because
(1) the new federal and provincial governments are
committed to enhance the education reform supported by the
project by selected interventions to improve quality in the
targeted schools;
(2) The project would have a relatively minor fiscal impact
(see Financial analysis, above);
-7-



(3) The primary executive agencies are part of the
established structure of the DGCyE;
(4) Primary stakeholders have been actively participating in
project preparation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A review of operational and policy experiences and of existing
literature and studies offered the following lessons that are
relevant to the proposed project:
Simple project design: Simplicity in the design of a
project contributes to ensuring its successful
implementation. This lesson stems from the difficulties
faced during the first stages of the implementation of
Secondary Education I and II due to complexity of project
design. Simple projects are less vulnerable to changes in
counterpart budgets because they are flexible enough to be
ajusted. The proposed project has only three components
and tested, simple implementation mechanisms.
Creditworthiness: The Bank's experience with Argentine and
other provincial projects around the world, indicates that
sub-national governments in federal countries are likely to
be more successful in project implementation, because they
have a more direct interest in the project's outcomes and
directkly mamage their budgets. The PBA's international
creditworthiness is satisfactory.
Synchronization with federal and provincial government
policies: Experience in Argentina (Secondary Education I,
II and III) shows that synchronizing the implementation of
the project with government policy and/or different stages
of the reform is crucial to avoid administrative and
implementation delays or obstacles. Projects linked to
long-term reform policies maintain their viability despite
political and management changes. The implementation
activities of this project are designed to coincide with
the timetable of the implementation of the Polymodal
transformation in the Province of Buenos Aires.
Articulation with ongoing secondary education projects:
Bank operational experience indicates that, especially in
countries as large as Argentina, not one single project can
work on all sector issues (e.g., sector management,
education quality) at all levels (e.g., federal,
provincial, school levels). In some cases, the most
effective alternative is to articulate the components of
several projects working at different levels. This is the
approach that we have adopted for the Secondary Education
I, II and III.
Role of the private sector: Studies show that
participation of the private sector in education improves
efficiency and increases resources allocated to the sector.
Furthermore, it provides better linkages between the
education offered in the schools and the labor market
requirements. The proposed project will provide incentives
for both public and private secondary schools and encourage
collaboration with local private sector enterprises.
School community participation: Experience in other Latin
- 8 -



American countries (i.e. Brazil and El Salvador)
demonstrates that strong school community participation in
the education process has many advantages (e.g., increased
accountability, greater communication, improved school
management). This project will support activities at the
school level, which are implemented by and with the school
communities and students.
Institutional strengthening: Experience shows that an
adequate institutional capacity at the central level is
crucial to the success of the project. Projects supporting
sector-wide reform can normally not produce immediate
outputs, therefore, they require participation at several
levels, an implementation strategy, well-defined goals, and
clear procedures and responsibilities. At the school level
the proposed project will strengthen the schools'
institutional and management capacity through technical
assistance, improved management and development of school-
bsed longer term performance plans. The secondary school
will be required to take more responsibility for their
output and held accountable for the results.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jacob H. Bregman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2457
Fax: 202-522-1201
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 21, 2000.
-9-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
- 10 -



