Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4586-AR
Loan Agreement
(Second Secondary Education Project - Province of Buenos Aires)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
Dated June 15, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4586-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 2001, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES (the 
Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Argentine Republic (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
WHEREAS (B)
 by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and
WHEREAS (C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through October 6, 1999, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Construction Schedule" means the schedule for construction, expansion 
and rehabilitation of school spaces in selected EGB3 Schools (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"DGCyE" means Dirección General de Cultura y Educación, the Borrower’s 
General Directorate of Culture and Education; 
(c)
"EGB" means Educación General Básica, the mandatory education cycle of 
grades 1 through 9 being phased-in in the Borrower’s territory pursuant to the 
Guarantor’s Ley Federal de Educación (Federal Education Law) of April 14, 1993 and the 
Borrower’s Ley Provincial de Educación (the Borrower’s Education Law) of December 22, 
1994;
(d)
"EGB3" means the last three years of EGB (grades 7 through 9);
(e)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3) (4) and (5), set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Financial Procedures Manual" means the administrative and financial 
manual referred to in Section 3.06 (d) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Full Day Schedule" means Jornada Completa, the program introduced by the 
Borrower pursuant to Provincial Resolution No. 3085/00 dated June 18, 2000 which 
increased the number of hours of instruction at EGB3 level, from about 750 to 1,200 
hours per year;
(i)
"Innovative School Subprojects" means any of the projects referred to in 
Part C (b) of the Project;
(j)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth in annex I to the 
letter of even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the manual for the implementation of the 
Project referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(l)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto) 
established by the Borrower within DGCyE pursuant to the Ministerial Resolution No. 
259 of November 9, 1994;
(m)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
"Project Supervisory Council" means the council referred to in Section 
3.06 (e) of this Agreement, composed by: (i) the administrative sub-secretary; (ii) 
the sub-secretary of education, assisted by: (A) the provincial director for planning; 
(B) the provincial director of higher education and  teacher training; and (C) 
pedagogic specialists; and (iii) the Project Coordinator (as hereinafter defined);   
(o)
"School and Parents’ Guide" means the guide for parents, teachers and 
school directors, referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, for the 
implementation of the Full Day Schedule;
(p)
"Selected EGB3 Schools" means the public schools at EGB3 level in the 
territory of the Borrower which are eligible to receive financing under the Project in 
accordance with the criteria and methodology set forth in annex II to the letter of 
even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank; 
(q)
"SIS" means Sistema de Información Socio-Educativa, the Borrower’s social 
and educative information database created pursuant to Provincial Resolution No. 
13252, dated December 7, 1999; and
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
fifty-six million nine-hundred ninety thousand Dollars ($56,990,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (a) the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; and (b) the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of 
five-hundred sixty-nine thousand Dollars ($569,900). On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
Page  4
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through DGCyE, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the Provincial Resolution No. 3085/00 
dated June 18, 2000, and with appropriate financial, administrative, engineering, 
environmental, and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual, satisfactory to 
the Bank (the Operational Manual), said manual to include, inter alia: 
(a)
scheduled local workshops and training sessions at Selected EGB3 Schools;
(b)
the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for PCU staff; 
(c)
the administrative rules and procedures for planning, preparing, 
proposing, financing, supervising, and carrying out the Innovative School Subprojects;   
(d)
the standard outline terms of reference for consultants’ services to be 
procured under the Project; 
(e)
the criteria and procedures for the review and approval of loan 
withdrawal applications to the Bank, in conformity with the instructions that the Bank 
may give to the Borrower in this respect; 
(f)
the environmental criteria for selection of the sites for construction of 
new schools, as well as mandatory safeguards for any action which could possibly have 
a negative impact on natural habitats and cultural property; and
(g)
the schedule for construction, rehabilitation and equipment of the 
Selected EGB3 Schools.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and shall 
by February 28 and August 31 of each year of Project execution, provide the Bank with 
semi-annual progress reports on the execution of the Project, in a format acceptable 
to the Bank, and including the Monitoring Indicators referred to above; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank by not later than February 28, 2003, a mid-term implementation review 
report, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, during the period 
preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives 
Page  5
thereof during the period following such date. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through DGCyE shall:
(a)
maintain within the DGCyE, during the execution of the Project, a unit 
(the PCU) for the overall management, coordination and monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
ensure that the PCU is headed, at all times during the execution of the 
Project, by a project coordinator (the Project Coordinator) with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Bank;
(c)
cause the PCU to have key staff with functions, experience, 
responsibilities, and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, in adequate numbers; 
(d)
ensure that the PCU prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, adopt, and update on a regular basis a manual for the implementation of  
financial procedures; and
(e)
appoint and maintain during the execution of the Project a Project 
Supervisory Council, with membership satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for: 
(i) the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the Full Day Schedule; and 
(ii) the delivery of the semi-annual progress reports referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through DGCyE, shall prepare a pedagogical and 
technical information guide on the Full Day Schedule (the School and Parents’ Guide) 
for the Selected EGB3 Schools, satisfactory to the Bank, said guide to include, inter 
alia: (a) objectives of the Full Day Schedule; (b) action plans for the implementation 
of the Full Day Schedule; (c) methodology of teachers and school directors’ training 
and evaluation of the results of such schedule in teaching and management; (d) 
guidelines for curricular changes; (e) school level monitoring indicators; and (f) 
available resources and schedule of approximate delivery to Selected EGB3 Schools.
Section 3.08 The Borrower, through DGCyE, shall prepare and maintain, within 
SIS, a database, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to provide statistical, management 
and pedagogic information on improvement of school performance of Selected EGB3 
Schools located in poor areas of the Borrower’s territory.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  6
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statement of 
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents);
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower not later than six months 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, a Project Management Report for that period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual  has been adopted by DGCyE;
Page  7
(b)
the School and Parents’ Guide has been made available for dissemination 
in sufficient quantities; 
(c)
the list of all equipment bids and their specifications, evaluated by an 
independent consultant satisfactory to the Bank, and the Construction Schedule have 
been prepared and approved by DGCyE; 
(d)
the statistical database referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement 
has been prepared; and
(e)
the Financial Procedures Manual  has been adopted by the PCU.
Section 5.02. The date September 17, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The General Director of DGCyE is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Dirección General de Cultura y Educación 
Calle 13 entre 56 y 57
1900 -  La Plata
Argentina
Fax: (221) 483-8969
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Fax: (202) 676-1464
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
By /s/ Carlos Ruckauf
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  8
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan Allocated
% of Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
   37,000,000
65%
(2)
Goods
    9,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
65% for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ Services,
    3,300,000
100%
Training and Audits 
(4)
Grants for Innovative 
    1,200,000
100% of amounts
School Subprojects
disbursed
(5)
Project Administration
950,000
100%
(6)
Front-end Fee
569,900
Amount due 
under Section 
2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
    4,970,100
TOTAL
56,990,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
the term "Project Administration" means the expenditures of the PCU, 
required by DGCyE for the implementation of the Project, including, but not limited 
to: (i) international and domestic travel and per diem for staff of the PCU; (ii) 
office supplies, materials and equipment; (iii) services rendered by public utilities; 
and (iv) rental of office space for the PCU.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in aggregate not exceeding the amount of $11,400,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, on account of payments made for expenditures incurred 
within 12 months prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
not subject to prior review under the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part D of Section I 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent; and (c) individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Page  9
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  10
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount 
of $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $13,400,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
Page  11
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the amount of $12,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing access to 
quality education, and improving the quality and equity of secondary education 
services by supporting the implementation of the Full Day Schedule in Selected EGB3 
Schools. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Expansion of Access to Secondary Education
Construction of new EGB3 schools and expansion and rehabilitation of school 
spaces in Selected EGB3 Schools.
Part B:
Pedagogical Improvement of Teaching and Relevance of Learning
1.
Support of teacher’s capacity building in Selected EGB3 Schools.
2.
Rehabilitation of information and communication technology laboratories, science 
laboratories, language laboratories, and libraries in Selected EGB3 Schools.
3.
Acquisition of educational resources for Selected EGB3 Schools such as 
textbooks, libraries, laboratories equipment, audiovisual materials, teacher guides, 
specific hardware and educational software.
4.
(a)
Provision of in-service training for teachers, administrative teams and 
school management personnel of Selected EGB3 Schools with respect to the utilization 
of new educational resources for laboratory equipment installation and use; and (b) 
provision of training to teachers in Selected EGB3 Schools in the use of new 
educational materials and new technologies and to prepare them for the curricula 
changes related with the Full Day Schedule. 
5.
Provision of technical assistance and training for teachers, administrative 
teams and school management personnel of Selected EGB3 Schools, linked to the 
development and management of Innovative School Subprojects.
Part C:
Decentralization of Secondary School Management
Institutional strengthening to facilitate the transition to the Full Day 
Schedule at Selected EGB3 Schools through:
(a)
provision of training to school directors, administrative teams, and 
school management personnel;
(b)
financing, on a grant basis, school projects to be carried out by 
Selected EGB3 Schools, based on diagnosis of the school situation and aiming to solve 
learning and teaching problems; and
(c)
establishment and operation of an incentive program for Selected EGB3 
Schools, based on improvement of school performance indicators.
Part D:
Project Administration
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the DGCyE and the PCU.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by  July 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  12
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Dollars)*
April 15, 2006
2,850,000
October 15, 2006
2,850,000
April 15, 2007
2,850,000
October 15, 2007
2,850,000
April 15, 2008
2,850,000
October 15, 2008
2,850,000
April 15, 2009
2,850,000
October 15, 2009
2,850,000
April  15, 2010
2,850,000
October  15, 2010
2,850,000
April 15, 2011
2,850,000
October 15, 2011
2,850,000
April  15, 2012
2,850,000
October 15, 2012
2,850,000
March 15, 2013
2,850,000
October 15, 2013
2,850,000
April 15, 2014
2,850,000
October  15, 2014
2,850,000
April 15, 2015
2,850,000
October 15, 2015
2,840,000
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to good manufactured in territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more per contract shall, 
and goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent but more than $100,000 
Page  13
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may, be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3. 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $800,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate  amount not to exceed $15,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description  of the works, including basic specifications, 
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to: (a) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of  $750,000 or more; and (b) each contract for goods procured in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Part B of this Section; and (c) the first contract for 
goods procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this 
Section. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consulting firms’ 
services estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Page  14
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for: (i) the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) individual 
consultants estimated  to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) individual 
consultants contracted as key staff of the Project Coordination Unit pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, regardless of the cost of the 
corresponding contract, the qualifications, experience, TORs and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided that the terms of reference for the respective assignments are subject 
to the prior review and approval by the Bank.
