                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank


                                                                Report No: ICR0000991


               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IBRD-4586-AR)

                                           ON A

                                          LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$56.99 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                              PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES

                WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                         FOR THE


            BUENOS AIRES SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT


                                        April 14, 2009




Human and Social Development Group
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective ­ January 17, 2009)

                             Currency Unit = Arg$
                         Arg$1.00 = Variable US$ 0.29
                         US$ 1.00 = Variable Arg $ 3.44

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1- December 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
EGB3    Basic General Education (Grades 7-9)
        (Educación General Básica - Grados 7-9)
EMATP   Technical Support Staff
        (Apoyo Técnico Pedagógico)
DGCyE   General Directorate of Culture and Education
        (Dirección General de Cultura y Educación)
IADB    Inter-American Development Bank
        (Banco Inter-Americano de Desarrollo)
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        (Banco Mundial)
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ICT     Information and Communication Technology
ISR     Implementation Status Reports
JC      Full-Day Schedule
        (Jornada Completa)
JE      Extended-Day Schedule
        (Jornada Extendida)
LUA     Single Student File
        (Legajo Único de Alumnos)
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NPV     Net Present Value
OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation Study and Development
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PBA     Province of Buenos Aires
        (Provincia de Buenos Aires)
PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
        (Unidad Ejecutora de Proyecto)
PDO     Project Development Objective
PISA    OECD Programme for International Student Assessment
PSR     Project Status Report
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
TTL     Task Team Leader
UNESCO  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization

    Vice President: Pamela Cox
   Country Director: Pedro Alba
   Sector Manager: Chingboon Lee
     Sector Leader: Hermann von Gersdorff
  ICR Team Leader: Alexandria Valerio
ICR Primary Author: Cecilia Zanetta

                                         ARGENTINA
          BUENOS AIRES SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design....................................... 1
 2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................... 4
 3.      Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................. 10
 4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................. 19
 5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................. 20
 6.      Lessons Learned................................................................................................ 22
 7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners... 24
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
 Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 32
 Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
 Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 34
 Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
 Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 35
 Annex 9. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 35
 Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 37
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Second Secondary
                                                                     Education Project -
Country:                Argentina              Project Name:
                                                                     Province of Buenos
                                                                     Aires
Project ID:             P064614                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-45860
ICR Date:               03/30/2009             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     PROVINCE OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:             BUENOS AIRES,
                                                                     ARGENTINA
Original Total
                        USD 57.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 56.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
DIRECCION GENERAL DE CULTURA Y EDUCACION (DGCYE)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/13/2000     Effectiveness:                         07/20/2001
Appraisal:             09/18/2000     Restructuring(s):                      10/29/2002
Approval:              12/07/2000     Mid-term Review:      12/01/2006       12/13/2004
                                      Closing:              01/31/2005       09/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:           Moderately
                                                                     Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               3                 3
Secondary education                                            97                97


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                          Primary         Primary
Education for all                                             Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:        Pedro Alba                        Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager:           Chingboon Lee                    Jamil Salmi
Project Team Leader:      Suhas D. Parandekar              Jacob H. Bregman
ICR Team Leader:          Alexandria Valerio
ICR Primary Author:      Maria Cecilia Zanetta



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1. Increase access to quality education and improve equity by supporting the
implementation of a Full-Day Schedule (known as the "Jornada Completa") in selected
EGB3 schools serving students from the poorest households.

  2. Increase school management as a necessary complement to the introduction of a
"Full-Day Schedule" in the selected EGB3 schools.




                                             ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDOs were not changed, except for the replacement of the original Full Day
Schedule Program with an Extended Day Schedule Program, which reduced the extended
school day in the EGB3 schools targeted under the Program from approximately 150
additional minutes to 90 additional minutes per day.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value            Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
                                                  approval           Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values          Target Years
                EGB3 level student completion rates (grade 9) in the selected EGB3 schools are
Indicator 1 :   equal or exceed the provincial average EGB3 completion rate.


Value           82.5% for the sample 100                                         81.2% and 78.4%

quantitative or project schools              95%                                 for experimental

Qualitative)    71.9% for the sample 100                                         and control group,
                control group schools                                            respectively.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                     12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments        Not achieved: compared to the control group, schools displayed higher

(incl. %        completion rates in 9th grade. Since 2003 participating school's rates

achievement)    detoriorated while control group schools improved. No data disaggregated by
               gender was collected by the project.
                Student transition rates from EGB3 to the first year of Polimodal level in the
Indicator 2 :   selected EGB3 schools are equal to or exceed the provincial average for EGB3
                transfer to Polimodal level (grade 10, disaggregated by gender).
Value           71% for experimental and
quantitative or control group,               85%                                 Data not available

Qualitative)    respectively.                                                    at the school level.

Date achieved 12/31/2003                     12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments        Not achieved: Data on transition rates from EGB3 to the first year of Polimodal
(incl. %        level are not available at the school level and were not collected throughout
achievement)    project implementation for either the experimental or control groups.

Indicator 3 :   Decrease in repetition rate for the EGB3 level in the selected EGB3 schools to at
                least equal or better than the average repetition rate at provincial EGB 3 level.
                11.2% for the sample 100                                         18.4% and 18.6%
Value           project schools                                                  for the
quantitative or 12.2% for the sample 100 10%                                     experimental and
Qualitative)    control groups                                                   control groups,
                respectively.                                                    respectively.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                     12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments        Not achieved: Available data on average repetition rates for grades 7-9 indicate
(incl. %        that: i) an increase in repetition rates for both groups and ii) a slightly higher
achievement)   increase in repetition for schools belonging to the experimental group.
                Student learning performance results in the selected EGB3 schools are equal to
Indicator 4 :   or exceed the learning performance of provincial averages in the same subjects
                as in the national achievement test (Operativo Nacional de Educación - ONE).



                                                  iii

                                                                               31.4% and 32.4%
                34.3% and 35.6% for                                            for math and for the
                math for the experimental                                      experimental and
                and control groups,                                            control groups,
Value           respectively.                                                  respectively.
quantitative or                            n/a
Qualitative)    36% and 36.8% for                                              38.6% and 41.6%
                language for the                                               for language for the
                experimental and control                                       experimental and
                groups, respectively.                                          control groups,
                                                                               respectively.
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments        Not achieved: ONE test results could not be utilized. Results from a quality

(incl. %        assessment study carried out by the DGCyE (results shown above) indicate that

achievement)   the project did not achieve the desired positive impact on student performance in
               the core subjects.
                All School Directors in selected EGB3 schools have been trained and the
Indicator 5 :   majority are satisfied with the quality, relevance and effectiveness of the
                training.
Value
quantitative or none                       203                                 203
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved: All school directors received training and technical support, both in

achievement)    traditional classroom settings and through individual coaching sessions.

                Student, parents and community attitudes toward secondary schooling in districts
Indicator 6 :   of selected EGB3 schools have improved (based on representative annual
                surveys and focus groups with parents, students and community leaders).
Value
quantitative or N/A                        N/A                                 N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments        Not achieved: not possible to assess the achievement of this objective since the

(incl. %        project did not system. measure the students, parents or community members

achievement)    attitudes.A qualitative study carried out by the DGCyE provides positive
                feedback.
                Secondary school and classroom management criteria and best practices have

Indicator 7 :   been evaluated and the results produced and disseminated in a booklet for EGB
                schools in the PBA, based on best practices learned in this project and from Chile
                and 2 other OECD.
Value
quantitative or N/A                        N/A                                 N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments        Not achieved: The province conducted 2 studies to assess program performance,

(incl. %        which provided valuable insights on porgram performance. However they were

achievement)   not designed to draw lessons that could be appiled to the design of a scaled-up
               program.



                                                iv

                All EGB3 schools have improved management autonomy regarding financial,
Indicator 8 :   administrative and pedagogic matters (schools have a budget for learning
                materials and small maintenance).
Value                                       14,100 schools in                 20,878 schools in
quantitative or None                        all districts of the              all districts of the
Qualitative)                                Province.                         Province
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007                        12/31/2007

Comments        Partially achieved: Funds for small building maintenance and repairs are now

(incl. %        being transferred to schools under "Fondo de Escuelas". Depending on the

achievement)    number of students, schools receive between AR$400 and AR$10,000.
                Decentralization of funds still pending


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised      Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :   60,000 youth enrolled in 200+ EGB3 schools of Jornada Extendidad with
                adequate spaces (classrooms, dining rooms, labs and library)
                                            60,000 in all 203                 29,000 in all 203
Value                                       EGB3 high-risk                    EGB3 high risk
(quantitative   None                        schools with                      schools with
or Qualitative)                             extended day                      extended day
                                            scheme                            scheme
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007                        12/31/2007

Comments        Partially achieved: The 203 participating schools were upgraded with adequate

(incl. %        physical spaces. However, since 2008 most participating schools have either

achievement)    relocated or altered their physical space and fewer students than anticipated have
               benefitted.

Indicator 2 :   All teachers and school administrators in the project schools are adequately
                trained, provided with guidance and adequately supervised.
                                            All teachers,
                                            school principals,                All teachers, school

                                            deputy school                     directors, deputy

Value                                       principals and                    school directors and

(quantitative   none                        school auxiliary                  school auxilary

or Qualitative)                             personel in the 203               personnel in the

                                            project schools                   203 project schools

                                            with extended day                 with extended day

                                            scheme.                           scheme.

Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved: extensive training has been provided to school officials, staff and

achievement)    teachers (see Annex 3).

Indicator 3 :   Teaching loads (cargos) of all teachers in the selected EGB3 schools are
                concentrated in one or two schools to optimize the school community culture.
Value
(quantitative   N/A                         N/A                               N/A



                                                  v

or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007                        12/31/2007

Comments       Not achieved: Participating schools are subject to the same teacher designation

(incl. %       practices as the rest of the educational system (under the "Estatuto Docente").

achievement)   The current teacher allocation system lacks the flexibility needed to allow
               changes.
               Adequate financial resources are transferred each year from DGCyE to the
Indicator 4 :  selected EGB3 schools & the selected EGB3 schools are autonomous in
               managing their allocated recurrent non-salary budget
Value
(quantitative  $1,000 AR per school         $2,000 AR per

or Qualitative)                             school

Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :  Schools have established institutional links with local enterprise networks and
               are informed about local labour market demands.
Value
(quantitative  N/A                          N/A                               N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007                        12/31/2007

Comments       Not achieved: The "innovative projects" had the potential to link students,

(incl. %       teachers and schools to productive activities within their local communities.

achievement)   Although linkages took place in some projects, these were ad hoc and without
               systematic monitoring.
               Adequate financial resources are transferred each year from DGCyE to the
Indicator 6 :  selected EGB3 schools and the selected EGB3 schools are autonomous in
               managing their allocated recurrent non-salary budget.
                                                                              Avg. AR $532 per
Value                                       AR$ 2,000 per                     school (ranging
(quantitative  AR$ 1,000 per school                                           from AR $400 to
or Qualitative)                             school                            AR$ 10,000 based
                                                                              on enrollment).
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007                        01/31/2008

Comments       Partially achieved: Under the "Fondo de Escuelas", schools receive between

(incl. %       AR$400 and AR$ 10,000 depending on the number of students. However, these

achievement)   funds can only be used for minor building repairs and maintenance. Need
               remains to increase schools' auton


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/26/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/19/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      2.57
  3     06/11/2002           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     2.57



                                                vi

 4    12/11/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         3.66
 5    05/27/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         7.66
 6    09/15/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       12.10
 7    04/13/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       21.49
 8    10/14/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       33.65
 9    12/22/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       35.99
10    04/24/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       38.99
11    06/13/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       41.26
12    10/14/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       47.25
13    12/07/2006   Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory                       49.34
14    05/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 50.05
15    12/07/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 51.89
16    03/19/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 53.84



H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at    Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP      in USD
                                            millions
                                                         In August 2002, Provincial
                                                         Resolution No. 3510 replaced
                                                         the original Full-Day Schedule
                                                         with an Extended-Day
                                                         Schedule, reducing the
                                                         extended school day in the
                                                         participating EGB3 schools
                                                         from approximately 150

  10/29/2002        N         S      U          3.66     minutes to 90 minutes per day.
                                                         The corresponding reduction in
                                                         operational costs, mainly in
                                                         terms of additional teaching
                                                         positions, was particularly
                                                         important given the PBA's
                                                         fragile fiscal situation in the
                                                         aftermath of the economic
                                                         crises that shock the country in
                                                         December 2001.




                                         vii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           viii

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

This project, known as Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project (PRODYMES III.A),
was conceived in the framework of the education reform efforts that were undertaken in
Argentina during the 1990s. The two main pillars of the education reform were the
Decentralization Law (Law No. 24.089/1991) and the Federal Education (Law N. 24.195/1993).
The Decentralization Law transferred the responsibility of providing public education to the 24
provincial jurisdictions, from preschool to upper secondary (grades 1 to 12). The Federal Law of
Education extended the number of years of compulsory education from seven to ten, modified the
structure of the educational system, and proposed the basis for a curricular change. The Province
of Buenos Aires (PBA) adhered to the Federal Education Law by enacting the Provincial
Education Law (Law No. 11.612/1995). Accordingly, the new provincial education law extended
the number of years of compulsory education to ten--i.e., one year of preschool and nine years of
basic general education.1 It also adopted a new structure for its educational system, including a
one-year preschool, a nine-year basic general education cycle, and a three-year secondary
education. In turn, the basic general education cycle (Educación General Básica - EGB) was
structured in three cycles of three years each (i.e., EGB1, EGB2, and EGB3, respectively). The
secondary cycle, known as Polimodal, was a non-compulsory, three-year cycle aimed at
providing students with the competencies and skills needed to be inserted into social and labor
settings.

During the 1990s, the PBA was at the forefront of the education reform efforts at the provincial
level, being the first province to successfully implement the new education reform. By 2000, the
PBA had completed the restructuring of its education system and had implemented the curricular
changes for the EGB and Polimodal cycles. The PBA's education reform efforts received
sustained support from 1994 onwards under a series of Bank-financed projects that supported the
implementation of Argentina's education reform and, in particular the PBA (see Box 1). The
Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project (PRODYMES III.A) followed the lead of its
predecessors, focusing on improving the equity, quality and access of secondary education
services, in this case by supporting the implementation of a new pedagogical program of Full-
Day Schedule (Jornada Completa - JC) in selected EGB3 schools serving students from the most
socio-economically disadvantaged households.




1   Before the introduction of the Education Reform in the PBA, it was compulsory to complete only
seven grades of basic education.


                                                 1

                                                    Box 1
     Overview of Preceding IBRD-Operations Supporting Argentina's 1993 Education Reform
      The Federal Secondary Education I Project ­ PRODYMES I (Ln.3794-AR; US$190 million):
      This operation, which closed in June 2001, was implemented in six provinces, the PBA being one
      of them. Its aim was to increase student learning in the participating provinces by financing
      improvements in the quality and efficiency of secondary education, increasing and improving
      physical capacity to better serve the secondary-school-aged population, and strengthening
      institutional capacity under a decentralized framework.
      The Federal Secondary Education II Project ­ PRODYMES II (Ln. 3971-AR; US$115.5
      million): This operation, which closed in April, 2004, was implemented in the PBA and seven
      additional provincial jurisdictions. As amended, its objective was to contribute to the
      transformation of the education system within the framework of the new Federal Education Law,
      by assisting 630 high-risk schools in the development and implementation of EGB3 and
      Polimodal Education. About 200 of these schools were in the PBA.
      The PBA Secondary Education III Project ­ PRODYMES III ((Ln.4586-AR; US$119
      million): This operation, which closed in December 2002, was the first secondary education
      project to directly target the Province of Buenos Aires. Aimed at increasing school access due to
      the extension of mandatory secondary education, this operation provided support to priority
      schools in their efforts to transition to the Polimodal cycle. It also sought to improve school
      management by developing decentralized information systems and management tools.


1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The original Project Development Objectives were the following:
1. Increase access to quality education and improve equity by supporting the implementation of
    a Full-Day Schedule (known as Jornada Completa - JC) in selected EGB3 schools serving
    students from the poorest households;
2. Improve school management as a necessary complement to the introduction of a JC Schedule
    in the selected EGB3 schools.

The key performance indicators were the following:
   EGB3-level student completion rates (grade 9) in the selected EGB3 schools are equal to or
   exceed the provincial average EGB3 completion rate (disaggregated by gender).
   Student transition rates from EGB3 to the first year of Polimodal level in the selected EGB3
   schools is equal to or exceeds the provincial average for EGB3 transfer to Polimodal level
   (grade 10, disaggregated by gender).
   Decrease in repetition rate for the EGB3 level in the selected EGB3 schools is equal to or
   better than the average repetition rate at the provincial EGB3 level.
   Pupil learning performance results in the selected EGB3 schools are equal to or exceed the
   provincial averages in the same subjects as in the national achievements test (Operativo
   Nacional de Educación - ONE).
   All school directors in the selected EGB3 schools have been trained and the majority are
   satisfied with the training's quality, relevance and effectiveness
   Student, parents and community attitudes toward secondary schooling in districts of selected
   EGB3 schools have improved (based on representative annual surveys and focus groups with
   parents, students and community leaders).
   Secondary school and classroom management criteria and best practices have been evaluated
   and the results have been produced in a coherent booklet and disseminated to all EGB schools
   in the PBA, based on the best practices learned from this project and from similar international
   best practices (notably with examples from Chile and at least two other OECD countries).
   All EGB3 schools have improved management autonomy regarding financial, administrative
   and pedagogic matters (schools have a budget for learning materials and small maintenance).



                                                      2

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original PDOs remained unchanged despite the fact that the Loan Agreement was modified
eight times during the life of the program (see Section 1.7). However, a significant modification
that affected the project's implementation was introduced under the Second Amendment.
Specifically, the extended-school day in the EGB3 schools participating in the Program decreased
from approximately 150 additional minutes to 90 additional minutes per day when the original
full-day schedule (Jornada Completa - JC) was replaced by an extended daily schedule (Jornada
Extendida - JE) in August 2002 (Provincial Resolution No. 3510 ­ 22 Aug. 2002). Such reduction
lowered the operational costs of the program, mainly in terms of additional teaching positions.
This was particularly important given the PBA's fragile fiscal situation in the aftermath of the
economic crises that shook the country in December 2001.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

The project's primary target beneficiaries identified at appraisal were: (i) students; (ii) teachers;
and (iii) school administrators in the roughly 200 EGB3 schools participating in the program,
which provide education services to socio-economically disadvantaged youth. The project was
expected to target approximately 60,000 students (i.e., 11 percent of the total EGB3 student PBA
enrollment), 3,200 teachers, and 400 school administrators in the selected schools (representing
approximately 8 percent of the total number of EGB3 schools in the PBA).




1.5 & 1.6        Original Project Components


                                   Table 1. Project Components
Component 1 - New Schools and Remodeling for Application of Classroom-Based
Pedagogical Model (US$59.69 million)

It supported the construction of additional EGB3 school spaces in the poorest urban districts and
rehabilitation of classrooms in about 165 existing EGB3 schools to develop and apply a new
pedagogical model of the `Jornada Completa.'

It was structured into three sub-components:
1.1 Construction of new school facilities (US$47.4 million)
1.2 Expansion and rehabilitation of existing school facilities (US$11.9 million)
1.3 Consultants for design, supervision and evaluation (US$0.3 million)
Component 2 - Pedagogical Improvement & Innovation in EGB3 Schools (US$102.50
million)

It provided support for pedagogical equipment (school libraries, science and language
laboratories, and learning materials) and other pedagogical services and innovations for
implementation of the `Jornada Completa' in the selected EGB3 schools

It was structured into five sub-components:
2.1 Human Resources (US$81.4 million)
2.2 Rehabilitation of labs, libraries & other facilities (US$7.0 million)
2.3 Equipment and teaching aids (US$11.4 million)
2.4 Technical assistance (US$1.3 million)
2.5 Training and internships (US$1.4 million)


                                                   3

Component 3 - Decentralization of School Management (US$ 9.00 million)

It provided support for more autonomous school management and innovative school projects in
the selected EGB3 schools and their districts.

It was structured into five sub-components:
3.1 Seminars and workshops for school directors and administrators (US$0.5 million)
3.2 Computer equipment (US$2.0 million)
3.3 School operating expenses (US$4.8 million)
3.4. Incentives for school performance (US$0.7 million)
3.5 Innovative projects fund (US$1 million)
Component 4 ­ Project Administration and Management (US$2.00 million)

It provided support for project administration and management




1.7     Other Significant Changes

There were eight modifications to the loan agreement throughout the life of the loan. With the
exception of the change from Full-Day Schedule to Extended-Day Schedule, the modifications
did not introduce any substantive changes to the Project. Instead, they addressed the many
challenges in implementation that resulted primarily from the severe financial and economic
situation of the PBA in the aftermath of the economic crisis that shook Argentina in December
2001. They also addressed changes in the program's implementation strategy resulting from
changes in leadership. These modifications, which include: (i) a reduction in the province co-
financing ration for civil works; (ii) reallocations within the project's disbursement categories and
procurement ceilings; and (iii) three extensions to the closing date, are explained in detail in
Annex 2.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry (QAE): Unsatisfactory. This ICR considers the operation's overall QAE rating
to be Unsatisfactory. While there were some strengths in the project's design, there were also
significant weaknesses that ultimately hindered its overall effectiveness.

Strengths
    Relevancy: The project was relevant, as it provided support to the PBA to continue its efforts
    to enhance education. As the largest provincial jurisdiction in the country and with the
    greatest concentration of high-risk students in the Buenos Aires metropolitan region (the so-
    called Grand Buenos Aires), the PBA merited a self-standing operation, particularly in view
    of the commitment and implementation capacity it demonstrated in the context of preceding
    operations.
    Consistency with CAS objectives: The overall objectives of the 1997-2000 Bank's Country
    Assistance Strategy (CAS) in Argentina were to: (i) enhance social development, including
    poverty alleviation and human resource development; (ii) improve the performance and
    institutional capacity of the government, particularly at the sub-national level, to deliver key
    social, infrastructure, and environmental services; and (iii) consolidate successful structural
    reforms, including reforms in public finance, labor markets and the financial sector to ensure


                                                   4

  successful implementation of the assistance program, and enhance governance through
  institution building. The PRODYMES III.A directly supported the CAS objectives as it: (i)
  sought to increase access to quality education and improve equity by targeting EGB3 students
  from the poorest households; (ii) gave support to the PBA to strengthen its ability to provide
  education services; and (iii) sought to consolidate the educational reforms of the past decade.
  Aligning responsibilities with resources and incentives: The Bank team correctly identified
  the need to ensure that school officials had access to resources to satisfy their routine needs,
  such as the purchase of supplies and equipment repairs, without undue bureaucratic burden.
  Likewise, the Bank team identified the need to align the incentives of school officials with
  the project's objective. The project's design addressed these challenges by introducing the
  decentralization of funds and performance-based incentives under Component 3.

Weaknesses
  Unverified assumptions: As stated in the PAD, the Full-Day Schedule (Jornada Completa)
  aimed to develop a new culture of learning in the classroom by applying a new pedagogical
  model in EGB3 which would, in turn, enhance quality, increase retention and graduation rates
  as well as facilitate student access to and success at the Polimodal level. More specifically, at
  project design it was envisaged that quality would be enhanced by increasing instruction and
  classroom time from about 750 hours to up to 1200 hour per year. This statement, as well as
  the overall project's design, rested on a number of unverified assumptions, including a cause-
  effect relationship between (i) longer school hours and an increase in retention; (ii) longer
  school hours resulting in more effective learning; and (iii) the availability of teaching tools
  resulting in enhanced teaching and learning. The project's implementation experience has
  refuted the validity of these assumptions, at least under the political, economic and social
  context in which they were implemented. For example, while some families benefited from
  the longer school day by allowing parents to work longer hours, other families suffered, as
  parents were forced to reduce work hours to take care of younger siblings or other dependants
  when such responsibility previously fell on an older sibling now enrolled in EGB3. Likewise,
  by having longer school hours, some students had to forgo income-generating activities, a
  burden that weighed particularly heavily on the low-income families who were the program's
  main beneficiary. In addition, the extended school day did not necessarily ensure better
  teaching and learning, nor did the availability of teaching aids ensured that teachers possessed
  the knowledge and self-initiative needed to effectively incorporate them into their teaching
  practice. The assumptions mirror the simplistic and conventional approach to the challenge of
  improving student retention and enhancing educational quality which relies excessively on
  increasing inputs (longer hours, more teachers, and more teaching aids) rather than focusing
  on the more pervasive factors that hinder their effectiveness.
  Weak M&E system: As explained in further detail in Section 2.3, the project's design lacked a
  relevant, well-grounded M&E system that would measure systematically the project impacts
  and distill lessons learned that could have been useful as an input in formative evaluations or
  in scaling-up the JC initiative.
  Institutional arrangements: By assigning full responsibility for project implementation,
  including curricular development, to the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), the project
  unintentionally isolated the JC/JE program and participating schools from the DGCyE. This
  made mainstreaming more difficult and compromised sustainability.
  Incomplete assessment of risks: During project preparation, the Bank team failed to
  adequately take into consideration some key risks, including: (i) the rapidly deteriorating
  macroeconomic conditions at the country level, as well as the PBA's deteriorating fiscal
  conditions, which made the replication of the JC initiative unfeasible on a large scale given
  the increase in operating costs it required; and (ii) structural problems within the PBA's
  education sector, such as frequent teacher absenteeism and strikes, as well as rigidity in the



                                                5

    selection of teachers at the school level, which presented systemic barriers to the project's
    success.

2.2      Implementation

This operation was approved in December 2000. Due to a six-month delay by the National
Government in issuing the Presidential Decree granting the Loan Guarantee, the Loan was not
signed until June 15, 2001. Once it was declared effective in July 20, 2001, a Special Account
was opened, the eligible retroactive financing was disbursed, and project activities gradually
started, lasting until December 2001 when the country's economy collapsed. The crisis brought
the project to a virtual standstill until March 2003, putting project execution roughly two years
behind schedule. This delay in execution did not reflect a lack of commitment or implementation
capacity on the part of PBA's, but rather the highly adverse implementation environment that
affected not only this operation but the Bank's portfolio as a whole.

Another major factor affecting the very essence of the project was the enactment of a new
national education law in 2006, followed by a new provincial law a year later, which completely
altered the structure of the educational system.

These two factors, as well as other factors affecting the project's implementation can be
summarized as follows:

Factors outside the Control of the Provincial Government and the Implementing Agency

Slow bureaucratic procedures at the national level: As mentioned above, the six-month delay in
declaring the project's effectiveness was caused by the bureaucratic procedures of the National
Government requiring a Presidential Decree to authorize the Minister of Economy to sign on
behalf of the Government of Argentina (GA) the Guarantee Agreement. In two occasions, once
the Decree was approved by the then President de la Rua, there was a change of Ministers of
Economy, which required a new Decree.

Macroeconomic instability: The unstable political and macroeconomic environment prevailing
during the 2001-2002 was a highly negative factor affecting project implementation. The
country's economy collapsed in December 2001 unleashing one of the deepest economic,
institutional and political crises to affect the country in its recent history. In 2001 and 2002,
output collapsed by 20 percent, poverty reached 57 percent of the population, and unemployment
reached 24 percent, with vast job losses in both the formal and informal sectors. Key social
indicators such as infant mortality deteriorated substantially for the first time in 30 years. The
freezing of all dollar-denominated accounts in Argentina, including the project's Special Account
in December 2001, compounded by the default of Argentina's Government on its financial
obligations with the World Bank in December 2002, paralyzed project implementation activities
until March 2003.

New legislative framework for the education sector at the national level: A new National
Education Law (Ley Nacional de Educación; Law No. 246206/06) was enacted in June 2006,
effectively bringing an end to the education reform set in motion with the enactment of the
Federal Education Law (Law No. 24295/93) in 1993 (see Figure 1). The new law once again
restructured Argentina's educational system, organizing it in four levels: initial education,
primary education, secondary education, and higher education. Under the new law, initial
education encompasses children between the ages of 45-days to five-years. Primary education is a
six-year pedagogical and organizational unit serving students beginning at the age of six. Primary
schools will have either a full-day or an extended-day schedule (Jornada Completa or Extendida,
respectively). Secondary education is a six-year pedagogical and organizational unit serving
students who have completed primary education. It is organized in two cycles: a Basic Cycle
(Ciclo Básico) of a general character and an Oriented Cycle (Ciclo Orientado) of a diversified
character focusing on different areas of skills and knowledge. The new law also extended

                                                 6

compulsory education from ten to thirteen years (one year of initial education and six years of
primary and secondary education, respectively).

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

Provincial education law: The PBA enacted its own Provincial Education Law (Ley Provincial de
Educación; Law No. 13.688/07) in June 2007. The provincial legislation is consistent with the
new national education law. Consequently, it restructures the PBA's educational system into four
levels: initial, primary, secondary and superior education. The secondary cycle is also organized
in two cycles: basic and oriented secondary education. The new provincial law extends
compulsory education from ten to fourteen years, beginning at age four (compared to age 5 under
the national law). The restructuring of the PBA's educational system diminished the relevance of
the project and had profound implications for the effectiveness and sustainability of the curricular
changes, physical infrastructure and organizational structure that were supported under the project
(see Section 3.1)


                 Figure 1. Evolution of the Structure of Argentina's Educational System

             Law of Common Education (Law No. 1420/1884)




                                               Primary education                        Secondary education

             Federal Education Law (Law No. 24195/1993)
             Provincial Education Law (Law No. 11.612/1995)

                          Age 5         EGB1                 EGB2               EGB3              Polimodal




                           Preschool               General basic education                   Secondary education


             National Education Law (Law No. 246206/2006)                  PRODYMES III.A
                                                                            target group
             Provincial Education Law (Law No. 13.688/2007)

             Age 45 days +    Age 4                                            Basic              Oriented




                 Initial education          Primary education                       Secondary education
                                          (Extended Day School)



                  Compulsory education                                                 Non-compulsory education




Changing government priorities: Prior to the change in the national education law in 2006, the
DGCyE had already made several strategic changes that affected the pace and depth of project
implementation activities. The strategic changes imposed a heavy toll on the project by slowing
down the continuity of activities and the implementation of in-depth curricular changes and
capacity building efforts. These changes were incremental, resulting in multiple organizational
models that co-existed not only within the project but also within individual schools. The priority
shifts can be summarized as follows:
    Shift from Full- to Extended-Day Schedule: As mentioned earlier, in August 2002 the PBA
    officially replaced the Full-Day Schedule (JC) model with the Extended-Day Schedule (JE)
    model. However, schools that had began implementation of the JC model in one or more
    grades retained the JC model. As a result, the universe of participating schools reflects a
    myriad organization models, including not only JC and JE but also some schools with double-
    attendance (doble escolaridad) as well as some with the regular school day (jornada simple).
    This complexity brought undue challenges to the project's implementation and hindered the
    possibility of systematically learning from the project (see Table 2).


                                                             7

                                                  Table 2
                        Organizational Models Currently Co-existing in the 203 Schools
                                        Participating in the Program
                                                                            Grades
      Organizational Model                                  1º ESB          2º ESB        9º ESB
                                                          (ex 7º EGB3)    (ex 8º EGB3)  (ex 9º EGB3)
      Extended-Day Schedule (Jornada Extendida)               136             154           153
      Full-Day Schedule (Jornada Completa)                     48              36            37
      Double Shift (Doble Escolaridad)                          8               -             -
      Simple-Day Schedule (Jornada Simple)                     11              13            13

    Changes in leadership at the sector level: New provincial education authorities took over in
    December, 2005 and modified some of the project's priorities. The most significant changes
    include: (i) greater emphasis in the development of school governance; and (ii) greater
    emphasis on the evaluation of project activities. The EGB3 curricula was changed to reflect
    the new emphasis on governance building, which, as mentioned above, hindered the
    continuity of the project's implementation and diverted efforts and resources away from the
    strengthening of core teaching areas. By 2008, however, the authorities who had been
    displaced in 2005 regained their position and revised the project again to comply with its
    original focus. The focus on systematic evaluation established in 2005 was partially lost in
    the revision process.

Difficult labor relations: As mentioned earlier, the PBA faces a series of structural challenges,
such as chronic teacher absenteeism and difficult relations with teachers unions (e.g., there were
nine teachers' strikes during the second half of 2008 alone). These challenges have undoubtedly
affected not only the project's implementation, but also the performance of the PBA's educational
system as a whole.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control

Strong implementation capacity: The strong implementation capacity of the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) has been a key factor in ensuring the implementation of project's activities and the
corresponding disbursement of funds, even under the unfavorable implementation conditions
describe above.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The design of the operation's M&E system exhibited significant weaknesses, which undermined
its effectiveness to monitor and assess the project's intended impact.

(a) M&E Design: The project's design included an ambitious M&E system aimed at measuring
the impact of the project in terms of improved repetition, completion, and transition rates as well
as enhanced learning. In particular, it was originally envisioned that the DGCyE would compile
basic statistical data for at least 400 poor EGB schools, including: (i) a control group constituted
by approximately 200 EGB3 schools that would not implement the Full-Day Schedule; and (ii)
the experimental group constituted by 200 participating EGB3 schools that would implement the
Full-Day Schedule. Data would include schools' location and socio-economic school population
data at district and regional level. It was envisioned that the data would be generated by the
decentralized information systems with data at the student level and, if necessary, complemented
by data resulting from specific baseline surveys and studies. Data on quality of learning was to be




                                                      8

measured on student's performance on standardized tests by the National Learning Assessment
System (Operativo Nacional de Educación - ONE).2

However, there were significant shortcomings in the M&E design:
     The M&E system was not designed in a participatory manner. In particular, two key actors,
     the DGCyE's planning and statistics directorates, which were indispensable for the successful
     implementation of the project's M&E system, were not included in the design process. As a
     result, there was no shared understanding of the importance, the objective, or even the
     methodological aspects underlying the project's M&E system, which eventually barred its
     successful implementation.
     It was assumed that decentralized information systems would continue to be updated. As it
     turned out, despite the initial commitment of provincial authorities to the continuous
     development of these information systems, including the student file (cédula escolar) and the
     teacher file (legajo único), they were not properly maintained and updated by schools. As a
     result, key data needed as an input for the project's M&E system was not available as
     anticipated.
     Likewise, results from ONE's standardized tests were intended to be used to track quality of
     learning in the participating schools vis-à-vis those in the control group. However, this
     alternative was not feasible for two reasons: (i) the schools to participate in ONE
     standardized testing are determined on a random basis at the national level; thus, the inclusion
     of schools in the experimental and control groups could not be ensured (indeed, in some
     years, no schools from these two groups were included); and (ii) ONE results are made
     available with a significant lag-time.
     Finally, there was a large gap between the actions supported in the project and the PDOs.
     Specifically, it would have been important to include as part of the project's M&E system a
     set of intermediate indicators that more closely measured the impact of the activities
     implemented under the project, such as the impact on drop-out/retention of longer school
     hours, the number of teachers that actually utilized the teaching tools provided under the
     program, and changes in the effectiveness of their teaching as a result of the teaching tools.

(b) M&E Implementation: The shortcomings in the original M&E design precluded its
implementation. Instead, the DGCyE and the Bank's supervision team agreed on the
implementation of two studies: (i) a transversal study focusing on the assessment of the project's
qualitative impacts; and (ii) a three-year longitudinal study focusing on the assessment of quality
of education using a traditional experimental approach. The experimental group consisted of 100
EGB3 participating schools and the control group consisted of 100 comparable EGB3 schools.
The first measurement, taken in 2005, served to establish the baseline. The extension of the
project allowed for a full cycle of student evaluation (in language and mathematics), with the
second and third measurements being done in 2006 and 2007, respectively. The two studies were
implemented successfully, albeit too late in the project's life cycle.

In addition, some of the project's PDO indicators were not included in the revised M&E system
(i.e., 9th grade completion rates were not disaggregated by gender; transition rates to Polimodal
were not disaggregated by gender or collected at the school level; and community attitudes
toward participating schools were not measured), which has hindered the ability to measure the
project's achievements.

(c) M&E Utilization: Unfortunately, the M&E system was largely seen as a project requirement
and, consequently, was not utilized as a learning tool to generate systematic knowledge based on


2   The National Learning Assessment System (Operativo Nacional de Evaluación - ONE) system
evaluated students in grades three, six and nine.

                                                   9

the project's implementation experience, nor was it used as a pulse-taking mechanism during
project implementation.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards: No safeguard policies were triggered by the Project.

Financial Management: There were no significant deviations from the Bank's standard financial
management procedures throughout the life of the loan. Financial management performance was
rated moderately satisfactory by the Bank's supervision team in 2008, pointing to the need to
update accounting registries, complete the preparation of the project's financial statements
(Estados Financieros - EEFF), and submit the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR)
corresponding to 2007, which were still pending. The PCU has since complied with these
recommendations.

Procurement: There were no significant deviations from the Bank's standard procurement
procedures throughout the life of the loan.

Civil works: This project carried a C Environmental Assessment rating. All the civil works
supported by the project were being built in public land (thus there were no involuntary
resettlements) and were deemed by the supervision team to be environmentally correct and not
likely to have any negative environmental consequences. Thus, compliance with the
corresponding safeguard policies (i.e., OP 4.12 and OP 4.01) was deemed satisfactory.3

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
School buildings built or remodeled under the project have been officially transferred to the
DGCyE and they have taken responsibility for their maintenance. Property of the teaching
materials has also been formally transferred to the schools. Although the PBA has expressed its
intention to unify the multiple schedules now coexisting in the province at the ESB level,
including the full- and extended-day schedule, it is not yet clear what the overall strategy will be.

3.       Assessment of Outcomes

3.1      Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project's objectives continue to be consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy in
Argentina. Specifically, by seeking to improve access to quality education among the more
vulnerable sectors of the student population, the project fully supports the 2006-2008 CAS'
objectives of promoting sustained economic growth with equity and social inclusion. Similarly,
by seeking to strengthen schools management capacity, the project supports the CAS objective of
enhancing governance.4

However, the new national and provincial legal framework for the education sector has severely
diminished the project's overall relevance, as it was conceived to support the implementation of
the previous legal framework. Under the previous regime, the schools participating in the project
were in the EGB3 cycle, under General Basic Education. Under the new regime, these schools
correspond to the Basic Cycle (Educación Secundaria Básica - ESB) of the Secondary Education
level. This change has had profound implications for the project as a whole and participating
schools in particular that go well beyond the curricular changes, affecting also their physical
infrastructure and organizational structure, including:


3   A total of 41 new schools, 338 new classrooms and 161 renovated schools were supported under the
project compared to 35 schools, 400 new classrooms and 200 renovated schools anticipated at appraisal.
4   The 2006-2006 CAS support three main pillars: i) sustained economic growth with equity; ii) social
inclusion; and iii) governance (Report No.: 34015-AR, May 4, 2006).

                                                   10

    Infrastructure: The latest restructuring of the PBA's educational system has rendered
    obsolete much of the school infrastructure financed under the project. Under the new
    educational system, participating schools are under the jurisdiction of the secondary level and
    are a different entity from the primary schools with which they formerly shared buildings.
    Some of the participating schools have remained in the same building but now operate
    separately from the primary school (formerly EGB1 and EGB2). Thus, the school buildings
    no longer respond to the needs of these schools, which have effectively lost some of their
    spaces (for example, some school directors do not have offices and operate from the library
    or the hallways). Other participating schools have been moved to the building of a secondary
    school in the vicinity. In these cases, the school buildings that were expanded or remodeled
    under the project have been left behind to be used by primary schools, which do not
    necessarily require them.
    Ownership of teaching aids: In many cases, participating schools have been unable to
    maintain ownership over the teaching materials they received under the project, as primary
    schools have claimed them, particularly in the case where the participating schools have
    moved to a new location. As a result, in many cases, libraries, music instrument and physical
    education equipment have been divided between the two schools and some equipment,
    particularly audiovisual equipment is now being shared under ad hoc arrangements that are,
    at best, difficult to implement.
    Changes in school officials: As a result of the change in jurisdiction, school directors in
    participating schools were given the choice between belonging to the primary and secondary
    levels. Those directors who chose the primary level have left the participating schools, which
    have resulted in a loss in the institutional capacity for the project.
    Full- and Extended-Day Schedule: The new legal framework calls for the implementation of
    full- and extended-day schedule (JC/JE) at the primary level. The PBA has already pledged
    its commitment to implement the JC/JE schedule in at least 30 percent of primary schools by
    2010. Although the PBA has expressed the intention to unify the multiple schedules now
    coexisting in the province at the secondary level (see Table 2), it remains unclear what the
    overall strategy will be.

3.2.     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO 1 ­ Unsatisfactory

Increase access to quality education and improve equity by supporting the implementation of a
Full-Day or Extended-Day Schedule (Jornada Completa and Extendida - JC/JE) in selected
EGB3/ESB schools serving students from the poorest households.


As shown on Table F. (a), none of the Key Performance Indicators for the PDO1 have been
achieved, indicating that the project did not have an impact on enhancing access, quality and
equity of education. Moreover, as shown in Table 3 and Figure 2, key efficiency indicators have
deteriorated in EGB3/ESB schools in general, regardless of their participation in the project.
Likewise, results from a quality assessment performed by the DGCyE in 2005, 2006 and 2007
show that, at best, the project did not have a positive impact on enhancing the quality of
education in math, language and natural sciences. The project, however, seems to have helped
retain students in the education system. Likewise, school officials report reductions in students'
absenteeism, although this has not been systematically measured.

The main results from the analysis of efficiency indicators for schools in the experimental and
control groups between 2005 and 2007 indicate that:


                                                   11

1. Overall, performance has deteriorated for EGB3/ESB schools as a whole.
   Average effective promotion rates for grades 7-9 have deteriorated for EGB3/ESB schools in
   general, declining by roughly 10 percent for schools in both the experimental and control
   groups between 2005 and 2007.
   Average repetition rates for grades 7-9 have deteriorated for EGB3/ESB schools in general,
   increasing substantially for schools in both the experimental and control groups between
   2005 and 2007.

2. The project does not to appear to have impacted promotion rates.
   The differential in average effective promotion rates between schools in the experimental
   and control groups has remained the same between 2005 and 2007(i.e., 1.5 percent).

3. Repetition rates are higher among schools in the experimental group than among those in the
   control group.
   Between 2005 and 2007, average repetition rates for grades 7-9 among schools in the
   experimental group have increased relatively more among schools in the experimental groups
   (6.6 percent) than those in the control group (4.7 percent).

4. The project appears to have had a positive impact in retaining students in the school system.
   Average drop-out rates for grades 7-9 have decreased for the experimental group between
   2005 and 2007, while they have increased for their counterparts during the same period.
   Lower drop-out rates, together with higher repetition rates, suggest that students in
   participating schools that fail to pass the grade are less likely to quit school than those in the
   control group.

                                                      Table 3
                                               Efficiency Indicators
                         Average for Schools in the Experimental and Control Groups
                                                       2004-2005              2005-2006          2006-2007
      Drop-out rate - %
      Percentage of students that do not register in any grade the following school year.
      Experimental group                                   8.6                   10.3                7.9
      Control group                                        7.8                    9.8                9.1
      Effective Promotion rate - %
      Percentage of students that: (i) pass the grade and (ii) register to attend the next consecutive grade
      the following school year.
      Experimental group                                  79.0                   71.5                71.5
      Control group                                       77.5                   70.2                70.0
      Repetition rate - %
      Percentage of students that register in the same grade the following school year, as they have failed
      to pass it the prior year
      Experimental group                                  11.8                   16.3                18.4
      Control group                                       13.8                   19.3                18.6
      Re-registration rate - %
      Percentage of students that, the following year, register in a grade they have already registered for,
      but have not passed.
      Experimental group                                   0.6                    1.9                2.1
      Control group                                        0.9                    0.7                2.4
      Total
      Experimental group                                 100.0                  100.0               100.0
      Control group                                      100.0                  100.0               100.0




                                                        12

  Figure 2. Efficiency Indicators for Grades 7 -9 for the Experimental (JC/JE) and Control Groups

                                         Average Desertion Rate                                                           Average Promotion Rates
                                for the Experimental and Control Groups                                           for the Experimental and Control Groups

                       11.0                                                                              81

                                                      10.3                                                           79.0
                                                                                                         79
                       10.0                                                                                    77.5
                                                                                                         77
                                                       9.8
                                                                            9.1
   egatnecr             9.0                                                         e                    75

                                     8.6                                             agt
                                                                                                         73
                                                                                        cen                                               71.5             71.5
           Pe           8.0
                                     7.8                                    7.9            erP           71
                                                                                                                                    70.2                    70.0
                                                                                                         69
                        7.0

                                                                                                         67

                        6.0                                                                              65
                              2004-2005             2005-2006        2006-2007                                 2004-2005            2005-2006         2006-2007

                                  Experimental group              Control group                                    Experimental group                Control group



                                        Average Repetition Rate                                                         Average Re-registration Rate
                                for the Experimental and Control Groups                                           for the Experimental and Control Groups

                        21
                                                        19.3                                             2.5
                                                                           18.6                                                                              2.4
                        19
                                                                           18.4                                                                              2.1
                        17                                                                               2.0

                                                        16.3                                                                              1.9
             egatnecr   15
                                    13.8                                                                 1.5
                        13                                                                    egat

                                    11.8                                                          cen
                     Pe 11                                                                           erP 1.0    0.9
                        9                                                                                                                  0.7
                                                                                                                0.6
                                                                                                         0.5
                        7

                        5                                                                                0.0
                              2004-2005            2005-2006         2006-2007                                  2004-2005            2005-2006        2006-2007


                                   Experimental group              Control group
                                                                                                                      Experimental group              Control group


Results are not encouraging in terms of the quality of education either. Specifically, the results
from a quality assessment conducted by the DGCyE in math, language and natural sciences for
schools in the experimental and control groups indicate that the implementation of the JC/JE did
not have a positive impact in enhancing the quality of education. Conversely, it may have resulted
in a worsening in student's performance in core areas vis-à-vis the EGB3/ESC that maintained
the regular school day.

The quality assessment was performed by the DGCyE's Planning Directorate, one of whose
responsibilities is to assess the quality of education in the PBA. In 2005, 7th-grade students in the
experimental and control groups (a sample of 100 schools in each group) were given standardized
tests in math, language and natural sciences. These students were tested again in math and
language in 2006 and 2007, when they were attending 8th and 9th grade, respectively. Overall,
results point to a general weakness regarding quality of education in EGB3/ESB schools, with
performance ranging from 34 percent to 45 percent (see Table 4). Schools that have maintained
the regular school day (i.e., control group) have performed consistently better than those that
implemented the JC/JE (i.e., experimental group). Although the differences between the two
groups are not very large (i.e., less than 3 percentage points), they are statistically significant for
7th-grade math scores, as well as for 8th- and 9th-grade language scores. In summary, results
indicate that the project did not help improve the quality of education in the core areas (i.e., math,
language and natural sciences). Conversely, it might unintentionally have undermined it.




                                                                                 13

Table 4. Student Performance in Math, Language and Science in Experimental and Control Groups

                                                                        Grades
                                                  1º ESB                2º ESB          3º ESB
             Subject                            (ex 7º EGB3)         (ex 8º EGB3)     (ex 9º EGB3)
             Math
                Experimental group                  34.3                  28.4            31.4
                Control group                       35.6                  29.0            32.4
             Language
                Experimental group                  36.0                  42.2            38.6
                Control group                       36.8                  44.9            41.6
             Natural Sciences
                Experimental group                  38.9                  N/A             N/A
                Control group                       39.8                  N/A             N/A
             Note: Highlighted cells indicate statistically significant differences.

PDO 2 ­ Moderately Unsatisfactory

Improve school management as a necessary complement to the introduction of a Full- or
Extended-Day Schedule (JC/JE) in the selected EGB3/ESB schools.


As shown on Table F. (a), only one of the Key Performance Indicators for the PDO2 has been
fully achieved, indicating that the project had only limited impact in enhancing school
management in the participating schools. The main achievements can be summarized as follows:

   School directors in participating EGB3/ESB schools have received substantial training and
   institutional assistance under the project, both in traditional training settings as well as in the
   form of one-on-one support from members of the PCU's pedagogical team. Interviews with
   school directors as well as members of the pedagogical team indicate that dealing with the
   many social needs of the student population takes a substantial toll on the directors' ability to
   effectively manage their schools. This role would instead be more effectively and efficiently
   played by social workers, who could be assigned to individual schools
   There was no systematic pulse-taking of students', parents' and community's attitudes toward
   secondary schooling in the districts of selected EGB3/ESB schools. However, the almost 300
   school officials and teachers interviewed by the DGCyE as part of the quality assessment
   study reported a perceived increase in student registration as well as an enhanced standing of
   participating schools within their communities.
   The project did not capitalize on its potential to systematically learn from its implementation
   experience. There were some attempts to promote cross-fertilization, such as sharing the
   experiences with student government councils of EGB3/ESB schools that did not participate
   in the program. Likewise, the DGCyE conducted two assessments of the program (i.e., a
   qualitative and a quantitative one). While these studies provided some valuable insights into
   the program's performance, they do not provide the detailed analysis that would be needed for
   the identification and dissemination of best practices and lessons learned. Such systematic
   knowledge-building would have been a valuable input in helping the DGCyE to decide
   whether or not to replicate the JC/JE model in a larger scale, as well as designing a large-scale
   replication strategy. (As mentioned above, the DGCyE has announced its intention to
   consolidate the various school schedules that are currently operating, including JC, JE, double-
   shifts schools, etc.)
   Management autonomy has improved, as individual schools have access to decentralized
   funds to be used for minor building repairs and maintenance. However, securing the resources
   needed for buying office supplies, classroom consumables, equipment repairs, and other
   essential items still take a disproportionate amount of school directors' time and efforts.

                                                         14

Interestingly, despite the project's poor achievement in relation to its main PDOs, the
implementation of individual components has been largely satisfactory. In particular, school
infrastructure has been improved and expanded, school officials and teachers have been trained,
and schools have received state-of-the-art teaching tools. This apparent incongruence underscores
the fact that enhancing access and quality of education requires more than just providing
additional resources to individual schools (so-called `vertical reforms'). Vertical reforms need to
be complemented with `horizontal' interventions that have a cross-cutting impact throughout the
education sector, such as: (i) addressing structural challenges affecting the entire PBA's
educational system, such as chronic teacher absenteeism and rigid human resource management;
(ii) strengthening of sector-wide systems, including the further decentralization of resources to
individual schools; (iii) establishing `rules of the game' to guide the efforts of school officials and
teachers, such as the incorporation of performance-based incentives focusing on increasing
retention and promotion rates, as well as teaching quality; and (iv) developing of teaching and
administrative tools that can be utilized by individual schools across the public sector to
ultimately capitalize on the potential for horizontal fertilization and economies of scale.

The achievements under the individual components are summarized below, while a more detailed
description is provided in Annex 3:

Component 1 - New Schools and Remodeling: Moderately Unsatisfactory. This component
supported the design and construction of new and improved school infrastructure for the JC/JE
schools. Specifically, the project financed the construction of 41 new school buildings and the
renovation and expansion of an additional 161 schools. As a whole, a total of 290 new classrooms
have been built and 59 existing classrooms have been remodeled. Other facilities that supported
the JC/JE program were also added or remodeled, including libraries, science labs, computer labs,
multimedia centers, cafeterias and kitchens. Approximately 29,000 students, 5,500 teachers and
203 directors have benefited from the enhanced physical space. It is important to note, however,
that the selected schools had roughly half the student population as originally anticipated.

As mentioned earlier, the school buildings financed under the project do not respond to the
special needs of the restructured educational system. In some cases, buildings have been
artificially divided to accommodate what are now two different levels of education (i.e., primary
and secondary education). In other cases, the buildings are now being used by primary schools, as
EGB3/ESB schools have been moved to secondary schools nearby, which do not necessarily have
adequate facilities.

It is also important to note that the selection of participating schools rendered roughly half the
number of students that was originally anticipated. The school selection criteria focused on socio-
economic status rather than on student enrollment. The schools that were selected to participate
had, as a whole, half the student population that was originally anticipated. This suggests that
there might be a trade-off between targeting the most vulnerable groups and maximizing the
coverage of Bank's projects.

Component 2 - Pedagogical Improvement & Innovation in EGB3 Schools: Moderately
Satisfactory. This component provided financing for the additional resources needed to support
the implementation of the JC/JE schools, including:

Human resources: The project provided JC/JE schools with additional human resources,
including: longer hours for school officials; more teachers to cover the expanded curricula (i.e.,
physical education, art, English, ICT, and citizenship development); support personnel for the
cafeteria and kitchen; non-teaching hours (so-called `institutional hours') to help increase
coordination among teachers; a staff person to provide support in the use of teaching aids (so-
called Apoyo Técnico Pedagógico - EMATP). These are permanent positions within the structure
of the Province's DGCyE and, as such, they are funded by the PBA.

                                                   15

Teaching materials: The project provided schools with state-of-the art teaching materials to
support physical education, music, art, science and computer education, as well as teaching in
general. Approximately 400 teachers received special training in the use of lab equipment.

Capacity building:      Participating schools received intensive technical support from the
pedagogical team within the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). This team consisted of a top-notch
group of educational science professionals, which reached up to 80 people at the peak of
implementation. Participating schools received an average of 498 hours per month of technical
assistance, working directly with school directors and teachers. In addition, over 800 events were
conducted over the life of the program, which provided various types of training to 1,500 staff
(excluding school directors), over 5,900 teachers, and 8,000 students.

There were some significant shortcomings underlying the strategy that guided the implementation
of this component, which resulted in the irrational use of the project's resources, including:
    In general, the same set of teaching materials was assigned to all individual schools,
    regardless of the number of students (i.e., the number of students in participating schools vary
    from 30 to 500 students). Similarly, teaching aids did not respond to the teachers' particular
    skills (e.g., some music teachers that did not know how to play any instrument, for which the
    musical instruments provided under the project were not used).
    Schools had a limited absorptive capacity, which limited the impact of the teaching materials.
    More in-depth training was needed to support the effective utilization of some of the teaching
    materials.
    Some teaching aids, like computer, language and science labs, require a profoundly different
    teaching approach, a key aspect that was not taken into consideration under the project.
    Training in core areas (math, language and science) was very weak relative to that of non-
    core courses (physical education, art, English and technology). Only 1,000 math, language
    and science teachers received training compared to 4,400 teachers in non-core areas. This
    lack of emphasis on core-areas is likely a determinant factor of the project's lack of impact on
    education quality, which is focus only on core areas.
Component 3 - Decentralization of School Management: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
objective of this component was to strengthen management at the school level, a necessary
condition for the successful implementation of the JC/JE project. It also supported the
implementation of innovative school projects. The level of achievement under this component
was mixed, as described below:
Strengthening school management: School directors in the 203 participating schools received
substantial training and capacity building under the project, both in traditional classroom settings
and in one-on-one coaching sessions.
ICT equipment: Schools were provided with state-of-the-art ICT equipment, including a computer
lab with a network and 16 personal computers, printers, and peripheral equipment.
Financial autonomy: The financial autonomy of schools has improved with the implementation
of the `Fondo de Escuelas,' which provide schools with Arg$400 to ARG$10,000 depending on
the number of students to pay for minor building repairs and maintenance.
Performance-based incentives: Although the project correctly included performance-based
incentives in its original design, these were never implemented. Two sets of default incentives
determined the behavior of school officials: (i) the current PBA system of incentives, which
rewards overall school enrollment by assigning schools more resources and (ii) the project's
incentives, which were virtually nonexistent, as participating schools were guaranteed the same
level of resources regardless of their performance. Although JC/JE schools were successful in
recruiting new students with the `extras' they offered, there were no incentives in place to
improve internal efficiency or student academic performance, which contributed to the project's
overall lack of substantial impact in terms of efficiency indicators (i.e., promotion and repetition
rates) as well as student performance in standardized math, language and science tests.

                                                 16

Innovative projects: A total of 150 `Innovative Projects' were implemented under the project, as
described below. Each school had to submit a proposal, which was then assessed in terms of its
feasibility and pedagogic contribution by a panel of education experts. Selected schools received
a grant of Arg$10,000 (roughly US$3,000) to purchase the necessary equipment and/or services.
Project implementation was monitored using periodic progress reports prepared by school
directors. Cross-fertilization among innovative projects of a similar nature was promoted through
annual events (a total of 33 events were implemented in different districts of the PBA, with each
participating school attending an average of four events).

As in the previous component, there were significant shortcomings in the implementation of this
component, which resulted in the irrational and lack of foresight in the use of project resources,
including:
    While schools were provided with state-of-the-art computer labs, none of the schools have
    Internet access (it is expected to be provided under an IADB operation).
    It is crucial to continue to increase schools' financial autonomy. Currently, schools do not
    have resources to buy basic office supply (such as paper and toner for printers and
    photocopiers) or to pay for equipment repairs.5 As a result, much of the equipment is not
    being used for fear of breakage or is rendered useless once it needs repairs. In addition,
    school directors spend a disproportionate share of their time trying to secure this type of
    funds.
    While some projects appear to have been very successful, no systematic assessment has been
    made of their impact, sustainability, or potential replicability. In this case, as well as for the
    JC/JE as a whole, a valuable opportunity for systematically building knowledge of innovative
    educational strategies was lost.
    There are indications that the selection procedures of innovative projects did not ensure the
    rational utilization of resources or sustainability over the medium and long term. In particular,
    one of the schools visited during the ICR mission had implemented a student radio to
    broadcast to the larger community. However, the equipment is not being used as the school
    lacks a broadcasting antenna, which costs approximately US$3,000.

3.3      Efficiency

The main benefits of the project were expected to result from (i) an increase in future earnings
related to a decrease in drop-out rates and (ii) cost savings related to the decrease in repetition
rates. In view of the project's poor performance in relation to its Key Performance Indicators, it is
unlikely these benefits will materialize. First, although drop-out rates have indeed been reduced,
it not clear whether they will eventually translate to higher graduation rates, as actual promotion
rates have decreased significantly since appraisal. Second, repetition rates have increased rather
than decreased, indicating the potential costs savings originally envisaged not only failed to
materialized but rather are likely to have moved in the opposite direction by increasing
operational costs.

3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

The operation's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory, as there were major shortcomings in
the project's PDO achievement, efficiency, and continuous relevance.                   Two factors greatly


5   The DGCyE has a centralized electronic repair operation. However, as reported by school directors,
repair times are very long, service is not particularly reliable, and schools still have to pay for parts when
they are not in stock.

                                                      17

affected project implementation and its overall performance. First, the highly unfavorable
macroeconomic environment that ensued after the country's economic collapse in December
2001 not only disrupted the project's implementation but severely impacted the sector as a whole,
as illustrated by results from standardized tests including the most recent regional assessment
sponsored by the UNESCO and the OECD Programme for International Student
Assessment (PISA), both of which clearly show the deterioration in education for Argentina as
a whole. Second, the structural redefinition of the PBA's educational system as a result of the
enactment of the new national education law in 2006 also had a profound impact on the project,
as it drastically altered the framework in which it had originally been conceived and diminished
its relevance.

As shown in Table 5, the overall performance rating is based on the weighted average of the
achievement of PDOs as: (i) originally designed; and ii) after its restructuring. Specifically:
     PDO achievement for the first stage (i.e., the implementation of the full-day schedule - JC) is
     considered unsatisfactory, as it was implemented only in a handful of schools (see Table 2).
     In addition, much of the progress done until the time of restructuring, such as the architectural
     design of new and remodeled school buildings was deemed useless with the shift from the
     full-day schedule to the extended-day schedule.
     PDO achievement for the second face (i.e., the implementation of the extended-day schedule
     ­ JE) is considered unsatisfactory. Negligible progress, if any, was made in enhancing access
     to quality education; the strengthening of management capacity in participating schools has
     been partial, with substantial challenges still remaining; and systematic learning has been
     weak, which will hinder the replication of the JE replication on a larger scale. However, the
     project appears to have had some valuable impacts among participating schools, such as
     enhancing student retention. Likewise, the DGCyE's Planning Directorate has identified
     other non-quantifiable project impacts as part of its qualitative assessment of the JC/JE
     program. As reported by the 300 school officials and teachers that participated in the study,
     the main non-measurable impacts from the project include: (i) an enhanced institutional
     climate within the school, including more cohesive relationships between school officials and
     teachers, as well as between teachers and students; (ii) a more integrated approach toward
     teaching, with improved coordination among teaching areas; (iii) enhanced community
     participation and a better standing of the school within the community; and (iv) greater
     student participation in extra-curricular activities.


                                                 Table 5. Overall Outcome

                                                        Original               Revised               Overall
             Steps                                        PDOs                  PDOs                  Rating

             1. Rating                               Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                --

             2. Rating value                                2                      2                     --
             3. Weight
                             3.66                         53.24                   56.9                 56.9
                            6.43%                        93.57%                100.00%               100.00%
             4. Weighted value (2) x (3)                  0.1286                1.8714                   2
             5. Final rating (rounded)                                                           Unsatisfactory

         Note: The values corresponding to each rating are: Highly Satisfactory = 6, Satisfactory = 5, Moderately
         Satisfactory = 4, Moderately Unsatisfactory = 3, Unsatisfactory = 2, and Highly Unsatisfactory = 1




                                                              18

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development: The operation explicitly sought--
and succeeded--to target socio-economically disadvantaged youth. The selection of participating
schools was based on the socio-economic profile of the school population, measured by various
socio-economic characteristics of the school population. The large majority of students in
participating schools are from the more vulnerable sectors of the population, representing roughly
12 percent of all ESB students in the PAB that are below the poverty line. Of the 203 schools that
participated in the program, 112 were located in the Gran Buenos Aires, the metropolitan ring
surrounding the capital city (the so-called Gran Buenos Aires), which has the highest
concentration of poverty in the country.6

b) Institutional Change/Strengthening: This operation is considered to have had limited impact in
terms of promoting far-reaching institutional change and strengthening. The project has
undoubtedly strengthened participating schools by providing training to directors and teachers, as
well as by actively supporting the development of school governance mechanisms (i.e., the
establishment of student centers and other participatory mechanisms). However, it is unclear
whether these enhancements would be replicated at a larger scale and reach the almost 2,000
schools that did not participate in the project (non-participating schools represent more than 90
percent of basic-secondary schools).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts: A valuable­albeit unintended--outcome that
resulted from this operation was to keep alive the policy dialogue on education issues with the
PBA in the aftermath of the 2001 crisis.

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

The sustainability of the achievements of the project within participating schools is uncertain, as
well as the replication of the JC/JE program at a larger scale. Several factors contribute to this
uncertainty, including:

New legal framework: As noted earlier, the change in the legal framework has profoundly
affected the essence of the JC/JE project, explicitly conceived to support the implementation of
the preceding education reform. EGB3 schools are those more affected by the modification in the
PBA's educational system, as they were removed from the former Basic General Education level
(grades 1-9) and inserted at the secondary level (grades 7-12). As detailed under Section 3.1, this
change had profound implications for participating schools that go well beyond the obvious
curricular changes, affecting also their physical infrastructure and organizational structure.

Isolation of JC/JE schools from the rest of the system: As a result of the institutional
arrangements adopted under the project, the implementation of the project was the responsibility
of the PCU, which resulted in the disconnection of the JC/JE schools from the other EGB3/ESB
schools. This, in turn, might impose additional challenges for mainstreaming participating
schools, as participating schools will no longer have access to the pedagogical resources within
the PCU and, in some cases, will need to rebuild their linkages to the DGCyE's system.




6   PBA's ESB student population amounts to approximately 560,000 students, of which roughly 42
percent are estimated to be below the poverty line (i.e., 235,000 students). Since all 29,000 students in
participating schools are likely to be below the poverty line or exhibit other risk factors, they represent
roughly 12 percent of all socio-economically disadvantaged ESB students.


                                                   19

Decision to expand the JE program at the secondary level is still pending: The new education law
calls for all primary schools to adopt an extended-day schedule and the PBA has already
expressed its commitment to implement the JE in at least 30 percent of primary schools by 2010.
However, it is unclear whether the JE program will be adopted at the secondary level. The
DGCyE has expressed its intention to consolidate the various schedules that now coexist at the
secondary level (i.e., JC, JE, double-shift schools) but no specific decision has yet been made.

Systematic learning has been weak: The lack of clear understanding of the comparative
advantages and disadvantages of the JC/JE approach, the effectiveness of alternative
implementation strategies, as well as the lessons learned hinder future replication efforts.

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1      Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory
The performance of the Bank's team responsible for assisting the Borrower in identifying,
preparing and appraising the operation is deemed unsatisfactory. Although the project was a
natural progression in the series of preceding operations and consistent with the priorities of both
the PBA and the Bank and the design included features to improve schools' financial autonomy
and introduce performance-based incentives, it also had important flaws that severely undermined
its potential success, including: (i) unverified assumptions; (ii) a weak M&E system; (iii)
institutional arrangements that were not conducive to the project's mainstreaming; and (iv) an
incomplete assessment of risks. In addition, the four-year lifespan of the project was overly
optimistic, particularly taking into consideration that physical works had to be completed before
the bulk of substantive activities could begin.

(b)      Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the Bank's supervision for this operation is deemed moderately satisfactory. Aide
Memoire, Back-to-Office reports and Project and Implementation Status Reports (PSRs and
ISRs) demonstrate a close supervision, in which the Bank's team maintained a close working
relationship with the PCU throughout the life of the project. Several factors beyond the Bank's
influence made supervision efforts particularly difficult, including: (i) changing government
priorities; (ii) the extended periods of inactivity in the aftermath of the 2001 crisis; and (iii) the
adoption of a drastically different educational system under the new education law. Nevertheless,
the Bank's team showed high responsiveness and flexibility in addressing the changing needs of
the DGCyE, as evidenced by the approval of eight modifications to the loan agreement.

Ensuring the implementation of the project's M&E system, including the definition of the
experimental and control groups and baseline values was a struggle throughout the life of the
project. During the last two years of implementation, the Bank's supervision team focused its
effort on this particular aspect. The supervision team spent a considerable amount of time with
those who had worked sporadically on this effort on the Borrower's side and it is clear that,
without their perseverance and diligence, the latter phases of the testing would not have been
carried out. Likewise, throughout the life of the project the Bank's team emphasized the
importance of capitalizing on the learning potential of the project. Having lowered the project's
rating to underscore the importance of these two aspects was likely an important factor in
eventually ensuring that some progress was made in these two areas.




                                                  20

Delays in the implementation of the M&E system hindered the supervision team's ability to
accurately and timely assess the attainment of project outcomes during implementation. The 2003
baseline data for the experimental and control groups was not made available until October 2005.
Once the next data measurement (i.e., 2005 data) became available in December 2006, the
supervision team downgraded the project's rating from satisfactory to moderately satisfactory, as
the data indicated that the chances of satisfactorily meeting the specified PDO indicators were
slim. Progress on impact evaluation continued to been painfully slow. Although the next set of
data was made available in mid-2007, problems were subsequently detected in the dataset that
precluded the team to fully analyze the data at the time, for which the project's rating of
moderately satisfactory was maintained.

(c) Justification for Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank's Performance is deemed moderately unsatisfactory for the reasons stated above.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Although PBA sector authorities were very supportive of the project, once implementation began
and in the face of the more urgent priorities that emerged as a result of the 2001 crisis, the project
was clearly not one of their top priorities. Likewise, as the PCU was responsible for the project's
implementation, DGCyE's officials did not have a strong ownership of the project and, as a
result, did not demonstrate the institutional leadership needed to truly exert long-lasting change
within the PBA educational system.

The difficulties experienced since the onset of the project to develop the project's M&E system
and systematically learn from its implementation indicate the lack of concerted efforts at the
sector and DGCyE levels. These activities required the cooperation of the DGCyE's statistics and
planning areas. These two actors were not included in the project's design, which resulted in them
having little ownership of the project. While these two areas eventually provided valuable
contributions to the project, a stronger endorsement of the project's needs by sector and DGCyE
authorities would have ensured the earlier collaboration of these two areas.

Support for key measures aimed at strengthening school management in a decentralized way
waned after sector authorities changed in December 2005. As a result, actions that were vital in
ensuring the project's success were not implemented, such as deepening the schools' financial
autonomy and introducing performance-based incentives.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the performance of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) is rated moderately satisfactory.
As a result of having coordinated three Bank education projects and one IDB project at the
provincial level, the PCU had a strong implementation capacity. This, in turn, was a key factor
ensuring the full utilization of the loan's proceeds despite the project's unfavorable
implementation environment. It succeeded in coordinating the implementation of the project in
203 schools located throughout the PBA, which was logistically complex. It also fulfilled its
multiple responsibilities, including: daily project management; all administrative project
requirements; the preparation of the bi-annual project progress reports; and as well as the
implementation and monitoring of all civil works and the procurement of goods and services.



                                                 21

The PCU had several teams working on the substantive areas of the project, including the
infrastructure team, the pedagogical team, and the innovative projects team. Each of these teams
was constituted by top-notch, highly dedicated professionals that played a key role throughout the
project's implementation. The civil works team, for example, succeeded in reducing average
school construction times without compromising the quality of the buildings. Likewise, the
pedagogical team had roughly 80 professionals at the peak of the project's implementation. It
provided valuable technical and institutional support to participating schools and succeeded in
developing close working relationships with school directors. However, these teams operated in a
rather independent fashion, resulting in the insulation of JC/JE schools from the DGCyE's
institutional channels. Although the various teams had the DGCyE's blessing regarding the
specific activities they were conducting, it sometimes took several months to obtain its approval.
As a result, the project's activities in individual schools usually did not begin until several months
after the beginning of the school year. More importantly, the various teams, particularly the
pedagogical team that was responsible for curricula development, lacked sufficient strategic
guidance from top education officials, particularly during the period between 2006 and 2007.

The PCU shared some of the responsibility regarding the lack of progress toward: i) the
development of the project's M&E; and ii) systematically learning from the project's experience.
Although these activities were not fully under its jurisdiction, the PCU's leadership could have
played a more proactive role in ensuring the cooperation of the other entities within the DGCyE.

(c) Justification for Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Overall Borrower's performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory for the reasons stated above.

6.       Lessons Learned

Lessons of general application

Changes at the federal level, which are beyond the control of the borrower, can have a major
impact on the outcome of sub-national projects. Thus, teams working at the sub-national level
need to be much attuned to the overall `enabling' environment for their projects, and, if
necessary, request approval for the structuring of the projects by the approving authority as early
as possible.

Context matters:       The project's implementation was severely affected by the unstable
macroeconomic conditions that prevailed in the late 1990s and eventually resulted in the
country's collapse in December 2001. Likewise, the program was negatively affected by periodic
strikes, chronic teacher absenteeism, and many other structural weaknesses of the PBA's
educational system. It is unrealistic to expect projects targeting specific subsets of the overall
education system, such as JC/JE EGB3 schools, not to be affected by the context in which they
are inserted.

Balancing `vertical' and `horizontal' interventions: The experience of this project indicates that
`vertical' interventions focusing on individual schools need to be complemented with `horizontal'
interventions with a cross-cutting impact throughout the education sector. Horizontal
interventions that could have a potentially substantial impact include: a) addressing structural
challenges affecting the performance of the entire PBA's educational system, such as chronic
teacher absenteeism and rigid human resources management; b) the strengthening of sector-wide
systems, including the further decentralization of resources to individual schools; c) establishing
`rules of the game' to guide the efforts of school officials and teachers, such as the incorporation
of performance-based incentives focusing on increasing retention and promotion rates, as well as
teaching quality; and d) the development of teaching and administrative tools that can be utilized


                                                   22

by individual schools across the public sector to ultimately capitalize on the potential for
horizontal fertilization and economies of scale. To be successfully implemented, these horizontal
interventions need to be `championed' by top sector officials.

Incentives are vital: Although the Project correctly identified the need to provide schools with
performance-based incentives, these were never implemented. Two sets of default incentives
determined the behavior of school officials: (i) the current PBA system of incentives, which
rewards overall school enrollment by assigning schools more resources and (ii) the project's
incentives, which were virtually nonexistent, as participating schools were guaranteed the same
level of resources regardless of their performance. As JC/JE schools were successful in recruiting
new students due to the `extras' they offered, they had no incentive to improve their performance,
which contributed to the project's overall lack of substantial impact in terms of efficiency
indicators (i.e., promotion and repetition rates) as well as student performance in standardized
math, language and science tests.

Impact evaluation systems that only provide information once a project is or is nearing
completion need to be complemented with other instruments for project evaluation during
implementation. The experience of the project indicates that there are trade-offs between the
complexity of the proposed M&E systems and the likelihood of their implementation. Complex
M&E systems that require the information inputs involving external institutional actors need to be
complemented with less ambitious M&E systems that are under sphere of influence of the
project.

Key actors have to be incorporated into the design process: The difficulties experienced in
implementing the project's M&E system illustrate that excluding the DGCyE' planning and
statistical areas in the design process was a strategic mistake. Although these two entities
eventually provided valuable support to the project, M&E activities were never mainstreamed
into the project's implementation activities and were conducted mainly in response to the
repeated requests from the Bank's supervision team. Consequently, the impact of the M&E
system as a pulse-taking mechanism was greatly reduced.

Systematic learning and cross-fertilization cannot be an afterthought: The project's
effectiveness and overall impact would have significantly improved if an intensive cross-
fertilization and systematic learning strategy had been conceived as part of the project's design.
Such strategy would have permitted the identification and dissemination of best practices within
participating schools and the PBA in general through training, workshops, seminars, technical
assistance, demonstration events, conventions, and publications. Although this situation was
partially corrected toward the end of the project, when both the DGCyE and the PCU's
pedagogical team put more efforts on systemic evaluation, a valuable learning opportunity was
largely lost. The same is true with regard to the implementation of the innovative projects.

More inputs into a black box is not the answer: The experience under this operation indicates
that merely increasing resources made available to schools is not enough to effectively increase
retention and promotion rates and enhance the quality of education. Moreover, it is important to
assess the pertinence of the learning material, ensuring that it is in line with the pedagogical plan
and the human resources available in recipient schools. Finally, it is important to take into
consideration that schools have limited absorption capacity. The experience of the project
suggests that the incorporation of teaching materials needs to be gradual and supported with
intensive training focusing on how to effectively incorporate them into teaching. Likewise, a
demand-based approach is more likely to fit the specific needs of individual schools than the
supply-based approach that was used in the project.




                                                 23

Targeting ensures reaching the intended population: The project's design and implementation
strategy included clear targeting criteria to focus project activities in schools serving primarily
high-risk students to improve the equity of the EGB3 education system in then PBA. This helped
ensure that the project benefited the intended population.

Project-specific lessons

There are trade-offs between expediency and institutionalization: The institutional
arrangements adopted under the project gave the PCU full responsibility for project
implementation. While these arrangements served to ensure a more expedient implementation,
they also insulated JC/JE schools from the DGCyE's regular institutional channels. This might
result in additional challenges for the mainstreaming of the project, as participating schools will
no longer have access to the pedagogical resources within the PCU and, in some cases, will need
to rebuild their support networks within the DGCyE's system.

Refocusing on education: School directors spend a disproportionate amount of their time and
efforts tackling challenges unrelated to education. In particular, directors spend much of their
time securing funds and resources for their schools. For example, to secure the funds needed to
buy paper and toner for printers and photocopy machines, they have to charge students and
teachers for photocopies, or undertake other fundraising initiatives, such as bake sales or collect
donations from teachers. Likewise, directors often play the role of social workers, directing
families and students to social services or taking students to the hospital when needed. Two
relatively easy-to-implement actions can address these major shortcomings and help to redirect
efforts to educational matters. First, it is important to continue with the decentralization of funds
to schools, giving them the autonomy to purchase supplies and learning material, equipment
repairs, etc. Second, a social work can be assigned to each school to properly support the social
needs of the students.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies (see Annex 8 for the full text of the PBA's comments)

In its comments, the Borrower's underscores that the initiative supported by the project was
aimed at establishing an innovative organizational framework in EGB 3 participating schools that
would be conducive to enhanced learning to facilitate the insertion of students as citizens and
productive members of society.

In this context, the extended school day not only offered students more hours of instruction but
also an alternative educational model that emphasized a more integrated, multidisciplinary
approach toward teaching. Under the program, participating schools received key inputs,
including additional personnel, teaching tools, and extensive training.

Although there are differences in the level of achievement of individual schools, the project as a
whole has been effective in setting in motion a process of change in participating schools. Many
of the project's achievements are qualitative in nature and, as such, are not captured by
quantitative measure such as performance in standardized tests and efficiency indicators.
However, it is expected that the more integrated approach to teaching as well as the strengthened
institutional climate that is now in place in participating schools will, in time, also be reflected in
these quantitative measures.

(b) Co-financiers: N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders: N/A


                                                  24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                 Appraisal     Actual/Lates    % of
Components                                                       Estimate       t Estimate1   Appraisa
                                                                  (USD             (USD           l
                                                                 millions)        million)
1. New Schools and Remodeling for Application of
     Classroom-Based Pedagogical Model                                  59.7             37.5      62.8
1.1. EGB3 schools                                                       47.5             19.7      41.5
1.2. Remodeling & Expansion for EGB3 `Jornada Completa'                 11.9             17.1     143.8
1.3. Consultants (design, supervision, evaluation)                       0.3              0.7     197.1
2. Pedagogical Improvement & Innovation in EGB3
     Schools                                                           102.5           106.3      103.7
2.1. Human Resources Required for `Jornada Completa'                    81.4             81.4     100.0
2.2. Rehabilitation of labs, Libraries & Facilities                      7.0             10.1     143.3
2.3. Equipment and Teaching Aids                                        11.4             10.1      88.4
2.4. Technical assistance                                                1.3              2.9     221.4
2.5. Training and internships                                            1.4              1.9     131.9
3. Decentralization of School Management                                 9.0              8.2      91.8
3.1. Seminars and Workshops for Directors & Administrators               0.5              0.6     136.2
3.2. Informatics equipment                                               2.0              2.0     102.0
3.3. School operating expenses                                           4.8              4.8     100.0
3.4. Incentives for Schools Performance                                  0.7              0.0       0.0
3.5. Innovative projects fund                                            1.0              0.8      75.0
4. Project Administration and Management                                 2.0              2.5     124.9
4.1. Personnel                                                           0.9              1.1     117.0
4.2. Technical assistance                                                0.3              0.4     137.9
4.3. Office Equipment and Vehicles                                       0.2              0.4     209.5
4.4. Operating expenses                                                  0.6              0.6     100.0
Total Project                                                          173.2           154.5       89.2
Front-end fee                                                            0.6              0.6     101.8
Grand Total                                                            173.8           155.1       89.2
1   Total costs include those incurred by the Province of Buenos Aires, which are estimated.


b) Financing

                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
             Source of Funds                  Type of Co-
                                                financing    Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
                                                           (USD million) (USD million)        %

Borrower                                                      116.82           98.20          84.1
International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development                                                    56.99           56.90          99.9




                                                      25

Annex 2. Amendments to the Loan Agreement

                                   Amendments to the Loan Agreement
First Amendment (December 2001)
  The national procurement ceiling for works was increased for National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
  This modification followed a recommendation by LCOPR to regroup the bidding processes in order to
  allow for ICB and carry out a significantly fewer number of NCB and shopping procedures.
Second Amendment ( Nov. 2002)
  Replacement of `Full-Day Schedule' for `Extended-Day Schedule,' in accordance with Provincial
  Resolution No. 3510, dated 22 August 2002.
  Transfer US$2.5 million from the category of Civil Works to Consultants' Services to reflect: i) a small
  reduction in the school construction program as a result of the reduced school hours; and ii) the
  Borrower's decision to continue to implement school decentralization tools the personnel single file
  (legajo único), the student file (cédula escolar del estudiante) and the school building file (cédula de
  infraestructura educativa) that were supported under the preceding operation
  Increase the counterpart ratio (pari-passu) for Civil Works and Goods from 65% to 80% , in a manner
  consistent with amendments granted to other sector investments financed by the Bank in Argentina
  (PRODYMES II, Loan 3971-AR), in the context of the economic crisis phased by the nation in general,
  and by the PBA, in particular.
Third Amendment ( Nov. 2003)
  (a) Increase the aggregate amount under shopping procedures for goods; and (b) decrease the aggregate
  amount under national competitive bidding procedures for goods.
  These modifications allowed for the flexibility and agility required for the purchase of teaching aids
  (e.g., computer labs, science labs, multi-media centers).
Fourth Amendment ( April 2004)
  Closing date was extended from 31 January 2005 to 31 December 2006.
Fifth Amendment (February 2005)
  (a) Reallocate unallocated loan proceeds to other disbursement categories; (b) open a new disbursement
  category to finance training expenses; and (c) increase the aggregate amount under shopping procedures
  for goods.
  These modifications were introduced to extend the universe of participating EGB3 from the current 200
  to 230 high-risk schools, utilizing the savings resulting from the change from of Full-Day Schedule' to
  an `Extended-Day Schedule.'
Sixth Amendment (Oct. 2005)
  Reallocate US$900,000 loan proceeds to the goods category.
  This modification was introduced to ensure an orderly completion of the incorporation of selected
  project schools to the extended school-day scheme and the implementation of innovative projects.
Seventh Amendment (June 2006)
  Closing date was extended from 31 December 2006 to 31 March 2008.
  Changes in the disbursement categories, reducing the amount of resources to be used for inputs and
  project administration, and increase the amount for training and technical assistance.
  These modifications were consistent with strategy proposed for the extension, which reduced the number
  of additional schools to 11 and placed a greater emphasis on evaluation and systemic impact.
Eighth Amendment (Dec. 2007)
  Closing date was extended from 31 March to 30 September 2008.
  Changes to the disbursement categories to allow for higher cost of civil works and fewer innovative
  projects being implemented than originally expected.
  The extension was granted to accommodate delays in the construction of the additional 11 schools due,
  in part, to changes in the architectural design to reflect the new educational structure, under which the
  participating schools have been reassigned from the EGB cycle to the secondary cycle.




                                                      26

Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Component 1 - New Schools and Remodeling
  The improvements in school infrastructure of schools with Complete or Extended School Days (Jornada
  Completa o Extendida ­ JC/JE benefited a total of 29,000 students, 5,500 teachers and 203 directors.

1.1 New School Buildings
The program supported the construction of 41 new schools, with a total of the 60,906 m2.
The characteristics of these new constructions can be summarized as follows:
  Number of new classrooms: 351
  Average capacity: 60/75 (in two shifts)
  41 libraries
  41 science labs
  41cafeterias
  41 kitchens
  41 computer labs
  3 multimedia centers
The new buildings were constructed using traditional construction techniques (as opposed to prefab).
The architectural program, (i.e., number of classrooms, labs, libraries, etc. as well as administrative and
service areas) was determined based on the pedagogical needs for the `Extended school day' and provincial
standards.
These new constructions passed all necessary inspections and meet all building codes and security
standards, including alarm systems, fire systems, emergency exit, protection equipment for electrical
system and gas.
They were officially transferred to the Directorate of Culture and Education (DGCyE), which is now
responsible for their maintenance.

1.2 Remodeling and Expansion of existing EGB3 school buildings
  Renovations: The program supported the remodeling of 161 school buildings, with a total of 68,457m2.
  This includes a total of 59 classrooms, with an average capacity of 60-70 students.

  Expansions: A total of 338 new classrooms were added to these schools, also with an average capacity of
  60 to 70 students (in two shifts).

Component 2 - Pedagogical Improvement & Innovation in EGB3 Schools

2.1 Human Resources
JC/JE Schools are endowed with more human resources (mainly teachers) than schools holding regular
hours (Jornada Simple ­ JS). These are permanent positions within the structure of the Province's DGCyE
and, as such, they are funded by the PBA. Vis-à-vis JS schools, JC/JE schools have, on average, the
following additional human resources:
  Each teacher has two paid `institutional hours' (horas institucionales) to be used in curricular
  development in collaboration with other teachers, as well as to support to extra-curricular activities, such
  as mentoring students in special projects and student centers. Teachers with a teaching load of up to six
  modules are assigned two institutional hours, while those with a load of fewer modules are assigned one
  institutional hour.
  All but 12 JC/JE school have a technical support staff position (Apoyo Técnico Pedagógico - EMATP) to
  help coordinate multi-disciplinary activities and to support teachers in the utilization of teaching tools
  and materials.
  To compensate for the extended hours, JC/JE schools have been assigned: i) an additional 812 hours per
  year for the directors; and ii) 2,030 hours for school aids (preceptors).
  Additional teachers have been assigned to teach the additional courses being taught in JC/JE schools:
       2 additional hours of English in each of the four years (equivalent to a total of 1,950 hours for the
       JC/JE Program as a whole);
       2 additional hours of Physical Education in each of the four years (equivalent to a total of 1,950
       hours for the JC/JE Program as a whole);
       2 additional hours of Citizenship Development in each of the four years (equivalent to a total of


                                                      27

       1,950 hours for the JC/JE Program as a whole);
       2 hours of Artistic Education in 2nd and 3rd years, and 1 hour in the 1st year (equivalent to a total of
       1,542 hours for the JC/JE Program as a whole);
       1 hour of computer science in the 1st year, and 1 additional hour in 2nd on an elective basis
       (equivalent to a total of 502 hours for the JC/JE Program as a whole).
  As JC/JE serve lunch, an additional 500 auxiliary staff have been incorporated to staff the schools'
  cafeterias.

2.2 Rehabilitation laboratories, libraries and other spaces
Renovations: The program financed the remodeling or upgrading of laboratories, libraries and other spaces
keys for the operation of JC/JE schools, including:
  17 cafeterias
  20 libraries
  17 computer labs
  19 science labs
  24 kitchens
Additions: The program financed the construction of laboratories, libraries and other spaces keys for the
operation of the JC/JE schools, including:
  45 cafeterias
  60 libraries
  92 computer labs
  120 science labs
  32 kitchens
  11 multi-media centers.

2.3 Teaching Materials
Each of the 203 participating JC/JE schools received the following teaching materials and equipment,
which have been financed under the Program:
  Physical education:7 Volley balls (10), portable volleyball field, hand balls (10); soccer balls (15), soccer
  goals (2); softball bats (3), helmets (3), mitts (6), and soft balls (10); basketball blackboard hooks (2),
  scoreboards (2), and basketballs (8); gymnastic mats (30), loops (30), ropes (30), batons, and other
  miscellaneous equipment.
  Music: Electronic organ (1); keyboard amplifiers (2); microphones (2) and support; flutes (10); drums
  (2); Chinese boxes (2); tambourines (4), triangles (2); guitars (3); xylophones (5); diapasons (1).
  Multi-media: Mini Hi-Fi component system (1); television (1); video recorder (1); transparency projector
  (1); projection screen (1).
  Map library: Maps (15); teaching posters (11); globe (1).
  Histograms (5)
  Language labs (in 100 schools): An audio-active system, incl. master control center and 15 individual
  units.
  Life science labs: physics experimental set (1), chemical experimental set (1), life science set (1)
  electricity and electronics experimental set (1). It included training for two science teachers per school.
  Library: A US$3,000 grant was given to each library.

2.4 Technical Assistance
Participating schools received intensive technical support from the pedagogical team within the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU). This team is constituted by a top-notch group of educational science
professionals, of up to 80 people at its peak.

Within the framework of the program, participating schools received an average of 498 hours per month of
technical assistance, working direct with school directors and teachers. In addition, the following capacity
building and training activities are shown below:




7   Only 57 schools received softball equipment; only 134 schools received basket equipment.

                                                        28

                              Technical Assistance (TA) and Training Activities Performed under the Program
 Type of Capacity Building Activity                                       2003         2004        2005        2006       2007         2008
Institutional support & monitoring at the school level
Number of TA activities                                                     75          675        2327        2730         294         860
Number of participants                                                      75          475        4654        6825       2022         2580
Teachers trained (cargos )                                                  75          150         321         500         764         764
Institutional support & horizontal fertilization at the regional level
Number of TA activities                                                      0            10         15          40          40          76
Number of participants                                                       0          300          75         382       1200          360
Teachers trained (cargos )                                                   0          300          75         191         600         191
Physical Education
Number of TA activities                                                      0             0         30          38          15           0
Number of participants                                                       0             0       1500        1900         538           0
Teachers trained (cargos )                                                   0             0        225         429         573           0
Art education (art, music, dance, and drama)
Number of TA activities                                                      0             0         12          12           8           0
Number of participants                                                       0             0        600        1144         764           0
Teachers trained (cargos )                                                   0             0        300         572         764           0
English
Number of TA activities                                                      0             0         12          12           0           0
Number of training activities                                                0             0         18          18          64           0
Number of participants                                                       0             0        186         186         179           0
Teachers trained (cargos )                                                   0             0        186         186         179           0
Technology
Number of TA activities                                                      0             0          0          78          42           0
Number of training activities                                                0             1          4          10           0           0
Number of participants                                                       0            75        300        1144          84           0
Teachers trained (cargos )                                                   0            75        300         572          84           0
Core Courses (Language ­ Mathematics, Social Sciences, Life Sciences)
Number of TA activities                                                      0             0          0          60          65           0
Number of training activities                                                0             3         27          67           0           0
Number of participants                                                       0          225         286         764         219           0
Teachers trained (cargos )                                                   0          225         286         382         573           0
Target audience: Administrative staff (preceptores )
Focus: Pedagogy, adolescence and participation, representation mechanics for the youth, integration of institutional teams
Number of training activities                                                0             0         18          27           0           0
Number of participants                                                       0             0        645         861           0           0
Administrative staff trained (cargos )                                       0             0        215         287           0           0
Target audience: Technical and pedagogical support staff (EMATPs)
Focus: The role of the EMATP's as a factor of dynamism in promoting the use of teaching tools, adolescence and participation, representation
mechanics for the youth, integration of institutional teams
Number of TA activities                                                      0             0          8           8          57           0
Number of training activities                                                0             0          2           2           0          16
Number of TA activities                                                      0             0        286         382         172        373
EMATPs trained (cargos )                                                     0             0        143         191         172        189
Target audience: Supervisors (regional, district and by area)
Focus: Complementarities with the Project and regular supervisors' activities
Number of TA activities                                                      0            25         46          23          25          22
Number of TA activities                                                      0            75         95          60          68          25
Target audience: Students

Focus: Promotion of student participation in school governance forums (e.g., student government), data collection on student population
Number of activities focusing on citizenship                                75             0         75           0           7           0
Institutional meetings                                                       0             0          0          50           0           0
Student government meetings                                                  0             0          0           0          24           0
Number of students that participated (total)                               750             0       1500         210       5582            0
Target audience: School officials of Basic Secondary Schools that did not participate in the JC/JE Program
Focus: Dissemination of school governance activities
Number of activities                                                         0             0          0           0          44           0
Number of participants                                                       0             0          0           0       1776            0
Number of school principals that participated                                0             0          0           0         888           0




                                                                     29

Component 3 - Decentralization of School Management

It provided support for more autonomous school management and innovative school projects in the selected
EGB3 schools and their districts.

3.1 Seminars and Workshops for School Directors and Administrators
School directors in the 203 participating received substantial training and capacity building under the
project, both in traditional classroom settings (as shown below), as well as on one-on-one.
Target audience: School directors
Focus: School governance, resource management, development of institutional teams, monitoring of
pedagogic aspects
Number of training activities                                    0    1        1       26       22        26
Number of participants                                           0   75      143      575      512       575
School directors trained
(some directors were trained more than once)                     0   75      143      575      512       575

3.2 Computer Equipment
Each school was provided with a computer lab that included: personal computers--incl. PCUs and screens
(16); printers (3); intra-network; protection equipment.

3.3 School Operating Expenses
Under de `Fondo de Escuelas,' schools receive between Arg$400 and ARG$10,000 depending on the
number of students (Arg$532 on average). These funds can be used for minor building repairs and
maintenance.

However, there is still an urgent need to increase schools' autonomy to purchase office supplies, repair
equipments, etc. School directors spend a disproportionate share of their time trying to secure this type of
funds.

3.4 Incentives for School Performance
The Project envisioned granting financial incentives to participating schools that showed an improved
performance in relation to a set of key indicators. Unfortunately, this was not implemented, which
undoubtedly contributed to the project's lack of substantial impact in terms of efficiency indicators (i.e.,
promotion, repetition, drop-out rates, etc.) as well as performance in standardized math, language and
science tests.

On the one hand, the current PBA system of incentives reward overall school enrollment rather than
performance. On the other hand, the project guaranteed participating schools the same level of resources
regardless of their performance. As participating schools were successful in recruiting new students due to
the `extras' they offered, they had no incentive to improve their performance.

3.5 Innovative Projects Fund
A total of 150 `Innovative Projects' were implemented under the project, as described below. Each school
had to submit a proposal, which was then assessed in terms of its feasibility and pedagogic contribution by
a panel of education experts. Selected schools received a grant of Arg$10,000 (roughly US$300) to
purchase the necessary equipment and/or services. Project implementation was monitored using periodic
progress reports prepared by school principals. Likewise, cross-fertilization among projects of a similar
nature was promoted through annual events (a total of 33 events were implemented in different districts of
the PBA, with each participating school attending an average of four events). While some projects appear
to have been very successful, no systematic assessment has been made of their impact, sustainability, and
their potential replicability. In this case, as well as for the JC/JE as a whole, a valuable opportunity for
systematically building knowledge on innovative educational strategies was lost.
                             Innovative Projects Implemented under the Project

      Theme              Number of
                           Projects                                 Specific Focus

Communications                           Student radio; student newspaper; digital newspapers; digital books;
                                         school magazines; production of short films, videos and



                                                      30

                     58   documentaries; choral and musical ensembles; school bands; drama
                          performance; street murals; radio scripts; cultural centers; web
                          pages.
                          Artisan production of pasta, candies, conserves, chocolates, and
Productive                breads; other food production; vegetable and herb gardens, farms
activities           40   and mini-enterprises; aromatic herbs; production of candles, soaps
                          and incense sticks; pottery; weaving; solar energy.

Environment          14   Protecting the environment; camping; living in the wilderness;
                          organic gardens; recycling.
                          Training; workout tracks; weather station; mural painting; art;
Skills Building      14   cultural exchange with schools from other countries; social
                          integration; solidarity; cooperatives; math skills.
                          Cultural centers; health prevention; tourism; children's and youth's
Cultural Identity    14   rights; dance; theater; storytelling; collective memory and human
                          rights; history and cultural diversity.

Technology           10   Internet; web pages, computing skills; multi-media room; biotech;
                          health and the environment.




                                        31

Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

The main benefits of the project were expected to result from (i) an increase in future earnings
related to a decrease in drop-out rates and (ii) cost savings related to the decrease in repetition
rates. In view of the project's poor performance in relation to its Key Performance Indicators,
neither of these two benefits is likely to materialize. First, although drop-out rates have indeed
been reduced, it not clear whether they will eventually translate to higher graduation rates, as
actual promotion rates have decreased significantly since appraisal. Second, repetition rates have
increased rather than decreased, for which not only potential costs savings have not materialized
but instead are likely to have increased. Thus, based on the expected benefits outlined at
Appraisal, the project's Net Present Value (NVP) is likely to be zero or slightly negative.
However, the project has yielded other benefits that are not easily quantifiable, such an enhanced
institutional climate within the school, including more cohesive relationships between school
officials and teachers, as well as between teachers and students; a more integrated approach
toward teaching; enhanced community participation and a better standing of the participating
schools within the community; greater student participation in extra-curricular activities; and
improved nutrition of vulnerable students through school lunches.




                                                32

Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                          Title              Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                       Speciality
Lending
Jacob Bregman                Lead Education Specialist         LCSHE      TTL
Sandra Cesilini              Social Sector Specialist
Luis Pisani                  Education Specialist, Consultant
Marcelo Becerra              Economist, Consultant
Mariana Montiel             Lawyer                             LEGLA
Anita Artaza                 COSTAB Specialist, Consultant
Alejandro Yepes              Operations Assistant
Jose Moscoso                 Procurement Specialist
Susana Cirigliano            Financial Management Specialist
Ruth Izquierdo              Administrative Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Sarah Bailey                 Team Assistant                    LCSHD
Antonio Leonardo Blasco      Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Sergio España                Consultant                        LCSHE
Juan Eduardo Garcia-Huidobro Consultant                        WBIHD
Maria Lucy Giraldo           Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT
Tania N. Gomez-Carcagno      Program Assistant                 LCSHE
Jesko S. Hentschel           Sector Leader                     ECSHD
Efraim Jimenez               Lead Procurement Specialist       LCSPT
Luz Maria Meyer              Junior Professional Associate     LCSFM
Suhas D. Parandekar          Senior Education Economist        EASHD      TTL
Juan Prawda                  Lead Education Specialist         LCSHE      TTL
Luis F. Secco                Consultant                        AFTH1
Alexandria Valerio           Sr. Education Specialist          LCSHE    ICR/TTL
Lucrecia Maria Vanni         Consultant                        LCSFM
Emiliana Vegas               Senior Education Economist        HDNED
Evelyn Vezza                 Junior Professional Associate     LCSHS
Hermann Von Gersdorff        Sector Leader                     LCSHD
Cecilia Zanetta              Consultant                        LCSHE   ICR Author




                                            33

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     USD `000 (incl. travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                     22                        75.81
  FY01                                     12                        60.31
  FY02                                                                0.00
  FY03                                                                0.00
  FY04                                                                0.00
  FY05                                                                0.00
  FY06                                                                0.00
  FY07                                                                0.00
  FY08                                                                0.00
 Total                                     34                      136.12
 Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                       1                       20.59
  FY01                                       1                       15.96
  FY02                                       3                       14.62
  FY03                                       7                       32.31
  FY04                                       4                       46.27
  FY05                                     11                        78.33
  FY06                                     20                        81.04
  FY07                                     23                        56.98
  FY08                                     22                        59.77
 FY09                                        5                        0.00
 Total                                     97                      405.87




Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A

Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                        34

Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


El programa de Jornada Extendida se propuso llevar adelante una experiencia diferente en las
instituciones educativas. Su desafío central consistió en brindar un modelo organizacional que
posibilitara a los adolescentes y jóvenes la apropiación del saber significativo para sí y para la
sociedad, dando respuesta a las necesidades e interrogantes tanto propios como de su contexto.

La extensión de la jornada se presentó como alternativa para favorecer el tránsito hacia los
propósitos del ciclo de la educación secundaria:
    Ofrecer situaciones y experiencias que permitan a los alumnos la adquisición de saberes para
    continuar sus estudios;
    Fortalecer la formación de ciudadanos;
    Vincular la escuela y el mundo del trabajo a través de una inclusión crítica y transformadora
    de los alumnos en el ámbito productivo.

En base a ello, el Programa, estableció como intención:
    Fortalecer la identidad del Tercer Ciclo (actualmente Ciclo Básico de la Educación
    Secundaria) y su función propedéutica para el Polimodal;
    Aumentar el tiempo real de permanencia de los alumnos en las unidades educativas,
    alcanzando las 1242 horas de clases anuales;
    Revertir la tendencia ascendente relativa a la deserción y el fracaso escolar;
    Mejorar las oportunidades educativas para los alumnos provenientes de sectores
    desfavorecidos, diversificando la cantidad y la calidad de las ofertas educativas;
    Formar jóvenes con entidad jurídica, ciudadanos que conozcan y puedan ejercer sus derechos;
    Instrumentar la capacidad de organización para enfrentar la adversidad y sostener el
    desarrollo;
    Internalizar la democracia social;
    Internalizar valores sustanciales de toda democratización del conocimiento: fraternidad,
    libertad, igualdad, respeto por el otro, etc.;
    Adquirir la cultura del trabajo como valor y actitud sustancial de todo modelo sustentable;
    Promover el acercamiento a las ciencias, al arte y a la educación de su cuerpo para mejorar su
    calidad de vida, en el presente y en el futuro;
    Capacitar a los docentes en forma continua para el desempeño de su rol y para la mejor
    efectividad de su tarea;
    Promover los valores reconocidos en la sociedad para el logro del bien común, el respeto por
    la dignidad humana y la convivencia pacífica;
    Favorecer la construcción de la propia identidad por parte de los alumnos en la vida
    compartida y la afirmación de sí como personas dignas.

La prolongación horaria es un elemento fundamental en la estructura del proyecto, sin embargo
no se agota en sí misma, el "plus horario" implementado no significa solamente "mayor cantidad
de horas de enseñanza tradicional", sino una alternativa para optimizar la oferta educativa
institucional y la calidad de los aprendizajes.

Los principales logros fueron:
    Un estilo de gestión participativa, dinamizada por los Miniequipos Institucionales (Director,
    Preceptor, EMAT)




                                                  35

    El surgimiento de formas de organización estudiantil: mesas de diálogo, Centros de
    Estudiantes, Consejos de Aula, etc., lo cual implicó procesos de elección de alumnos
    referentes.
    La conformación de equipos institucionales ampliados que sumaron a profesores
    comprometidos con la propuesta, en particular los profesores tutores, elegidos por los
    alumnos.
    El mejoramiento significativo del clima institucional, que se traduce en mejores vínculos
    entre pares, entre alumnos y docentes, en la constitución de equipos de trabajo docentes y en
    el compromiso y sentido de pertenencia de los distintos actores a la institución.
    La existencia de las horas institucionales, que permitieron el surgimiento de proyectos y
    tareas conjuntas entre docentes.
    La posibilidad de mejorar prácticas pedagógicas mediante el uso del equipamiento con el que
    se proveyó a cada escuela.
    El tiempo dedicado al abordaje de situaciones de enseñanza y de aprendizaje, a través de las
    múltiples instancias de capacitación y de asistencias técnicas brindadas a los distintos actores
    educativos.

Si bien no todas las escuelas han alcanzado el mismo grado de avance por diversas razones, es un
hecho que el proceso se ha iniciado en la totalidad de las instituciones.

Es así que se observan en las mismas cambios muy significativos a nivel cualitativo que no se
corresponden necesariamente con los datos cuantitativos que de ellas podemos obtener.

Las pruebas estandarizadas de Evaluación de la Calidad, en sus mediciones de Lengua y
Matemática, y los indicadores de eficiencia interna no revelan mejoras importantes en los
resultados de las escuelas del proyecto. Sin embargo, el programa permitió crear condiciones
institucionales tendientes a mejorar las prácticas docentes, las cuales deberían verse traducidas, a
futuro, en mejores resultados en los aprendizajes.

Las instituciones educativas sufrieron un "impacto masivo" de cambios y nuevas situaciones
institucionales a partir de la implementación del Programa, que generaron en ellas desequilibrios,
retrocesos y la necesidad de implementar nuevos y sucesivos acomodamientos. Los resultados
obtenidos de este proceso necesitan ser medidos en forma paulatina y en lapsos de tiempo
considerablemente importantes, que pueden dar cuenta de la transferencia de estos procesos
institucionales al aprendizaje propio de los alumnos.

La implementación del programa implica necesariamente la consecución de cambios decisivos en
la dinámica institucional y en las prácticas docentes. Más allá del asesoramiento continuo y la
asistencia concreta, cuando el responsable de la gestión institucional no posee la convicción
necesaria para llevar adelante las estrategias propuestas, el programa no logra los objetivos
propuestos, ni fácil ni completamente.




                                                 36

Annex 9. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A

Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents
DGCyE (2000-2007), Project Progress Reports, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
DGCyE (2008), Investigación evaluativa sobre la implementación del programa de jornada
extendida, Dirección Provincial de Planeamiento, Dirección de Evaluación de la Calidad
Educativa, November 2008, La Plata.
DGCyE (2007), Educación Secundaria Básica ­ 7o Año: Informe de evaluación de impacto del
proyecto Jornada Extendida, Dirección Provincial de Planeamiento, Dirección de Evaluación de
la Calidad Educativa, La Plata.
National Law # 26,206 (2006), National Education Law, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Provincial Law # 13,688 (2007), Provincial Education Law, Province of Buenos Aires, La Plata,
Argentina.
World Bank (1994), Argentina ­ Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education
    Project, Project Appraisal Document, Report No.: 12993-AR, August 12, 1994, Washington,
    DC.
World Bank (1995), Argentina ­ Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education and
    Polymodal Education Development Project, Report No.: 14559-AR, December 1, 1995,
    Washington, DC.
World Bank (1997), Argentina ­ Country Assistance Strategy 1998 - 2000, Report No.: 16505-
    AR, April 24, 1997, Washington, DC.
World Bank (1998), Argentina ­ Third Secondary Education Project, Project Appraisal
    Document, Report No.: 17498-AR, March 12, 1998, Washington, DC.
World Bank (2000), Buenos Aires Second Secondary Education Project, Project Appraisal
    Document, Report No: 21010, November 7, 2000, Washington, DC.
World Bank (1999-2008), Documents in Project's Electronic File, including Aide Memoirs,
    Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, Project Financial Assessments, and Project
    Procurement Assessments; IRIS, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2003), Argentina ­ Third Secondary Education Project, Implementation
    Completion Report, Report No.: 25549-AR, March 21, 2003, Washington, DC.
World Bank (2004), Argentina ­ Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education and
    Polymodal Education Development Project, Implementation Completion Report, Report No.:
    25547-AR, October 12, 2004, Washington, DC.
World Bank (2006), Argentina ­ Country Assistance Strategy 2006-2008, Report No.: 34015-AR,
    May 4, 2006, Washington, DC.




                                              37

List of Interviews
Authorities & Public Officials - General Directorate of Culture and Education, Province of
Bs. As.
Gustavo Corradini, Administrative Sub-Secretary
Juana María Canevari, Director, Planning
Mariana Melgarejo, Director, Research and Education Prospective
Graciana Pérez Los, Advisor, Education Sub-Secretary
Francisco Gozzi, Statistics, Research and Education Prospective
Project Coordinating Unit

Adrián Cannellotto, Coordinador
Javier Tomas, Technical Coordinator, Administration
Enrique Cafferata, Technical Coordinator, Infrastructure
Carlos Lahera, Administration
Juan Carlos Pardo, Technical Coordinator, Pedagogy
Fabiana Guzzini, Pedagogy
Alejandra Pataro, Pedagogy
Gabriel Santisi, Pedagogy
María Fernanda Randulfe, Pedagogy
Susana Saltalamacchia, Innovative Projects
Lorena Sosa, Contracts
Schools

Basic Secondary School No. 10 (Escuela Secundaria Básica No. 10) ­ Hurlingham
Ofelia Blanco, Director
José Oliva, Inspector, Secondary Level
Estela Funes, Teacher
Nancy Guiñazu, Teacher
Verónica Valentini, Teacher
Claudia Klauser, Teacher
Liliana Radovich, Teacher

Basic Secondary School No. 10 (Escuela Secundaria Básica No. 10) ­ San Martín
Marta Somoza, Director
Celina D'Afflitto, EMAT
Bank Staff
Suhas Parandekar (Senior Education Economist)
Sergio España (Education Specialist ­ Consultant)




                                               38

