Document of                       RETURN TO
FILE COPY                          The World Bank                      REPORTS DESK
WITHIN
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    ONE WEEK
Report No.P-2139-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN-
FOR A
HILL FARMING TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 9, 1977
This document bas a restricted distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
| their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Effective February 16, 1973
Rs 9.90         = US$1.00
Rs 1.00         = US$0.1
Rs 1.0 million  =  US$101,010
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
HILL FARMING TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project and Credit Summary
Borrower:                      Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                        US$3.0 million
Terms:                         Standard
Prolect Description:           The three-year project would assist in develop-
ing improved technologies in food, fodder, hor-
ticulture and tree crop production in Azad Jammu
and Kashmir; reinforce related line department
management; and prepare a follow-up project to
extend these improvements to farmers. The proj-
ect would: establish four Experimental/Demons-
tration farms; implement pilot apple, vegetable'
seed and fresh vegetable schemes; initiate an
improved system of fodder utilization and
cattle-breed improvement; implement trials in
fast growing fuelwood species and a pilot
fuelwood plantations scheme; reinforce agricul-
tural support services; finance an accelerated
training program; and set up a management unit,
with a land use and development planning section,
to coordinate activities and prepare a follow-up
project.
Estimated Costs:                                      (US$ Thousand equivalent)
Local    Foreign     Total
Experimental Farms
and Maize Program      330      120       450
Pilot Apple Scheme       450      290       740
Pilot Vegetable Scheme   240      150       390
Fodder Utilization and
Breed Improvement      110       80       190
Forestry Trials and
Pilot Plantations      360       50       410
Agricultural Support
Services                30       60        90
Agricultural Training    310       30       340
Project Management Unit
Follow-up Project
Preparation            530      630     1,160
Total Baseline Costs   2,360    1,410     3,770
Physical Contingencies    70       50       120
Price Contingencies      390      170       560
Total Project Costs    2,820    12630     4
This document h as re tricted distribution and may be usod by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World lank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                        (US$ Million equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                      1.4       1.6      3.0
GOP                       1.5       -       1.5
Total                  2.9       1.6      4.5
(US$ Million)
Estimated Disbursement:                       FY78     FY79     FY80     FY81
Annual          0.2       1.3      1.0      0.5
Cumulative      0.2       1.5      2.5      3.0
Technical Assistance:                            (Man-Months)
Activity          Foreign      Local
Experimental/Demon-
stration Farms         36              1/
Pilot Apple Scheme        11           16
Pilot Vegetable Scheme    5              1/
Forestry Trials           2
Project Management and
Follow-Up Project
Preparation            36          30-60
Rate of Return:               Not applicable.
Prolect File:                 A project file (P-2139-PAK(s), September 1977)
containing working papers for project imple-
mentation has been prepared as a basic guide
for the project. This file contains detailed
descriptions of all project components.
Map:                          A map showing the areas of project activities
is attached (IBRD 12773R1).
1/   Additional support services would be provided by Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (nine man-months) financed from its own funds.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A HILL FARMING TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (GOP) for the
equivalent of US$3 million on standard IDA terms to help to finance a
hill farming technical development project. Approximately US$2.8 million
would be made available by GOP as a grant to the Government of Azad Jammu
and Kashmir (GOAK).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:   Current Developments
and Issues" (No. 1423-PAK, dated March 15, 1977) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 21, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        The economic development of Pakistan since 1970 compares some-
what unfavorably with the record of rapid growth of output and exports of the
1960's. Starting with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh,
there followed a series of poor monsoons and floods, and consequently poor
harvests. Added to this were the twin effects of deteriorating terms of
trade and world recession. The magnitude of the problem was intensified by
the loss of momentum of the "green revolution" which had been one of the
mainstays of the favorable economic period of the late 1960's. In addition,
industrial development was discouraged by changed attitudes toward the pri-
vate sector and a series of nationalizations, beginning with the nationali-
zation of a large part of private industry in 1972. As a result, the basic
productive sectors have had an average growth of about 2% per year since
1970, although total GDP has grown by about 3% per annum because of the rapid
expansion of construction, government and other service industries.
4.        Performance in FY77 continued to be disappointing.   While record
crops of wheat, rice and sugar cane were realized in FY77, the cotton crop
was damaged by unusually heavy rains and severe flooding in August, 1976. In
addition, the political disturbances in April and May 1977 resulted in the
closing of factories and the loss of about two months of production. Overall,
preliminary indications are that there was little or no real growth of output
in FY77, and a substantial increase occurred in the budget deficit and the
balance of payments deficit; a substantial drawdown in reserves was necessary.
While the inflation rate was officially 9% during the year, the true amount
of inflation may have been greater.
5.        The stagnation of agricultural production during the 1970's has
been the result of many factors, including unfavorable growing conditions,



- 2 -
a slower rate of adoption of high-yielding varieties and adverse pricing
policies. Considerable output increases are possible in the medium term from
the further extension of the "green revolution" technology, specifically
through increased use of fertilizer and pesticides, improved seeds and further
development of the groundwater potential. Sustainable growth in the longer
term will require more fundamental change in on-farm practices regarding land
and water management, particularly in terms of increasing the efficiency of
the water course distribution systems. Central to improved farmer techniques
is an upgraded, more effective extension service, with greater emphasis on
reaching the small farmer, and with better linkages to an effective research
program.  In order to increase the basic productivity of the land, a major
effort needs to be made to increase investments in projects designed to reverse
waterlogging and salinity. The poor record in agriculture should not obscure
some genuine progress in certain areas. Fertilizer use has risen by 60% in
the past two years, and wheat production is nearing the point of self-
sufficiency. Exports of minor agricultural crops to the Middle East are in-
creasing. In the case of cotton, however, production has declined because of
adverse weather, insect attacks, and an inadequate program of pest control,
and this has tended to depress the overall results for the agricultural sector.
6.        After agriculture, which accounts for about 32% of GDP, manufacturing
is the second largest sector of the economy, contributing about 16% of GDP and
50% to 60% of total exports. Since 1973, the major change in the industrial
sector has been the expansion of public sector involvement, from about 10%
to about 25% of industrial assets. In January 1972, the Government took over
31 private companies in 10 basic industrial categories. This was followed by
the takeover of the vegetable ghee industry, the cotton and rice export trade,
commercial banks, shipping, life insurance and gas and oil distribution. In
July 1976 the Government nationalized the larger units in rice and flour mill-
ing, as well as all of the cotton gins. These actions have adversely affected
the climate for private investment, particularly in the industrial sector.
Rice and flour mills and some cotton gins have recently been returned to their
former owners.
7.        While industrial growth averaged close to 10% per annum during the
1960's, since 1970 it has been only about 2% per annum. The decline in the
growth rate is a result of a number of factors including lower private
investment during the late 1960's and early 1970's and the problems with agri-
cultural production which reduced the availability of some raw materials.
Since FY74, the international recession has had a major impact by reducing
demand for Pakistan's exports, particularly textiles. Output of both cotton
yarn and cloth is estimated to have been lower in FY76 than in FY74. The
textile industry has suffered from problems of low efficiency and a lack of
competitiveness in foreign markets. Manufacturing growth generally has been
affected by the poor performance of public sector enterprises. Difficulties
in the public sector include inadequate managerial autonomy, pricing policy,
and problems of financial accounting and control.
8.        Exports have remained depressed for the past few years in part
because of the international recession while imports have increased rapidly.
Import prices increased 45% in FY74 and 48% in FY75, but in FY74 the rise was



- 3 -
offset by increases in major export prices, particularly of cotton and rice.
In FY75 the full effect of earlier petroleum price increases, combined with
falling export prices for most products, produced a 37% decline in the terms
of trade, although a slight improvement is estimated to have taken place
in FY76. As a consequence of these developments, the deficit on the current
account of the balance of payments increased from $130 million in FY73, an
exceptionally good year, to $950 million in FY76. Preliminary figures in-
dicate that it rose further to US$1.3 billion in FY77. These large deficits
have been financed by expanded borrowings from foreign sources. Domestic
resource mobilization, on the other hand, has declined markedly, with the
overall savings rate falling from about 10% of GDP in FY73 to 4% in FY75, and
public savings turning negative. Although there was some improvement during
the past two years, overall savings amounted to only 7%, and public savings
to 2%, of GDP in FY77. The decline in private savings can be traced to lower
corporate profits as well as the lag of interest rates behind the rate of
inflation. Annual price increases averaged over 20% during 1973-75 but
bank deposit interest rates were only 7-8%. While the rate of inflation has
been brought down to around 9% during the past two years, deposit rates have
been around 8.5-9.5%. Real interest rates have therefore been barely positive.
9.        In the past few years the contribution of the public sector to
domestic savings has been unsatisfactory. Recently, a number of steps have
been taken to improve public sector resource mobilization, including substan-
tially higher prices of electric power, cement, petroleum products, railway
and air fares, and import tariffs. Steps have also been taken to simplify
the income tax and improve its enforcement. Subsidies of various types which
amounted to Rs 3 billion in FY75, or about 15% of current government expendi-
tures, are estimated to have been reduced to Rs 0.6 billion in FY77. These
revenue efforts, together with substantially increased inflows of capital,
have not been sufficient, however, to match the Government's increased spend-
ing. In FY77 the overall budget deficit was Rs 5.6 billion.
10.       Since FY72, the Government has attempted to increase output through
a program of investments in infrastructure, industry and the social sectors.
A large number of projects in heavy industries, chemicals and fertilizers
have been started, as well as substantial new investments in power and trans-
port. While the rate of investment has increased, the long lead times asso-
ciated with these projects have reduced their impact on present production
levels. Despite stagnant domestic output, low savings, and deteriorating
terms of trade, the Government was able to continue, and even accelerate,
this investment program because of the generous assistance received from
abroad, particularly from the OPEC countries. However, the balance of pay-
ments deficits in recent years have exceeded by a substantial margin the
amount of external assistance available on suitably concessionary terms. It
is essential that the Government bring investment more closely into line with
domestic savings and foreign assistance available on favorable terms. In the
1978 Annual Development Plan a start has been made towards limiting the growth
in the public investment level. In reviewing the investment program, emphasis
should be given to providing resources for agriculture and other areas, where
it seems possible to obtain a substantial and rapid increase in production
and exports. At the same time, projects of doubtful economic justification
need to be re-examined.



- 4 -
11.       By the end of FY77 the total debt outstanding, excluding undisbursed
amounts, was about $6.6 billion. Debt relief given by the Consortium countries
reduced debt service payments in FY77 to a level equivalent to only 15% of
export earnings and workers' remittances. Rising foreign exchange remittances
from Pakistan nationals working abroad (estimated at about US$600 million in
FY77) are expected to continue to temper the increase in the debt service ratio.
Nonetheless, the debt service ratio is expected to climb to about 18% by FY78
and somewhat higher thereafter, since the end of debt relief arrangements will
coincide with a sharp increase in repayments owed to the OPEC countries. With
this prospect, Pakistan obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its
ability to borrow to meet its future requirements. It clearly cannot afford
to continue to borrow heavily on commercial terms and therefore will have to
tailor its plans and programs to the availability of external finance on suit-
able terms. For this reason the major part of Bank Group lending to Pakistan
consists of IDA credits. Rough estimates suggest that, within an appropriate
framework of policies and programs, Pakistan should be able to progress in
improving the standard of living of its people, while containing its debt
service ratio to 20%. The achievement of this objective will, however, require
decisive action by the Government to deal with the underlying causes of the
country's poor economic performance in recent years. Appropriate policies need
to be framed to deal with a broad range of economic issues, including resource
mobilization, promotion of exports and disappointing agricultural and manufac-
turing performance. At the same time, action is needed to strengthen public
sector institutions. The capacity of public agencies to implement government
policy and operate commercial enterprises has, in recent years, failed to keep
pace with the large increase in their responsibilities.
12.       Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY76 was about
18% of its external public indebtedness; by 1980 this ratio is likely to fall
to about 11%. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service (after taking
account of the debt relief which Pakistan receives from other creditors) is
now about 17%, but is expected to decrease to about 9% in 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
13.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.6 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all sec-
tors of the economy. Through FY77, 41% of total commitments were for public
services, 24% for agriculture, 33% for industry, of which 10% was for indus-
trial imports, and 2% for education. Lending for public services has amounted
to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications and
water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for Indus
Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most projects for
which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now going ahead
satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are that the rates



charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with inflation and,
hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of August 31, 1977, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
14.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.   One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries, such as PICIC, which
finances the medium and large-scale private sector, the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) for the small and medium scale industrial sector,
with possible participation by commercial banks, and the National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC) for industries in the public sector. The most
important part of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the
Government's program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by control-
ling salinity and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and ground-
water. The Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant
for improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
15.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
16.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have been working
with municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of this plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and
other projects with a low foreign exchange component justifies the financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases, such as the proposed project.



-6-
17.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Appraisal missions have completed
field reviews of an agricultural extension and development project in the
Punjab, a third power project and a petroleum development project. Prepa-
ratory work is proceeding on another irrigation and drainage project in the
Northwest Frontier Province, a fourth agricultural credit project, a third
highways project and a Karachi bulk water supply project. A further credit
to help finance the Tarbela project is under consideration.
18.       IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.9 million was by way of loans and US$7.3
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR OF AZAD KASHMIR
General
19.       Azad Kashmir is located in the foothills of the Himalayas.   Popula-
tion is currently 1.7 million; it is estimated to have doubled during the last
20 years and to be growing at 3% per annum. Muzzafarabad is the administra-
tive capital and Mirpur, situated at the site of the Mangla reservoir, is the
largest town. The land form is extremely rugged, comprising steeply sloping
hills and mountains at elevations varying from 2,000 ft in the small valleys
and flatter areas to the south up to 15,000 ft in the northern and upland
areas. The rugged terrain exacerbates the isolation of the region; there is
no rail or air link with it and, except around Mirpur in the south, road com-
munications are sparse and of a low standard. Heavy winter snows isolate many
communities during certain months of the year. Per capita income from local
economic activity was estimated in 1975 at only US$60 equivalent. Currently
some 30% of the food requirements of the state are supplied through subsidized
foodgrain programs. Remittances from family members working elsewhere are-an
important supplement to locally derived incomes.
20.       Over 90% of the population gain most of their income from agricul-
tural activities (crops, livestock and forestry) and live in rural communi-
ties. Only about 500,000 acres, or 17% of the total area, is suitable for
sustained rainfed cropping. These arable lands are composed of small frag-
mented areas situated in the valley bottoms and along the lower slopes. The
remaining areas are too steep for cropping. About 800,000 acres are classi-
fied as range or waste lands which provide some low quality forage and
grazing; and the balance of 1.4 million acres is forest land, varying from
remnant forests in the lower, more accessible areas to over-mature high coni-
ferous forests interspersed with alpine summer pastures in the remote high
areas with no road access. Cropping, livestock and forestry operations under
these severe physical conditions are difficult and, unless carefully managed,



liable to cause deterioration of the land resources. Under steadily increas-
ing population pressure, and with continuing use of traditional technologies,
the resource base has already deteriorated considerably. Soil erosion has
occurred on the cultivated slopes and overgrazed pasture areas; and there has
been destruction of the forested areas, which are still considerable and have
so far provided the main source of cash income and the main commodity export
of the state.
21.       Main crops are maize, wheat, millet and paddy.   Maize accounts for
roughly two-thirds of the area planted and of total grain production; yields
are low, averaging only about 570 lbs/acre (640 kgs/ha). The severe winter
limits cropping in most areas to one season per annum. Almost all farmers
utilize some form of bench terrace to retain soil and conserve moisture.
Cultivation is by hand hoe or wooden plough and the cultivation methods in
the heavy soils result in a hard surface crust and shallow pan which limits
moisture retention and is generally harmful to plant growth. Primitive hus-
bandry practices, together with poor quality of seed and limited use of fer-
tilizer, are the main factors causing low crop yields. Cultivation of vegeta-
bles, particularly for seed, and hard fruits offer considerable potential,
but is as yet little developed. High quality apples are grown that store well
and command a ready market. Other fruits include apricot, loquat, peach and
plum. Large-scale commercial farming is virtually absent; about 50% of the
farms have a cultivated area of less than one acre and 90% have less than
five acres; the average cultivated area per farm is about 2.4 acres.
22.       For many farmers, livestock ranks about equal with field crops as a
source of income, as well as providing draft power for cultivation. The cattle
and goat population are estimated at about 400,000 head each and buffalo and
sheep at about 200,000. Nomadic flocks of sheep and goats traverse the state
in the spring and autumn on their way to and from alpine pastures. Herd and
flock size are small, generally from one to five head. Stock is generally of
nondescript local breed, providing low offtake. Animals suffer from nutri-
tional deficiencies and a high incidence of disease. About two-thirds of
animal feed is obtained from cut grasses and grazing of the range lands, with
the balance supplied by crop residues. Fodder production from cultivated
forage crops is negligible. Shortage of balanced feed is an overriding con-
straint to development of the subsector. Total meat supply (beef, mutton,
goat meat and poultry) is estimated at less than 10,000 tons per annum. About
150,000 tons of milk are produced, generally at low milk yields ranging from
1,300 liters to as little as 330 liters per cow per annum. Wool yields
average one to two kilos per head per year.
23.       Historically, the natural forests have been regarded as the main
source of government revenue and a free supply of timber, fuel, grazing and
minor products to the local population. Forests are vested with the state
and are managed by the Forest Department. The pressures arising from in-
creases in both human and cattle populations over recent decades have effec-
tively eroded control of the forest areas; extraction rates by local residents
are higher than the natural increment and grazing and fuel gathering are wide-
spread. As a result, the current management system, which is based on natural



- 8 -
regeneration, is no longer functioning properly. Because of the local pres-
sures on accessible forests, over 80% of commercial operations are now con-
fined to the remote high areas and are becoming less economic because of the
difficulty of access. Currently, of the 1.4 million acres classified as forest
areas, some 400,000 acres are regarded as potentially productive; within the
productive areas, commercial operations are confined to 200,000 ac es only.
CommerciaN timber extraction production has declined from 2.4 m ft in 1971
to 2 m ft in 1974, whereas timber extraction for local consumption is esti-
mated to have increased from 0.9 m ft   to 2.1 m ft  in the same period.   3
These volumes do not include firewood removals in the order of 20-40 m ft I
year which are the biggest drain on the forests.
24.       Despite the difficult terrain, the development potential is substan-
tial. Considerable increases in maize production can be achieved, within a
relatively short period, by adapting and applying new technologies being
developed in the North-West Frontier Province of Pakistan. The climate is
suitable for specialization in hard fruit and vegetable production for which
a nucleus already exists. Production increases can also be achieved in other
major crops, including fodder, following introductory trials and field testing.
To conserve the limited fodder supply, improvements in harvesting, storage
and utilization of fodder can be developed. At the same time, total fodder
requirements can be significantly reduced by the introduction of a suitable
dual-purpose cattle breed to provide both the milk and draft requirements of
farmers. The possibility of poultry improvement is currently being investi-
gated by a UNDP-assisted project. The shortage of wood fuel, which is a major
cause of devastation of forests, could be reduced by developing local tree
plantations; existing pilot programs in this field need reinforcing.
25.       In upland areas, development programs must take into account the
need to safeguard the catchments and conserve the land base. This is espe-
cially important in this instance since considerable soil loss is occurring
and being transported through the river systems to the Mangla reservoir. A
significant reduction in these losses through conservation measures would
thus have an important benefit, through a reduced rate of siltation, to the
many thousands of farms in the irrigation areas served by the Mangla Dam.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       A pre-appraisal mission which visited the state in March/April 1976
found that the paucity of proven technical packages for production programs,
weak technical and administrative capacity and the dearth of effective rural
institutions effectively precluded early appraisal of a rural development
project to deal with the problems on a broad basis. At the same time, with-
out a substantial and comprehensive effort, the existing serious situation
would continue to deteriorate. Therefore, the mission recommended a first-
phase technical assistance/project preparation credit and identified a number
of components addressed to finding solutions to these constraints. GOP and
GOAK responded positively to these recommendations and an appraisal mission
for the proposed project visited Pakistan in January/February 1977; negotia-
tions for the proposed credit took place in Washington during August, 1977.



9-
Project Description
27.       The proposed technical development project would, over a three-
year period, assist GOAK in developing improved technologies in food, fodder,
horticultural, tree crop and fuelwood production, introducing livestock im-
provement programs, reinforcing related line-department management and train-
ing, and preparing a follow-up project to extend improvements over a wide
area of the state. Detailed features of the project and component costs,
shown in brackets, are described below. The location of the various project
activities are indicated on the attached map.
28.       Experimental Farms and Maize Program (US$0.45 million):   Four
permanent experimental-cum-demonstration farms (six acres each) would be
established to undertake programs of adaptive research, trials and testing of
agricultural innovations, initially concentrating on maize, pulses and fodder
crops. No such facility exists at present in the State and work done outside
has been of little relevance, given the special agricultural environment of
the region. During the three-year project period, particular emphasis would be
given to developing the basis for a maize production program, drawing on the
work being done under the ongoing Agricultural Research Council (ARC)/CIMMYT 1/
cooperative maize program in Pakistan. This program has established a base
of improved maize seed, a methodology for on-farm verification trials and
training facilities for field staff. By the third or fourth season following
project start up, locally improved packages are expected to be available for
initial extension to farmers. By about the fifth year, as extension work be-
gins to have an impact, the experimental farms would function as agricultural
service centers providing a focal point for input supply, extension, farmer
training and marketing, in addition to continuing with verification trials.
Farms would be sited in areas where services can be extended to the largest
number of farmers; if successful, it is envisaged that additional experimental
farms would be established to service other areas over the next ten to fifteen
years.
29.       Each farm would be equipped with dormitory accommodation for staff,
offices and stores, ox-tillage implements and measuring equipment. Supervision
and staff would be provided by the Department of Agriculture; an assistant
agronomist would be in charge of each farm, supported by an assistant in
fodder crops. ARC would provide short in-service training courses for field
staff and technical support through visits to the farm trials.
30.       Pilot Apple Scheme (US$0.74 million):   The project would finance the
first three years of a pilot program for apple production and a general apple
market study. The market study would assess present and projected production
areas and markets for apples on which to base realistic production programs for
selected areas. The pilot apple scheme would comprise the upgrading of three
nurseries to provide high quality stock and a nucleus apple promotion service
to assist small farmers in establishing 900 acres of new orchards. A small
1/   Centro International del Mejoramiento del Maiz y el Trigo (International
Maize and Wheat Improvement Center).



- 10 -
headquarters for a support unit and inservice training for apple technicians
would also be provided. Internationally and locally recruited short-term
consultants (27 man-months) would meet the need for specialist advisory
services.
31.       Vegetable Seed Production and Pilot Vegetable Scheme (US$0.39 million):
Vegetable production, including seed production, is well suited to conditions
in the state. While a wide variety of vegetables is grown, development is
limited for want of reliable seeds, lack of an adequate extension service, and
the absence of a marketing structure. The actions proposed under the project
would extend to the state an approach being supported under the Pakistan Seed
Project (IDA Credit 620-PAK), in order to establish a base for subsequent ex-
pansion.   An existing government farm would be upgraded with the addition of
a seed processing plant, an improved irrigation system, tillage equipment and
staff facilities. A pilot vegetable extension service would be developed for
three areas to encourage farmer-outgrowers to produce seed for processing at
the seed plant and to expand fresh vegetable production. Consultancy services
would be provided to assist with design and running-in of the plant. Consult-
ants would also carry out a preliminary study of marketing arrangements for
both vegetable seed and vegetables to provide a basis for planning future
production of vegetable types and the product mix of fresh vegetables and
seeds. GOP have agreed that the consultants appointed under the Seed Project
would provide these services. A total of five months consultancy services
would be involved.
32.       Fodder Utilization and Breed Improvement (US$0.19 million):    Devel-
opment of fodder crop production on fallow lands and the integration of fodder
into the cropping pattern is essential to reduce pressures on the range lands
and forests. Under the project, support would be provided for fodder utiliza-
tion trials, to be conducted with groups of approximately 30 farmers; an ini-
tial group in the first year, an additional group in the second year and par-
ticipating groups at each of the demonstration farm areas in the third year.
Initially, emphasis would be given to improved hay and silage making methods,
followed by the use of improved feeding techniques. A Livestock Officer
(Fodder) would enlist the farmer groups and be responsible for the conduct- of
the trials. The trials are expected to generate a significant reduction in
fodder wastage and identify simple input requirements for inclusion in a
follow-up project.
33.       In the state, cattle are kept primarily for draft purposes and
buffaloes principally for milk production; together, cattle and buffaloes
consume about 90% of the total livestock feed. The "two-herd" system prac-
ticed necessitates maintaining many animals for herd replacement, additional
to those actually in draft and milk production. Total numbers could be sub-
stantially reduced without loss of production by a single dual-purpose herd,
combining both draft and milk production functions. The breed improvement
component would support the introduction of a pilot artificial insemination
program for the importation and distribution of semen, and for training of
inseminators. Provision would also be made for the importation of a number
of bulls. Detailed proposals for the design and scope of the program are



- 11 -
under preparation by the Animal Husbandry Department, assisted by an FAO spe-
cialist, and would be submitted to the Association for approval before dis-
bursements are made for this component of the project (DCA Section 3.10 (b)).
34.       Both the fodder utilization and breed improvement components would
be supervised and supported by a new Livestock Development Division of the
Department of Agriculture and the FAO animal husbandry specialist. To rein-
force the capacity of the new division for future developmental activities,
provision is included for training of staff at Lyallpur University; three
students a year for three years for the four-year B.Sc. (Animal Husbandry)
course, and five students a year for three years for the six-month Animal
Husbandry course.
35.       Forestry Experimental Trials and Fuelwood Plantations (US$0.41 mil-
lion): The Forest Department (FD) has initiated development of small-scale
fuelwood plantations. The technical basis for the program is, however, weak
both in technical method and species choice, and results have been disappoint-
ing. Developing a sound technical basis is a necessary first step towards
embarking on a large-scale, follow-up fuelwood program in which local farmers
would participate. Trials would concentrate on three activities: (a) improv-
ing nursery and planting techniques using existing species to effect immediate
gains; (b) species introductory trials for testing suitability of improved
species; and (c) genetic improvement of species, initially through improved
seed collection and multiplication. In executing the trials a close link
would be maintained with the Pakistan Forest Institute and the proposed Hazara
Forestry Pre-Investment Project in NWFP. The main center for the trials would
be at the FD station at Batika Forest, where the experimental nursery would be
established. The trials would be managed by a Divisional Forest Officer (Fast
Growing Species) assisted by a Range-Officer and Forester. Provision is in-
cluded for one-month consultancy services in years one and three to assist
with setting-up the trials, evaluating progress and preparing a follow-up
program. The experimental unit would give technical supervision to the pilot
fuelwood plantations. Both trials and pilot plantations staff would attend
short inservice training courses at the Pakistan Forest Institute or Hazara
forestry project.
36.       Pilot plantations would be established in four areas covering 3,000
acres by the end of the three-year project. Initial planting would be in
State forest areas expanding to include privately-owned wastelands as suitable
systems for involving local people in establishment and maintenance are devel-
oped. A tree nursery would be established in each area and the nursery and
planting operations managed by an area Range Officer or Deputy Range Officer,
assisted by a Forester.
37.       Agricultural Services, Land Use Planning and Follow-Up Project
Preparation (US$1.16 million): A reassessment of land use and land capability,
based on updated aerial photography, is urgently needed: (a) to assess
accurately the overall position of land use and provide a basis for develop-
ment planning; (b) to prepare detailed working base maps (1:10,000 scale) for
selected areas, and, on the basis of these, (c) to plan the implementation of
production components in annual and tree crops, grazing, soil conservation



- 12 -
and infrastructure. A land use planning section would be established in the
project management unit (see paragraph 43) to undertake these tasks, in co-
operation with line departments. Detailed plans would encompass the villages
falling within defined sub-watersheds and include components best suited for
the area, e.g., different types of food crops, apples, vegetables and grazing.
The section would be headed by an internationally recruited specialist, who
would be recruited for a three-year term. When fully operative, the section
is expected to produce development plans for sub-watersheds covering about
100,000 acres/year. Arrangements for aerial photography are to be concluded
by January 1, 1978, with specifications to be agreed by the Association; the
photography is to be carried out by July 1, 1978 (DCA Section 3.04).
38.       To complete the planning, the management unit would undertake com-
plementary studies and follow-up project preparation work in areas selected
for development. This would include assembling information on land holding
and usage patterns; population distribution; actual and projected rural in-
dustries and handicrafts; credit, marketing and storage facilities; road
expansion programs; future training requirements; health and education
services; fuelwood requirements; and other studies which may be needed
for a follow-up project. The studies would encompass a detailed assessment
of the adequacy of current institutional arrangements and government services
in the light of an expanded program of rural development which would form
the centerpiece of the second-stage activities. Specifically such studies
would address: (a) the establishment of an effective credit mechanism suit-
able for the production and developmental needs of small farmers; (b) the
organization of agricultural services, manpower requirements for the ex-
panded programs in agriculture, livestock, forestry and, possibly, rural
industries, and training programs relating thereto; (c) strengthened marketing
systems and related investments in storage, transport and other facilities;
(d) reinforcement of peasant-based and participatory organizations including
producer, credit and marketing co-operatives; and (e) health, education and
other basic-need programs of the state.
39.       The management unit would accomplish these tasks through a combina-
tion of direct co-operation with the concerned departments, reinforcing proj-
ect staff with specially assigned duties and employment of consultants. The
Project Director would assemble a work plan for executing the studies, pre-
pare detailed descriptions and terms of reference for the specific tasks to
be undertaken, and compile a roster of suitable agencies to undertake them.
By July 1, 1978, a timetable for follow-up project preparation would be
agreed with the Association and kept under review by visits of supervision
missions (DCA Section 4.02).
40.       For physical planning, support has also been included for equipping
an existing soils laboratory to undertake a program of some.7,500 soil samples
during the three-year project and to establish a system for recording basic
climatic data for the state. The entomology section of the Department of
Agriculture would also be reinforced by the appointment of a qualified
entomologist.



- 13 -
41.       Agricultural Training (US$0.34 million):   Project activities would
generate a demand for incremental staff of 25 graduates and some 60 non-
graduate technicians, phased over the three-year project period. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture presently employs some 60 staff in graduate grades and a
further 125 technicians, although several staff employed in graduate grade are
not in fact graduates and a number of the technicians have received no formal
training. At the state level, an existing Agricultural Training Institute
would be fully utilized in providing refresher courses for existing technical
staff as well as providing certain specialist short courses, e.g., for apple
production technicians. Training to meet incremental staff requirements
would be undertaken through an expanded student intake for courses provided
at Lyallpur and Peshawar Universities for degree and technical level per-
sonnel. Incremental costs for these activities would be provided under the
proposed project.
Costs and Financing
42.       Total project cost, including physical contingencies of US$0.12 mil-
lion (3%) and price contingencies of US$0.6 million (14%), is estimated at
US$4.5 million (PRs 44 million) including taxes of US$100,000. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$1.6 million or 35% of total project cost.
The proposed IDA credit of US$3 million would finance the foreign exchange
costs plus about 52% of local costs. The balance of US$1.5 million would be
financed by GOP. Project costs by expenditure item are shown below; a break-
down of costs by activity is given in the Project and Credit Summary.
Item                                 Total         of which Foreign
(US$ thousand equivalent)
1.   Consulting services and salaries
of expatriate staff, including
provision for follow-up project
preparation                                 747                510
2.   Training                                    373                  35
3.   Civil works, buildings, land
levelling and access roads                  455                 45
4.   Vehicles, equipment, livestock
and materials                             1,087                 740
5.   Incremental salaries and wages              955                  -
6.   Aerial photography                          153                  80
Total baseline costs                 3,770              1,410
7.   Physical contingencies                      120                 50
8.   Price contingencies                         560                 170
Total Project Costs                  4,450               1,630
9.   Less duties and taxes                       101              _
Net Project Costs                    4,349              1,630



- 14 -
ManaRement
43.       GOAK would be responsible for implementing the proposed project,
principally through its departments of Agriculture, Forestry and Animal
Husbandry, and the office of the Development Commissioner, whose responsi-
bilities include state level development planning. To ensure effective
coordination, the Government has proposed to merge the departments of
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry under a single departmental secretary, who
would also be designated the Project Director and who would be in charge of
the management unit created to carry out the project. A suitable person has
been selected for this important appointment. The Project Director would be
responsible for the formulation of annual work plans, in consultation with
the departmental chief officers concerned. He would also establish and
operate a system for monitoring physical progress and financial control of
project funds and prepare quarterly and annual progress reports for GOP and
the Association. For these purposes, his office would include a procurement
and costing officer and an accounts officer and supporting clerical staff.
The management unit would be provided with office accommodation, including a
drawing/mapping office, office equipment and transport.
44.       At the departmental level, line agencies would be reinforced with
upgraded and strengthened services and facilities to deal with the crop,
livestock and forest development programs described in paras 28 to 36 above.
A new feature would be a land use planning section to be created within
the project management unit, to undertake the tasks described in para 37.
The staff of the management unit would include two internationally recruited
specialists for land use planning and for agricultural development, each of
whom would be recruited for the three years during which the project would be
carried out, and a locally recruited socio-economist, also for a three-year
term. They would report to the Project Director.
45.       To review work plans, project progress, and to facilitate coordina-
tion between GOAK departments and agencies, a high-level committee, desig-
nated the Project Development Committee (PDC), has been established. Member-
ship of the PDC would consist of the Chief Secretary of GOAK as Chairman, the
Project Director, the Development Commissioner and the Secretary of Finance
(DCA Section 3.08 (b)).
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Contracts in excess of US$50,000 for transport, photogrammetry and
laboratory equipment, with a total value of about US$600,000, would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% or the existing customs duty, whichever is less. Equipment and
furniture, valued at about US$200,000, which cannot reasonably be grouped to
form contracts of at least US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally, following procedures satisfactory to the
Association. For contracts under US$5,000 direct competitive shopping would
be employed up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000. In view of the small
size of contracts, dispersed locations and lack of local contractors, civil
works to a value of about US$500,000 may be undertaken by force account



- 15 -
by the GOAK Department of Works, as well as by contract in accordance with
the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
Aerial photography work and base map preparation, valued at approximately
US$200,000, would be carried out by GOP agencies. Consultants and expatriate
staff (US$800,000) would be engaged under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association. A large part of project cost would be salaries, operating
expenses and training costs which together are estimated at US$1.75 million.
47.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% of expenditures for consulting services and
expatriate staff and foreign training;
(b) 50% of other training costs and incremental local
staff salaries;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment,
livestock and materials; 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) for locally manufactured equipment;
and 65% of local expenditures for other equipment and
materials procured locally;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for aerial photography; and
(e) 50% of the cost of civil works performed under force
account or contract.
48.       Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation,
except in the case of civil works performed under force account and local
salaries for which the Project Director would submit a certified statement
of expenditures. Documentation of this statement would be retained by the
project management unit for review by supervision missions. Disbursements
are expected to be completed by September 1981. Retroactive financing of
up to US$50,000 for expenditures incurred after July 31, 1977 in connection
with consultants' services and training would be provided under the credit.
49.       A special project fund would be established by GOAK (DCA Section
4.03). This would be replenished at monthly intervals to a level equivalent
to the estimated requirement for the next two calendar months. Separate
accounts would be kept for the project which would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Audited accounts would
be submitted to the Association.
Benefits of the Project
50.       The proposed project would constitute the proving stage in a long-
term development program of critical importance to this area. The principal
objective is to provide a sound basis for sustaining and improving the live-
lihood' of the rural population. Since the great majority of the rural pop-
ulation are farmers and are likely to remain farmers for the foreseeable
future, the project is primarily focused on the agricultural base of the
rural economy. The experimental programs in food and fodder crops and for
livestock improvement are expected to result in the development of techniques



- 16 -
that could subsequently be applied to much of the state's 500,000 cultivated
acres and would be relevant to most of the 200,000 farmers. The pilot pro-
grams for apple and vegetable production, if successful, would lay the foun-
dation for an expansion of crops which appear to have considerable potential
for raising the cash income of small farmers. Similarly, the experimental
forestry trials and pilot fuelwood plantations are intended to provide the
basis for a future large-scale reforestation program that would arrest and
reverse the degradation of an important resource and complement related pro-
grams of water and soil conservation, while assuring the provision of local
wood and timber needs. The project also provides, within the scope of these
activities, a number of opportunities to test and develop approaches to farmer
participation, selfhelp initiatives, systems for credit delivery and cost
recovery, which would be of great importance in a full-scale program.
51.       The full impact of the proposed project would only be felt when
the initial technical development actions supported under the proposed project
have been extended to a wide area of the state, covering a major portion of
the rural population. The successful completion of actions to be supported
through the first phase, for which the prospects are judged favorable, and the
ultimate benefits would depend on: farmers' response to proposed changes in
land use and farming systems; flexibility and willingness to pursue reform;
adaptation of bureaucratic structures and institutions on the part of local
government agencies; and continuing commitment to the program and policy
objectives on the part of the Government, including in particular the provi-
sion of adequate financial support. Such uncertainties are unavoidable under
a technical development project of this type. The patent need for such pro-
grams and the prospects for effecting a lasting and significant improvement
in the productivity and standard of living of an extremely poor section of
the rural community justify acceptance of the uncertainties.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the credit (Section
5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) are that:
(a) GOAK shall have authorized the new staff positions
required for project implementation; and
(b) -The Project Revolving Fund shall have been established
and GOAK shall have made its initial deposit into the Fund.



- 17 -
54.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By
J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
November 9, 1977






ANNEX I
TABLE 3APae1o
PAKISTAN            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                         Page 1 ot
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                             PAKISTAN                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL                                                 MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      44                         1960      1970    ESTIMATE          INDIA         THAILAND       TURKEY
GNP PER CAPITA (uss)                     60.0*    IIC.Wf     I7O.7Jgf Ta-100.0             210.0       500.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           45.3      59.8       71.0 /a           547.6       36.3        35.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       56.0      74.0       89.0 /a           167.0       71.0        46.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       198.0     246.0      292.0 /a           308.0      263.0        65.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRuDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.2      47.6       47.4               41.0       44.3        40.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          26-3 /ab 20-1        16.5               19.0       13.7        14.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       142.0      24.3      113.0                          80.0       1530./a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       42.1      47.4       49.8               47.2       55.5        54.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2       3.7        3.6                2.9        3.2         2.6/bhc
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.3       2.9        3.0                2.3        3.1         2.5
URBAN                                 5.0       4.0        3.9                3.2        4.9         4.9/d
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          22.5      24.8       26.0               19.8        15.0       38.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.0O/a C 43.4         ..               41.6       45.1        41.7
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.0/a c dS2-7         .                55.3       51.8        54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     6.0 ,t  d 3.9    .     .                3.1        3.1         4.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9 /ac   0.9         .,                0.8        0.9         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.7 /a,e  1.6 /a      .                 1.1/a      1.1 /a      1.1 /e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..        ..         ..            14585.0      470.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..                 ..       10.0         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        13000.0   18100.0    20400.0          21B000.0     16700.0/b   14500.0/f
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         59.0      57.0       54.8               69.0       79.0        67.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            ..        ..        2.0                 ..         ,,         4.0 L
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           20,3 /f   17.6       17.3               25 0 /b    22 0/C      32.8/h
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            45.3 /f   41.8       41.5               53 1 7S    51:17       60 6T
LOWEST  20O OF P3USEHOLDS             6.47f     8.0        B41                47 77      5.6/c       29Th
LOwEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            17.57-f   20.2       26.6               13.1 7Y    14.3 7       9.47 TT
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS           46.2         ..        ..                 ..          ..       53.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          0.4        ..         ..                 ..          , .0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7450.0 X 4310.04. 4070.0                4890.0     7970.0      2250.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       14860.0  . 8440.0 _ . 7460.0            5220.0 /c   6650.0      1770.0/i
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2070.0/i 1870.0          ..             1610.0 -    890.0       500.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         64.0      99.0       93.0              93.0       103.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0      59.0       56.0               53.0       52.0        78.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0/8    14.0 /       ..               16.0        17.0/d     22:0L1
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                       17.4        .                  ..          ..       14.7/k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO              30.0      44.0       47.0
PRIMARY SCHOOL                                            '650                          61.0       109.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     10.0      14.0      15.0                  ..       16.0        28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.o/k    1o.o/e     10.0/f.            12.0       12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      1.0       2.0       2.0                 6.0 /d    14.0/e      14.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                16.0/l    20.0       21.0               33.0        79.0       55.0/1
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                3.1ll       ..        ..                 ..         ..         1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..        ..         ..                 ..          .        64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..       18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          6.0       14.0      16.0               21.0        78.0       89.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0       3.0        3.0                1.0         5.0        4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           22.0      67.0     135.0               114.0       124.0      247.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.1/a n    0.6       0.3                0.3         1.0        0.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIuNS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NarES
Ilis  therwise noted, dots for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1966 end 1970, end for Moeat Recent Estinete between
1973 and 1975.
O NP per capita data are based on the world Beck Atles nethodology (1974-76 bash.).
Turkey has been selected as as objective coontry for Pakistan since the setural raocs                agricultural basis and cc-onotiisily     efficient
production aed ivsnn        prograno are likely to be smiler in both cs,ntriea.        Moreover, Turkey and Pakistan have smiler religions, end
cultural bacbgro..nds, with nany of the acne soial and cultural bsrriers to eaderi-ation with Turkey being annewbt ahead is this process.
PAKCISTAN    1960     Ia  Includes data for Bangledesh'       lb   1962-65;     /c  Encloding frontier regions,       IdL  15-59 and 60 years and over respectively,
________ ____  __le     Ratio of popolation onder 10 and 65 and over to total labs;r fomee;          If  1963-64s'    La   Registered, sot all practicing
in the country,      /h  Isciudes   idwives;      It  Including dispassarias;     -Li   1960-62;     /k  Up to natriculation (10th grade),
/1  5 years and over, the ability is read with understanding a short atatenent on every day life in asp local 1angoage;              In  data
refer to house.holds; In Pigure doese not insolude inports by land.
1970     Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over tottotal labor fsrce,           lb  Regletered, not all practicing in the coutry,
Ic  Op to -atriculation (10th grade);        Id REcludiog popolation sf0D. I. Ekes and Pesh-a         Diviions,       Ls  Including data
for Banglsdssb.
MOOT RECENT ESTDIATE:       Is  1976;     lb  1971;     /j  1972;     Ld  Registered, not all practicing in the country;,         In  1969-71 average;
/f Op to netriculatisn (10th grade).
INDIA        1970     /a  Ratio of population and-r 15 and 65 and over to total labor force age 15 and over;            lb   1967-66;     /.   Including nidwi-a;
Id 1967.
THJAILAND    1970     IaRatio of population under 15 and 60 and over to econoically active population, - ago 11 and over;                /b fEunoical1y activ-
population age 11 and over;       /c  Rsral only;      Id  1964-66;     Ia   Public schools, which includes technical eduration at
the post-secondary leve.
TURKEY       1970     I    1967;    /b   includes 17 eaatern province;..          1965-67;      Id  1965-70;     Ia  Ratio of population under 15 esd 65 and oe
______   ____  __   to labor force age 15 years and over;        /f  15 years and over, secludes unnplyped;         /9   Registered only;      /h  Disposable
inton;       It  I-ludinf.. assistas  norses and nidwives;      Li   1964-66,     /k   1967-66;     /1  Persons sin years and over who
tall the census takers that they can read and write.
R12, October 31, 1977
oOPDNITIONB OP SOCIAL fliDICATORtS
Lagd Area (th-o h2)                                                                       Population see nurine pIreon - Population, divded by oumber of practticin
Total -Total sorfaca area cnprising laed area end inland waters.                            eals and fen1s graduate eurses, "trained" or "certified' nurses,. an d
Agrit.-  Moat recant estimate of agricultsral area aad tepaprerily or pruma-                anniliary pare-an  l with training or esperience.
meatly far cropa, pasture,    arbat & bitches garden   or to lie RelIc..                Ppsulation par, hassitl bad - Population divded by number of hospital beds
avilable Rn Publi    sod private gener-1alnsd spacisIied hsapita1 and
GNP err snita   fiS$) - GlNP par capita eatimattes at turrast aarkt prices,                 rehabilitation centers; excludes ouraig home     and eatablthlsats for
calculated by same       - covrion method sa World sank utl.a (1973-75 basis);            catodi.1 and pravetiv- cars.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 dets.                                                               Pee .asit. anenir sof carisa    ft of ranuir-nat    - Compuced fec anergy
squivalest of net fasd aupplies available in .sontry per capita par day;
Puo,latian sd vital statistic-.                                                              avsilable  sppliee  -rcpeiee donetit production, imparts less asperc, and
Pultion  foRd-year  Illoan)   us of Isly first:   if sot available, average              change   is stk; net sopplies escluds a.nial feed, eseda, quantitise used
of M.a ed-yesr aatinatea; 1~60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                        is food processing and lasses in distribution; requirenanta were estimated
by PAD base.d on physin1agical meada far useml soticity and health caaRd-
population, d ni,-ersoe            o- Mid-year paplation par square kilastar                ering eniatltopeesturs, body weighta, age cod see diatributioea of
(10  atea) of total area.                                                            pepultism, end all1tius   lOt for waste ec houebsld leva.
pep.lation density - "rr asuar    ho of agric. land - Computed as above far                Per c,pit, surly af    rsteim  (scen, perr days - Proteis content of par capita
agricultsral land only                                                                     net supply of feed par day; met supply of fsod is defined as above; require-
ments fee all cnoutriss establisbed by USDA econoic Resea rch Services
Vital statistics                                                                             provide fsr a  ainisi   llensof 60 gras of tstal proteis par day, and
Crude birth race err thousad.    -vrae   - Annual live birth. par thousand of                20 gras of animal cand pulse protein, of wihio  10 gr-n should ho animal
old-year Ppuapstion; ces-year seltt-ti     averages ending is 1960 and 1970,               protein; thmes stendardarsea lonr than those of 75 gras og total proteit
snd five-year averge ending i 1975 for meat rscent estimate,                               and 23 gras of animal protein as am average faor tbe ,arld, proposed by~ FAO
Crude death rate car tholeend. averse    - Annual deastho par thausand of nid-yeee           in tho Third World Pond Survy.
:poulation; tam-year atr.t!...,f-                                                                                              adm.          rti     .pyith-tic  avragee eading in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-  Prest eeti eulvfo aielnd uls-rtesspyof food
year avrags enig is 1975 faI      n   rcn     etmte                                        drived free anmlsad puRees in gras par day.
Infstnereltyrat  fthu)   dcul data      fiinfests under one year of age           Dea th rate U/thul aces 14 - AnnualI deaths a.      hoadi      g   ru    -
,,par thousandliv   bIrtha.                                                                 years, t. children is this age grasp, snggestcd aanindicator of
lfe  spastasc   evt birtb  fore)  Average m.ashr of years of life rona~ining at             malntrition.
birth; usually five-year sversgaa ending in 1960, 1970 sad 1975 for develp-
img usestriae.                                                                          Education,
irons  renroductiss rats - Averag   mashe  sf.livedaughters. . .ma    w .ill hoar          Adinatad  enrollment ratio - nrlmsrr acheel - Enrollmet of eli agas es par-
isbr nanlrpoutv            eidi      h   xeine        rss     g-pcfcc                       aeo      daysho-age population; iocloda          children aged 6-11 years
fertilit   retes; usually fiv-yea    avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 hut edjoctd Rar differsnt lengths sf primary    docation; for contries with
far developing  scuntriss..                                                                onivers-a- education, ames1imat may exceed 1001 sisce .-a pupile are bel1e
poplation   arme,  rats CI) - total - CuaPevd a.-Ia grwtb raton of xid-yasr                  or above the official school ege.
pplto fa1950-AS, L9R0-75 and 1970-75.                                           Adute      nrlet rtia          aaeodarv sohsol -Cmue       saoa       eodr
FPseletion  rareth rats it   - urben - Computed likm graeth rats of total                    edoction requires at least fsur years of approved primary ima, tru    io,
population ; different definitions of urban aros   may effect ceeparsbility of             provides general, -eatinavl or teacher training istruction      for pupils
dat  enangtci   tr1ias                                                                     of 12 to 17 years of age; cormepsedoc      core"mgeeal              .xluded.
Sebha npuosltio    ft o% f total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different          Tertfehameervddfl                     n  seond levels) -Total years of
definitian   of urban areas may effect samparshility of data    .ABo countries,            schooling; at secondary leve, vocatioasl ist-otien may be partially or
completely exluded.
Age  strtar, (pmerotnl - Childre     (0-14 years), woking-age (15-64 years),               Vocationel enrollmet CZ of aeteedarvl - VoCational institutioas include
ssd retired (65 yrear  sod over) as prareetagee of mid-year population,                    technical, isduatrial or other progra    which operate indepemdsntly or a
die, dependescy  ratio, - Ratio of population, usdr 15 and 65 and ovr to those               departusent of secondary inatitutiua,s.
of age   15throagh ho.                                                                   Adult literacY ratei%t)- l.iterate adults (able to mad and writs) as per-
Ecosomic dempedem..  ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to                  c..rtga  f total adult population aged 15 years end over.
the laor force in    ge groupof5-eyas
_ocil   elanno- acc      _r   (cumultive   thou) - Csanlticssma        facorr               asm
of birch-control devices under aspoeof national fatly         plningpgPesn                        par roo  furbes) - Average nonhr of pars      par roo  in occupied
since imoptom                                                                              csational daeelings in urban areas ; dwellings asluds so-pemassnt
F-nily plannng      osra (Z of married   wuel-Pretgeof maried noe               of           etructur-   end -ococupied Prtea
child-hearingag    (5-4yrs        whue bieth-sontrel devices to all      serid           Occu pied  dllswtut          siend water  it) - Occupied -oeetional dweIlisgs
wmnin      a:go grop.                                                                   inuban and rural ram.as    ithout isaide or outside pipad water facilities
Deployment                                                       Access to elec~~~~~~~~tricity  ft affall desi=no   - Convetional dwellings with
Toa faorcfaes (thonand) - Econoically active prarons, including ersed                  electricity in llivig quarters as p.eret of total dwsl,iisge in urban and
forces, and onmplayed hoc excluding housewives, studenta, etm.; definitions                rural a-es.
is various c-trias ses mact com parable.                                                 Rural duellinga  conneted to electricity (%I - Computad as sabve for rural
Laber fares" is arisltur     (15 - Agnricultural labor force (in frsing, forestry,           dwellings only.
busting end fishing) as parcetege af total labor foarcea.
U.neploved  ft of labor farceS - Ummplsyed ar    usually defised ae parson   who           Casumotion,
ame able end willieg ta tabk   ajoh , out of a job on a given day, raonimed out          Radia reneiver   fpar thee eonS - All typsa of mo-i-ars for radio broadcas.ts
of a Jab, and see king werk for a pecifid mimixc     pariod eact axcedieg asI              to general public per thousad of population; secludes onlisesed ren..ivara
wek; may sot he somperbla hoesn couostries du        to different: defintions              is coutries and Is years wam. registration of radio sets wa      in effect;
ef onep lyed end sorc     of da ta, e.g., * oplapet office atatittic, amePI.               data fo   rec ant Yss may sot he sonparable sice most coutries abolished
surveys, compulsory onaplay-st insurance.                                                  licensing.
PI'ena      rare :fee  hser      Passenger oar   coprian eocorcaseaig
tuc     distributio  - percetagetaf private in-s (both in cash and kind)                     lsthnegh t pears-; exludes mebulanca, hesras end military
-onived by richoa It5, riches     211, poorest 211, end pooveat 401 of house-              vehicla..
holds,                                                                                   Electricity  ikhb/yr par tees - Annual cosuPtion of industrial, nril
public and private slectriniyin kileett hours per capita, generally
Distibutionof    land Inrarhip - Pereentages of lend onmd by wealthiest 1St                 bax     npoota         aa    ithou" alnac      for lasee. in grids but elm-
en  porn  ff fln    nes                                                               og far imparts and   mpert. of electricity.
t=apit    (ba/yr verr cap) - Per cpt    nulcsmto            nklga
hwalti and   eutritim                                                                        etmted fr_u dometic production plue net imparts of nawpriot
Psaaian  per  ihyates  - Peultiom   divded by nmod,r of practicing
phyican  quliie   feeamedical school at ueiversity laval.



Page 3 of 4 Pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amsounts is millions of U.S. Dollars)
Actual.               Eat. Projec~14W ted          1974-       1977-        97-        1983-
194   197,5       1939        1    78      ~    1    E197                   117           983        1988        1977        198          93
At 1976 prices sod Esebange Rates                               Aver..ge Ann1a Groth Rates                    As Percent of GOT
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross D-netic Product                      11925      12749        13083       13422      i45ih        19063        4.0         8.i        5.6         4.4        100.7       100.7        99 9
Gains from Te-mo of Trade (t)               -436       eli4          -           -6s        1.~              
G-one Dometic Inc-m                        A18         26           9X         131         347[       368           5.1         8.2        5.8         4.4        100.        100         100
Inports tool, 152                           2582       2419         2587        2718        2665       2936       -0.3         4.3         2.0         3.5         19.2        i8.s        i5.4
Exports incl. NiSs (import capacity)       _fl2       _g94          1432      _j3M          3446        2277        5.1        to.8        9.5         5.0           9.8       10.0        11.9
Resorc    Gap                              Ti7         116          1.155       1413        1219    ~   '8          50         -.         1.             , 
Coensumptios Expenditures                  11489      11899        11965       12031       13007       16649        1.5         8.3        5.0         4.2         90.2        90.4        87.2
Tovet-et Top. (tool, stocks)                1472       1911         2273        2550        26ui        3093      20.1         2.4         3.4         3.9         19.1        i8.1        i6.2
Domestic Savingo                             668        833         1117        1299        1392        2434      24.8          7.2       u1.8         5.4          9.7         9.7        12.8
Rational Savings                             787        976         1326        1732        1915        3187       30.1       io.6        10.7         3.5         13.0        13.3        16.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                        Am-1u. Data at Current Prices                                  Averge Aonnual Groth Rates                     An Per-cot of TDY
Capitll Gold,                              411        651          723         865        1149        1779        14.3       32.8        9.1        11.1         34.1        ho 2        42.6
Intermediate Ocds(n            I.ues       614        824          750        1171         796        1113       19.9         3.6        6.9        12.0         30.3        07.9        26.6
of which, fertiflo-s                    97        102           58          67         192         41        -8.3        86.6      -26.6         -            2.6         6.7         1.0
POL                                        238        335          359         4ui         495         619       20.0        2o.4        4.6        10.2         16.2        17.3        14.8
Consumption Goods                        -   4        342         5            2S39        4i6         668         3.4       -2.1        9 9        14.i         16.8        i4.6        i6.o
Total Merchandise Imprts (niP.)  3~44T  99           2397        2700      92885       71I79        3.5.5       12.6        7.9        11.7        100         10.         100
Exports
Raw Cotton                                   38       159           99          30          66         256        -v.6      120.0       31.1         6.9          2.6          4.8         9.5
Cotton Yarn                                183         86          t44         123         222         300       -12.4       80.5        6.2        13 4         10.8        i6.o        11.1
Cotton Cloth                               143        133          130         162         148         245         4.2         8.6      10.6        13.4         14.2        10.7          9.1
Rice                                       232        233          250         250         227         444         5.6        9.2       14.4         9.1         21.9        16 4        16.5
Others                                    4f o        367          539          763        723        1492         8.6       25.5       15.0        16.2         50.5        52.2        53.8
Total Merchandise Enpor-ts (foh)          10        93           1162        1141        138         9697         3.115                i.           4.1         0           0.          0.
Merchandise Trade Indice                                 7          Average 1-976 a 100
Export Price Ioden                        10.9         9.7         100.        103.8       113.2       159.4     -1.0         9.1        7.1         6.9
Import Price loden                         70.8       io5.4        100.0       111. 0      120.7       156.9     16.2         8.7        5.4         7.0
Teem   of Trade                           150.9        94.5        100.0        93.5        93.8       ioi.6    -14.7          0.3       i.6        -0.1
Export of Voloss   loden                   78.6        87.6        100.0        97.5       107.7       157.5       7.4       10.5        7.9         6.8
TALUSE ADDED BY SMITOR                                Aonnal Data at 1976 Prices and Exchange Rates                     Average An-oa Growth Rates                    An Percet of Total
Agricultur                                3804       3719         3897        353         4594        5376         1.3         8.6       4.6         4.2          32.0        32.2        3-
Manofact-ring                             2824       280)6        28u1        2660        2841        3990        -2.0         6.8        7.0        8.o         21.6        21.3         22.
Other Sectors                  ~~~~~     ~~4782  596   5402           3        622         8iss         6.2         8.         5.6         5.9         46.4        46s          6.
Total.                                   11410      3183         12110       3336        T 1388      17521         2.6         8.i       5.6         5.9        100.0      100.0        100 0
POEtIC PINANCE                                       Annua Data. at 1976 Prices and Exchange sates                      Average Annual Growth Rates                    An Pcrect of uPF
(Central Gvrnment) 31/ 
Current Receipts                          1948       1859         1991        2100         .           ..         2.5          ..         .           .15.3
Current Expenditure                       2001       216       .32            2631        ..          .          3.8          ..         .           .           6.s        ___        ___
oudgetary Imologs               ~~~~      ~~-73  -357   -     7  1   3           ..          .          ..                      .          ..-1.2
Other Public Seotor.                                   .           .            .          .            .         .             .         .
Public Doctor Invetment                    745       1133         1473        1618         .           ..        29.5          ..         .           .1.8
CUIOIER  EDnX  STR    DTA=                         Actual Data                 Est.               DETAAL OE PUBLIC S1ECTOR     A196Prlice      ad Exchange Rates                             of Total
(An % TotalCrrn        xpn.                19741       i           197                           INVFSTMIENT PROGRAM           194        3~          1976t        2151                     31374177
Education                                 6.3         7.0         8.i         8.9                 Social. Sectors             127         187        278          264                       17 4
Other Social. Services                   20.5        18.7        12.2        lo.6                Agriculture 9/               235         295         324         315                       2.
Agriculture                                3.2        3.3         4.1         4.o                 Industry & Miming           105         196         277         495                       21.9
Other EconOIc Services                    3.6         3.2         3.0         3.3                 Pbeer                       107         157         234         223                       14.7
Defens.e                                 38.0        39.7        40.0        39.1                 Trasssp. A Cosnssnications  149         221        252          262                       i8.o
Administration                            8.5         7.5         7.9         8.5                 Other                        22          77l         459                                   4.1
Ote  3/                               319         20.6        24.7       _s.6                 Total Enpenditures         -74          1133       14          131                        0.
Total Current Expendituxen               100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0
FINAICINO
Public Rector Savings 4     -16        -107          56         154                        -1.8
Dnestic Eorrnowing          298         333         383         254                       25,8
Foreign Borr-sing           463         907                    1210                        72.4
Total Pinanciag             4745       1.133   ~   3l18        1618                       100.0
Note: All years given in this table refer to the Pakistan fiscal year July 1-June 30. The fiscal year is identified by the calendar year in which it ends.
3/Consolidated federal and provincial government.
3/Including expenditure on the Tar-bela Dm     project.
3/Includes int-eret payments.
Adjusated for inveatment in current budget, transfers of eurplnes and self-finaning by public setor
Sooth Asia Department
October 20, 1977



ANNEX I
!T.Fg- 4 pages
PAXITABBAANEMOPPAS0F. ETEIIA            ANBITAEC APD eBT-
Avg. Anna
ACtual                               Eutbated                               Projected                                      Groth Rate
1972/73       1973/74     1974/75       19-75/76          1976/77         1977/78       1978/79       1979/80       1980/81      1981/82       1976177-81/82
SSaNTy BALANCE OF PAYMIENTS
Bopurts  lenD,. ups)                      903          1,202        1,252        1,432             1,449           1,745         2,077         2,452        2,903         3,340            18.2
LA  rtta  Soul. BPS                     12094          1829        2,555879                        2,3.            3s937         3,39          5,659        8 021         4.3951            6.6
Sosource BNelacu  TX-M)                  -191           T87       -,9           -1,155            _I,56            -            -1            -1,20                      -1,055
Interes.t (oei)                           -84            -Bo          -93          -97              -136            -153          -207          -228          -240         -249            12 9
Diret neet 1-   nt Ioose (net)             -               8            4           -25             - 28            - 31          - 34          - 38          - 42          - 47
Workers' Remittance (gross )              t45            150          229           353              595             700           770           890           950         1,000            12.0
O1ther Fctor Services (net)               ...            ..            ..-3                           -3              -3            -3            -3            -3            -3              -
._    t            (t );_                               _ E           _                               _                                                       -z-_ __  M    M-2
Balanc   us Curret ACCounet               130                                                     -.TO______ 
PrIvate Direct Invotnent (set)             ...                         -41                            4s              50            55            60            66            73            10.1
iffinial Cupital Oranto (net)              46             91          140           120               100            100            80            60            40            20
Public MALT loan
Diniur-  -eta 1                        356            497        1,019        l,067               86i             980         1,216         i,o56         i,o64        1,123
Re.nyneot.                             -114           -io4         43 67                                          -247          2999          -349           377          -403
Net Dinb-crnmets                          5Z             391        -       ~      W666733                                         701           707         _7fff          7-20
Ocher MALT lo
D-sb-r-usetc.                                          ..            .             .                 3D             8i            69            30            30            30
Deosyncats     . .                         ...                             -~     ~    ~~~              ~~~           ~~      ~     ~~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~6  -   9-4  -4  -3~z
Net Duassrunoete                                                                                       2 1W           376           8479                      25              27
CaU~tul Trnsoin       ne1  i    /          44             44          063            -                100
Chuoe i'NBet FBesorv      (-s  -reuc     -202             23         -U19          -130              212
Actual                    cEticeted
1973/74       1974/75       1975/76       19   77
ODdSNT AND LOAN COMIIE4T SWD                                                                             DBET AND DEBT SERBVTCE
Public Debt Wu.. & Diuburced                 4,521        4,88i         5,690         6,318
Official Gruts & Gmunt-like Loan           29             32          126           120                Interes.t en Public Debt 3/8i                             93           109           1op
Paymets on Publio Debt 9/                   o6           135           147           163
Fublic MALT Lo-                                                                                       Total Publi   Debt Ser-ice                  187           220           236           245
IBRD                                     -              60           60            50               Other Debt Service (net)
IO                                       95             53           82          ii8           .    Total Debt ServIce (net)                    187           220           256           265
Dthor Multi-lateral                      39             82           71           119
G-O-vrctu 3/                            555          i,o64          856           630            Burden on Epurt Earings )%      2/
Suppliers                                 5             13            9            42                Psslic Debt Service                        13 B          15.4          14.3          13.0
Fin-icosl Onotitutiuss                    1             57           12            10                Total Debt Service
Bonds                                    -              -            -             -                 TDSE-.  Direct Invet. I.c
Tota1 Public MAlT Loan                  724          1,359        1,20          1,CU              Aver..ge Dera  ef Public Debt
LAt. an % Prior Year DWA                     1.9          2.1           2.0           1 8
Actual Debt Outstanding onDeenber 31. 1976                     Anon. as 9 Pr-     Tear lOAD                2.5            3.0          3.0           2 9
Diuburnd 0Only                   Percent                   1022 Debt Outs. A Diebomsed                     299           257           305           307
IBRDasPDlcebSD6.6                                             5.3            4            4 9
IITIDNAL 2107                                                                 IDES ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                ~   ~     ~~~Det Service  52.5  48.4  39.6  41.i
IBRD                                         220                                                    Cu2:RS an 9Public Debt Service                28.1          21.2          15.5          15 3
ITM                                          549                           9IMA Debt Puts. A Diabursd                                              465           471           si6           530
Othev Multi-lateral                           122                          2                        MAd no 9 Public Debt DAD                       12.3          9.6           8.9           8 4
Occsrnssssts                    ~~~~~~~4,758                   80                        IDA Debt Se-ice                                 4.2           5.7           5.7           6 1
Pu,anolalSuttt-                               1225                         2                        IDA c9PblcDebt Serrice                         2.2           2.5           2 2           2 3
Publ'ic Debts   et 
TolPbli    MALFDbt                      5,9610
Otter M&T Debts                                .
ihort-tern Debt (Ali.b only)..
cot applicable                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~estaff estimate
not, avaIlable                                                                                     -    il or negligible
-to avatlable separately but included s- total                                                         l e.. tbhn half the malleut unit hb-s
1J Tie ftg-rc  for 1975/76 - 1977/78 inclde -cputed dinbur-eet. on accout of debt minef already agree.d            tth the Pskistan Aid Cons-tion.
9/ Including error   and c,ini
3/ Including coemit-tst made for debt relief.
Ne1t of debt relief
B/ dedo   on earings f-n enprts inccding NFS and -skr-er         rouittces..
South Asia Depsrotent
October 20, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of August 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                     US$ Million
Credit                                         Amount   (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower        Purpose        Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
Sixty-seven loans and credits
fully disbursed /a                          515.5    426.0
590     1969   PICIC         Industrial
Development     22.0       --          0.5
(PICIC)
621     1969   Pakistan      Railways          14.5      --          2.0
177     1970   Pakistan      Industrial
Development
(IDBP)           --      18.7          0.9
206    1970   Pakistan       Engineering
Education        --       4.0          1.1
213    1970   Pakistan      Power
Distribution     --       23.0         1.7
422    1973   Pakistan       Karachi Port III   --      18.0         4.2
961    1974   Pakistan       Industrial
Investment      25.0      --           5.1
466    1974   Pakistan       Flood Rehab-
ilitation        --      35.0          0.5
988    1974   Pakarab       Multan
Fertilizer      Fertilizer       35.0      --          1.2
492    1974   Pakistan       Karachi Port IV    --      16.0        13.6
510    1974   Pakistan       Telecommuni-
cations III      --      36.0         11.9
1107    1975   SNGPL         Gas Pipeline IV    60.0      --         16.0
546    1975   Pakistan       Industrial
Development
(NDFC)           --      30.0         13.3



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
Loan or                                                     US$ Million
Credit                                          Amount  (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower        Purpose        Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
1208    1976   Pakistan      Power
Transmis-
sion           50.0       -          49.2
620    1976   Pakistan      Seed                        23.0       22.8
1326    1976   PICIC         Industrial
Development     25.0                  24.3
630    1976   Pakistan      Lahore Water II             26.6       26.3
648    1976   Pakistan       Irrigation and
Drainage                   14.0       13.8
1366    1977   Pakistan      Livestock         10.0                 10.0
1372/
684    1977   Pakistan      Railways          35.0      25.0       60.0
678    1977   Pakistan      Education                   15.0       15.0
683    1977   Pakistan      Flood Reha-
bilitation                40.0        28.0
TOTAL                                     792.0    750.4
of which has been repaid                  320.2     12.9
TOTAL now outstanding                     471.8    737.5
Amount sold                 23.3
of which has been repaid    22.3            1.0      --
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /b                                470.8    737.5
Total Undisbursed                         143.3    178.0       321.3
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly
for projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken
over by Bangladesh.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31. 1977)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor              Type of Business        Loan     Equity   Total
1958   Steel Corp. of Pak.
Ltd                    Rolled Steel Products     0.63      --      0.63
1959   Adamjee Industries
Ltd                    Textiles                  0.75      --      0.75
1962   Gharibwal Cement       Cement
1965   Industries Ltd                                   5.25     0.42     5.67
1963-
1969-                         Development
1975   PICIC                  Financing                  --      0.52     0.52
1965   Crescent Jute
Products               Textiles                  1.95      --      1.95
1965   Packages Ltd           Paper Products            2.31      0.84    3.15
1967-  Pakistan Paper
1976   Corp. Ltd              Paper                     5.38      2.02    7.40
1969   Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.         Fertilizers               1.00     2.92     3.92
1969   Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd              Pulp and Paper            5.60     0.63     6.23
Total Gross Commitments                         22.87      7.35   30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                     17.83     0.90    18.73
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                5.04     6.45    11.49
Undisbursed                                      0.05        -     0.05



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 548        Tarbela Dam:   US$25.0 Million Loan of July 10, 1968;
Effective Date: August 2, 1968; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Loan was intended for residual financing, and disbursements
began in March 1975. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction
of the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974,
the main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first
impoundment began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties
were encountered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of
the tunnels necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the
tunnels and outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the
Indus Basin and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were
made by a number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the
cost of repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered
further damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has
now been redesigned and repaired, and operated satisfactorily during the 1977
irrigation season. The permanent solution for Stilling Basin 4 is still under
discussion. From 1975 through 1977, irrigation requirements have generally
been met. Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. The major
outstanding problem is that plunge pool development has endangered the flip-
bucket of the service spillway, and additional protection works for this
spillway must be completed before July 1978.
Loan No. 621        Ninth Railway:   US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969;
Effective Date: August 28, 1969; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Nearly 90% of the Loan has been disbursed, and the project is
virtually complete. To provide for reimbursement of commissioning expenses,
however, the Closing Date, formerly December 31, 1975, has been extended to
June 30, 1978. The main outstanding item is construction of the first stage
of a new marshalling yard at Pipri, near Karachi. The location of this yard
was changed twice following protracted investigations and negotiations bet-
ween various agencies and planning authorities. Consultants have modified
the design of the yard for the new location, selected to reconcile urban
planning and railway marshalling objectives, and construction is underway.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
While progress on improvements to the main line, which will permit removal
of speed restrictions, has been rather slow, a new timetable for passenger
and goods trains was introduced in November 1975 and has helped to improve
utilization of motive power and rolling stock, especially freight wagons.
Credit No. 177      Development Finance Company - IDBP:   US$20.0 Million
Credit of February 11, 1970; Effective Date: June 25,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Amendments to the Credit Documents became effective on April 25,
1974. These enabled IDBP to resume utilizing IDA funds to finance Pakistan
industry without bearing the financial risk pending settlement of its lia-
bilities with respect to projects it had financed in Bangladesh. The original
Closing Date of December 31, 1974 was then postponed to December 31, 1977.
The Credit has been fully allocated by IDA and only $0.9 million remained
undisbursed as of August 31, 1977. IDBP's major problem is the large arrears
in its portfolio. IDBP's collection efforts have been improving, but the
long-term portfolio prospects will depend mainly on developments in the
political/economic environment, including the textile sector, which accounts
for a large portion of IDBP's outstandings.
Credit No. 206      Engineering Education:   US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. The new physical facilities are nearing completion and were expected
to be in full use by August 1977. The Closing Date has been extended by
one year, until December 1977, to allow for execution of the technical
assistance program. The Closing Date will be extended further if the
University in time appoints all the technical specialists required to up-
grade its teaching programs.
Credit No. 213       Power Transmission and Distribution:  US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Physical construction of the Grid Substation and associated equip-
ment of this Project is underway and can now be considered to be 60 percent
complete. Physical completion of the project is expected during the first
quarter of 1978 and disbursements should end at approximately the same time.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:   US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Nearly four-fifths of the Credit has been committed and disbursed.
The rate of progress on both the Juna Bunder Berths and Napier Mole Road
Bridge has improved in recent months despite strikes and civil disturbances.
Work on the bridge abutments and on the main bridge supports in the Chinna
Creek is proceeding satisfactorily. Completion of the berths and sheds as
well as the bridge is expected by the end of 1978.
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:   US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the oil berth commenced in January 1977, two years
behind the schedule prepared at the time of appraisal. Some 49% of the
permanent piling has been driven and the causeway at the shore end of the
trunkway has been 95% completed. Consultants are preparing contract
documents for channel dredging works and dredger procurement. Prequalifi-
cation of contractors for the dredging works and dredger manufacture is
presently under evaluation. Disbursements to date total US$2.4 million.
Meanwhile, however Port efficiency and productivity appear to be declining.
IDA has recommended that KPT seek outside assistance to improve this
situation, and is discussing this proposal with GOP.
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:   US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
The loan has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to $20.0 million
on September 23, 1977.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:    US$25.0 million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of September 23, 1977, subprojects for US$6.4 million had been
approved by the Bank. Two previous loans to PICIC have not yet been fully
disbursed: Loan 961 should be fully disbursed by the closing date, June 30,
1978; the closing date for Loan 590 was extended to September 30, 1977 for
one subproject in connection with an IFC project in Pakistan. No further
extension is anticipated. PICIC remains a capable institution, but its
operations and collections have been adversely affected by the recent poli-
tical difficulties in Pakistan. Its long-term prospects will depend mainly
on developments in the political/economic environments, including the
textile sector, which accounts for a large portion of PICIC's outstandings.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Credit No. 466      Flood Rehabilitation:   US$35.0 Million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The general imports and civil works categories of this credit have
been fully disbursed. The original Closing Date of June 30, 1975 was post-
poned to December 31, 1976, to permit completion of procurement of specialized
spare parts for the repair of construction and farm machinery. Because of
delays in the shipment of certain equipment, the Association has agreed to
continue disbursements until the end of 1977.
Loan No. 988         Multan Fertilizer:  US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
Delays and escalating prices for civil works and, to a lesser
extent, for foreign equipment have raised the total project cost above the
appraisal estimate by about 84% (US$88 million). Construction delays have
been due to a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and to
late deliveries of critical equipment. Project completion is currently
forecast to be about 18 months longer than the appraisal estimate. The
project's economic return is still close to 28%, because of higher forecast
international fertilizer prices. The company has already obtained US$84
million of the extra financing required, in equity from the Government and
the foreign partner, and in debt from the OPEC Special Fund and local banks.
The remaining US$4 million are in the process of being secured. The project's
corporate and field management has been strengthened. Craftsmen and field
supervisors from Europe have recently been hired to expedite plant construction.
Credit No. 510      Third Telecommunications:   US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding satisfactorily
though somewhat behind schedule. Procurement action for all the main equip-
ment items is well advanced. T&T was required under Credit Agreements of
145-PAK and of 510-PAK to be reorganized to function more effectively along
commercial lines and to be given a greater degree of autonomy. Partly as a
result of political changes and country problems, this reorganization has
not yet been effected. The delay in introducing a satisfactory reorganiza-
tion has been taken up again with the Government.
Credit No. 546      National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
During 1976, the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)
continued to expand its operations and recorded substantial growth in
approvals, commitments and disbursements. We anticipate that the credit
will be fully committed by June 1978 and fully disbursed by the following



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
March. Although NDFC is currently a highly profitable and financially
stable institution there are several aspects of its operation which are of
concern. The orientation of NDFC's activities has been toward commercial
banking; its development impact would be improved if it were to redirect
its efforts toward analyzing sector problems in the public industrial sector.
Its rapid expansion has placed considerable strain upon its limited manpower
resources and newly established systems and procedures and while further
growth is projected over the next few years, staffing and systems develop-
ment may prove limiting factors.
Loan No. 1107       Fourth Sui Northern Gas:   US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
All project activities are on schedule including the new gas
purification and dehydration units which are expected on stream by
December 1977, in time for the peak load period. A recent re-estimate
of the final project cost (including the additional pipelines and dis-
tribution systems authorized by the Bank) indicates that as much as
US$7 million of the loan might go unspent. New oil developments in the
Potwar Basin will greatly increase the future supply of associated gas
which the Borrower will have to market to avoid flaring it. The Borrower
has requested the Bank's permission to apply this unspent portion of the
loan towards equipment and facilities needed for handling the higher Potwar
gas flows as well as toward several other items that are required. The
recent Dhodak oil discovery is also expected to yield sizeable hydrocarbon
liquid (condensate) and gas flows. As in the case of the Potwar fields, the
only practical way to dispose of the gas is for the Borrower to market it in
lieu of Sui gas. The Dhodak field's production potential is expected to be
confirmed next year. The consequences of gas production from this area will
have to be studied, but no major problems are foreseen in the Borrower's
ability to plan and execute the change-over in gas supply nor in the Govern-
ment's cooperation in financing the additional capital and operating costs.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Production of prebasic and basic seed, and project coordination
and reporting procedures have improved. Progress of the Seed Corporations'
activities is satisfactory. Three of five consultants to be financed under
the credit are in place and designs for processing plants have been drafted.
Minor amendments to the Development Credit Agreement have been made to
simplify procurement procedures for vehicles and civil works.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Credit No. 630      Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage:
US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Design work and the processing of bidding documents is proceeding
at a reasonable rate under the advice of engineering consultants financed
by UNDP. Part of a management team has been provided by the UK.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Lyallpur and Guddu and associated equipment will start in December 1977
with a completion date scheduled for mid-1980. The contract for consultant
engineering and supervision was signed in April 1976 and most bidding
documents for equipment and material have been issued.
Credit No. 648      Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective-Date:  March 14, 1977; Closing Date:   July 31,
1982
Survey work has begun and the construction colony has been estab-
lished in the project area. Consultants were selected in March 1977 and
began work in May. With their help, the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), the implementing agency, is expected to begin procurement
by the end of 1977 and to complete project plans and start land acquisition
for construction early next year.
Credit No. 678     Third Education:   US$15.0 million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides facilities for primary teacher training; a
functional literacy program; agricultural education to assist in developing
higher and middle level manpower; and farmer training. Project management
is generally well organized; technical assistance is on schedule, while civil
works designs are about three months behind schedule because of delays in
finalizing sketch plans.
Loan No. 1366-T     Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Progress has been satisfactory. The first spearhead team, which
will set up Village Associations, is undergoing training. Management of the
Lahore Milk Plant has improved but the Sihala Meat Plant still has cash
flow problems.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No. 1372       Tenth Railway:   US$35 million Loan and US$25 million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:   May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684      Closing Date:   June 30, 1982
Procurement has generally begun smoothly. There has been some
delay in engaging consultants for detailed engineering of the communications
component of the project. This has now been resolved and work is expected to
commence shortly. Pakistan Railways performance on covenants and commitments
is generally satisfactory.
Credit No. 683      Flood Damage Restoration:   $40 million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Repair of all major breaches in protective bunds and other priority
works under this Project were completed before the start of the 1977 monsoon
season. However, other components of the project have lagged behind schedule.
Only 40% of the civil works to be carried out by Mechanized Construction of
Pakistan (MCP), the prime contractor, had been completed by September 1977.
In July 1977, the Association 'agreed to amend the Credit Agreement to permit
the Provinces, in addition to MCP, to be reimbursed for civil works. There
have also been delays in ordering spares and equipment, due to MCP's diffi-
culties in obtaining foreign exchange.



ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
HILL FARMING TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project preparation by Bank missions and GOAK.
Time taken: 12 months.
(b) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project:
November 1975.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: March 1976.
(d) Date of completion of negotiations: August 16, 1977.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: January 31, 1978.
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Association will assist with the recruitment of the
international specialists as requested by the Government.   Soon
after signature of the Credit Agreement a supervision mission
will assist the Government to:
(a) establish the general organization and management of
the project;
(b) prepare disbursement requests; and
(c) prepare work programs.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOP to carry out an aerial survey of part of Azad Kashmir
(para 37);
(b) GOAK to establish a Project Revolving Fund (para 49);
(c) GOAK shall, by July 1, 1978, submit to IDA a timetable
for the planning and preparation of future activities
related to the project, including preparation of a
follow-up project (para 39).






/   Z        f                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN
r   z           @                   ~~~~~~~~HILL FARMING       3o
_v---\9      /   .-      ~~TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
30?-3
A,                    .=                            P.I., Apple S,h-m   A,..,
(   t   /JJ .                          *   Propose~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p....d V3g-1ble Seed P- .......P.-1
/ 1) \ . Plol Fuelwoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d P -Wo n ro
t   9MUZAFFARA8AD   . .                  =  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Low S-od.,d DO S,rf-x Roods
\ \ +    MA U Z A F F A R A B A D:                3SeCP41
34 00'                                                  Dsrc  bodre
IN.
\-
332 30  -
,   ^-                      TEHNCA     DEEOMN        PROJECTX ,,FX | 
15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Epseno       I  toso2o  X>\ /e   Ab\(eo/ 
0                              Apl Soee.:'
*<  sopose Ape .. .
< ~~ ~ ~  ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Soess ee  VIIeES
S;~~~~~~~~     ~   ~~~~~~~~ Sbored "op"e
(       /~          ~~~ Abe.p .        ..
/   0 <  M  I R   U R          .       3]-00
/72 r--     ,      /'
33-00                  /               \9 <~~~~~5->
S            X                                    \              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



