Report No. 437a-PH
Appraisal of a                                                                    FILE COPY
Shipping Project
Philippines
September 26, 1974
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      = Philippines Peso (Ps)
1 Peso (Ps)        = US$0.149
Ps 1 million       -  US$149,000
US$1.00            =  Ps 6.729
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilometer (km)      =  0.62 Mile
1 Nautical Mile (knot)- 1.85 Kilometers (km)
1 Nautical Mile       =  1.15 Miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOI     -  Board of Investments
BPW     -  Bureau of Public Works
CISO    -  Conference of Inter-Island Shipowners and Operators
DBP     -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DPH     -  Department of Public Highways
DPWTC   -  Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
dwt     -  Deadweight Ton (a measure of weight-carrying capacity)
Epp     -  Export Priorities Plan
GRT     -  Gross Registered Ton (a measure of total cubic capacity)
IMCO    -  Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization
IPP     -  Investment Priorities Plan
MIA     - Maritime Industry Authority
NEDA    -  National Economic Development Authority
NRT     -  Net Registered Ton (a measure of net cubic capacity)
PAL     -  Philippine Air Lines
PCG     -  Philippine Coast Guard
PNR     -  Philippine National Railways
GOVERNMENT OF
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..................................  i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .............................................                       1
II.    BACKGROUND  ...............................................                       2
A.    General  .............................................                      2
B.   The Transport Sector  ................................                      2
C.    Transport Planning and Coordination  ....                  .............   4
III.    ORGANIZATIONS  INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT  ....................                       5
A.    Overall Government Coordinating Agencies  ....                  ........    5
B.    Maritime Industry Authority  (MIA)  ...................                    5
C.    Development Bank of the Philippines  (DBP)  ....                .......    7
D.    The Philippine Coast Guard  (PCG)  ....................                    8
E.   The Shipowners of the Inter-Island Fleet  ....                   ........   9
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..............................................    10
A.    Project Description  .................................    10
B.    Demand for Funds  ....................................    10
C.    Procurement  .........................................    11
D.    Disbursement  ........................................    12
E.    Project Execution  ...................................    12
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ......................................    14
A.    General  .............................................    14
B.    National Economic Development and Inter-Island
Transport  .........................................    14
C.    Economics of Inter-Island Shipping  ..................    16
VI.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION  .....................................    18
A.    Inter-Island Shipping Companies  .....................    18
B.    Financial Position and Operating Costs  ....                  ..........    19
C.    Effect of Investment in New Ships  ...................    20
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....................   20
This report was prepared by Messrs. G. F. Bain, J. Burns and 0. Rahkonen.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Inter-Island Shipping and Traffic
2.   Maritime Industry Decree
2(a) Memorandum of Agreement between Maritime Industry Authority
and Philippine Coast Guard
2(b) Presidential Letter of Instruction to Philippine Coast Guard
3.   Outline of Technical Assistance Required for Marine Inspection
Services
4.   DBP Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures
5.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to Development
Bank of the Philippines
6.   Inter-Island Shipping Companies Investment Program
7.   Foreign Exchange Composition of Project Cost
8.   Economics of Improvements in Inter-Island Shipping
TABLES
1.   Operating Results for Six Major Inter-Island Shipping Companies,
1972/73
2.   Operating Results for FS Type Vessels (925 Dwt) 1972
MAP
IBRD 11009 - Philippines Transport System



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Bank has been asked to help finance the replacement and
repair of vessels in the inter-island fleet as part of the Philippine
Government's plans for the integrated development of the maritime industry
and to provide for the economical and efficient shipment of goods and
passengers.
ii.       Ports and shipping have in the past played a dominant role in
the transport sector of the Philippines and continue to provide an essential
means of inter-island transport and communications. In 1971 the inter-
island fleet had 130 vessels of over 1,000 GRT totalling about 280,000 GRT,
and some 300 vessels of 1,000 GRT and under; more than 65% of this fleet
were 20 or more years old. Some are poorly maintained, built to obsolete
standards and ill-suited to modern cargo-handling methods. There is also
a poor record of safety.
iii.      The proposed project consists of the acquisition of new and used
vessels to replace ships over 20 years old, the major repair of ships up
to 16 years old, the provision of technical assistance and the formulation
of a maritime industry development program.
iv.       New ships will be acquired on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. In the case of Philippine
built ships, evaluation of bids will include a 15% preference or the amount
of import duties whichever is lower. Used ships will be obtained through the
services of shipbrokers. The specialized nature of ship repairs and small
ship conversions would make international competitive bidding procedures
impracticable.
v.        The Bank would provide some 60% of the foreign exchange component
of the funds required and the Government would make available any additional
foreign exchange required for the shipowners' contribution. The funds lent
to the Government would be relent to shipowners through the Maritime Section
of the Industrial Department of the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP),
a state-owned banking institution. These loans, suitably secured by mortgages
on the borrowers' ships and other appropriate assets, would be repaid over a
period of 16 years including two years' grace in the case of new ships, over
eight to 12 years with six months' grace for used ships, and up to five years
with one year's grace for repairs. The first 10 shipping sub-loans would be
subject to Bank approval before disbursement. Subsequently, based on
experience, a free limit would be agreed upon between the Bank and DBP.
vi.       DBP, which will receive technical assistance for this project in
the form of two shipping experts to be financed by the United Kingdom under
the Colombo Plan or, failing this, through the proposed loan, would be



- ii. -
competent to appraise and supervise the sub-loans. The organization has
been carefully examined by the Bank Group over the past two years, resulting
in changes in administration and operating procedures. Measures to strengthen
DBP's Industrial Projects staff and audit system were agreed during negotia-
tions for a US$50 million industrial loan; operating Policies and Procedures
for industrial lending were also reviewed and agreed and subsequently approved
by DBP's Board of Governors on May 29, 1974.
vii.      The Government has decided that supervision of the maritime industry
requires coordination and to this end has promulgated a Maritime Industry
Decree, the general content of which is acceptable to the Bank. The Maritime
Industry Authority (MIA) set up by the Decree will prepare a ten-year
Maritime Industry Development Program which will be updated annually and
approved by the President. A memorandum of Agreement as to ship inspection
services, satisfactory to the Bank, has been signed by MIA and the Philippine
Coast Guard (PCG).
-jiii.    The PCG with the assistance of the MIA will continue to be
responsible for ship registration and inspection. Technical assistance and
training for improving ship inspection services may be sought on a bilateral
basis, using a recognized international classification society. Funds to cover
the required technical assistance have been included in the loan on a contingent
basis.
ix.       The economic rate of return will be determined from the examination
of sub-projects and present indications are that this return will be about
27% for the newer, larger vessels replacing unsafe and obsolete fleet units.
x.        The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of
US$20.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines
for a term of 18 years including a four-year grace period.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Government of the Republic of the Philippines (the Government)
has requested the Bank's assistance in financing the replacement and repair
of vessels in the inter-island fleet. The estimated total cost of the
proposed project is US$34.0 million of which US$20.0 million equivalent
will be financed by a Bank Loan. The Project will consist of:
(a)  the acquisition, conversion and repair of vessels in
the inter-island fleet;
(b)  technical assistance for various organizations involved
in the project; and
(c)  the formulation of a maritime industry development program.
The loan would be made to the Government for a term of 18 years, including a
four-year grace period. Most of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be
relent to shipowners through DBP's Maritime Section.  The proposed loan
would also finance technical assistance to DBP and MIA should bilateral
assistance not materialize.
1.02       Four loans have been made for transport infrastructure in the
Philippines, two for highways, 731-PH in 1971 for US$8.0 million and 950-PH
in December 1973 for US$68.0 million, and two for ports, 290-PH in 1961 for
US$8.5 million and 939-PH in December 1973 for US$6.1 million. Experience
in the first port project, Loan 290-PH for the procurement of dredging
equipment, was unsatisfactory due to failure to operate and maintain the
dredgers in an efficient manner and some US$1.1 million was cancelled.
Due to civil disturbances in the project area and rapid price escalation,
progress of Loan 731 PH (the first highway loan) has been slower than
anticipated but is now improving; US$4.9 million has been disbursed at
August 31, 1974. The total cost of the second highway project (Loan 950 PH)
has increased by about 60% as a result of the rise in costs of basic construc-
tion materials and fuel. Several proposals to assist offsetting some of the
additional cost are under consideration. In these loans, the Bank's objec-
tive is to bring about organizational improvements.
1.03       In total the Philippines has received 26 Bank loans and three IDA
credits totalling US$572.0 million, net of cancellation. About half of this
total has been for priority infrastructure projects; the remainder has been
divided between agriculture and industry.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. G. F. Bain (maritime specialist), J. Burns (financial
analyst) and 0. Rahkonen (economist) which visited the Philippines in
January 1974.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Phili3pines consists of some 7,000 islands with a land area
of about 300,000 km (roughly the same size as Italy). Luzon, on which
Manila is situated, and Mindanao are the two largest islands, making up
about 70% of the land area. They also account for about three-quarters
of the 39 million population. The annual population growth rate, 3% during
1960-70, is one of the highest in the world.
2.02      Agriculture, the basis of the economy, generates about 32% of the
Net Domestic Product (NDP), accounts for about 70% of export earnings
(coconut, forestry products and sugar), and employs about 48% of the labor
force. About 33% of the land area is cultivated (primarily rice and corn)
and about 48% is commercial forest. Manufacturing accounts for about 21%
of the NDP, considerably more than in Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia.
The Philippines has abundant natural resources, with particular potential
for tropical agriculture, forestry and mineral development (copper, gold,
iron, chrome and nickel).
B. The Transport Sector (Map 11009)
2.03      Ports and shipping have, in the past, played a dominant role in
the transport sector of the Philippines and continue to provide an essential
means of transport and communication between the islands of the archipelago.
In recent years, however, an expanding network of highways, particularly
on Luzon, has provided access to the interiors of the larger islands, and
road transport has played an increasingly important role. The relatively
short inland distances have limited railways to a small fraction of the total
traffic.
2.04      Difficult terrain, heavy rainfall and unfavorable soil conditions
have been natural obstacles to the provision of transport infrastructure
but lack of funds and poor planning and organization have compounded the
problem. The lack of finances has made it impossible to maintain or
improve transport facilities to an adequate level. Since the imposition
of martial law in 1972, there has been a notable increase in the amount
of funds made available for infrastructure investment and maintenance.
2.05      The highway network consists of about 16,000 km of paved roads,
38,000 km of gravel, and 20,000 km of unimproved roads. The highways of
Luzon and Mindanao comprise three-quarters of the entire system, most of
the rest being on the main islands of the Visayas. The condition of the
road system is generally poor, with even the national primary and secondary
roads in a deteriorated condition, because of inadequate maintenance.



-3-
2.06      The Government-owned Philippine National Railways (PNR), has about
1,000 km of main line and 1,000 km of branch lines on the island of Luzon.
About 760 km of PNR's track was relaid during the 1960's with the aid of
Japanese reparations. The remainder is in very poor condition. Management
of the railway has been weak, maintenance of facilities inadequate and opera-
tions inefficient and unprofitable. The main line is paralleled by highways
for most of its length and it is difficult to visualize the railway ever
being competitive with trucks and buses without Government subsidy. However,
since PNR is an important employer, it would be difficult for the Government
to close it down, and the Government's present objective is to improve its
operations to the point where it is covering all cash costs. In FY 1974 PNR
expects an operating surplus as a result of increased traffic, an increase
in tariffs and improved cost control.
2.07      Manila, the only international airport in the Philippines, is
served by 15 major international airlines, as well as by the Philippine
Air Lines (PAL), which has both international and domestic services. An
extensive network of domestic airports is served by PAL. Domestic passenger
traffic has been increasing at about 17% per annum with PAL carrying more
than two-thirds of the traffic up to the end of 1973, when the two other
major domestic airlines were taken over by PAL. Despite the high traffic
growth, PAL has encountered increasing financial difficulties over the last
two years, partly because of an ambitious expansion program.
2.08      There are some 90 national and 390 municipal ports throughout the
Philippine archipelago, plus numerous private piers and wharves. Most of
the public ports are small and the Government envisages the gradual
elimination of the less economic ports from the national system. This will
be achieved through the concentration of investment at selected locations,
a process which should yield economies of scale. Most of the public ports
are poorly maintained and have not been designed for modern cargo-handling
techniques. Sheds are often lacking, although private warehouses are
usually available nearby. Cargo-handling is generally in the hands of
private companies, and many ports lack equipment. Manila, much the largest
port, accounts for about 70% of all imports and 5% of all exports. Private
port facilities handle most of the dry cargo exports and oil imports and by
comparison with the public ports are modern and efficient.
2.09      The Phllippine merchant fleet totalled approximately 1.6 million
gross registered tons (GRT) in 1971. This includes 130 ocean-going vessels
totalling 830,000 GRT and 130 inter-island vessels of over 1,000 GRT
totalling about 280,000 GRT, the remainder being craft of under 1,000 GRT
each. About 65% of the inter-island fleet and 41% of the ocean-going
fleet were 20 or more years old in 1971. Some vessels are poorly maintained,
built to obsolete standards and ill-suited to modern cargo-handling methods
and the safety record is poor. In 1968, seven new cargo/passenger vessels,
of 7,000 deadweight tons each, were bought with aid from the Federal German
Republic for inter-island services. More recently, a few tankers and cargo
vessels have been acquired through private financing.



-4-
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.10      As a result of the continuing Government reorganization, transport
planning will in future be the joint responsibility of the National Economic
and Development Authority (NEDA), and other agencies such as the Department
of Public Works, Transportation and Communications (DPWTC), the Department
of Public Highways (DPH), the proposed Philippine Port Authority (PPA) and
the Maritime Industry Authority (MIA). Each agency will have a Planning
Service responsible for transport planning within their respective jurisdic-
tions. The Philippine National Railways (PNR) is responsible for planning
railways development. Exclusion of the highways, railways, ports and
,hipping from the jurisdiction of the DPWTC militates against effectiveness
of the latter as an instrument of overall transport coordination, which is
now left to NEDA. NEDA is, however, setting up an information/monitoring
system where transport planning agencies will be informed of their respec-
tive functions and where transport data will be centralized.
2.11      Rates and Fares for inter-island shipping are set by the Board
of Transportation (Annex 1) in accordance with policies prescribed by the
MIA. MIA has been given regulatory powers in respect of the growth of the
naritime industry.  The main objective in exercising these powers is to
rcvide better coordination, rather than increased control, of the develop-
men: of the maritime sector, conducive to improved efficiency and economic
growth within that sector. The Bank supports this objective. The present
regulatory functions for shipping will continue with the Philippine Coast
Guard (PCG) with the assistance of MIA particularly in the classification
and inspection of vessels.
2. +'     The Government's four-year public infrastructure program for
highways ant ports (1974-77) calls for a very substantial increase in
public investment, and a large number of transportation projects have been
identified. This emphasizes the importance of the role of the Planning
services of the various Government agencies in establishing priorities
amongst competing projects under the coordination of NEDA, since the
Government will not be able to implement all the proposed projects within
this period. DPWTC is already receiving technical assistance, financed by
the UINDP, in its physical planning studies. In addition, to make its
studies meaningful, a general improvement in the quality of basic data is
required. Steps have already been taken to improve highway project planning
and implementation capabilities. A similar improvement in the field of
ports is essential and during negotiations for the second port loan the
Government agreed to strengthen, before the end of 1974, the Port Programm-
ing and Planning Branch of the Bureau of Public Works (BPW) with a view to
organizing the collection of statistics and improving the preparation of
projects for all National Ports. The MIA will collect data for shipping
consistent with the port data to be collected. A Philippine Ports Authority
~s in process of being established with responsibility for developing a
national policy for ports and with general jurisdiction and control over all
port districts; it will become fully operational by January 1976.



III. ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
A. Overall Government Coordinating Agencies
3.01      NEDA is supported by the Board of Investments (BOI) which is now
attached to the Department of Industry in coordinating investments and
development plans, including export promotion, within the private and the mari-
time sectors. Insofar as the project is concerned, NEDA and BOI will be
assisted in planning and coordination by the MIA (para 3.05).
3.02      NEDA is the overall coordinator of national policies on fiscal,
budgetary, monetary, credit, tariff, investment, price, production, manpower
and trade matters. It provides policies which serve as the broad framework
for the investment and financial policies, plans and programs of Government
financial institutions and corporations attached to the Authority. NEDA also
reviews the Investment Priorities Plan (IPP) and the Export Priorities Plan
(EPP) prepared each year by BOI.
3.03      The BOI was formed in 1967, to administer the Investment Incentives
Act. This act affects investments in manufacturing, agro-industries and
mining, but not service industries including transportation. About one-half
of total industrial investment has gone into projects registered with BOI.
BOI attempts to determine needs for additional capacity to meet domestic
and/or export demands. It approves projects in harmony with the IPP and
EPP and discourages investment in overcrowded industries by refusing incentives.
Its project evaluation usually contains a comprehensive economic analysis
including the calculation of the economic rate of return and is of high
quality. The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) does not consider
any projects and loan applications which have not been registered with BOI.
B. Maritime Industry Authority (MIA)
3.04      The Government has recognized the urgent need for coordination of
maritime industry development and supervision, which was hitherto allocated
among many Departments and other organizations. In order to accomplish the
required restructuring of responsibilities, a Maritime Industry Decree (Annex
2), the general content of which is acceptable to the Bank, has been promul-
gated.
3.05      The Decree provides for a MIA having jurisdiction over the develop-
ment of shipping, shipbuilding and repair, stevedoring and freight forwarding,
and with general coordination functions regarding marine training. The
Board of MIA is charged inter alia, with providing policy guidance for the
promotion and development of maritime industry; prescribing promotional
development rules and standards for the effective regulation of shipping
enterprises; setting policies for freight and passenger rate regulation to
be followed by the Board of Transportation in its rate-fixing function.



-6-
3.06      The MIA is charged with responsibilities in both planning and
operations. It will prepare a ten-year Maritime Industry Development Pro-
gram, for approval by the President within two years of its inception, and
the Bank will assist in the preparation of the initial Program. Considera-
tion will be given to the introduction of standardization to the extent
possible. The Program, which will be updated annually by MIA by forecasting
demand and the capital needs of the industry and by proposing appropriate
patterns of shipping operations and solutions to shipping problems, will
provide the basis for a more rational and coordinated approach to the mari-
time sector.
3.07      In operations, the MIA will be responsible for the issuance of Cer-
tificate of Philippine Registry for all vessels being used in Philippine
waters, including fishing vessels; conducting continuing research and develop-
mental programs on the expansion and modernization of the merchant fleet and
supporting facilities; undertaking studies to determine present and future
requirements for port development including navigational aids; implementing
the rules and regulations issued by the Board of Transportation with respect
to maritime shipping; and the inspection of the safety of stevedoring equip-
ment. In addition, MIA will coordinate marine training; recommend measures
to regulate the importation and exportation of vessels, their equipment,
and spare parts; assist the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) in the classification
and inspection of vessels; assist in settling labor disputes; prescribe and
enforce anti-pollution regulations and a data collection system for the
shipping sector which will be consistent with that of other parts of the
maritime sector.  These powers, together with the planning functions of MIA,
are adequate to ensure a rational development of the maritime sector.
3.08      Organizational changes will be made transferring certain powers
and functions of the Department of Trade and Bureau of Transportation to MIA.
These relate, inter alia, to freight studies and supervision of shipping.
The PCG will retain its present functions relative to maritime matters with
the provision that within two years of the issuance of the Decree the President
may transfer the regulatory functions of the PCG to the MIA (paras 3.17 to
3.19).
3.09      MIA's operational division, which will be set up within four months
of the promulgation of the Decree, will become the nucleus for promoting
the development of the Maritime Industry. After a transitional period MIA
will become the focal point of the ship inspection service. During this
period the training of ship surveyors will take place within the PCG, while
MIA will be the recipient of the technical assistance proposed for improving
ship inspection in the Philippines. This technical assistance and training
is based on recommendations contained in the report of an expert provided
by the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO) under
UNDP finance. The report included the preparation of a 17-volume revision
of Philippine Merchant Marine Rules and Regulations and a strong recommenda-
tion for the creation of a civilian ship inspection service. It also set
out the technical assistance and training program required, an outline of
which is given in Annex 3.



- 7 -
C. Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
3.10      A detailed report on the institutional aspects, resources,
operations and financial position of DBP is contained in the Bank's
Appraisal Report No. 424a-PH of May 5, 1974. During negotiations for an
Industrial Loan of US$50.0 million, the Bank and DBP reviewed DBP's plans
and progress in strengthening the staff of the Industrial Projects Department
and the steps by which the Bank will assist in strengthening DBP's existing
audit system (para 4.16). The Bank and DBP also reviewed and agreed upon
operating Policies and Procedures for industrial financing which were
approved by DBPs Board of Governors on May 29, 1974 (Annex 4).
3.11      DBP is by far the largest development bank in the Philippines.
DBP's total financing to date amounted to Ps 14.3 billion (US$2.1 billion)
for 260,000 clients and accounted for about 10% of total investment in the
Philippines; its industrial financing, for about 20% of total industrial
investment. It is proposed that DBP be the recipient of Bank loans for use
in the industrial sector. In appraising DBP the Bank has found that DBP
has some organizational problems but its overall technical capability and
in particular that of its industrial department is adequate.
3.12      DBP has lived through a recent period of difficult times in which
many of its guarantees were called and in which many borrowers defaulted
partly as a result of sharp exchange rate changes. The effects of this
period are being overcome through tighter control by the Central Bank of
the terms on which private suppliers' credits are incurred and by the
financial reorganization of the companies concerned.
3.13      In preparation for increased lending in shipping required to
improve the sector, DBP has formed a Maritime Section as part of a general
reorganization of its industrial lending activities. Industrial loans are
now handled by three Departments - I for large industrial loans, II for
small loans, and III for public utilities including shipping. The Maritime
Section in Industrial Department III will have a staff of 21 including a
marine engineer and a naval architect, 5 financial analysts, 5 technical
analysts and other support personnel. The staff is generally of good quality
and experience. Three of the technical staff have received on-the-job
training in the United Kingdom at shipyards and banks.
3.14      At December 31, 1973 the Maritime Section had a shipping portfolio
totalling some Ps 150.0 million consisting of 14 loans totalling Ps 83.0 mil-
lion and six guarantees totalling Ps 67.0 million. Nine loans and five
guarantees had been in arrears (principal and interest) for more than one
year; this reflects both a past weakness in DBP's appraisal and supervision
standards and the effects of the revaluation of the Deutsch Mark, the
currency of denomination for several large loans. The portfolio has been
reviewed and legal action taken for recovery in two cases where the vessels
financed have sunk. Two other loans have been rescheduled.



- 8 -
3.15      DBP is prohibited by law from lending proceeds of loans from
international institutions to corporations which are in arrears for more
than three payments. This prohibition increases the financial pressure
on companies in arrears and should lead to improvements in the organization,
operation and capital structure of the shipping industry. As a result of
the reorganization of the Industrial Department, DBP will now take sustained
action to insure not only the repayment of loans but also the realization
of projects' expected contribution to the national economy. It will exercise
much closer control and supervision of projects.
3.16      While DBP's loan appraisal and supervision techniques are adequate,
some assistance will be required for maritime lending operations. Technical
assistance consisting of a maritime finance expert and a maritime technical
expert, each for two years to act as advisers to the manager of Industrial
Department III, will be secured by DBP.  Terms of reference for these experts
have been agreed between the Bank and DBP (Annex 5). It also appears desirable
to secure modest advisory services in Admiralty law for DBP. This technical
assistance would consist of a retainer fee for an Admiralty lawyer for about
12 months plus the cost of a library.
D. The Philippine Coast Guard
3.17      The Coast Guard, staffed by officers and men of the Navy, is
responsible for navigational aids; police functions in Philippine waters;
the approval of construction, repair, and conversion plans; ship inspection;
registration, documentation, and certification of ships; and operating
procedures of vessels, their equipment and appliances. It also investigates
marine casualties and accidents. It registers and licenses marine officers,
pilots, and seamen and supervises and controls nautical schools.
3.18      While the functions and powers relative to maritime affairs are
retained by the PCG, the MIA decree provides that MIA will assist the PCG
in the performance of its functions especially in the classification and
inspection of vessels. It also provides for coordination between the
PCG and the MIA in supervising and regulating operations of water transport
utilities.
3.19      Complementary to the above provisions (para 3.18), a Memorandum
of Agreement has been signed by the PCG and the MIA (Annex 2a), reinforced
by a Presidential Letter of Instruction (Annex 2b) to PCG, setting forth the
requirements for providing ship inspection services and providing for adop-
tion of the revised Merchant Marine Rules and Regulations referred to in
para 3.09 by June 1, 1975. The physical work of ship inspection will be
carried out under the overall supervision of the marine surveyors secured
under the technical assistance and training program outlined in Annex 3.
These arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank and an early improvement in
the quality of inspection is anticipated, particularly in connection with
repairs and the issuing of certificates of seaworthiness for old ships.



- 9 -
E. The Shipowners of the Inter-Island Fleet
3.20      The Philippines inter-island fleet is entirely privately owned.
Government records are inadequate with respect to the number, type, size,
and condition of the fleet. Most of the records were destroyed by fire in
1971. An attempt is currently being made to reconstruct these records.
From an extension of 1971 data, it appears that the 1973 fleet totalled
about 1.6 million GRT, of which 0.4 million GRT represented the inter-
island fleet.
3.21      The inter-island fleet seems to consist of about 430 ships of
which about 70% by number and 30% by gross tonnage are ships of under 1,000
GRT. About two-thirds of the ships are over 20 years old, with one-fifth
over 30 years old. Most of this latter group consists of wartime-built
ships. These are now badly deteriorated and most are unseaworthy and in
dangerous condition. Following several recent serious accidents involving
loss of life, the Government has ordered the removal from the fleet within
the next four years of all ships over 30 years of age.
3.22      The Conference of Inter-Island Shipowners and Operators (CISO)
consists of 18 companies which together own about one-third of the gross
tonnage thought to be in the inter-island fleet. Fifteen of these companies
were questioned and/or interviewed by the mission to discover their investment
plans. This group alone had plans to acquire over US$50.0 million equivalent
of ships within two years (Annex 6). Much of the demand is likely to be
realized because the larger of the companies appear to be creditworthy or will
become so through financial reorganization. All of the CISO members have
some old, small ships requiring replacement. Limited data exist about the
small companies based in and outside of Cebu and Manila which own and operate
ships. Two of these are, however, current borrowers from DBP and appear to
be sound financially.
3.23      During the project identification stage, many companies were
questioned about their ability to provide the increased equity required
to support acquisition of new ships. In most cases the answers were
positive. In addition, the managerial abilities and the financial expertise
of many companies appeared to be adequate for administering the expansion or
changes planned. For the balance of companies, DBP has a well developed
program of financial advice and managerial training to assist its borrowers.
3.24      Among the ships likely to be acquired are used and new passenger
and cargo ships, roll-on/roll-off ships to serve trunk routes, and high-
speed smaller ships for secondary routes. Such acquisitions, because they
will introduce modern equipment with lower operating costs and provide effi-
cient and reliable service, will be encouraged by DBP in its development role.
There may be other innovative and cost effective projects involving larger
specialized vessels which DBP will also attempt to finance such as side port
loading for palletized cargo and container ships.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a) the acquisition, conversion and major repair of vessels
of the inter-island fleet, with emphasis on replacement
of ships over 20 years of age and the major repair of
ships of up to 16 years of age;
(b) the provision of technical assistance to DBP and MIA; and
(c) the formulation of a maritime industry development program
(para 3.06).
The Project will be implemented by DBP and MIA, with assistance from the PCG.
4.02      The Bank will make available up to US$20.0 million equivalent in
foreign exchange for the acquisition, conversion and major repair of inter-
island ships through a loan to the Government. The Government will relend
the loan proceeds to DBP which will, in turn, relend the funds to shipowners
on terms detailed in para 4.14. The Government has confirmed that shipowners
will be able to obtain any additional foreign exchange required for their
contribution.
4.03      The United Kingdom has given an undertaking that it will provide
the required funds for technical assistance to DBP's Maritime Section under
the Colombo Plan. The advisers to be selected will be approved by the
Bank and it is expected that recruitment will have been completed by
December 31, 1974.
4.04      The Government may request the technical assistance and
training involved in improving the marine inspection services from
bilateral sources using a recognized international ship classification
society. Terms of reference for the marine surveyor experts are to be
prepared and agreed with the Bank. The Government has agreed to secure the
required technical assistance by December 31, 1974.
4.05      Funds to cover the required technical assistance outlined in
paragraphs 4.03 and 4.04 have been included in the loan on a contingent
basis. In the event that bilateral aid is forthcoming, these funds will be
reallocated or cancelled if not required.
B. Demand for Funds
4.06      As of December 31, 1973, DBP had pending shipping loan applications
amounting to about US$5.0 million equivalent. During appraisal the mission



made a survey to assess the likely demand for DBP loans, covering companies
owning about one-third of the estimated gross tonnage in the inter-island
fleet. This survey indicated that over US$45.0 million equivalent is likely
to be invested in purchasing vessels (Annex 6).
4.07      Although it is not possible to be precise, the cost of project
components, including shipowners' equity assumed to be about US$13.6 million
equivalent, is estimated to be as follows:
Pesos Million            US$ Million
Local   Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign  Total
New and Used Ships               5.4    198.6   204.0    0.8       29.2    30.0
Major Repairs and Conversions  8.2        12.2    20.4    1.2       1.8      3.0
Technical Assistance             0.7      4.7      5.4    0.1       0.7      0.8
Training                         0.7       1.3     2.0    0.1       0.2      0.3
Total           15.0    216.8   231.8    2.2       31.9    34.1
The Bank would finance US$20 million or just under 60% of the cost of the
shipping project (see Annex 7).
C. Procurement
4.08      It is anticipated that a wide variety of sizes and types of new
and used ships will be procured mainly from Japan and Europe. Bids for
new ships shall be invited on the basis of international competitive bidding,
against owners' outline specifications which will have been approved by
DBP's Maritime Section. Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent
with those set forth in the Bank Guidelines. For ships built in the Philipp-
ines, evaluation of bids will include a domestic preference of 15% or the
amount of import duties, whichever is lower. Contracts for used ships shall
be awarded after DBP has secured quotations for ships of an appropriate size
and type from international shipbrokers, account being taken of the price
delivery times, the cost of having such ships classified by an international
classification society and ocher relevant factors. In deciding whether
to purchase a new or a used ship, the shipowner will employ appropriate
investment appraisal techniques with assistance from DBP's maritime advisers.
4.09      The specialized nature of ship repairs and small ship conversions,
the small number of parts to be secured from specific manufacturers at any
one time, and the limited size of repairs - say a maximum of about
US$200,000 equivalent as against a small ship replacement value of about
US$1.2 million - would make international competitive bidding procedures
impracticable for repairs and conversions. Contracts for repairs and
conversions shall, however, be awarded in accordance with regular commercial
practice, and, where applicable, a domestic preference of 15% or the amount
of import duties, whichever is lower, will be used in bid evaluation.



- 12 -
Repairs and conversions will be carried out according to the technical
standards of an international classification society. Materials for ship
repairs and conversions will be procured from local commercial sources where
international suppliers are widely represented. Repairs and conversions are
unlikely to be undertaken abroad in view of the competitive position of
Philippine shipyards. A review of procurement and technical standards will
be undertaken by DBP's Maritime Section prior to disbursement in order to
ensure that costs are competitive and that appropriate procedures have been
followed.
D. Disbursement
4.10      The Bank will reimburse DBP as follows:  (i) 100% of the sub loans
for new ships (80% of the procurement cost); (ii) 100% of the sub loans for
used ships (50% to 60% of the procurement cost, depending on age); and (iii)
75% of the suo loans for major repairs or conversions (60% of the cost, repre-
senting the estimated foreign exchange cost in an average domestic repair or
conversion). Disbursement will be made against appropriate documentation
indicating that DBP has fully disbursed its loan or that payment for work
done was due under contract terms. DBP may require a shipowner to make
payment out of his own funds prior to DBP's disbursement. For consultants'
services, disbursement will be on the basis of the actual foreign exchange
cost. It is estimated that DBP will commit the Bank's loan within two years
and that it will be fully disbursed within four years.
E.  Pject Execution
DBP Lending Terms
4.11      DBP's lending criteria for loans for inter-island ships will be based
upon:
(a) operating Policies and Procedures for Industrial
Financing agreed upon by the Bank and DBP (Annex 4);
(b) an adequate survey of the vessel to be acquired,
converted, or repaired;
(c)  a study and appraisal of specifications for new
ships; and
(d) the acquisition, conversion and major repairs
mainly of ships of about 1,000 GRT and under,
and the setting of technical standards for ships
to be acquired or repaired.



- 13 -
4.12      With the technical assistance proposed, DBP's Maritime Section
would be capable of adequately appraising loan applications. Nevertheless,
the first 10 shipping loans will be subject to Bank approval prior to
disbursement. Subsequently, on the basis of this experience a free limit
will be agreed upon by the Bank and DBP. All project appraisals will be
sent to the Bank for information or approval and for disbursement, and will
contain certain other data of interest to the Bank.
4.13      Vessel surveys will be undertaken prior to lending for the acqui-
sition of used ships or for repairs and conversions. They will be carried
out by DBP's staff, by a classification society, or by such other competent
marine surveyor as DBP may approve. DBP will require evidence of the satis-
factory completion of repairs or the registration of ships in the Philippines
prior to releasing funds, although contract progress payments may be made
according to normal commercial banking practice. DBP security will include,
among other things, a first mortgage on the ship and such other security as
DBP may require to obtain 130% coverage for its loans including the right to
attach the ship's revenues and to manage it, if necessary. Adequate insurance
of the ship or of a company's fleet will be required in order to secure DBP's
position. Ships will be classified by a recognized classification society.
DBP loan conditions provide for representation by two regular directors on any
borrower's board and, where necessary, the appointment of a controller.
4.14      DBP's lending terms will extend up to 16 years, with two years'
grace, for new ships and from eight to twelve years for used ships, includ-
ing six months grace. For conversions and major repairs, loans will be
available for up to five years with one year's grace. DBP will lend to
shipowners at 12%, the maximum legal rate for such loans in the Philippines;
this rate and spread of 4% are similar to those negotiated for the Bank's
US$50.0 million industrial loan. As agreed between the Government and the
Bank, the foreign exchange risk on the currency of procurement will be borne
by the shipowner, while the risk on the currencies of obligation will be
borne by the Government.
4.15      DBP's lending will conform to the policies set by MIA for the
maritime sector and an understanding was reached between the Bank and DBP
dealing with this and other criteria (para 4.11).
Audit
4.16      The Philippines Government's auditing system, which includes DBP's
auditing Department, is in the process of being reformed. The Bank has
discussed and agreed with DBP specific steps for improving DBP's audit, par-
ticularly with regard to a detailed examination of DBP's portfolio and
including the assistance of an auditing expert and staff training. In respect
of the proposed shipping loan, DBP will furnish the Bank within a specified
time all information that the latter reasonably requests concerning the
operations and transactions of the Maritime Section of the Industrial Depart-
ment III.



- 14 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The evaluation of the economic feasibility of the project
involves a two-fold assessment of its impact on the economy. The first,
a macro-economic one, takes into account overall national needs and develop-
ment programs; the second, the internal economics of inter-island shipping.
The evaluation in this appraisal is mainly assessed on the latter.
5.02      The project has several specific features which have implications
for the economic evaluation and make it different from most public sector
transport projects. The most important of them are: (i) the project does
not represent a single, lumpy investment in creation or improvement of a
single facility, but is composed of a number of sub-projects (individual
ships) which have similar general characteristics, although different in
special features; (ii) investments in ships do not represent assets, which
once created, are fixed in place like infrastructure investments; ships
can be sold on the market and can be put into alternative use; (iii) the use
of ships is not tied to specific infrastructure facilities except at terminal
points; so there is complete freedom of route selection and congestion problems
are not experienced except again at terminal points; and (iv) alternative
modes do not exist, as for most of land transport, to fulfill inter-island
transport demand except for some high unit- and time-value transport where
air transport facilities are available. The implications of these features
will be outlined in subsequent paragraphs.
B. National Economic Development and Inter-Island Transport
5.03      Regional dispersal tendencies resulting from overall population
and economic growth, combined with specific agricultural and industrial
development, generated fairly rapid growth in inter-island transport in recent
years. These trends may be summarized as follows:
(a) Luzon, and particularly Manila, has become a deficit area
of domestically consumed agricultural products and other
primary commodities due to a rapid increase in population,
unfavorable physiographic conditions (typhoon-prone area)
and limited availability of undeveloped land areas.
(b) Similar circumstances prevail in the most developed
and densely populated islands in the central Philippines,
particularly in Cebu.



- 15 -
(c) These deficits have increasingly been supplied from
Mindanao, which has large agricultural and forestry
surplus potentials due to lower population densities,
more favorable physiographic conditions and large tracts
of undeveloped land.
(d) A reverse flow of manufactured products is taking place
particularly from the Manila area, which has dominated
industrial production in the Philippines because of
availability of capital and skilled labor and proximity
to the most important local market with considerably
higher than average per capita incomes.
5.04      As a result, the inter-island traffic, which at the beginning
of 1960's was estimated at about 2 million tons of cargo and some 1.5 million
passengers, had by 1972 increased to some 3.5 1/ million tons of freight
and the same number of passengers, indicating an average annual increase
of about 5% for freight and about 7.5% for passenger traffic. Although
these estimates are subject to a considerable margin of uncertainty, they
indicate a substantial growth particularly in passenger traffic, with
Manila and Cebu as the main inter-island ports handling together about
30% of both the freight and passenger traffic. Indicative of the
deficits in these two centers and their immediate influence areas is
that in 1972 about 1.85 million tons were discharged in these two ports,
while only 1.05 million tons were loaded. Further details on the inter-
island traffic are provided in Annex 1.
5.05      No significant changes are expected in these development trends
in future; in fact, it may be expected that the imbalance in trade flows
will continue to increase. The reason for this is that Mindanao will,
with its vast potentials, continue to be the major agriculture and forestry
development area in accordance with the Government's regional development
policies and thus continue to act as a source of supply to the major urban
and other deficit areas, while Manila will decrease in importance as a
supplier of manufactured products (para 5.06). The deficits are expected
to increase due to population growth and the limited agricultural development
potentials close to these centers. The economic growth of Mindanao is
expected to be about 7 to 8% p.a. over the next ten years, somewhat above
the national average (para 2.02).
5.06      Government regional development policies imply a gradual dis-
persion of the concentration of the industries from the Manila area. This
policy is consistent with the attempts to promote and diversify economic
growth of the outer islands. Such development is already taking place
at present in the outer islands, mainly based on locally produced raw
materials from agricultural and forestry activities with the expectation of
a gradually increasing processing level and product variety. This will result
1/   Estimated base on total in- and outward port traffic volumes divided
by two.



- 16 -
in a decreased dependency on Manila as a source of supply of manufactured
products and it will also decrease, in relative terms, the outflow of goods
from Manila. Passenger traffic is expected to show a similar growth trend
as in the past, due to increased urbanization and transmigration and higher
income levels with continued strong contacts with the "home provinces"
typical for the Philippines. As a result, passenger traffic will gradually
increase its relative importance measured in the number of passengers
compared with tons of freight. This development is indicated on the major
routes, where the shipping companies have gradually been replacing their
fleets from basically freighter type vessels to combined cargo-passenger
carriers.
5.07      Expected future annual growth rates of inter-island freight and
passenger traffic of 5% and 7.5% respectively would imply some 5.25 million
tons of freight and 6.25 million passengers by 1980 implying some 2.5 bil-
lion ton-km and 3.0 billion pass-km with an average transport distance of
about 250 nautical miles (almost 500 km). According to information given
by the shipping companies, the growth rates have been considerably higher
during the past two years than those above, but these are believed to be only
temporary and the result of the recent improvement in the internal conditions
Ln the country.
,.ns      As outlined above, inter-island shipping is of essential importance
.cr the continued overall economic development in the Philippines. It is
difficult, if not impossible, in the absence of an alternative mode of
transport to estimate the detrimental effect on the national economy of not
improving the inter-island shipping. It would result not only in lost value
added from inability to transport considerable volumes of domestic production
but also in a gradual disintegration and stagnation of the national economy.
C. Economics of Inter-Island Shipping
.09       Because of the nature of the project, the economic return on
the project investment can be established more firmly only after all requests
for sub-loans have been evaluated and those with the highest economic and
financial returns have been selected by the DBP and the Bank and the loan
has been fully committed. This will involve a period of about two years,
while the final assessment will require an additional period of actual
operation. Therefore, the results of the economic evaluation undertaken
as part of this appraisal represent only indicative estimates of the eco-
nomies which can be obtained through a gradual modernization of inter-island
shipping in the Philippines. The results are, however, representative for
the project, because the evaluation has been based on actual ship acquisition
plans submitted to the DBP by the shipowners and because the cost and opera-
tional data used in the evaluation are based on actual operations.



- 17 -
5.10      An economic evaluation has been undertaken for two typical cases:
(1) introduction of a 5,000 GRT, modern, although second-hand,
roll-on-roll-off (ro-ro) type vessel on the main inter-island
shipping route Manila-Cebu replacing a number of con-
ventional passenger/cargo vessels, which in turn will
replace a number of old FS-type 1/ vessels on some of the
secondary (feeder) routes. It is assumed that the FS-type
vessels, which are about 30 years old will be scrapped; and
(2) scrapping and replacement of a number of FS-type vessels
with newer conventional type passenger/cargo vessels on
secondary routes only, while the operations on the main
route Manila-Cebu remain essentially unchanged.
5.11      Both cases involve a substantial improvement in the inter-island
shipping operations and enable a simultaneous scrapping of old and less
suitable vessels of which many have for years represented a serious safety
hazard with yearly fatal accidents taking place. However, case 1, the
introduction of a ro-ro vessel, represents a far more advanced technology
than case 2, which is more typical of the current practice in the Philippines.
The ro-ro case was chosen because (i) there exist sufficient passenger
and freight volumes on the Manila-Cebu route to make the operation of such
a vessel a financially and economically viable project; (ii) some Philippine
shipowners already have plans for acquisition of such vessels, which are
readily available either second-hand or new; and (iii) they are at present
extensively used elsewhere, particularly in Europe, on the Baltic, the North
Sea and the Mediterranean. These ships require, however, fast turnaround
times in order to be economically viable. This means in practice a minimi-
zation of port times, because vessel cruising speeds can be increased only to
a limited extent and at high cost because of steeply increased fuel consumption.
.5.12      The results of the economic evaluation are presented in Annex 8.
The results indicate that the economic return for case 1, involving a initial
investment of Ps 30 million (US$4.5 million equivalent net of duties and
taxes), would be about 30% over a project life of 25 years. As indicated
above, the result is sensitive to the estimated port times of the ro-ro
vessel. These were assessed conservatively at about double those typical
for present European operations, but a further doubling of the port times
would still give an economic return of about 20%, which is highly satisfactory.
5.13      The economic rate of return for case 2, involving an initial
investment of Ps 20 million (US$3.0 million equivalent), has been estimated
at about 27%. A reduction in the operating efficiency of 20% for the
passenger/cargo vessels replacing the FS-type vessels would still give an
economic rate of return of about 21%, which is very satisfactory. The 20%
1/   The F. S. type is a World War II landing craft design converted for
cargo/passenger service on feeder and distribution routes to small
outlying ports.



- 18 -
reduction in operating efficiency implies a 35-40% increase in the assumed
port times.
5.14      One of the main reasons for the high economic returns is that
in both cases, it has been assumed that the ships were procured secondhand
at a substantially lower cost than corresponding new ships. This has, how-
ever, been considered to be economically and technically sound, because of
(i) the high cost of new ships; and (ii) the availability on the market of
a substantial number of second-hand ships less than 12 year old, which are
reliable in operation but no longer financially viable in their present area
of operation because of obsolesence (e.g. 5-10 year old ro-ro vessels, which
are being replaced by a newer generation of highly specialized vessels, either
for freight or high standard passenger travel.) If new ships were used, in-
stead of secondhand, there would not be any further substantial improvement
in operational efficiency under Philippine conditions. However, if new ships
were used, the economic return for the ahove two cases would be about 12%.
5.15      The economic cost (including capital costs) of carrying one
traffic unit (one passenger or freight ton) between Manila and Cebu
(390 nautical miles or 720 km) is estimated to be at present Ps 25.00
(US$3.70 equivalent). This cost would be reduced to about Ps 21.50 (US$3.20
equivalent), or by about 15%, by use of the modern ro-ro vessel. There would
be a similar percentage reduction on the secondary routes as a result of
replacing FS-type vessels with conventional passenger/cargo ships. These
reductions are minor in relative terms and are not expected to be passed on
to the traffic users in the short term. However, this is expected to be
accomplished in the longer term in the form of avoided increases in rates
and fares. Without replacements, increases would occur in the real cost
of ship operation because of obsolesence and increased repair requirements.
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Inter-Island Shipping Companies
6.01      The inter-island shipping companies are all privately owned,
mostly by family interests. The smaller companies and operators are
wholly in shipping while the larger companies are part of larger diversi-
fied family interests.
6.02      The most important companies in the inter-island fleet are
William Lines, Carlos A. Go-Thong, Sweet Lines, Aboitiz Shipping and
Cia Maritima, the last being the major line operating out of Manila.
Negros Navigation concentrates almost wholly on high-speed passenger
services in which trade Sweet Lines is also an important factor.



- 19 -
6.03      Management of the major shipping companies is of high quality
and all have sophisticated accounting systems, including detailed opera-
tional costs in voyage accounts and audited annual accounts. The control
of repair and maintenance costs is adequate which explains the continued
satisfactory operation of older ships in these companies.
b.04      Most shipping companies expressed dissatisfaction with the
existing procedures for granting freight rate increases, which are a
variant of the United States' system where tariff increases are referred
to the Interstate Commerce Commission. The basic tariff structure is
outdated and obsolete for many categories of traffic. The approach adopted
by the Government in establishing rate making policy in MIA and having
the Bureau of Transportation establish rates based on that policy, is favored
by shipowners.
B. Financial Position and Operating Costs
6.05      It has not been possible to undertake any extensive analysis of
financial data for the inter-island sector of the industry. However, it
was possible to obtain recent financial data for six major companies, which
are summarized in Table 1.
6.06      Apart from Cia Maritima, all the companies are in a sound financial
position and are able to meet their debt service requirements. Cia
Maritima's DBP loans are at present being reviewed for possible reschedul-
ing. Ships have been revalued at fair market value based on the prevailing
foreign exchange rate at December 31, 1972.
6.07      An analysis of operating costs of ships of various sizes and
ages has been made based on data supplied by two of the companies, which
operate fleets of 12 and 16 vessels respectivelv and which range from
modern cargo/passenger vessels to World War II FS type ships. This fleet
is representative of the various kinds of vessels operating in the Philippines
though the proportions differ from those in the fleet as a whole. These
figures provide a basis for assessing the economics of the ships and of their
replacement.
6.08      A breakdown of operating costs is given in Table 2 for ten
30-year-old vessels of 925 Dwt. The operating ratios reflect the high load
factors and range from 41% to 71%, despite the high cost of maintenance and
fuel oil.
65.09     These data indicate that substantial cash flows are being
generated from these operations and that shipowners, given the availability
of foreign exchange, will be able to replace these ships by larger, newer
vessels of about 1200 Dwt.



- 20 -
C. Effect of Investment in New Ships
6.10       With the demand for shipping space, new vessels with lower
operating costs can yield a return of 21% on the capital investment,
provide sufficient cash to meet loan amortization and give the shipowner
an adequate return on his equity as indicated below for a 1200 dwt vessel:
PS'000
Operating revenues                            6,381
Operating costs                               2,433
Depreciation                                    897
Overhead expenses                               121
Net operating profit                          2,930
Capital cost                                 17,950
Debt service requirement                      2,172
Operating ratio                                  51%
Return on capital                                21.2%
Return on equity (20%)                           46.1%
Assumptions
1.   Fuel costs have been estimated at January 1974 prices.
2.   Depreciation has been taken at 5%.
3.   Loan terms 16 years including 2 years' grace at 12%.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement has been reached on the following matters:
(a) preparation of a Maritime Industry Development Program
within two years of MIA's inception (para 3.06);
(b) technical assistance and a training program for the ship
inspection service will be available by December 31, 1974
(paras 3.09 and 4.04);
(c) measures for strengthening Industrial Projects staff
and audit system, as agreed for DBP's industrial loan,
(paras 3.10 and 4.16);
(d) technical assistance for DBP's Maritime Section wxvll be
se zured by December 31, 1974 (paras 3.16 and 4.03);
(e)  shipowners will be able to obtain the foreign exchange
required for their contribution (para 4.02);



- 21 -
(f) lending criteria for sub-loans for inter-island ships
(paras 4.11);
(g) first 10 loans to be approved by Bank and free limit
established thereafter (para 4.12); and
(h) loan proceeds to be relent to shipowners by DBP at
interest rates similar to those negotiated for DBP's
industrial loan (para 4.14).
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan to the Government
of US$20.0 million equivalent for a term of 18 years including a four-year
grace period.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Inter-Island Shipping and Traffic
A. General Characteristics
1.        Inter-island shipping in the Philippines is defined to consist
of freight and passenger transport which is undertaken by licensed, self-
propelled vessels operated to provide public transport on a commercial
basis comparable to operation of trucking and bus companies. This definition
does not exclude small, one vessel owner-operators, but the thousands
of small sailing and other privately owned vessels mainly engaged in
fishing and local transport are excluded. According to the Coast Guard, the
number of all kinds of registered, domestically operated vessels alone
was about 3,850 at the end of 1973, with an average tonnage of less than
50. On the other hand, the number of vessels licensed for commercial
operations was 434 (Appendix 1) or only about 11% of the number of those
registered. Even this definition is slightly too broad because many of
the licensed vessels are quite small - 40% less than 500 GRT (Appendix 1) -
and engaged in coast-wise and bay transport only.
2.        The main characteristic of the inter-island shipping industry
is that, unlike land transport, the operators are free to establish and/or
clhange their schedules and routes without prior authorization by a regula-
tory body; there is also a complete freedom of entry, because the commercial
license is not related to a particular operation and is issued to the ship,
not the owner or operator. Moreover, the operators are not obliged to
provide any information about their routes or traffic carried, which
creates additional difficulties in obtaining a reliable and accurate
picture of the industry. However, the larger inter-island shipping
companies, which carry the major part of the traffic, maintain fairly
regular published schedules. In addition, most of the traffic is carried
between a limited number of major regional centers. However, only limited
information is available on the origin and destination of traffic and estimated
traffic volumes are subject to considerable uncertainty. Therefore, one of
the main purposes of the project is to bring about a simultaneous improve-
ment in management, operation, planning and data collection of the shipping
industry. This institutional aspect is clearly important, although the
probable effects cannot be quantified.
1B.   Fleet
3.        Inter-island shipping is undertaken by some 65 companies, most
of them registered at Manila or Cebu, the latter being the main regional,
center for inter-island trade. The larger shipowners, who may control



ANNEX 1
Page 2
more than one company, have formed the Conference of Interisland Shipowners
and Operators (CISO). The following tabulation indicates the distribution
of the inter-island fleet between conference members and other operators
as of December 1973:
No. of Companies   No. of Ships   Tonnage, GRT
Conference                            17/                 98           132,000
- 7 largest members               (10) -2              (73)         (117,000)
- other                             (7)                (25)          (15,000)
Non-Conference operators             45/3                306           173,700
Total                                 63                 404           305,700
/1   Excluding one member with two inter-island oil tankers (8,600 GRT).
/2   Two members control more than one company.
/3   Excluding Luzon Stevedoring Corporation, which operates some
28 oil tankers with about 76,800 GRT.
4.        A considerable part of the fleet is relatively old, about 30%
eing more than 20 years old (Appendix 2).  This applies both to larger
ind small operators, although the larger ones have newer ships, while
Lhe small owner-operators generally own the oldest ones, in many cases
purchased from the larger companies. Most of the older ships are less
than 1,000 GRT in size and represent war-built, FS-type surplus vessels
obtained from the United States Government through the provisions of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1946. Many of these ships have been legthened to
provide additional cargo capacity and have been modified by extension
of superstructures in order to provide deck space and a few cabins for
passengers. As modified, the FS-vessels average about 750 GRT per vessel
and take up to 200 passengers and 400 tons of cargo. They have high-speed
engines, which require the more expensive HS diesel oil and provide a
speed of about 11 knots.
5.        The FS-type vessels represent the only large standardized group
of vessels; the others are of varying origin and type, ranging from war-
time landing craft to large, 6000 GRT combined passenger/cargo vessels.
The great majority of these vessels have been purchased second-hand abroad.
Only few large vessels have been imported new, while some smaller ones
have been built in the Philippines. Compared with most of the fleet,
the FS and other war-time vessels are more expensive to operate principally
because of (a) higher fuel consumption; (b) the higher-cost fuel required;
and (c) the relatively small space, even after modification, available for
cargo. These higher operating costs may however be compensated by lower
initial capital costs. The age distribution of the inter-island fleet
is shown in Appendix 3.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
C.   Operations
6.        There are 93 national and about 390 municipal ports in the
Philippines. Inter-island shipping of some significance, however, takes
place only between some 40 of them on a commercial and regular basis,
because all the municipal ports and 35 of the national ports are open
for coastwise and bay trade only, while another 15-20 national ports
authorized for inter-island shipping are of no importance because of
insignificant volumes of traffic.
7.        The 40 inter-island ports are served by the CISO-members on
a regular basis with about 60 scheduled routes. In addition, less regular
tramper services are mainly provided by. small, owner-operators, which
also serve a number of small municipal ports scattered over the whole
archieplago. About 10 of the 60 routes are of major inter-regional
importance; the main trunk route connects Manila with the main centres
on the Visayas (Cebu, Bacolod, Iloilo) and northern coast of Mindanao
(Cagayan de Oro, Butuan, Surigao). The other routes are either extensions
to this route (Zamboanga, Davao) or connected with Manila or one of the
other major centres along this route. Characteristic for the operations
of the routes is that, except for the Manila-Cebu-Mindanao trunk route,
the competition between the major companies is limited; several of them
operate a number of secondary routes independently and the companies
appear to be reluctant to engage in any "cut-throat" competition. They
maintain that the small traffic volumes and the low tariff level would
be damaging for the whole industry which operates on a narrow financial
return margin. This situation is expected to change gradually with lower
cost, nore efficient, ships being introduced.
D.   Operating Efficiency
8.        Compared with modern cargo liner operations the efficiency of
Philippines inter-island shipping is low, on average about 3,500 ton-km
per DW4T a year, which is about one third that achieved by an ocean-going
cargo-liner. The ratio per employee is even less favorable because of
the size of the crew. However, several adverse external factors contri-
bute to this low effiency level, wlhile the large crews, which have a
positive employment generating effect, are possible because of the rela-
tively low wages paid. The adverse external factors are: (i) the com-
paratively short distances between ports of call, which increases the
proportion of time spent in port; (ii) the port times are additionally
increased by excessive times spent at port, either waiting for berthing
space or at quay because of generally disorganized port operations; and
(iii) on minor routes, which connect small local ports, an additional
factor is the physical limitation of the ports, restricting the size
of ships. As a result of these factors, the time spent in port exceeds
the sailing times except for the main trunk route Manila-Cebu-Mindanao;
even on this route delays are frequent, particularly at the Mindanao
ports. The high share of port time is the most important single factor in
the reluctance of shipowners to acquire new, capital-intensive vessels,



ANNEX 1
Page 4
the use of which would further increase the proportionate share of port
times without a significant shortening in total operating times. Therefore,
taking into account the adverse operating conditions, the performance
of inter-island shipping is satisfactory with generally competent management
and crews. The load factors have also been high, from 70% to 95% during
the past two years reflecting a general upturn in the economic activity.
E.   Tariffs
9.        The inter-island rates and fares are based on a tariff pre-
scribed by the Public Service Commission in 1928. The tariff has not
been significantly revised or updated since then, except for a series
of across-the-board percentage increases, which on a cumulative basis
amount to 310% for freight and 180% for passenger traffic. The latest
increase was in November 1971 and amounted to 30% for both main traffic
categories 1/. The Board of Transport (BOT) is at present considering a
request for an additional increase of about 30% for freight and 25% for
passenger traffic, mainly because of increases in capital and fuel costs.
l'OT has plans to undertake a comprehensive review of the tariff, although
no date for completion of such review has been set. It has to be preceded
by studies on the economics of inter-island shipping to be undertaken by
MIA in connection with the preparation of the 10-year Maritime Industry
D)evelopment Program.
10.       The freight tariff is expressed as:  (i) specific point-to-point
rates for named routes; and (ii) class rates, other wise applicable,
related to a classification of commodities into four groups. When ship-
ments are transported between ports for which specific rates are not
published, the charges per manifest ton, weight or space, are calculated
on the following bases (as of 1973):
Distance Rate
Commodity            Basic Rate,            per naut. mile,          Increment
ClassLI               Pesos                   Centavos                %
A                      8.20                    4.1                  30
B                      6.15                    4.1                 30
C                      4.10                    3.1                  30
D                     24.60                    4.1                  30
/1   Class A:  e.g. beer, liquors, medicines, instruments textiles, imported
canned goods.
Class B: e.g. cardboard, cement, coconut oil, grains, machinery.
Class C: e.g. bananas, iron and steel products, sand, cane sugar.
Class D:  logs, timber and lumber only.
TFie previous increases were in 1946 (70%), 1950 (10%), 1961 (10% freight,
5% passengers), 1965 (18%, freight only) and 1969 (30%'0 freight, 10%
passengers).



ANNEX 1
Page 5
The above calculation bases result in freight rates equivalent to
USe0.7, 0.6, 0.4 and 1.1 per ton-km respectively for A, B, C and D classes
on a typical distance of 400 nautical miles (Manila-Cebu). The prescribed
freight rates cover only receipt and delivery of cargo at ship side.
The shipowners are allowed to charge at current prices for extra services
such as storage for more than five days, lighterage, insurance, overland
transportation, etc. In addition, the shipowners are authorized to
charge prescribed surcharges for transit cargo, heavy consignments and
storage up to five days. The present freight rates appear to be fairly
high if compared with ocean-going shipping, but reasonable in view
of the special operating features of inter-island shipping in the Philip-
pines; recent and expected cost increases may justify some of the requested
increases in freight rates (para 9).
11.       Passenger fares, related to first, second and third class ser-
vices are, as for freight, based on point-to-point fares for specific
main routes, while the fares between other points are calculated on the
following bases:
Distance,                   Rate, Centavos   Increment
Class               naut. miles                    per naut. mile         %
1                   0-100                             28.0             15
101-300                             25.2            15
Over 300                            22.4            15
2                 70% of first class fares
3                 40% of first class fares
The fares include the price of meals during voyage and correspond to US42.1,
1.5 and 0.8 per pass-km for first, second and third class passengers
respectively on a typical distance of 400 nautical miles. The present pas-
senger fares reflect the level of service provided, although recent increases
in fuel prices may require an upward adjustment as requested by the shipping
lines. Compared with freight rates, the passenger fares appear however
to give a slightly higher financial return. This applies in particular to
additional marginal traffic increase.
F.   Traffic
12.       The quality of the available inter-island traffic statistics is
unsatisfactory for planning purposes. One of the main reasons for this
deficiency is that no government agency has been given the responsibility
of planning and coordinating the development of the maritime industry,
including collection of basic data for this purpose. At present,
statistical information is collected by the Bureau of Customs, which
compiles data for each of the national ports on the basis of ship manifests.
The main purpose of these statistics is to provide a basis for collecting
a 2% tax on the gross receipts of public carriers. The statistics are,
however, inaccurate and do not provide information on the origin and



ANNEX 1
Page 6
destinations of the traffic.  Individual shipping companies are not obliged
to keep or provide detailed information about the traffic they carry or
about cost of their operations. Such information is however available
on special request; most of the companies responded very positively to
the appraisal mission questionnaires.
13.       Improvements in the statistical bases will in future take place
in two different areas, supplementing each other:
(a)  On the Government side, the recently established Maritime
Industry Authority (MIA), (para 3.04), will be the sole
agency responsible for planning and coordinating the deve-
lopment within the maritime sector. In respect to collec-
tion and analysis of maritime traffic data, MIA will work
closely together with the Philippine Ports Authority
(PPA) to be established shortly (para 2.12). The Port
Programming and Planning Branch of Bureau of Public Works
(BPW), which is responsible for port planning until establish-
ment of the PPA, is being strengthened and is collecting
statistical data on shipping and ports on a mutually accept-
able basis.
(b)  On the maritime industry side, the shipping companies
seeking loans from DBP are already at present obliged
to provide fairly extensive information about their
present operations and future plans. With development
of appraisal techniques under the technical assistance
to be provided to DBP (paras 4.03 and 4.14), it is
expected that this information will be further
developed to include data on origins and destinations
by type and volume of traffic, supplemented by inform-
ation on sailing and port times.  This information
may be used, in addition to evaluation of loan
apolications, to cross-check the data collected
by MIA and PPA.
14.       According to the Bureau of Customs, the total inter-island
traffic (inbound and outbound) amounted to about 7 million tons of freight
anid the same number of passengers. The actual volumes were, however,
only one half, because the traffic was recorded both at port of loading
ancl unloading. Compared with 2 million tons of freight and 1-1/2 million
passengers in the begining of 1960's, the above volumes imply an annual
compounded growth rate of 5% for freight and 7-1/2% for passengers.
These growth rates are expected to be maintained in future because of
continued expansion of inter-island trade (para 5.07). These estimates
are to be considered conservative, because the development of iiindanao
and other outer islands may take place at a more rapid rate than the
Dast trend indicates. This has been the case during the past two years
,-ut is mainly explained by an improvement in the internal situation in the



ANNEX 1
Page 7
15.       The following tabulation provides a break-down of inter-
island traffic (excluding fuels) through the 40 more important national
ports in 1972/73:
Passengers,                   Freight,
Ports by                      thousand                   thousand tons
Size                  Inbound      Outbound        Inbound     Outbound
Two largest
(Manila, Cebu)         1,318.2       936.6          1,842.0     1,063.4
% of total                 36.6        32.0             42.9         39.3
1- 6                    2,167.9    1,562.3           2,783.0     1,748.8
, of total                 60.2        53.4             64.9         64.6
1 - 16                  2,749.1    2,103.2           3,648.6      2,368.4
AZ of total                76.4        71.9             85.0         87.5
Total                 3,599.7    2,926.2           4,290.0      2,707.5
1 - 40                    100.0       100.0            100.0        100.0
As mentioned in para 12, the traffic data are not accurate and have to be
reviewed with some reservations; however, they indicate the right order
of magnitude of the traffic.
1(.       No accurate statistics are available on the composition of
ireight traffic, but according to a more detailed study made in 1967 and
recent port development studies the percentage composition of freight in
two typical inter-island ports, Manila (deficit) and Cagayan de Oro,
Mindanao (surplus), was as follows:
Commodity                           Manila                Cagayan de Oro
Group                   Inward, %   Outward, %    Inward, %   Outward, %
Grains, flour                      17          6               2           52
Otlher agr. products               27          8              15            12
Processed foodstuffs               16        34              35            17
Other consumer goods                7          5              10            5
Machinery & Vehicles metals         3         23               7            3
lther goods                        30        24              31            11
Total                        100       100             100           100
Inward as % of outward      150                         65
Soturce: Bank Staff.
September 1974



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
The Philippine Maritime Fleet
(1971)
Ocean-Going Vessels -  Tonnage        820,000 Gross Tons
Number       130 ships
Inter-Island Vessels   Tonnage       390,000 Gross Tons
Number       434 ships
Ocean-Going Vessels           Inter-Island Vessels
Breakdown       Breakdown   Breakdown         Breakdown
Size Range                  by             by             by               by
(GT)              Gross Tonnage       Number      Gross Tonnage   Number
Up to 500                   0.01%         0.90            7.61%        40.17%
501- 1,000           0.18          1.82           21.03          32.90
1,000- 2,000           0.60          2.73            14.42         10.25
2,001- 5,000          18.20         35.46            43.38         14.96
5,000-10,000          50.79         46.36             4.74          0.86
10,000-20,000          19.62         10.91             8.82          0.86
More than 20,000           10.60          1.82             -              -
Total               100.00%       100.00%          100.00X       100.00%
Source: Philippines Coast Guard, 1973.
March, 1974



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Distribution of Inter-Island and
Ocean-Going Vessels According to Age
(1971)
Breakdown         Breakdown
by                by
Age                    Number        Gross Tonnage
Inter-Island Vessels  30 years and over            17.X0%             7.52%
20 - 29 years              50.85              46.78
10 - 19 years              15.39             22.64
Less than 10 years          16.66             23.06
Total                  100.00%           100.00%
Ocean-Going Vessels   30 years and over             9.09%             5.64%
20 - 29 years              32.72              25.47
10 - 19 years              36.36              40.90
Less than 10 years         21.83              27.99
Total                  100.00%            100.00%
Source: Philippines Coast Guard, 1973.
March 1974



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PMOJ3O?
Breakdown of Vesela by Ae
Over 11000 GItT only
{.) ~ ~     '- .',RT iz   .n-.  0 -2 Y :       11 - 15 Yrr.    Ki   ".' :rs   2;Zm   0 Yr-s    UK.e.rta;              T2 o t a Z,.
_ _ _ _                  N o        _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __G T
t ~ ~   ~    ~ ~       __                               _____   ____ !    ]i !           r>.        'o>;5 t.  07  Nso  0?  tJ     Bw
O-e -r  ,OC1 - 2,023 -f    -       -                    Q     1     3,1oO       2       -       -    L 3 04,350          3    L-
-   i-    ',CC1 - 5,oo          i45,620   13    2834>,70       8     ','  '   2   35,550    12                   -  19,90     12.7    3 .        ?.
*n'4 -n 5,&o0 1Th.00   '    2 55, 740         2                 1 2743,90       2&    12,        2   622)3160   661    66  37.0
j-Tb Tct a I       219,620    2 5   '23I,2 0      32    |        4jJiL  14  215,710  42   i2,4l60   1  7146,8  G   79.3  1 O        $K.
- t.e 'm  --          16,&O       1      9,3v40      6      )30       3     9,2450     7   11,9i0 38    2, 6 .          5.6    3
.; :t . .i i )v       5  V   )    /f   1 2 ,      11,07 O0    14   3 , 1  rL 330  13  9,540   3  107,150   11.4   -5  12K
;.'s;      L1.<;,: t1...i 5ns,02  1 7         1        -l -            ) -       -   12,0140       2   12,1430   1   314,640        3.7    14   2._
ib .>D tx .,-al      614$.v(C   23s    2Np>c      10 -9tv    16,180'd    7   55,270    22   33,9-0  I"2  194, 5,0 o  0).7    74  .l..6
2314> ,. j  Svll ,120   438   30  S:30    142   ,1,0-20   11  273,920  6   4   ,4lo  1.3  9>, 1430> 24 6i0   Kb )  .4 63  19 0. 
Source: Philippines Coast Guard, 1973.
March 1V9I
., . _ __ =i~~~~~



ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINE                            Page 1
APPRAISAIL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
ASESIDENTIAL DECREE NO. 474
PROVIDING FOR THE REORGANIZATION CF MARITIME FUNCTIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES,
CREATING THE MARITIME INDUSTRY AUTHORITY, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
WHEREAS, the efficient sea transport of raw materials, products,
commodities and people is vital to the growth of the Philippine economly;
WHEREAS, the functions pertaining to the development and regulation
of shipping enterprises are fragmented among various government agencies,
resulting in inadequate and inefficient shipping facilities, dependence on
external shipping interests, maldistribution of commodities, and piece-meal
solutions;
W[HEREAS, there is imperative need to modernize and expand the Philippine
merchant fleet, and to rationalize and improve their operations in order to
make them effective instruments in promoting domestic production, inter-island
and overseas trade, price stabilization, and employment generation;
WHEREAS, it is urgently necessary to provide a strong organizational
framework to effect the accelerated and integrated development and effective
regulation of shipping enterprises;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, FERDINAND E. MARCOS, President of the Philippines,
by virtue of the powers in me vested by the Constitution in order to effect
the desired changes and reforms in the social, economic and political structure
of our society, do hereby decree and order that the following be adopted and
made part of the laws of the land:
SECTION 1. Title. This Decree shall be known as the Maritime Industry
Decree of 1974.
SECTION 2. Declaration of Policies and Objectives. It is hereby declared
the policy of the State to accelerate the integrated development of the
maritime industry of the Philippines to attain the following objectives:
(a) To increase production and productivity in the various islands and regions
of the archipelago through the provision of effective sea linkage; (b) To
provide for the economical, safe, adequate and efficient shipment of raw materials,
products, commodities and people; (c) To enhance the competitive position
of Philippine flag vessels in the carriage of foreign trade;   (d)  To strengthen
the balance of payments position by minimizing the outflow of foreign
exchange and increasing dollar earnings; (e) To generate new and more job
opportunities.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
For the attainment of these objectives, the Government through the
Maritime  Industry Authority hereinafter created shall:
(a) Adopt and implement a practicable and coordinated Maritime
Industry Development Program which shall include, among cthers,
the early replacement of obsolescent and uneconomic vessels;
modernization and expansion of the Philippine merchant fleet,
enhancement of domestic capability for shipbuilding, repair and
maintenance; and the development of a reservoir of trained
manpower;
(b)  Provide and help provide the necessary:  (i) financial assistance
to the industry through public and private financing institutions
and instrumentalities; (ii) technological assistance; and
(iii)  in general, a favorable climate for expansion of domestic
and foreign investments in shipping enterprises; and
(c)  Provide for the effective supervision, regulation and rationalization
of the organizational management, ownership and operations of all
water transport utilities, and other maritime enterprises.
SECTION 3. Definition of Terms. The terms, as used in this Decree,
shall have the following meaning, unless the context of the particular usage
of the term indicates otherwise:
a.  "*Maritime Industry," briefly referred to as "industry" in the broadest
concept of the term - All enterprises engaged in the business of designing,
constructing, manufacturing, acquiring, operating, supplying, repairing,
and/or maintaining vessels or component parts thereof; of managing and/or
operating shipping lines, stevedoring arrastre and customs brokerage
services, shipyards, drydocks, marine railways, marine repair shops, shipping
and freight forwarding agencies and similar enterprises.
b.   "Vessel" or "watercraft."  Any barge, lighter, bulk carrier, passenger
ship,freighter, tanker, container ship, fishing boats or other artificial
contrivance utilizing any source of motive power, designed, used or capable
of being used as a means of water transportation operating either as a common
or contract carrier, including fishing vessels covered under Presidential
Decree No. 43, except (i) those owned and/or operated by the Armed Forces
of the Philippines and by foreign governments for military purposes, and
(ii) bancas, sailboats and other waterborne contrivances of less than three
gross tons capacity and not motorized.
c. "Philippine national" - A citizen of the Philippines; or a partnership
or associationwholly owned by and composed of citizens of the Philippines;
or a corporation organized under the laws of the Philippines of which at least
sixty per cent of the capital stock outstanding and entitled to vote is owned
and held by Philippine citizens; or a trustee of funds for pensions or other
employee retirement or separation benefits, where the trustee is a Philippine
National and at least sixty per cent of the funds will accrue to the benefit
of the Philippine Nationals: Provided, That where a corporation and its
non-Filipino stockholders own stock in an enterprise, at least sixty per cent
of the members of the governing board of both corporatior must be Phillipine
Nationalx.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
d. "Philippine flag vessel" - A vessel or water craft registered
under Philippine laws.
e. "Foreign flag vessel" - A vessel or watercraft registered under
the laws of a country other than the Philippines.
f. "Philippine shipping companies" - Philippine nationals registered
and licensed under the laws of the Philippines to engage in the business
of overseas and/or domestic water transportaticn.
A. MARITIME INDUSTRY AUTHORITY
SECTION 4.  Maritime Industry Authority: Creation and Organization.
There is hereby created a Maritime Industry Authority, hereinafter referred
to as the "Authority", under the Office of the President. It shall be com-
posed of a governing board of directors to be known as Maritime Industry
Board and the Management.
The Authority shall have general jurisdiction and control over all per-
sons, corporations, firms or entities in the maritime industry of the Philip-
pines and shall supervise, regulate in accordance with this Decree.
The principal office of the Administration shall be in the Greater Manila
Area. Regional or branch offices may be established at such other place or
places within the Philippines as may be deemed necessary by the Board.
SECTICN 5.  Maritime Industry Development Program.  The Authority shall
prepare and annually update a Ten-Year Maritime Industry Development Program,
hereinafter referred to as "Program" which shall contain a rational and in-
tegrated development of the maritime industry. The Authority shall submit
the same for approval by the President of the Philippines.
Upon approval of the Program by the President, all government departments,
bureaus, agencies and instrumentalities shall implement the same within theier
respective jurisdictions. The Authority shall ensure that the approved program
is being effectively implemented by the participating agencies. No government
body or instrumentality shall adopt any policy or take any course of action
contrary to or inconsistent with the Program.
B. MARITIME INDUSTRY BOARD
SECTICN 6. Powers and Functions of the Board. The Maritime Industry Board
shall have the following powers, functions and duties, among others:
a.  To provide comprehensive policy guidance for the effective supervision
and regulation of maritime enterprises as provided for in this Decree;
b. To promulgate and prescribe such promotional and development rules and
regulations, standards, guidelines and procedures and recommend laws or measures
as may be necessary for the growth and effective regulation of shipping enterprises;
c. To formulate a comprehensive and practicable Maritime Industry Develop-
ment Program for a ten-year period and review and update the same annually;



ANNEX 2
Page 4
d.  To prescribe specific policies in the determination of just
and reasonable passenger fares, freight rates and other charges rela-
tive to the operation of inter-island vessels. Accordingly, the
Board of Transportation shall exercise its rate-fixing functions in
accordance with such policies;
e. To recommend to the President that the State, through such
agency or agencies as the President may designate, purchase, lease,
manage, operate or requisition any vessel, ship or shipping enterprise,
for national security purposes, to meet emergency situations or when
the national interest so requires;
f. To approve contracts;
g. To approve the organizational structure, staffing pattern, and
budget of the Authority upon the recommendation of the Administrator;
h. To appoint, discipline and remove, and determine the composi-
tion of the Authority technical staff and other personnel: Provided
That, all regular professional and technical personnel in the authority
shall be permanent and career in status, but exempt from WAPCO and
civil service rules and regulations. Provided further, that the
personnel shall be entitled to the benefits normally accorded to
government employees, such as retirement, GSIS insurance, leave and
similar matters: Provided, furthermore, That appointments of personnel
in the management below the rank of section chief shall be made by the
Administrator, in accordance with the approved budget and staffing pat-
tern and shall be noted by the Board: Provided finally, That the Board
or the Administrator may engage on contractural basis or other arrange-
ments for the temporary services and fix the compensation of highly
qualified professionals, experts, technical advisers or consulting firms;
i. To adopt a common seal for the Authority which shall be juri-
dically noticed, determine the exact location of its office, and pre-
scribe the rules and regulati-ons to govern its proceedings;
j. To recommend to the President, through the National Economic
and Development Authority, the grant of necessary incentives for the
development of shipping and other related maritime enterprises; and
k. To perform such acts as are proper and necessary to implement
this Decree.
SECTICN 7. Composition and Organization. The Board shall be com-
posed of eight members as follows: The Secretary of Trade, the Secretary
of Public Works, Transportation and Communications, the Secretary of
National Defense, the Executive Secretary, the Chairman of the Board of
Investments, the Chairman of the Development Bank of the Philippines, the
Chairman of the Board of Transportation and the Maritime Administrator.
The Board shall elect the Chairman from among its members.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The officials next in rank to the regular members shall serve
as permanent alternate members, except that, in the absence of the
Chairman, the Board shall elect a temporary presiding officer. The
alternate members shall attend meetings of the Board and committees
assigned to their principils and receive corresponding per diems
whenever their principal is absent or the said position is vacant.
The Board shall meet regularly once a month and may hold special
meetings to consider urgent matters upon call of the Chairman or any
three members thereof. A majority shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
Each member shall receive a monthly commutable allowance of five
hundred pesos and per diemsof one hundred for every meeting of the
Board or committee thereof actually attended: Provided, That the total
amount of per diems which each may receive shall not exceed five hun-
dred pesos a month.
C. MANAGEMENT
SECTICN 8. Management Head. The management of the Authority shall
be vested in the Maritime Administrator who shall be directly assisted
by the Deputy Administrator for Planning and a Deputy Administrator
for Operations hereinafter referred to as "Deputy Administrators."
SECTION 9. The Maritime Administrator and Deputy Administators. The
Maritime Administrator and Deputy Administrators shall be appointed by
the President for a term of six years: Provided, That upon the expira-
tion of their respective terms, they shall continue to serve until their
successor shall have been appointed and qualified: Provided, further
That no vacancy shall be filled except for the unexpired portion of the
term: Provided, finally, That the President may remove the Administrator
and Deputy Administrators from office for cause upon recommendation of the
Board.
The Maritime Administrator and Deputy Administrators shall be
citizens of the Philippines, at least thirty-five years old on the date
of their appointment, of good moral character, of recognized executive
ability and competence in previous public or private employment, with
adequate training and experience in economics, technology, finance, law,
management, public utility, or in other phases or aspects of the maritime
industry. Until otherwise fixed by the Board, the Administrator shall
receive an annual salary of fifty thousand pesos and a monthly commutable
allowance of two thousand pesos.  Each Deputy Administrator shall receive
an annual salary of forty thousand pesos and a monthly commutable allowance
of one thousand five hundred pesos.
The Administrator shall be directly responsible to the Board, and
shall have powers, functions and duties as provided in this Decree. The
Deputy Administrators shall be directly responsible to the Administrator,
and their respective powers, functions and duties shall be determined
by the Board, upon recommendation of the Ahinistrator.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
SECTION 10.  Authority to Administer Oath.  The Chairman of the
Board, the Administrator, the Deputy Administrators, the chief legal
officer and heads of divisions of the Authority shall have the power
to administer oaths for the transaction of official business.
SECTICN 11.  General Powers and Functions of the Administrator.
Subject to the general supervision and control of the Board, the
Administrator shall have the following general powers, functions and
duties:
a)  To implement, enforce and apply the policies, programs,
standards, guidelines, procedures, decisions and rules and
regulations issued, prescribed or adopted by the Board pur-
suant to this Decree;
b) To undertake researches, studies, investigations and other
activities and projects, on his own initiative or upon instruc-
tions of the Board, and to submit comprehensive reports and
appropriate recommendations to the Board for its information
and action;
c)  To undertake studies to determine present and further require-
ments for port development including navigational aids and
improvement of waterways and navigable waters in consultation
with appropriate agencies;
d)  To pursue continuing research and developmental programs on
expansion and modernization of the merchant fleet and supporting
facilities taking into consideration the needs of the domestic
trade and the need of -egional economic cooperation schemes; and
e) To manage the affairs of the Authority subject to the provisions
of this Decree and applicable laws, orders, rules and regulations
cf other appropriate government entities.
SECTION 12. Specific Powers and Functions of the Administrator. In
addition to his general powers and functions, the Administrator shall:
a. Issue certificate of Philippine registry for all vessels being used in
Philippine waters, including fishing vessels covered by Presidential Decree
No. 43, except transient civilian vessels of foreign registry, vessels owned
and/or operated by the Armed Forces of the Philippines or by foreign govern-
ments for military purposes, and bancas, sailboats and other watercraft
which are not motorized, of less than three gross tons;
b. Provide a system of assisting various officers, professionals,
technicians, skilled workers and seamen to be gainfully employed in shipping
enterprises, priority being given to domestic needs;



ANNEX 2
Page 7
c. In collaboration and coordination with the Department of
Labor, to look into, and promote improvements in the working conditions
terms of employment of the officers and crew of vessels of Philippine
registry, and of such officers and crew members who are Philippine
citizens and employed by foreign flag vessels, as well as of personnel
of other shipping enterprises, and to assist in the settlement of dis-
putes between the shipowners and ship operators and such officers and
crew members, and between the owner or manager of other shipping
enterprises and their personnel;
d. To require any public water transport utility or Philippine
flag vessels to provide shipping services to any coastal areas in the
country where such extension is necessary for the development of the area,
to meet emergency sealift requirements, or when public interest so requires;
e. Investigate by itself or with the assistance of other appropriate
governient agencies or officials, or experts from the private sector, any
matter within its Jurisdiction, except marine casualities or accidents
which shall be undertaken by the Philippine Coast Guard;
f. Impose, fix, collect and receive in accordance with the schedules
approved by the Board, from any shipping enterprise or other persons con-
cerned, such fees and other charges for payment of its services;
g.  Inspect, at least annually, the facilities of port and cargo
operators and recommend measures of adherence to prescribed standards of
safety, quality and operations;
h. Approve the sale, lease or transfer of management of vessels owned
by Philippine Nationals to foreign owned or controlled enterprises;
i. Prescribe and enforce rules and regulations for the prevention of
marine pollution in bays, harbors and other navigable waters of the Philip-
pines, in coordination with the government authorities concerned;
j. Establish and maintain, in coordination with the appropriate
government offices and agencies, a system of regularly and promptly produ-
cing, collating, analyzing and disseminating traffic flows, port operations,
marine insurance services, freight rates and other information on maritime
matters;
k. Recommend such measures as may be necessary for the regulation of
the importation into and exportation from the Philippines of vessels, their
equipment and spare parts;
1. Implement the rules and regulations issued by the Board of
Transportation;



ANNEX 2
Page8
m. Compile and codify all m-aritime laws, orders, rules and
regulations, decisions in leading cases of courts and the Authority's
procedures and other requirements relative to shipping and other
shipping enterprises, make them available to the public, and,
whenever practicable, to publish such materials;
n. Delegate his powers in writing to either of the Deputy Admini-
strators or any other ranking official of the Authority; Provided, That
he informs the Board of such delegation promptly; and
o. Perform such other duties as the Board may assign, and such
acts may be necessary and proper to implement this Decree.
SECTION 13. Maritime Industry Manpower Needs. The Authority shall
establish and support a system of maintaining and developing a reservoir
of trained manpower to meet the current and future needs of the industry.
For the attainment of this objective, it shall undertake the following:
a. Evaluate, in collaboration with the Department of Education and
Culture, the capability of maritime educational and training institutions
and programs in the Philippines, including the Philippine Merchant Marine
Academy, herein placed under the administrative supervision of the Authority,
to supply shipping and shipyard manpower needs.
b. Inspect and evaluate periodically the standards, facilities and
performance of the maritime educational and training programs of Government
and private schools and enterprises and recommend to the Department of
Education and Culture and other appropriate government agencies such changes
in the curriculum as may be necessary.
c. Conduct or arrange for the holding or pre-employment, on-the-job
and other training programs to provide and upgrade shipping skills and tech-
niques, with the cooperation and support of private enterprises and govern-
ment agencies.
d. Provide incentives for education and training in shipping and
shipbuilding fields, especially those which are not attractive to students
such as naval architecture, including scholarships and fellowships, in the
Philippines or abroad, with liberal grants for the entire duration of the
course, to be sponsored directly or arranged by the Administration.
SECTICN 14. Penalties. Any person who gives false or misleading
data or information or wilfully or through gross negligence, canceals or
falsifies a material fact, in any investigation, inquiry or hearing, or
other proceedings held pursuant to this Decree, shall be punished with
imprisonment of not less than two nor more than six months and with a
fine of not less than five hundred nor more than one thousand pesos: Provided,
however, That if the false or misleading data or information shall have been
given under oath, the maximum penalty for giving false testimony or perjury
shall be imposed.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
D. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISICOS
SECTION 15. Auditor. The Commission on Audit shall be the ex-officio
Auditor of the Authority and it shall appoint its representative therein,
who shall audit all accounts thereof.
SECTION 16.  Reorganizational Changes.  a.  Deartment of Trade.  The
Shipping and Freight Study Unit of the Department o  Tr   is hereby trans-
ferred to the Authority, together with its applicable appropriations, records,
equipment, property and such personnel as may be necessary.
b. Bureau of Transportation. The powers and functions pertaining to
the development and supervisimn of maritime shipping of the Bureau of Trans-
portation for Water are hereby transferred to the Authority. Accordingly the
Water Transportation Division of the Bureau is hereby abolished.
c. National Development Company. The powers and functions of the
National Development Company relative to ship acquisition under Republic Act
No. 1407, as amended (Philippine Overseas Act of 1955), are hereby trans-
ferred to the Authority together with its applicable records, equipment and
property.
In addition to the powers and functions herein transferred, balances of
all appropriations, funds, accounts and notes receivable derived frmn shipping
companies, equipment, records and supplies are likewise transferred to the
Authority.
SECTICN 17. Retention of the Functions and Powers of The Philippine
Coast Guard. Nothing in this Decree shall be construed to affect or delimit
the present functions and powers of the Philippine Coast Guard relative to
maritime affairs. All such functions and powers of the Philippine Coast Guard
are retained by it. Furthermore in the performance of its functions, especially
in the classification and inspection of vessels, the Philippine Coast Guard
will be assisted by the Authority. Provided that within two years from the
issuance of this Decree, the President may transfer to the Authority such
regulatory functions of the Philippine Coast Guard pertaining to maritime
affairs as may be necessary for the achievement of the aims and purposes of
the Authority. The Authority shall coordinate with the Philippine Coast Guard
in the exercise of supervision and regulation of the operations of water
transport utilities.
SECTICN 18. Coordination with Other Agencies. The Authority shall
coordinate with the Department of Labor, the Department of Education and
Culture and the National manpower and Youth Council in the exercise of its
pertinent functions that have relation to the functions of the above-mentioned
agencies, particularly as these pertain to the development of trained and
qualified seamen for Philippine vessels.
In order to strengthen its coordin8tive functions, the Authority shall
hire and train appropriate technical personnel which may be assigned to other
government agencies involved in the implementation of laws, rules and regulations
relative to maritime affairs.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
SECTION 19. Transitory Provision. Officials and employees of
all existing offices or agencies which are abolished or reorganized
under this Decree may be absorbed into the Authority on the basis of
merit and fitness: Provided, That employees who shall be laid off by
reason of this Decree shall be given gratuity equivalent to one month's
salary for every year of service but in no case more than twenty-four
months salary, in addition to all benefits to which they are entitled
under existings laws and regulations.
To carry out the provisions of this section, there is hereby
appropriated the sum of Five Hundred Thousand Pesos out of the unappro-
pristed funds in the National Treasury.
SECTICN 20. Appropriations. To carry out the provisions of this
Decree, there is hereby appropriated the sum of two million pesos out
of the funds in the National Treasury not otherwise appropriated. There-
fore the succeeding appropriations of the Authority shall be included in
the Annual Appropriations Act.
In addition to the above, the Authority is hereby authorized to
retain fifty percent of its collections from fees, charges, and fines
to defray any daficiency in annual appropriations and to finance its
ather projects.
SECTICN 21. Repealing and Separability Clauses. All laws, decrees,
orders, rules and regulations, policies, programs or parts thereof, which
are inconsistent with any of the provision of this Decree, are hereby
repealed or modified accordingly.
If for any reason any section or provision of this Decree is declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid, the other sections or provisions hereof,
which are not affected thereby, shall continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 22. Effectivity. This Decree shall take effect upon its
promulgation: Provided, That these portions hereof which may require a tran-
sition period to assure the orderly transfer of powers and functions shall
take effect as stated in the implementing details: Provided, further, That
such implementing details shall be prepared by the Board, in consultation
with the government agency heads concerned, and submitted to the President
for approval within four months after issuance of this Decree.
Done in the City of Manila, this 1st day of June in the year of Our
Lord, nineteen hundred and seventy-four.
FERDINAND E. MARCOS
President
By the President:                                Republic of the Philippines
ALEJANDRO MELCHOR
Executive Secretary



ANNEX 2(a
PgeI
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL CF A SHIPPING PROJECT
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
This MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT entered into this 9th day of
August, 1974, at  Manila by and between:
The PHILIPPINE COAST GUARD (PCG) represented herein by its
Commandant, COMMODORE ERNESTO R. OGBINAR, with postal
address at 1905 Taft Avenue, Pasay City (hereinafter referred
to as COAST GUARD)
and
The MARITIME INDUSTRY AUTHORITY (MIA), represented herein
by its Acting Deputy Administrator, ABRAHAM C. CAMPO, with
postal address at the Development Management Staff, Malacanang,
Manila, (hereinafter referred to as MIA)
W I T N E S S E T H
WHEREAS, Presidential Decree No. 474, dated June 1, 1974, pro-
vides for the retention by Coast Guard of its functions and powers relative
to maritime affairs while MIA assists in the performance of such functions;
WHEREAS, COAST GUARD and MIA are aware of their separate but
mnutually reinforcing roles in the development and regulation of the shipping
industry;
WHEREAS, both parties recognize the need to identify immediate
areas of cooperation as well as priority programs;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed that:
1. Immediate efforts shall be directed towards projects respon-
sive to the needs of an expanding mercantile fleet. For this purpose, the
following shall be undertaken:
a. The ship safety inspection system within the Coast Guard
shall be expanded and modernized by staffing it with required
nationnl or international experts, in accordance with a staffing
pattern agreed upon by the parties;



ANNEX 2(a)
Page 2
b. MIA-PCG approved or sponsored training programs be under-
taken to further strengthen the system; and
c. Other institutional changes be implemented in both organi-
zations as may be identified by the parties from time to time to
best serve the needs of the industry.
2. MIA shall supplement the budgetary requirements not otherwise
sufficiently provided for in the budget of the Coast Guard for the
following: (a) salaries and allowances of professional staff; (b) cost
of training programs particularly ship inspection system and qualifi-
cation testing of maritime operating personnel; and (c) other items
of expenditure directly relevant to the above activities.
3. Both parties shall conduct coordinated studies to improve the
existing system and procedures for all types of marine surveys.
4. The New Merchant Marine Regulations shall be published as soon
as possible to ensure that such regulations shall be effective by
January 1, 1975.
This MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT shall take effect immediately.
For the Coast Guard:                                    For the Maritime
Industry Authority:
COMNO ERNESTO R OGBINAR                                 ABRAHAM C CAMPO



ANNEX 2(b)
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
PRESIDENTIAL LETTER OF INSTRUCTICNS NO. 208
To: The Commandant, Philippine Coast Guard
The Deputy Administrator, Maritime Industry Authority
Pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 474 dated June 1, 1974, there
shall be coordination between the Philipping Coast Guard (PCG) and the
Maritime Industry Authority (MIA) in the exercise of supervision and
regulation of the operations of water transport utilities, and like-
wise the MIA shall assist in the performance of Coast Guard's functions
especially in the classification and inspection of vessels.
The areas of cooperation as well as priority programs are to be
considered and implemented:
(1) There shall be immediate efforts to further improve the ship
Inspection and Classification Work. For this purpose, the following
shall be undertaken:
a. The Ship Inspection Group within the Coast Guard shall
be strengthened by staffing it with the required experts and managerial
p rsonnel; a new staffing pattern will be agreed upon between the PCG
and MIA and such shall be implemented no later than December 31, 1974;
b. The MIA and PCG shall coordinate in the formulation and
execution of training programs for such personnel;
c. Furthermore, MIA and PCG shall implement other institu-
tional changes as shall be identified from time to time.
(2) MIA shall augment the expenses not otherwise sufficiently
provided for in the budget of the Coast Guard for the following: (i)
salaries and allowances of professional staff; (ii) cost of training
programs particularly for the Ship Inspection Group; (iii) other items
of expenditure directly relevant to the above activities. The Coast
Guard shall furnish MIA a budget for these additional expenses.
(3) In coordination with the Coast Guard, MIA shall maintain a
Classification Registry of Vessels. Both parties shsAnl study with the
end in view of improving the existing system and procedures for ship
survey and classification.



AN NEX 2(b)
Page 2
(b) The Philippine Coast Guard shall publish the New
Merchant Marine Regulations as soon as possible to ensure
that such Regulations shall be effective no later than January 1,
1975; modifications, changes and amendments to said Regulations
shall be undertaken with consultations between PCG and MIA.
Done in the City of Manila, this 12th day of August, in the
year of Our Lord, Nineteen Hundred and Seventy-Four.
FERDINAND E. MARCOS
President
Republic of the Philippines



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Outline of Technical Assistance Required
for Philippine Marine Inspection Services
1.        Improvement of the Philippine Marine Inspection Services will be
a necessary part of the involvement of the IBRD in the shipping sector. The
intention of the Government, set 'forth with the Maritime Industry Decree,
4s to strengthen the marine inspection services.
2.        The technical assistance and training required for this service
has been described in the draft report of Mr. A. Buckley, an expert provided
under the auspices of IMCO and financed by the UNDP, who has spent about
15 months developing and codifying new ship inspection rules for the
Philippines.
3.        Required are:  (a) two ship surveyors familiar with ship
inspections undertaken on behalf of a Government and able to speak English
fluently; (b) provision for overseas training of Philippine nationals
selected by the Philippine Government and approved by the experts.
4.        The technical assistance required consists of:
(a) two experts, for a period of three years starting in
December 1974. These experts would be ship surveyors
familiar with ship inspections and regulations and their
application. The general duties would be to assist in:
(i) training of marine surveyors;
(ii) the application of new Philippine ship inspection
regulations; and
(iii) advising, and assisting in the establishment of, a
Marine Inspection Service in the Philippines;
(b) provision of one man-year of overseas training for each
of four Philippine nationals (i.e., 4 man-years of
training in total). These men -- two navigating staff
and two engineering staff to be selected by the Government,
subject to agreement by the technical experts -- would be
trained to become the nucleus of the Marine Inspection
Service. The selection of these men may not take place
until after December 1974, but their overseas training



ANNEX 3
Page 2
should, in any case, not take place prior to early or mid-
1975 - after they have received on-the-job training from
the experts noted in (a) above and.after they have
become familiar with any required foreign technical language;
and
(c)  provision for 18 months' technical on-the-job training in
the Far East, for six men (3 months each). These men
would be selected from among the present ship inspectors
and sent to Hong Kong, Singapore, or Jakarta to work under
supervision of repair and inspection surveyors so that,
until the marine inspection service can be established in
the Philippines, the average level of expertise can be
somewhat improved. This technical training would be preceded
by on-the-job training in the Philippines by the experts
noted in (a) above, and would not be required to start until
early or mid-1975. It would extend through to the end of
1976.
Source: IMCO and Bank staff.
March 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures for
Medium- and Large-Scale Industrial Financing
Approved by the Board of Governors on May 29, 197k
1.        The policies, criteria and procedures set forth below will guide
DBP's medium- and large-scale industrial operations  particularly those
undertaken by Industrial Projects Department I and irrespective of the
sources of funds used for financing these operations.
2.        Objectives of Industrial Financing
To assist the development of the country by providing financial
and technical assistance for the establishment of new industries as well
as for the balancing, modernization and expansion of existing industries.
3.        Basis for Investment Decisions
DBP will make investment decisions on the basis of sound investment
criteria and standards, and after careful project evaluation. Financial assis-
tance will be provided to those projects which are financially and economically
viable and technically feasible, and for the implementation of which satis-
factory organizational and managerial arrangements have been made.
4.        Method of Financing
DBP will provide finance according to the requirements of each
project, in one or several of the following forms:
(a)  direct loans in local currency, fbr financing local expenditures
on fixed assets and where appropriate for working capital;
(b) direct loans in foreign currencies, for financing imports of
equipment and/or new materials;
(c) guarantees of domestic currency and/or foreign currency credits
made on suitable terms;
(d) loans fully or partly convertible into stock;
(e)  in exceptional and highly meritorious cases, direct equity invest-
ments and underwriting of share issues.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        General Investment Policies
(a) Financing will be provided to projects which are in line
with the investment priorities of the Government; pre-
ference being given to projects registered with the Board
of Investments (BOI) under the Investment Incentives Act
or the Export Incentives Act, or with other pertinent
Government regulatory agencies.
(b) In accordance with normal banking practice, adequate
security will be required to cover the loans and guaran-
tees, but the main considerations will be the merits of
proposed projects, their repayment prospects and the sound-
ness of management of the enterprise.
(c) DBP will not seek a controlling interest in any enterprise
in which it has invested, or any other interest which would
give it responsibility for management, except when in its
judgment its investment is in jeopardy, in which case DBP
reserves the option of taking such action as may be necessary
to protect its interests.
6.        Project Appraisal Guidelines
(a) Each investment decision will be made on the basis of a thorough
project evaluation, reflected in an appraisal report, which
will be a self-contained and comprehensive document outlining
facts, analyses and judgments cn the essential aspects (inclu-
ding technical, marketing, management, financial and economic)
of the project as well as recommendations on special contrac-
tual arrangements. In appropriate instances, the report will
incorporate essential complementary elements of the BOI's
appraisal work, in particular its economic evaluation and mar-
keting analysis. These inclusions notwithstanding, DBP's apprai-
sal reports will in any event include DBP's own judgments on
these matters as well.
(b)  Project appraisal will generally include the calculation of the
internal financial and economic rates of return for projects of
which the total project cost exceeds US$2 million equivalent.
If the economic rate of return is below 10%, special justifi-
cation will be required in lhe appraisal report which recommends
a decision to finance the project.
(c)  Each appraisal report will provide in detail the estimated cost
of the pmrject, including working capital requirements and ade-
quate contingencies. Prior to committing its own funds DBF will
satisfy itself that funds expected from sourves other than DBP
(i.e.,borrower's own contribution, plus borrowings from other
lending institutions) will be available in sufficient amounts
when needed to cover the total financing requirements of the project.



ANNE 4
Page 3
7.        Lending Terms
(a) Each industrial loan will be made on a term and with a grace
period consistent with the repayment capacity of the enter-
prise based on projected cash-flows, and related to the use-
ful life of the assets financed by the loan.
(b) Each investment project financed by DBP will normally have an
equity capital equivalent to 25% of total project costs. In
the case of an expansion project of an existing enterprise,
funds generated internally are considered as equity for this
purpose.
(c) DBP will take steps adequate to protect itself against the
foreign exchange risk on its lending operations and guarantees.
8.        Project Supervision Guidelines
It is the policy of DBP to: (a) undertake systematic follow-up on
the progress and operation of the projects financed by it, in order to establish
whether the actual developments correspond with the expectations and projections
on the basis of which the investment decision was made, and to keep DBP's manage-
ment currently informed of the project status so that it may take timely and
appropriate action. Accordingly DBP requires its borrowers to submit regular
periodical reports on the physical and financial progress of the project, and on
its operational and financi.al performance. Furthermore projects are visited at
appropriate intervals to confirm the state of progress, to check on the efficiency,
organization and management of the project, and to discuss problems of mutual
concern with the borrower's management; (b) maintain close scrutiny of its
accounts in arrears. Each individual account in arrears is analyzed in detail
a.t least once annually in order to identify the causes for arrears and to deter-
mine the repayment capacity of the enterprise.  On the basis of this analysis
DBP's management takes appropriate measures including legal action for collection,
rescheduiling, or restructuring of the account.
Source: DBP and Bank Staff
September 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to
Development Bank of the Philippines
1.        The following qualifications have been agreed between the Bank
and DBP for employment of advisers to the Shipping Section.
Maritime Financial Adviser
Qualifications
-    At least five years experience in a senior position
dealing with shipping finance under a common law
jurisdiction. Such experience may have been in
merchant or commercial banking, or in a government
credit organization, or in a commercial organization
involved in owning, operating or managing ships.
-    Experience in banking or corporate finance may have
preceded the experience referred to above.
-    General experience in preparing project assessments.
Duties
The duties of the Maritime Financial Adviser are:
-    To assist in the preparation of an appropriate set
of procedures, forms and other materials for the
Maritime Group, Industrial Projects Department III.
-    To assist in the preparation of project reports
presented to the Board of Governors.
-    To assist in the assessment, modifications and improve-
ment of the Investment plans presented by borrowers to
the DBP, if such is required, at the request of
the Department Manager.
-    To assist in the development of a training program in
the special field of ship financing for the staff of
the Maritime Group, Industrial Projects Department III.
-    To engage in such other tasks as may be requested
by the Assistant Manager in charge of Maritime Group,
Industrial Projects Department III.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Naval Architect/Technical Adviser
Qualifications
-    At least five years' experience as a government ship-
ping inspector (hull and machinery) dealing with
approval of construction, repair, and conversion of
commercial craft, or as engineer or ship surveyor
in a senior capacity with a major international
classification society, and additionally or
alternatively
-    Previous extensive experience of at least five years
as a marine superintendent engineer, that is, as a
senior person in charge of the maintenance, repair, and
construction in a fleet of ships (preferably coasters
and/or general cargo ships).
-    Satisfactory achievement of status in a professional
society and/or the acquisition of certificates of
competency in maritime engineering, or the possession
of formal training in technical marine subjects.
-    A knowledge of costs of repair, conversion, and building
and of the generally applicable safety regulations used
in the marine field.
Duties
The duties of the Naval Architect/Technical Adviser are:
-    To assist in the preparation of guidance specifications
for the inter-island vessels to be built locally.
-    To assist in the procurement which would include, inter alia:
(a) Pre-qualification of shipyards for vessel hull
construction.
(b) Pre-qualification of equipment suppliers.
-    To assist in the supervision of vessel construction.
-    lTo engage in such other tasks as may be conveniently
undertaken and which are requested by the Mlangers
in charge of Maritime Group, Industrial Projects
Department III.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
General Conditions
2.        The advisers will assist the Assistant Manager in charge of
Maritime Group, Industrial Projects Department III. In rendering their
advice the advisers will be guided by the highest standards of their profes-
sion, prudently applied, and taken in the light of the terms and conditions
governing the use and purposes of the Bank's loan to the Government and of
the Government's loan to DBP and of the Project Agreement, if any. Copies of
all of the agreements and documents referred to, will be provided to the
advisers.
Source: Bank staff.
March 1974



ANNEX 6
- ~~Page 1
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Investment Program
Inter-Island Shipping Companies
Year 1              Year 2                Total
No. of     Cost     No. of      Cost     No. of     Cost
Name of Company     Vessels   (US$ m)   Vessels   (US$ m)   Vessels   (US$ m)
Aboitiz             2 used       1.4     3 used       2.7     5 used      4.1
Candano             2 used       1.2     1 used       0.6     3 used      1.8
Gothong             2 used       1.6     2 used       2.0     4 used      3.6
Escano              4 used       2.6     2 used       1.0     6 used      3.6
Lorenzo             2 used       1.6     2 used      2.0      4 used      3.6
Northamco           1 used       0.3                   -      1 used      0.3
Ni. and ". Lanes    2 used       0.5     3 used       2.5     5 used      3.0
Negros              1 new        4.8     1 new        1.0     2 new       5^8
-      1 used      0.8      1 used      0.8
Sulpicio           .3 used       1.5     3 used       1.4     6 used      2.9
Del Rio              1 used      0.1                   -      1 used      0.1
Sweet               1 new        0.2     1 new       0.5      2 new       0.7
1 used      2.0     1 used       2.0
William              2 used      7.5     2 used       7.0     4 used     14.5
Total         21 used              20 used              41 used
2 new               2 new                4 new
23          23.3    22           23.5    45          46.8



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Loam Applications to DBP Pending at December 31, 1973
US$ m
Azaula            1 new and 1 used vessel                  0.1
Zoleta            1 new vessel                             0.1
Escan 1           1 used vessel                            1.3
Candano           2 new vessels                            0.4
Admiral           2 new vessels                            1.8
Sweet             1 used vessel guarantee                  1.0
Total       6 new and 3 used vessels                  4.7
J  Application since turned down by DBP.
Source: Shipping companies and DBP.
March 1974



ANNE =
PHILIPP3IES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Composition of Project Cost
Project Cost       Shipowner           DBP  Bank       IBRD
FE     Local     FE       Local     FE       Local   FE
-------- Millions of Dollars-
Foreign Built
New Ships           6.0 o             1.2                4.8               4.8
Used Ships         21.4         -   10.7          _     10.7         -   10.7
Domestic Work
New Ships           1.8       0.8       -      0.5       1.8       0.3      1.8
Repairs             1.8       1.2       -      1.2       1.8          -     1.8
Sub-total        31.0       2.0    11.9      1.7      19.1       0.3    19.1
Technical Assistance  0.7       0.1                                           0.7
Training              0.2       0.1                                           0.2
TOTAL            31.9       2.2                                          20.0
P~ ~~ =                        ______
NOTE:  IBRD finances about 60% of shipping projects.
Source:   Bank staff.
March 1974



ANNEX B
Page 1
PHILIPP INES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Economics of Improvements in Inter-Island Shipping
A.   General Description
1.        The following calculation is an example of the economies which
can be achieved in inter-island shipping through fleet modernization. It is
indicative only, since it is not based on decisions already taken. However,
being based on actual investment plans by the shipping companies as presented
to DBP in loan applications, it is realistic.
2.        The example consists of two cases.  The first case involves the
acquisition of a modern, although second-hand, roll-on/roll-off (ro-ro) type
vessel on the main trunk route Manila-Cebu. The introduction of this vessel
will  result in other conventional passenger/cargo vessels being transferred
to other routes because of the increased traffic carrying capacity of the
ro-ro vessel at a lower cost. These vessels are fully operational and
competitive with the old FS-type vessels (U.S. World War II surplus) plying
on a number of other important shipping routes, but which do not have the
necessary traffic volumes nor the port facilities for the economic operation
of the larger, modern ro-ro type vessel. The total result of these changes
will be that one large modern vessel will be introduced on the main trunk
route and a number of conventional passenger/cargo vessels will be forced
out of the main route and they will in turn replace a greater number of
FS-type vessels on important secondary routes; the FS-type vessels are
assumed to be scrapped, not only because of their inability to compete, but
because they will most likely not be able to meet the minimum seaworthiness
requirements imposed by the MIA ship inspection service.
3.        The second case assumes that no new ro-ro type vessel will be
introduced on the main trunk route, but that a number of FS-type vessels
will be replaced by conventional passenger/cargo vessels procured second-
iland from abroad. The net result of this replacement will be that a number
of FS-type vessels will be scrapped for the same reasons as in para 2 above.
This second case is in fact part of the more comprehensive replacement
program in para 2 above; with the important difference however, that the
first calculation involves a capital investment in one large modern vessel
only, while the second assumes capital investments in several conventional
vessels.
4.        The calculation is based on a comparison of economic costs and
benefits, which are expressed as differences in costs (i.e. cost savings).
It differs tlherefore from a calculation undertaken by a shipping company,
whiich attempts to maximize its benefits in relation to its financial costs,
the benefits representing the difference between rates and fares and the



NiNEX 8
Page 2
financial costs. Generally, the two calculations will result in a similar
outcome, i.e., that it will be less profitable, in economic and in
financial terms, to operate the older ships in competition with the larger,
more modern ones.
B.   Operational Characteristics
Routes
5.        The main trunk route is Mlanila-Cebu with a distance of 390
nautical miles. The secondary routes considered are:
(i) Cebu-Surigao, 130 nautical miles;
(ii) Cebu-Cagayan de Oro, 135 nautical miles; and
(iii) Cebu-Iligan, 135 nautical miles.
Vessels
6.        The main operational characteristics of the three vessel types
considered are:
Size
Age,        Freight,  Pass.  Speed   Loal Factor
Type of vessel   Years  GRT       tons      No.   knots   % of capacity
Ro-ro               6    5,000  2,000   1,200        18          65 /1
Conventional
pass/cargo         15    1,750    800       400      13          75
FS-type            25       750    400      200      11          75
/1   The load factor of the larger vessel is assumed to be lower because
of the shorter port times; the load factors for the two other
vessel types are assumed actual.
7.        The ro-ro vessel is to be introduced on the main trunk route
Manila-Cebu. As the vessel would be purchased either from Scandinavian
or Mediterranean operators, the operational characteristics are in accordance
with typical vessels operating in these areas. The conventional passenger/
cargo liner and the FS-type vessel are at present operating in the Philippines,
both on main and secondary routes, and the characteristics represent averages
for those operations.
Schedules_
8.        The three vessel types are calculated to have the following
turn-around times with the operating speeds indicated above:



AiNEX 8
Page 3
Time spent      Time spent per
Time spent  loading/       complete trip
Route   at sea,   unloading,  Trip,
Type of vessel    /1      hours /2   hours /3   hours /4           Days
Ro-ro               a         21         6          54             2-1/2
(a        30         24         108             4-1/2
Conventional       (
pass/cargo        (b         10        14          48             2
FE-type             b         12         12         48             2
/1   Route a = Manila-Cebu;
Route b = Cebu-Surigao, Cagayan de Oro, Iligan.
/2   One way.
/3   Loading or unloading in one port.
/4   Sailing time in both directions + loading and unloading.
9.        The loading and unloading times for the two existing vessel
types are based on actual time spent at present with a load factor of
75%.  The corresponding times assumed for the ro-ro vessel imply either
roll-on-roll-off type of traffic or some kind of unitization (pallets,
containers) prior to loading; the times used in this calculation are,
however, about double those normal for a 100% load factor elsewhere,
compared with the 65% assumed here. Longer loading/unloading times have
been used because of inefficient port operations.
Traffic Carried
10.       Based on the above operational characteristics, the traffic
carrying capacities of the types of vessels have been calculated to be
as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Traffic carrying capacity
Per Trip                         Per Year/i
/2          /2
Type                   FreightA--asseners--         Freight              Passengers
of                 Ton Ton-km No. Pass-km    Ton    Ton-km          No.   Pass-km
Vessel   Route            thou-        thousand thousand million thousand million
sand
Ro-ro     a        2,600 1,885 1,600   1,150        345    251.0    215       153.0
Conven.  (a        1,200   865   600       430       72     52.0      36       26.0
pass! (
cargo (b        1,200   288   600       144      162     39.0      81       19.5
FS-type   b          600   144   300        72       72      17.3     36        8.6
/1   Operational days per year reduced by 65, 95 and 125 days for the ro-ro,
conventional and Fs-type vessels respectively for repairs, maintenance,
surveys and other non-operational time.
/2   Bottl directions combined.
These estimates indicate that the ro-ro vessel would carry about 25% of the
total present freight and about 20% of the total present passenger traffic
between Manila and Cebu. The conventional passenger/cargo vessel would
carry about 50% of the present freight and passenger traffic on each of
the three secondary routes. Undoubtedly these shares will decrease with
an annual traffic growth rate of 5% (freight) and 7-1/2% (passengers).
There may be some additional traffic generated particularly by the ro-ro
vessel.
C.   Costs
Capital Costs
11.       According to price quotations provi4ed by the shipping companies,
a 6-year old ro-ro vessel would cost about Ps 30 million (CIF (US$4.5
million equivalent), while a 12-vear old 1,7$0 (,RT conventional passenger/
cargo vessel could be procured by Ps 4 million CIF (Us$0.6 million equivalent).
The FS-type vessels are not really available on the market, but a price of
Ps 1 million (US$150,000 equivalent) hap been used for a similar size
15-year old ship. The FS, 1,750 GRT and the ro-ro vessel have been assumed
to have a scrap value of Ps 0.1, 0.25 and 1.0 million respectively, with an
assumed 5, 15 and 25 year remaining lifetime.
Operating Costs
12.       The estimated annual pperating expendit4res of the three vessel
types are given in Appendix 1. The estimates for the two vessel types now
in use (conventional passenger/cargo 1,750 GRT and FS-type vessel) have
been based on detailed expenditure accounts provided by the shipping com-
panies but adjusted to economic costs in respect to fuel and lubricants
by excluding taxes and duties. The fuel costs have been calculated on



ANNEX 8
Page 5
basis of the world market prices prevailing at the beginning of 1974. The
annual operating costs for the ro-ro type vessel have been based on a compara-
tive cost study of similar size conventional passenger/ cargo vessels in
the Philippines supplemented by cost information from present European
operators of these vessels (fuel consumption supplies, repairs, etc.).
13.       According to Appendix 1, the cost per traffic unit (pass- and/or
ton-km) would amount to centavos 1.9 (US cents 0.3 equivalent) for the
ro-ro vessel, centavos 2.8 (US cents 0.4) for the conventional 1,750 GRT
passenger/cargo and centavos 5.9 (US cents 0.9) for the FS-type vessel.
It is obvious that the costs per traffic unit would be significantly
different for the larger vessels on routes where both the traffic base
and operational conditions would be unfavorable, e.g. use of the ro-ro
vessel on a minor route with traffic volumes considerably less than the
carrying capacity of the vessel.
14.       The annual operating costs have been assumed to increase by 5%
and 3% a year for the FS-type and 1,750 GRT vessel respectively until
replaced, reflecting increased real cost of operation due to wear and
tear and absolesence. After replacement, the annual operating costs for
these vessels have been assumed to be reduced to those presented in
Appendix 1, and then increase by 2% a year for both; this increase in costs
has also been assumed to take place for the ro-ro vessel over its whole
remaining lifetime of 25 years..
D.   Calculation of Economic Return
15.       The costs and benefits for cases 1 and 2 are presented in
Appendices 2 and 3.
Case 1
16.       Case 1 involves:  (i) an initial investment of Ps 30 million for
the ro-ro vessel; (ii) the scrapping of 10 FS-type vessels on secondary
routes which will result in a saving in operating costs of Ps 7.65 million
in year 1; and (iii) a further investment of Ps 20 million in year 15
to replace 5 1,750 GRT passenger/cargo vesselw which were transferred in
year 1 to the secondary routes. Without the project, there would be invest-
ments of: (i) Ps 10 million both in years 5 and 20 to replace 10 FS-type
vessels on the secondary routes with similar ones; and (ii) Ps 20 million
in investment in year 15 to replace the 5 1,750 GRT vessels on the main
trunk route.
17.       The savings in operating costs (Appendix 2) vary over the 25-year
period and reflect the effect of the replacements at various times. All
in all, the savings in annual operating costs will average Ps 8 million
and will result in an economic rate of return of about 30%, which is highly
satisfactory. The most sensitive factor affecting these calculations is
the assumed operational performance of the vessel (particularly port times).



ANNEX 8
Page 6
In order to arrive at a conservative result, the calculations have in the
first place been carried out by assuming a fairly high operational perfor-
mance of the existing smaller (FS-type and 1,750 GRT) vessels, while the
operational performance of the''ro-ro vessel has been assumed to be less than
that achieved at present for similar vessels in Europe. However, the
economic rate of return would still be a high 20%, if a further 20% reduction
in the operational performance of the'ro-ro vessel is assumed (time spent
in port doubled).
Case 2
18.       Case 2 involves continuation of the present operations on the
main trunk route Manila-Cebu, but a replacement (and scrapping) of FS-type
vessels on the more important secondary routes involving acquisiton of 5
1,750 GRT conventional type passenger/cargo vessels. This will involve:
(i) an initial investment of Ps 20 million and result in a saving of Ps 4.40
million in annual operating cost in year 1; and (ii) a futrther investment
of a similar amount in year 15 to replace the vessels introduced in year 1.
Without the project, there would Ps 10 million investments in years 5 and
20, to replace the FS-type vessels with similar size newer ones.
19.       As in case 1, the annual savings in operating costs will vary
(Appendix 3), reflecting the effects of replacements. On average, these
savings will amount to Ps 4.5 million resulting in an economic rate of
return of about 27%. This return would be reduced to about 21% if a
20% reduction in the operational performance of the 1,750 GRT vessels were
to be assumed (increase in port time by 35%), while maintaining the assumed
fairly high operational performeance of the FS-type vessels. The return
would thus still be satisfactory.
Source: Bank Staff
September 1974



aNEX 8
Appendix 1
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Annual Economi,c Operating Cost* of 14terA4sand Vessels
Pesos thousand per year
750 GRT         1,750 GRT     5,000 GRT
F$-type       pass/cargo        Ro-ro
vessel         vessel          vessel
1.  Repair and maintenance                  115             100            300
2. Crew, wages and
subsistence                            230             290            665
3.  Passengers, meals                        60             115            330
4.  Fuel and lubricants                     520             720          3,600
5.  Supplies and expenses                   260             410            780
6.  Insurance                                30              70            600
7.  Commission                               90             140            690
8.  Port costs                              105             165            330
9.  License and other fees                   15              20             35
10. Miscellaneous operating
expenditures (Lost freight,
etc.)                                  115             170            420
Total                                 1,540           2,200          7,750
March 1974



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Costs and Benefits in Case 1:
Existing Conventional Passenger/Cargo Vessels
Replaced on Manila-Cebu Route with a Ro-Ro Vessel
/1                     /2    Difference in
Without Ro-Ro Vessel-    With Ro-Ro Vessel-         Investment
million Pesos             million Pesos        and Operating
Route   Routes   Total   Route   Routes   Total         Cost,
Year           a        b                a        b              million Pesos
0             -        -        -      30.00  - 1.00    29.00   - 29.00
1            11.00   15.40    26.40    7.75   11.00    18.75   +  7.65
2            11.35   16.15    27.50    7.90   11.35    19.25   +  8.25
3            11.65   17.00    28.65    8.05   11.65    19.70   +  8.95
4            12.00   17.85    29.85    8.20   12.00    20.20   +  9.65
5            12.40   27.70    40.10    8.40   12.40    20.80   + 19.30
6            12.75   15.40    28.15    8.55   12.75    21.30   +  6.85
7            13.15   15.70    28.85    8.70   13.15    21.85   +  7.00
8            13.55   16.00    29.55    8.90   13.55    22.45   +  7.10
9            13.90   16.35    30.25    9.05   13.90    22.95   +  7.30
10            14.35   16.65    31.00    9.25   14.35    23.60   +  7.40
11            14.80   17.00    31.80    9.45   14.80    24.25   +  7.55
12            15.20   17.35    32.55    9.60   15.20    24.80   +  7.75
13            15.70   17.70    33.40    9.80   15.70    25.50   +  7.90
14            16.15   18.05    34.20   10.00   16.15    26.15   +  8.05
15            35.40   18.40    53.80   10.20   35.40    45.60   +  8.20
16            11.00   18.75    29.75   10.40   11.00    21.40   +  8.35
17            11.20   19.15    30.35   10.60   11.20    21.80   +  8.55
18            11.45   19.55    31.00   10.80   11.45    22.25   +  8.75
19            11.65   19.90    31.55   11.05   11.65    22.70   +  8.85
20            11.90   29.30    41.20   11.25   11.90    23.15   + 18.05
21            12.15   15.40    27.55   11.50   12.15    23.65   +  3.90
22            12.40   15.70    28.10   11.70   12.40    24.10   +  4.00
23            12.65   16.00    28.65   11.95   12.65    24.60   +  4.05
24            12.90   16.35    29.25   12.20   12.90    25.10   +  4.15
25            13.15   16.65    29.80   12.35   13.15    25.50   +  4.30
Total    172.85
ERR       30%
/1  Route a:  5 x 1,750 GRT vessels: routes b:  10 x FS-type
/2   Route a:  1 Ro-Ro vessel; routes b:  5 x 1,750 GRT vessels.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Costs and Benefits in Case 2:
Replacement of RS-type Vessels on Secondary
Routes with Conventional Passenger/Cargo Vessels
Difference in
Investment
Without Replacement of With Replacement of   and Operating
FS-type vessels,      FS-type vessels,             Cost,
Year                     million Pesos          million Pesos          million Pesos
Routes b               Routes b
0                            _                     19.0                   - 19.0
1                           15.40                  11.00                 +  4.40
16.15                  11.20                 +  4.95
3                           17.00                  11.45                 +  5.55
4                           17.85                  11.65                  +  6.20
5                           27.70                  11.90                  + 15.80
6                           15.40                  12.15                  +  3.25
7                           15.70                  12.40                 +  3.30
8                           16.00                  12.65                 +  3.35
9                           16.35                  12.90                  +  3.45
10                           16.65                  13.15                  +  3.50
11                           17.00                  13.40                 +  3.60
12                           17.35                  13.65                 +  3.70
13                           17.70                  13.90                 +  3.80
14                           18.05                  14.15                  +  3.90
15                           18.40                  33.15                  - 14.75
16                           18.75                  11.00                  +  7.75
17                           19.15                  11.20                 +  7.95
1&                           19.55                  11.45                  +  8.10
19                           19.90                  11.65                  +  8.25
20                           29.30                  11.90                  + 17.40
21                           15.40                  12.15                 +  3.25
22                           15.70                  12.40                  +  3.30
23                           16.00                  12.65                  +  3.35
24                           16.35                  12.90                  +  3.45
25                           16.65                  13.15                  +  3.50
Total         101.30
ERR            27%
March 1974



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Operating Results for Six Major Inter-Island Shipping Companies
(In Pesos Thousands)
Negros
Aboitiz               Candano             Cia Maritima              Naviga-       Sweet        William
Six Months           Six Months              Six Months        tion          Lines        Lines
1972     June 1973      1972  June 1973        1972   June 1973           1972          1972         1972
Operating Profit (Loss)           2,667        1,073        467        391         N/A       (1,531)        5,507        2,223        5,908
"Net Profit (Loss) before Tax    2,684          1,138        243        328     (2,345)       (2,843)        6,378        1,271        4,135
Operating Ratio                     89%          92%        89%        81%            _         108%           73%          93%          82%
Times Interest Covered              51x          21x        25x         6x            -           -          3.7x            2x         2.6x
Return on Net Assets              28.6%        25.6%       7.2%      18.6%            -           -          14.6%         8.3%         8.6%
Debt/Equity Ratio                 48/52        43/57      68/32     66/34        69/31        79/21         33/67        68/32         54/46
Current Ratio                     1.0:1        1.3:1      0.7:1      1.1:1       0.8:1        0.4:1         0.6:1        0.9:1         1.4:1
*After Cbarging
Depreciation                      948          598        241        131          N/A          960         2,771          N/A        2,763
Interest                           53           50        160         63         N/A        1,362          2,350       1,326         2,611
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Source:  Shipping companies and DBP.
March 1974                                                                                                                                       m



-PHI- LI PPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
Ope: ritng Result. for LFS Type Vessels (925 Dwt) 1972                            Ps OOC'
A        3 BC              D        B        F        G                  I        J       Total
Revenuez                         1,926   l,92b   1,72 6     2,161   1,353   2,232    2,325   2,160   1,788   2,163   19,780
Operating Expenses:
-ages                           151                        l60      162       185      186      181      I 82     163      1,736
e3 11  1 ' 143  1191      7        181      11'      111     1,514
Fue? .'il                      .1'3      ,15      ?0) 2             iOU I    2319      230      22P      218      200    2,110
Mi scellar eos                  30('     583               3190     327       530      669      590      5719     31      42
T'0ew                         ,,!,,          J           86 ___ 8(  _6   1__093           __7 _l3   1,052      753   10 186
D e p r e c i a   r.                5          9                4lx L    59      l;4       5 a      40)      125       5        5 5,2
Cverhemfd3 EDpernsec                3-       ,;S      33    i___         26        2       It4      L1        34             _34
Ntet Operatinge Profi.1,J(                   2       5".     "C3       4}2   I,05r3       cn,      895-      537   1,2975    8,6468
O^rig,-nal C~apital Co~st           j/      3C       2t       ?j         S        ;        0                 77 -14    5      43?
,{  eLur-n or,Ca  ta1 Invested   3 7 1. .    233.6   21-2.8   508I.7    0  C    2t.       7.    13Q.O        65.5 49.           1
Oze.e-ating Ratio                   45;      63       71        44       67       53       58       5 9       7C       4]        55
Sour ce- t  Shippi ng -.omp.:anets 
March 19 74



IBRD-11009
[18t                                                                                                                                       --7, 1F22  124  1i6 APRIL 1974
ilBo                       bc                             I~~~~~~~~io                               1240
PHILIPPINES
CLASSIFICATiON OF PROVINCES.
a 972 9G APPRAISAL OF A SHIPPING PROJECT
1. CITY OF MANILA       VII. WESTERN VISAYAS                           I      -e
I6                              36.S Akf-,1'.   N                                       ~       o
I1. ILOCOS                  36   nnoe                                                      VSn Vicente
2. Aer7ra                3S  Capl                             r          w       ,Or                                           Primary  Highways
3. Ilo-o S.,             39  Ng,r7rOc-4-o              Laooa
4  Le U.0-               40  Rocibl-n                                                                                           Railways
5. MoteArdFrorin.d                                          i                    10                                    4r       Principal Parts
6. Sengreet          Vill. EASTERN VISAYAS                                                                                                   po t                   I
7. logro                 41  OnhOl                         ';1            "         Togoegoroo                         a        Trunk Line Airport
6. KocIge'Apoyo           42eCb                                                                                               -d,rr.         ,Onore
43  Northern L.Vtg                                                                       - -8 - - t-- District  Boundaries
10  Retera               46. Eclern Smar                    l(-": ef     ;             logan..                                  Regional  Boundaries
10   flSovr               46. N.gr- Or,-rel                              o
11.  Isbr 6.1,1                                                      Nersretl * rAt-J nternationGl Boundaries
12. NloovibeYl            47. Northem Samar S<'-
12. lleoeVioeoa      8. Westen Same,
IV. CENTRtAL LUIZON                                    Sn      4 6.1 
le.   1 3B.   .              IX, NORTHERN & EASTERN   Fern         .                  -
or~~~~~~~~<
14. Bunc                  MINDANAO                                          12
IR. NocooEeie             49. Agusn del Nqrte
16  P. pcgo              5EO. 3=kidnon                            /      -
I7P.. ,-egcc               St. Le00 del Nerr    Beoln ,Fa                    
Is. T6rtta                52  Lanao del S.r
Tg. Zembales              b3. Misenris Oeidetal0
V.SOUTHERN TAGALOG           b6. MSioOeerol n               ' - 18
55. S-wge del Nere           C'o,I           oba,    an-A, ~,5                                                   0      10      S 
216. 9000t056   S..50 del Scu,0.6.' .  ...'C                                                                                               KILOMETERS
31, L.elte                57. Ail  del Sur             19               -- 
22. Marigiunda            5BR  Ca.ig=in                      1         14      X  
24. Mndor CimOide,tal                           Olonggn               i Fer3pndo    a
26  MindoroOriental     X. SOUTHERN & WESTERN             rS'3             8 27 '         <1
26. FOlewCen              MINDANAO                            S    I      Pcsi
27 . - Oezo                5. CeI.tobt
140  27  RtrcaI           60. Gecco dciNorme                'N y    i MSru    z                 "oNeuse Ponganiban                        Pacific C4
VI. Caefo rines  =        62. Zbnge dci NorCe So.
Vi. Albosg                62i. SeruoOenge Oi ,- Noeb                                                                                                          &,l,v  Ocean
So2"    =duthr.        6   Sioot   ob                .                        XI  "'Soc            '9       31
2 C.   v63, Sl  0-ul
22.~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ceedec  66   ee  rcti"-                       aoa         '&sC                                        o
33  Meeberbeo v a
34. so-roo6
M/ NO0                 2            _
HS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                   a J'OW
Seaah/na                                                 o                              61ra --obgar( +oh \ u   \  .3MAR
54 iTwiE^rdorwrtrLr r terPrStt bY re M IND                         A               N                 lA _58e
PA NI N A  Y- faTA^NAN  .   j                           g oColbovog
'tfS    South   sf                                ;           PA/AY.8 384<'/S X                           2 Och   4                    _
-o t' \        bPPINES~"NC                                           de7 'reaeso .'>                                      '% lSeel. ir-ni
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Poi(oof 39 r                                                                         ob4 
PAI AY.   LA    WA   N'   9*roPrnea                                                        ooeah       4
.1 N D O N E > A                | F                                  r22                                24e 3
f'>  A~~~~~~~~~~>ul      l
C 41 N 4     ri?e.15           Pi7c5s
PAAA8
<  Sot,IA                                         ,MINDAN                                                      C,
C  H I                      Nt'                                                        C
sea VIE   M           4J64CG
Ce/ebes Sea
M AL A1 'I' S     E-lAl2                                                                                                        4



