Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/a/ 3//-3_CO
Report No. 7624-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
JULY 11, 1989
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by nrpelents only In the pedolmanem of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1 - ColS 382.58
(7111/89)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOR         -  Banco de la Republica
(Bank of the Republic (Central Bank))
CAJA        -  Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(Caja Agraria)
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank)
DNP         -  Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
DRI         -  Desarrollo Rural Integrado
(Integrated Rural Development)
FFAP        -  Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
(Agricultural Financing Fund)
HIMAT       -  Instituto Colombi&no de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
Adecuacion de Tierras
(Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and
Land Improvement)
ICA         -  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuar'o
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
INCORA      -  Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
(Co4ombian Institute for Agrarian Reform)
INDERENA    -  Institrto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables
(National Institute for Renewable Natural
Resources)
PNR         -  Plan Nacional de Rehabilitaci6n
(National Rehabilitation Plan)
SENA        -  Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Apprenticeship Service)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Number
I.        LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................               1
II.       THE AGRICT'LTURAT. SECTOR ................................. X
Structure and Performance                   ..                          3
Potential for Agricultural Production Growth ............               3
The Irrigation Subsector ................................               4
Bank Strategy in the Agriculture Sector and in the
Irrigation Subsector                    ..                            7
Small-Scale Irrigation in Colombia ......................               8
III.      THE PROJECT .............................................                9
Rationale for Bank Participation                 ...                    9
Project Objectives                . . .10
Project Description                . . .10
Project Components and Detailed Features           . . .10
Project Costs                  . ..13
Project Financing                 . . .13
Procurement                    . ..13
Disbursements                   ...14
Accounts and Audit .................. 15
Project Implementationp.          .a.             . .                  15
Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation            .    .    .19
Cost Recovery                  . ..20
Envirotnental Impact               . . .21
Project Benefits, Justification, and Risks           . . .21
IV.       AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Colombia during November/December 1988. The mission comprised
Messrs. V. Ferrer (Mission Leader), J. Martinod (Irrigation Engineer),
A. Tobelem (Institutional Expert), D. Masterton (Agronomist (C)),
R. Simsolo (Financial Analyst (C)), and Ms. S. Joss (Operations Assistant)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance.
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANJEX 1 - Statistical Annex
Tsbles 1 to 13            ....................   25-45
ANNEX 2:
Procedures and Criteria for Subproject Selection and
Prioritization         .....................   46-48
Appendix: Criteria of Subproject Selection and
Prioritization            .      .       .............   49-52
ANNEX 3:
Agricultural Production, Incremental Farm Investment
Costs, and Agricultural Credit Aspects   . .......   53-60
Tables 1 to 22 .......................................   61-82
Appendix 1: Agricultural Credit Policy in Colombia ...    83-85
ANNEX 4:
Institutional Development Component    .      ..........   86-89
Appendix 1: Draft Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance Specialist ...............................   90-91
Appendix 2: Description of Training Activities .......   92-98
Appendix 3: Institutional Development Component Cost.   99-100
Appendix 4:  Institutional Development Component ......      101
Appendix 5:  Format for Programming and Follow-up
of the Training Component       ..............            102
Appendix 6: Format for Annual Programming and
Follow-up of the Small-Scale Irrigation Program .....      1.03
ANNEX 5:
Irrigation Infrastructure .............................  104-107
Tables 1 to 8 .........................................  108-121
Appendix 1:
Draft Terms of Reference for Contractors . ........ 122-125
Appendix 2:
Draft Terms of Reference for Supervision
of Construction ....     ................... 126-127
ANNEX 6:
La Mojana Pilot Project       .................. 128-132
Table 1 ...............................................     133
ANNEX 7:
Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ........................................     134



COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Colombia
Amount:         US$78.2 million
Terms:          17 years, five years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Prolect
Description:    The project would provide supplementary irrigation for
about 43,000 farmers in about 60,000 ha over a six-year
period by establishing about 850 small irrigation schemes
each ranging between 20 and 300 ha in size with each
beneficiary receiving irrigation on an average 1.4 ha. The
project would consist of the following components:
(a) Off-Farm Irrigation Infrastructure (for civii works,
engineering and equipment); (b) On-Farm Investments (for
on-farm irrigation equipment and agricultural inputs);
(c) Technology Transfer (for applied research and
extension); (d) Institutional Development (technical
assistance and training for the participating entities);
(e) Environmental Protection (to protect or recover areas
affected by soil erosion in catchment areas of small
watersheds); and (f) La Mojana Pilot Project (for pilot
agricultural development in a large but environmentally-
fragile drainage area of great economic potential).
Prolect Risk:   The economic risk of the project appears to be low and is
related primarily to the risk of slow adoption of more
intensive and productive land use. This will depend on the
levels of support from the extension services, technical
assistance and on tne availability of agricultural credit.
A secondary risk, related to the expected high
profitability of the small-scale irrigation schemes, is the
possibility that the selection criteria of areas and
individuals be biased to favor larger farmers. This risk,
however, will be minimized through the regular supervision
of the application of agreed selection criteria.



Estimated Costs: a/
Local      Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)-
Off-Farm Irrigation
Infrastructure                     53.1        39.1        92.2
On-Farm Investments                  32.0        15.1        47.1
Technology Transfer                   4.8          0.6        5.4
Institutional Development             3.2         2.9         6.1
Environmental Protection              0.8          0.2        1.0
La Mojana Pilot Project               1.1          3.2        4.3
Base Cost                      95.0         61.1       156.1
Physical Contingencies                5.7          4.8       10.5
Price Contingencies                  17.1         12.3       29.4
Total                         117.8         78.2       196.0
a/ Includes US$3.1 million in taxes.
Financing Plan:
Government                           43.4          -         43.4
Beneficiaries                        33.5          _         33.5
Financial Intermediaries             40.9          -         40.9
Bank                                 _            78.2       78.2
Total Proiect Cost            117.8         78.2       196.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY          1990   :991  1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  1997
--_-_--------US$ million----------------------
Annual          4.1   3.2    7.8   12.6   11.7   16.4   14.8   7.6
Cumulative      4.1   7.3   15.1   27.7   39.4   55.8   70.6  78.2
Economic Rate of Return: 23Z
MaP: No. 21413



1I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Structure and Performance
2.01     Agriculture accounts for about 202 of GDP, provides employment for
two million people--252 of the labor force--and contributes about 702 of
merchandise exports. Coffee accounts for about 122 of agricultural GDP;
other permanent crops: 312; annual crops: 202; and livestock: 372.
However, coffee accounts for 552 of total (legal) exports, and 852 of
agricultural exports. Coffee exports as a proportion of total agricultural
exports have remained fairly constant over the last two decades, but some
diversification has occurred within non-coffee agricultural exports
(e.g., flowers and bananas). Growth of agricultural GDP in Colombia was
good in the 1970-80 period (about 4.52 p.a.), slowed between 1980 and 1985
to 1.12 p.a., but picked up again in 1985 to about 22 and to 4.52 in 1987.
The slowdown in the early 1980s was attributed to weakening demand for
Colombia's non-coffee agricultural exports, and appreciation of the real
exchange rate. It may also have reflected the steady decline in public
seccor investment expenditure in the sector during the decade of the 1970s
and early 1980s.
2.02     Colombia has a total land area of 114 million ha, of which no more
than 33 million ha (301) are considered suitable for agricultural
production (14 million ha fLr crops and 19 million for livestock).  Of this
area, about 27 million ha are presently under cultivation, with crop
production accounting for about 4 million ha in 1985 (only 28t of the total
area potenttally usable for cropping), and about 23 million ha in
livestock. Of the 14 million ha suitable for agricultural production,
about 3.5 million ha distributed nationwide can technically be irrigated,
but only 172 is presently under irrigation. Of the 10 million ha suitable
for rainfed productions, about 7 million ha are in sloping areas in the
Andean foothills which could be primarily used for permanent crops to
minimize erosion problems, and 3 million ha are in flatlands primarily in
the Caribbean coastal areas.
Potential for Agricultural Production Growth
2.03     Domestic and external demand projections for foodstuffs by the
year 2000 carried out by the Sociedad de Agricultores de Colombia (SAC)
indicated that between 29 and 39 million ha would be required to be in
agricultural production by that year to meet the expected demand for
foodstuffs, for agroindustries and for expanding exports of agricultural
commodities compared with the 27 m.llion ha now in production (of which a
large majority is in extensive livestock). Land availability would not be
a constraint to increasing food p:oductiorn in Colombia. However, the
existing pattern of land distribution and ownership and lack of adequate
transport infraqtructure (which would be costly to provide) constrain the
incorporation of this idle land into production. A more efficient way to
meet the expected additional demand would be through agricultural
intensification and improved yields. While crop yields are quite good on
average, there are large differentials in crop productivity between



- 4 -
commercial crops, especially rice (produced mostly by large farmers on the
flatlands and valley floors of the main rivers on soils with good
agricultural potential) and food crops (produced primarily by small
farmers).
2.04     Sustainable productivity and rural income increases in the small-
farm sector (where rural poverty is concentrated), however, are constrained
by landholding size which imposes a physical limit to productivity
increases, and climate-related crop risk.  Despite the 25 years since the
inception of the Agrarian Reform program and major Government efforts
through the Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integrado (DRI) and INCORA
programs %and since 1986, through the National Rehabilitation Plan (PNR)),l
about 1.8 mil_ion farms, or 85Z of the total, have less than 20 ha each
(including 56? with less than 3 ha) and occupy only slightly more than 15Z
of the total area under cultivation. Climate is also a constraint.
Colombia, due to its location and topography has a wide range of
temperature and rainfall (ranging from 5,000 mm/year in Chaco to
400 mm/year in Guajira). Altitude and temperatures determine the period of
crop maturity while the seasonality of rainfall dictates planting dates and
in association with soil characteristics leads to seasonal moisture
deficits (aggravated by the limited moisture retention of the soils in the
slopes of the Andean ranges, where most of the small farmers are located)
which reduce crop yields. In the prevailing rainfed agriculture
conditions, the extremes of rainfall and temperature determine whether one
or more crops per year can be obtained, or none at all because of drought
or frequent inundations. Thus, productivity and income increases would
require switching to more modern technology and introducing supplemental
irrigation which has proven its p.tential for increasing yields
substantially and reducing crop and price risk.
The Irrigation Subsector
2.05     In Colombia, about 600,000 ha are presently under irrigation2
equivalent to less than 1Z of the total land area and about 2? of the
27 million ha presently under agricultural use (crops and livestock).3
Most of the areas under irrigation are located in the low-lying, warm
climate areas and in the inter-Andean valleys at altitudes ranging up to
1/ DRI and INCORA have assisted about 150,000 farmers over the past
25 years (there is no track record for PNR yet). The improvement in
the rural standard of living and production growth, however has baen
modest, due to lack of financial resources, periodic softening of the
political will (as in the case of the agrarian reform programs under
INCORA), and the scope of the problem itself.
2/ Colombian agricultural statistics present hectares under crop per year,
without taking into account double cropping. This may result in an
overestimate of the area under irrigation (e.g., for irrigated rice the
national average cropping intensity is 1602).
!         3/  The area under irrigation in Colombia is small by comparison for
instance with HMxico and Per(L where the area under irrigation in 1983
as a percentage of the total land area was 2.12 and 4? respectively.



4reas and in the inter-Andean valleys at altitudes ranging up to 1,000
meters. They include the upper valleys of the Hagdalena and Cauca rivers
in the central part of the country, areas in the northeast section of the
country bordering with Venezuela, and the Caribbean coastal areas in the
north.
2.06     About 802 of the operating irrigation infrastructure in Colombia
or about 500,000 ha was developed and is managed and maintained by the
private sector with the Government simply regulating water rights. These
irrigation systems use water pumped from the Cauca and Magdalena rivers and
water from deep wells. In both systems, the water is primarily distributed
by gravity through a network of primary, secondary and tertiary canals also
built by private individuals or, in the case of larger civil works, by
private users' associations or large agroindustrial firms (primarily in the
sugar industry). Most of the irrigated land managed by the private sector
is located in some of the most fertile soils in Colombia in the Cauc& River
Valley. In general, the private sector irrigation systems are well
equipped and efficiently run and serve predominantly large farms linked to
or owned by vertically-integrated agroindustries. However, since the
1970s, virtually no private investment has taken place in irrigation and
there has been no expansion of the irrigated area under private sector
management due in part to the skewed incentive system inL the agricultural
sector and to insecurity in some rural areas.
2.07     Public sector investment in irrigation began in the 1940s and
expanded rapidly during the Agrarian Reform push of the 19609 when as a
reaction to widespread violence in the countryside, the Agrarian Reform law
was passed (19611; creating INCORA (Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma
Agraria) to colonize and settle new frontier lands and develop public
irrigation schemes. Irrigation/drainage systems were developed in
25 districts covering about 375,000 ha (275,000 for irrigation and 100,000
for drainage) of which only about 110,000 ha are actually irrigated.
2.08     The political popularity of the Agrarian Reform progran, that led
to the rapid expansion of the public sector irrigation program in the 1960.
decreased after 1970 and many systems that were started in the earl, period
were not completed due to reduced budgetary appropriations. As a
consequence, about a third of the 275,000 ha under irrigation in the
25 districts in existence did not have adequate irrigation infrastructure,
either because the required physical investment was not completed, or
because of insufficient water resources. The same budgetary constraints
and the inability or unwillingness of the public sector to collect water
charges,4 from beneficiaries who were receiving poor irrigation services
4/ A large proportion of beneficiaries were originally landless farmers
who received land under the Agrarian Reform programs. Either under
political pressure, or for income distribution considerations, the
Government declined to levy appropriate water charges on these
beneficiaries.



contributed to inadequate maintenance of the irrigation districts. This
led to a vicious cycle of cost recr-ery shortfalls and further
deterioration of the irrigation service. The end rest'lt of this process
was that by 1984, almost SOX of the 110,000 ha under irrigation in the
districts were underutilized, being used for low value or subsistence
crops, or for extensive livestock.
2.09     In the early 1980s, the Colombian Government initiated an
ambitious program to comolete and rehabi'.itate the 25 existing
irrigation/drainage districts and to improve cost recovery with financing
from the Bank. Proposals were also developed for new large-scale
irrigation projects but these were not carried out when 'he Bank declined
to finance them because of the underutilization of existing irrigated areas
and their poor economic feasibility. On the other hand, small-scale
irrigation schemes, initiated on a pilot basis (para. 2.16) under the Bank-
financed Irrigation Rehabilitation II Project, proved to be quite
successful.
2.10     The Government's poverty alleviation policy, directed to the
smaller and poorer segments of the Colombian farm population, is vigorously
pursuing an irrigation strategy aimed at: (a) completing and rehabilitating
the existing public sector irrigation schemes; and (b) expanding the small-
scale, gravity-type irrigation program by constructing a large number of
small-scale irrigation schemes. Over the period 1987-1990, the Government
intends to complete work in the existing larger irrigation schemes to
permit full utilization of an additional 90,000 ha for agricultural
purposes, and to establish no less than 600 new small-scale irrigation
schemes nationwide (including areas within the National Rehabilitation
Plan-PNR) primarily for the production of foodstuffs.
2.11     Institutional Framework.  The Colombian Institute for Hydrology,
Meteorology and Land Improvement (HIMAT) is the entity directly
responsible, inter alia, for public sector irrigation and drainage in
Colombia. The entity was established in 1976. Responsibility for the
operation and management of the 25 existing irrigation and drainage
districts was transferred to HIMAT from INCORA, reflecting both the decline
of Agrarian Reform as a national priority and the new importance that the
Colombian Government assigned to irrigation. HIMAT is governed by a Board
of Directors comprising several public institutions, presided over by the
Minister of Agriculture. HIMAT's organization is composed of a General
Director, appointed by the President of the Republic, and 15 Regional
Directors. HIMAT has a total staff of 2,397, of which 634 are ia the
Central Office in Bogot&. HIMAT is an efficient institution with a well-
deserved reputation for sound engineering, but it is weaker in agricultural
support services (an issue which will be addressed in the proposed
project). It has been and continues to be effectively managed. Budget
allocations have been sufficient to permit HIMAT to implement its
irrigation program (including Bank-financed projects) in a timely and
efficient manner.
2.12     HIMAT's sources of funds derive mostly from Government transfers
through the budget and external credits, the latter originating from two
World Bank loans (para. 2.15). In 1987, the budget accounted for 642 of
total resources, and external credit for 32S, with the balance (4?) derived



- 7 -
from water charges (with the trend in 1988 indicating an increase of the
share of external credit (422) and internal generation of resources (62)
reflecting the increased attention to water charge recovery). In 1987,
tunds were applied as follows: 122 to recurrent costs, and 882 to
investment, of which 71 for hydrology and meteorology, 63Z for irrigation
and drainage, and 172 to service debt. Debt service, which for the
purposes of financial clarity and accountability is formally settled by
HIMAT as the Borrower of record of the two previous loans fer irrigation
rehabilitation, is de facto financed though the noLmal budget allocations
approved by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES).
CONPES is the highest economic pol_^ymaking body in Colombia responsible
for authorizing publik sector institutions (including HIDAT) to enter into
(external) debt in accordance with the country's development plan and
resource envelope.
Bank Strategy in the Agricultural Sector and in the Irrigation Subsector
2.13     Bank assistance to the agricultural sector pursues two broad
objectives: the efficient growth of the sector, and rural poverty
alleviation. The two objectives are linked, in that a high rate of growth
of agriculture would contribute to poverty alleviation in rural areas, but
the Bank is in agreement with Government in that carefully targeted public
programs of assistance (such as DRI and PNR) should be vigorously pursued.
Bank strategy for assisting Government to achieve efficient growth of the
sector focuses on: (i) improving the private incentives system for
agricultural production; (ii) generating and promoting technology
improvement; (iii) assisting in the development of extension and credit
services; and (iv) providing support infrastructure, mainly irrigation and
rural roads. The above strategy is pursued through the macroeconomic
dialogue with Colombia ((i)), through investment projects presently under
discussion with the Government, or ongoing ((ii),(iii), and (iv)), and
through the proposed Small-Scale Irrigation Project.
2.14     Financial, technical and policy support for the rehabilitation and
expansion of the country's irrigation infrastructure have been important in
the Bank's policy dialogue and assistance strategy with Government. The
Bank's policy analysis and advice, formalized in the report "Irrigation
Subsector Review' of July 1988 (Green Cover Report No. 7380-CO), was
instrumental ir influencing irrigation policies when they were not
conducive to the efficient use of resources in the subsector, as in the
case of Government proposals in the early 1980s seeking Bank financing for
additional large-scale irrigation infrastructure (para. 2.09). In the
event, no new large-scale irrigation schemes were started. Further, the
subsector report above, recommended the continuation of the program of
rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage districts, and the
expansion of the small-scale irrigation program, given the satisfactory
results achieved under the Bank's pilot project (para 2.15), and the
poteu,tial for introducing irrigation in additional small-farm areas in the
Andean and coastal regions.
2.15     In direct support of the irrigation and drainage subsector, the
Lank has financed five projects: Atlintico I (Loan 502-CO), Atlintico II
(Loan 849-CO), C6rdoba II (Loan 1163-CO), Irrigation Rehabilitation I



(Loan 1996-CO), and Irritation Rehabilitation II (Loan 2667-CO). The first
three projects were implemented by INCORA during the 1970s. The Project
Completion Reports (PURs) of these projects concluded that technica'l
difficulties were experienced by all of them and that implementation was
further hampered by INCORA s institutional wesknessen.  The Irrigation
Rehabilitation I Loar, for which the borrower and implementing agency was
HIMAT (paras. 2.11-2.12), financed the rehabilitation of eight irrigation
districts covering 47.000 ha. The implementation record of this loan,
which closed on December 31, 1988 as scheduled, has been good, having met
most of the project's objectives (cost recovery performance and utilization
of irrigated land, however, have lagged behind appraisal expectations).
The Irrigation Rehabilitation II Loan also with HIMAT as borrower and
implementing agency. became effective in February 1987, and will
rehabilitate six additional irrigation districts, covering 108,000 ha,
provide financing to develop on a pilot basis small-scale, gravity-type
irrigation schemes covering about 8,000 ha and improve cost recovery
performance and land utilization. Implementation of this second
rehabilitation loan has started well, and while it is still early to
evaluate its performance, there has been satisfactory progress in all
components, including the small-scale irrigation component.
Small-Scale Irrigation in Colombia
;=.i6    The Small-Scale Irrigation Program in Colombia began formally in
1984. In 1986, coinciding with the preparation of the Baak's Irrigation
Rehabilitation II Project, the tempo of activities accelerated. A detailed
ex-ante feasibility study by JICA (the Japanese Development Pgency) of four
small-scale irrigation subprojects indicated rates of return of 242, 562,
572, and 412 respectively. However, in order to gain more experience with
the implementation of such schemes, the Bank supported a pilot project of
small-scale irrigation development on some 8,000 ha under the Irrigation
Rehabilitation II Project. The program has developed faster than
anticipated and by September 1988, 256 small-scale irrigation subprojects
irrigating about 17,000 ha had been completed (most of them by contracting
out the design and construction). Another 85 (on about 8,800 ha) were
under construction and an additional 111 had been identified (some of %hich
would constitute the bulk of activities to be financed iP. the first year
program under the proposed project). Of the subprojectb completed,
55 subprojects covering some 4,200 ha have been partially financed through
the Bank's Irrigation Rehabilitation II Project.
2.17     The results to date indicate that the small-scale irrigation
program is achieving its objectives: planning and construction has been
effectively carried out, in most cases with active community involvement;
it has low investment costs (about US$1,200 per ha); it has resulted in
significant income growth for the small-scale farmers involved through
production increases or through shifts to igher value agricultural
commodities; it has reduced market risks by allowing farmers to adjust
planting-harvesting seasons to take advantage of seasonal price variations;
and it has promoted community responsibility for operating and maintaining
the irrigation works. An ex-post evaluation of two of the subprojects
conducted by HIMAT and a subsequent evaluation carried out by a consulting
firm have confirmed the economic results projected by the JICA feasibility
study. HIMAT's own evaluation, however, pointed out some of the problems



-9-
associated with the program, i.e., the lack of train.ng in optimal water
usage and improper utilization of some on-farm irrigation equipment in the
part of the users (despite the simplicity of the equipment), the lack of
appropriate technical assistance to the farmers with the concomitant risk
of low quality maintenance and unsustainable agricultural yields in the
long run, the need for HIHAT to increase the manpower resources assigned to
the small-scale irrigation program and to improve monitoring and
evaluation, as well as to strengthen institutional coordination within
HIMAT, and between HT'AAT and the implementing agencies and the communities.
These issues would be addressed under the proposed project.
2.18     In regard to environmental concerns, INDERENA's5 overall
assessment of the Small-Scale Irrigation Program, following their
participation in the preparation of the proposed project, is that on
environmental and soil-erosion criteria, it is far superior to previous
rainfed agricultural practices. By intensifying agricultural production,
shifting cultivation has been reduced, ground cover increased and levees
constructed to reduce run-off. In order to further ensure that
environmental concerns are taken into account, INDERENA would 'De
responsible under the project for pre-approval of all sma:l-scule
subprojects in terms of water resource use and of the environmental
soundness of the proposals.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01     The proposed project was prepared by HIMAT with support from a
Bank preparation mission that visited Colombia in June 1983 and was
appraised by a Bank mission in November/December 1988. Negotiations took
place during May 22-25, 1989.
Rationale for Bank Participation
3.02.    The proposed project supports the Bank's dual policy objectives
for the agricultural sector, i.e, promoting the efficient growth of the
sector, and assisting the Government's efforts in rural poverty
alleviation.  The Bank's involvement in the project would specifically
help:  (a) ensure that sound and efficiency-based criteria are established
and applied for the selection of areas to receive irrigation
infrastructure; (b) alleviate rural poverty among the small-farm
beneficiaries through the project effects on their rural incomes;
(c) improve the efficiency of the agricultural sector by increasing
agricultural productivity and production; (d) strengthen the efforts of the
Government to decentralize and devolve to the coamunities responsibility
for their development by involving the communities in the construction,
financing, operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes; (o) ensure
continued attention to improving cost recovery in the irrigation sector and
to rationalizing public sector outlays in irrigation; and (f) ensure the
environmental soundness of using water resources and of introducing
51 INDERENA (Instituto Nacional de Recursos Renovables) is responsible for
natural resource and environment protection in Colombia.



- 10 -
irrigated agricultural practices onto small farms. It would also help to
establish the advisability of developing the environmentally fragile
La Mojana area for agricultural purposes.
Proiect Oblectives
3.03     The major objectives of the proje-m would be t.; (a) increase
agricultural productivity and cropping intensity and therefore rural
incomes of about 43,000 small-scale farmers; (b) reduce market risks by
smoothing out production throughout the year; tc) develop the technological
base for the future development of La Mojana Region; (d) improve cost
recovery from public sector investment in irrigation and thereby reduce the
subsidy to water users for fiscal as well as for resource allocation
purposes; and (e) strengthen community participation in the construction,
financing, operation and management of the irrigation schemes.
Project Description
3.04     The proposed project would build upon and expand the Small-Scale
Irrigation Pilot Program established under the Irrigation Rehabilitation II
Project and the Government's own program initiated in the mid-1980s. It
would provide supplementary irrigation for about 43,000 small farmers on
about 60,000 ha over a six-year period to increase production of
predominantly food crops, and diversify agricultural output into higher
value crops (fruits and vegetables). Over six years, the project would
support the establishment of some 850 irrigation schemes ranging between 20
and 300 ha in size (and averaging about 70 ha) with each beneficiary
receiving irrigation on an average 1.4 ha. The irrigation schemes would be
located in the Andean foothills and in the Andean uplands
(1,000-3,000 meters elevation) and in the humid Atlantic coastal plains
where droughts are frequent but where, given its advantageous location,
some commodities could be produced for export markets.
Project Components and Detailed Features
3.05     The project would consist of the following components:  (a) Off-
Farm Irrigation Infrastructure; (b) On-Farm Investments; (c) Technology
Transfer; (d) Institutional Development; (e) Environmental Protection; and
(f) La Mojana Pilot Project.
3.06     Off-Farm Irrigation Infrastructure.  About 850 irrigation schemes,
ranging from 20 to 300 ha in size, would be constructed under the proposed
preject. The irrigation schemes would be of two types: diversion and
reservoir schemes. The diversion schemes (totalling about 800 and
averaging 75 ha in size) would deviate perennial streams on the lower
Andean slopes by constructing ti-ersion and headwork control structures.
The water would be distributed through underground PVC pipelires to farm
hydrants and from there to nn-farm distribution systems and sprinklers
operating under natural pressure. In the reservoir schemes (totalling
about 50 and averaging 20 ha in size) small reservoirs on intermittent
streams would be constructed in the undulating terrain cf the northern part
of Colombia. The mechanism of water distribution would be similar to that



- 11 -
of diversion schemes but would include pressure tanks when necessary. The
project would finance all the irrigation infrastructure required in each
scheme, including hydrants, to permit irrigating a maximum of 2.5 ha per
farm (Annex 5). Additional irrigation terminals and hydrants would be
included in the engineering design if water is available so as to permit
the expansion of the on-farm irrigated area beyond 2.5 ha per farm, but the
equipment would have to be obtained by each individual farmer through
credit or with their own funds. The farmers would finance at least 20? of
all off-farm investment costs and 1002 of on-farm irrigation investment
including sprinklers and water hoses (para. 3.27).  Also under the
component, abr   1,300 kms of existing access roads would be repaired
and/or improvea o facilitate access by the civil works contractors and
marketing of the increased agricultursl production expected under the
project, and to facilitate the distribution of agricultural inputs. Total
cost of the component including physical and price contingencies over the
life of the project is estimated at US$119.9 million, of which about 432 is
foreign exchange costs. Civil works construction accounts for about 492 of
total component costs, equipment for about 352, and consulting services for
surveying and mapping, design work, and supervision of construction for the
remaining 17? (Annex 1, Table 5).
3.07     On-Farm Investments.  This component would finance:
(a) agricultural on-farm investments, primarily inputs; and (b) the
provision of small, on-farm irrigation equipment (watering hoses and
sprinklers). Total cost of the component including contingencies is
estimated at US$56.9 million, of which 332 would be foreign exchange costs
(Annex 1, Table 6). The component costs would be borne by project
beneficiaries and would be financed by credit through financial
intermediaries or by cash from the farmers themselves, given the inherent
profitability iadicated by the farm models and the expected cash flow
profile (para. 3.29).
3.08     In regard to the amount and source of credit required by the
farmers to finance on-farm investment costs, and their contribution to off-
farm investment costs, it is likely that farmers would need credit in Crop
Year 1 (1990) in order to maintain or increase their levels of income
compared to the without project situation. Total credit needs, as shown in
Annex 3, are estimated at US$34.3 million, of which about US$27.4 million
(802), are expected to be financed by Caja Agraria's own funds, or through
the FPAP rediscount lines in Banco de la RepiLblica. The expected credit
requirements for the six years of the project represent a small fraction of
the total credit provided annually by Caja Agraria and FlAP (about
US$925 million in 1988). In addition, the provision of credit will be
closely coordinated with technical assistance to be provided by Caja
Agraria, INCORA and other extension agencies (paras. 3.09 and 3.21).
Therefore, credit availability from domestic sources, on the terms and
conditions indicated in para. 3.20, is not expected to be a constraint and
there will be no neud for external financing. The Government provided
assurances during negotiations regarding: (a) the availability of credit
from Caja Agraria and FFAP to the beneficiaries of the irrigation schemes
developed by HIMAT; and (b) the undertaking of a review process, at the
request of the Borrower or the Bank, should the Government change their
current policy on agricultural rates as reflected in Junta Monetaria,



- 12 -
Resolution No. 28 of December 28, 1988, which provides an acceptable
fiscal, economic and financial environment for the purposes of investments
under the project (para. 4.01 (a)).
3.09     Technology Transfer.  Under this component, the proposed project
would finance: (a) the costs of assigning 10 ICA research teams comprising
10 agronomists and 10 field assistants to 30 representative project areas
to develop suitable technological packages for irrigation on sloping areas.
The costs would include the pu:chase of some field research equipment and
agricultural implements, as well as incremental staff, travel, per diem and
other operating costs; and (b) the incremental costs of contracting
214 extension agents in Caja Agraria, INCORA and other extension agencies
responsible for disseminating technological packages and for providing
technical assistance to the communities on operation and maintenance of the
irrigation infrastructure. Total cost of this component including
contingencies is US$6.2 million, of which .62 would be for research under
ICA, 352 for incremental extension costs, and 492 for training of groups of
farmers by SENA. The foreign exchange costs of the component are estimated
at about 11Z (Annex 1, Table 7).
3.10     Institutional Development.  This component would aim to strengthen
HIMAT's capacity to manage and implement the project and to improve intra-
and interinstitutional coordination (para. 2.17). The component would
finance: (a) 42 man/months of consultants to improve: (i) internal
organization, information and management systems (24 man/months);
(ii) individual management training (6 man/months); and (iii) communication
with farmers' communities (12 man/months) (US$0.6 million); (b) local
training for about 6,700 staff of implementing agencies, and overseas
training for 21 HIMAT staff in irrigation, water management skills, etc.
(Annex 4, Appendix 2) (US$1.9 million); (c) 19 four-wheel drive vehicles,
28 motorcycles, 15 personal computers and some video and communication
equipment for the use of HIMAT's 15 regional offices, given that the
project spans the entire country (US$0.8 million); and (v! funds for
subcontracting the preparation of annual project evaluation reports, and
for the preparation of promotional ma_erial for the small-scale irrigation
program (US$0.2 million). The proposed project would also finance
incremental staff for HIDAT (about 64 staff members) over the six years of
the project, incremental administrative costs and incremental operation and
maintenance costs for the additional vehicles (US$3.3 million). The total
cost of the component including contingencies is US$6.9 million, of which
about 512 are investment costs and the balance are recurrent costs.
Foreign exchange costs are 46t of total costs (Annex 1, Table 8).
3.11     Environmental Protection.  Under this component, funds would be
provided to: (a) subcontract soil conservation activities identified by
HIMAT anl INDERENA on an expected 1,075 ha in the proposed project areas
which would include: (i) reforesting about 750 ha in the water catchment
areas for the irrigation schemes; and (ii) constructing small physical
structures such as gully plugs, trenches and terraces in about 325 ha of
critical watershed areas; and (b) assist INDERENA in carrying out an
effective environmental supervision of the irrigation subprojects to be
constructed by financing the incremental costs (travel, gasoline, per diem)
for their supervision staff. Total cost of the component including
contingencies has been estimated at US$1.1 million, of which 202 would be
foreign zosts (Annex 1, Table 9).



- 13 -
3.12     La Molana Pilot Project.  Under this component, funds would be
provided to finances (a) studies and consultant services over a period of
six years to identify suitable cropping systems, land management
techniques, and needed civil works; and (b) subsequent pilot investments
and field trials in representative areas of La Mojana totalling 300 ha to
be selected by the consultants. A detailed implementation proposal is
included in para. 3.25 and Annex 6. Total cost of the component including
contingencies is estimated at US$5.0 million of which about 74Z would be in
foreign exchange (Annex 1, Table 10).
Project Costs
3.13     Total project costs, are estimated at about US$196.0 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$78.2 million, or 402
(Annex 1, Table 1).  The cost of the components was calculated using
January 1989 prices and includes physical contingencies of 152 for civil
works, 10? for equipment, and 52 for design and supervision. Expected
price increases over the implementation period were computed using the
Bank's projections for international and local inflation (Annex 1,
Table 13). Total project costs include US$3.1 million of local and other
taxes. Physical and price contingencies total US$39.9 million.
Project Financing
3.14     The proposed Bank loan of US$78.2 million would finance 40? of
total project costs equivalent to 1002 of the project's incremental foreign
exchange costs. The balance of project costs would be financed by
irrigation beneficiaries (US$33.5 million equivalent, or about 17Z),
financial intermediaries, principally Caja Agraria with its own resources
or through the rediscount facility (FFAP) at the Banco de la Rep6blica
(US$40.9 million equivalent, or about 212), and the Government
(US$43.4 million equivalent, or 222) (Annex 1, Table 2). The Republic of
Colombia would be the borrower and bear the foreign exchange risk. The
Government would make the proceeds of the loan available to HIMAT under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Signing of the agreement between the Borrower
and HDMAT would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
(para. 4.02 (a)). Counterpart funding has not been an issue in the ongoing
irrigation projects in HIMAT and the approved budgetary allocations for
HIMAT for 1989 indicate that counterpart funding would be available to
initiate the expanded level of activities proposed under this project.
Assurances that .overnment would provide the necessary annual counterpart
funding to HIMAT were obtained at negotiations (para. 4.01 (b)).
Procurement
3.15     Contracts for vehicles and equipment are expected to be small.
Four-wheel drive vehicles amounting to US$500,000 equivalent would be
procured through ICB in accordance with Bank's procurement guidelines.
Purchases of motorcycles, personal computers and minor equipment would
total about US$300,000. For equipment valued between US$50,000-US$l00,000
equivalent, LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank would be required. Minor
equipment valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent each--in aggregate not
to exceed US$150,000--would be purchased on the basis of price quotations



- 14 _
from at least three eligible suppliers. Civil works including engineering
design and installation of water hydrants and sprinklers, are expected to
be individually small (ranging from US$40,000 to US$300,000 equivalent
each, and averaging about US$75,000 equivalent) and dispersed
geographically and at different time intervals. Since they are unlikely to
attract international firms, procurement of civil work contracts estimated
to cost individually US$70,000 equivalent or more but less than UES$500,000,
would be carried out under LCB procedures with local advertising. Civil
works contracts estimated to cost less than US$70,000 but in aggregate not
to exceed US$20 million equivalent or 182 of the total value of civil works
to be procured, would be awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited
from at least three qualified local contractors. To be acceptable to the
Bank, procurement procedures would have to allow: for ICB: (i) no prior
registration of bidders shall be required; (ii) no requirement for local
agents shall be made; (iii) no provision regarding minimum number of
bidders shall be applied; (iv) bids for goods shall be evaluated on C.I.F.
basis for foreign bids and ex-factory basis for local bids; (v) freight
costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for purposes of bid
evaluation; and (vi) awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders;
and for LCB: (i) awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders.
For both ICB and LCB, all civil works and equipment for each irrigation
scheme would be procured under a single contract. The selection and
appointment of consultants for studies and technical assistance would be
consistent with the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. At
negotiations assurances were obtained that: (a) HIMAT would follow the
procurement procedures outlined above; (b) HIMAT would submit bidding
documents for ICB and LCB for goods and works--based on Bank's sample
bidding documents--for Bank approval before any investment starts;
(c) HIMAT would submit to the Bank for review and approval, before bids are
invited and contracts awarded, all procurement documentation for ICB and
for the first five contracts for goods and works to be procured under LCB;
and (d) for contracts above US$200,000 equivalent for goods and US$300,000
equivalent for civil works, prior Bank review of procurement documentation
will be required (para. 4.01 (c)). Prior Bank procurement documentation
review will cover 2? of the total goods and works financed by the project.
Annex 1, Table 11 shows the expected breakdown of procurement among ICB,
LCB and other procurement procedures.
Disbursements
3.16     The proposed Bank loan of US$78.2 million would be disbursed over
seven and a half years, based on the standard disbursement profile
percentages for the Agricultural Sector in Colombia (except for the first
and last semesters due to the existence of the Special Account, Annex 1,
Table 3). Disbursements would be made for 10O? of the foreign expenditures
for equipment and vehicles, foreign consultants and training; 802 of
expenditures for locally procured vehicles and equipment, 55? of
expenditures for civil works (including rural roads), 602 for research,
local training and local consultants expenditures and 90? of extension
expenditures (Annex 1, Table 12). All disbursements would be against
statements of expenditures except for contracts exceeding US$300,000 for
civil works and US$200,000 for goods, vehicles and equipment, for which



- 15 -
submission of full documentation would be required in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Retroactive financing of up to US$2.0 million for expenditures
made after January 1, 1989, on account of civil works, vehicles and
equipment. training and consultants have been included in the loan. The
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995. The Closing Date
is June 30, 1996.
3.17     At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would
establish a Special Account in Banco de la Rep6blica, in US dollars. to
cover all eligible Bank expenditures under the loan (para. 4.01 td)). The
Bank would deposit up to an initial US$4.1 million upon receipt of
withdrawal applications. HIMAT would be authorized under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be signed with the Borrower as a condition of
effectiveness, to draw from the Special Account on behalf of the Borrower
(para. 4.02 (a)). Subsequent replenishments by the Bank into the Special
Account would follow the normal procedures.
Accounts and Audit
3.18     Project accounts would be maintained by HIMAT in accordance with
sound accounting principles and methods, consistently applied. The
experience with HIMAT's accounting systems and practices under the ongoing
loan has been good and there is no need to introduce any modifications.
The Special Account, accounts for the project, and statements of
expenditures as well as the farmers' contribution to off-farm irrigation
infrastructure investments, would be audited annually by the Comptroller
General of Colombia which has beetn found satisfactory by the Bank. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from HIMAT that the audited reports
as well as HIMAT's overall financial statements, would be submitted within
six months of the close of each fiscal year, starting with the audit
reports for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1989 (para. 4.01 Ce)).
Project Implementation
3.19     Overall Management and Works.  Under the terms of a Project
Agreement to be signed by HIMAT and the Bank, HIMAT would be responsible
for carrying out the proposed project and ensuring proper coordination with
the other implementing agencies: Caja Agraria, ICA, INCORA, SENA and
INDERENA, others (as the need may arise and as proposed by HIMAT and agreed
to by the Bank from time to time), and the communities. HIMAT's regional
offices and the Technical and Programming and Budgeting Divisions of HIMAT
would have principal responsibilities for the project.  The regional
offices would be responsible for the selection of areas to receive
irrigation on the basis of agreed criteria, preparation of subproject
profiles, identification of repairs or improvements neeced for access
roads, on-the-field monitoring of subproject construction and supervision
by private contractors, and assisting with extension services. The Small-
Scale Irrigation Unit within the Technical Division would be responsible
for reviewing technical aspects and assisting in the technical evaluation
of the program. The Programming and Budgeting Division of HIMAT's central
office would be responsible for planning, budgeting, and administering the
program, as well as preparing and forwarding to the Bank, the monitoring
and evaluation reports of the project through its Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit. HIMAT and DNP have defined the criteria (including an ex-ante rate



- 16 -
of return of at least 20! for diversion subprojects in sloping areas and of
at least 152 for the reservoir subprojects) for selecting and prioritizing
the communities where small-scale irrigation would be constructed and the
conditions for their participation (Annex 2). The criteria to be applied
for selection have been found satisfactory by the Bank and will be included
in HIMAT's operational manual. Additionally, the subprojects would only be
constructed in areas judged by the Government to be sufficiently secure to
allow Bank supervision missions. Assurances that the criteria, including
accessibility of the areas for purposes of execution and supervision, would
be adopted for the duration of the project were obtained at negotiations
(para. 4.01 (f)). A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that
HIMAT has formally adopted the manual incorporating technical criteria for
selecting subprojects (para. 4.02 (b)). Under the project, HIMAT is
expected to initiate design and construction in about 23 subprojects
covering 2,100 ha in 1989, the first year of project implementation. The
road works would be included in the contracts of irrigation scheme
construction, following technical criteria and specifications used by
Caminos Vecinales in ongoing Bank-financed projects. HDMAT's list of
potential contractors is acceptable to Caminos Vecinales. Given the nature
of the proposed project, and the small amount to be spent on rural roads
(less than 52 of total project cost), the road works would not be subject
to the recently established cofinancing agreements between the
municipalities and Caminos Vecinales (Resolution 107 of December 7, 1988).
Maintenance of the access roads, in accordance with the Government's policy
on decentralization, would be the responsibility of the municipalities,
under the terms agreed upon in a Maintenance Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, which would be entered into between HIMAT and each municipality prior
to repairing or improving any road. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) the agreed technical criteria and specifications for
road repair and improvement would be used for the duration of the project;
and (b) that HIMAT would enter into a Maintenance Agreement with the
relevant municipalities prior to repairing or improving any road
(para. 4.01 (g)).
3.20     Credit.  Provision of credit, primarily by Caja Agraria, will be
closely coordinated with technical assistance by providing early advice to
Caja and the extension agencies (para. 3.09) on the yearly program of
irrigation schemes construction. This form of supervised credit, and the
reduction of crop risk expected under the project, would ensure acceptable
credit risk levels for the financial intermediary, and reduce the
collateral and other guarantee requirements which have often in the past
posed a serious problem to the provision of credit to small farmers. Terms
and conditions for the provision of credit would be those prevailing in the
existing credit lines of Caja Agraria and FFAP directed to small farmers
for irrigation investments. Under the present guidelines, FFAP rediscounts
short- (up to two years) and medium-term (up to six years) loans for crop
establishment and land improvement and infrastructure, granted by financial
intermediaries. The dispersion of interest rates is expected to decline
and the level of interest rates to increase during 1989 as a result of
recently introduced changes which, inter alia, will make interest rates
variable by tying them to the interest rate of the Certificates of Deposit
(a market-determined cost of funds to the financial intermediaries)
(Annex 3, Appendix 1).



- 17 -
3.21     Technology Development.  Technological packages for irrigated
agriculture would continue to be developed by ICA with the support of the
Bank financed Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 2303-CO).
Under contract arrangement with HIMAT, ICA would establish 10 field
research staff teams in ten representative agroclimatic zones to validate
the existing technological packages. On average each team, consisting of
one agronomist and one field assistant assisted by specialists from ICA
regional research stations, would be responsible for verification trials to
be carried out at three locations within each of the 10 agroclimatic zones.
In the 30 selected locations, trials would be conducted in a total of 684
plots covering 114 ha. The trials would be conducted on the land of
HIMAT's small-scale irrigation schemes beneficiaries to ensure
replicability. Results from the verification trials would be made
available to the extension services via workshops, demonstration days and
in-service seasonal training programs. Submission by HIMAT of the final
contract agreement with ICA would be a condition of loan effectiveness
which would include details of the 1989 program of activities and outline
the program for the remaining five years of project life (para. 4.02 (c)).
3.22     Extension Services.  Caja Agraria, INCORA, and SENA would have
major responsibility for extension services under the project in the
context, respectively, of Caja's National Extension Service program which
aims at providing technical assistance to nearly 750,000 small farmers by
1990, INCORA's activities in agrarian reform areas, and SENA's work in
rural areas. Other public and private sector smaller regional extension
agencies (primarily Agricultural Secretariats) would also participate in
the project in the areas where they are active. This would permit the full
and efficient utilization of the extension infrastructure already in place,
and reduce the need for expanding public sector outlays for extension. The
project would finance the incremental cost of Caja's extension services as
well as the training of their extension agents. Caja would provide
extension for about 18,000 of the 43,000 expected beneficiaries with the
rest attended by the other agencies. Training for extension staff of
INCORA and all the other extension agencies would also be financed under
the project, but all other extension costs would be absorbed by the
entities. Availability of extension services would thus be guaranteed in
each irrigation subproject to be constructed by HIMAT under the proposed
project. SENA, the national training institution would also be responsible
for ensuring adequate training to the participating communities in
organizing themselves into a legal entity for the purposes of acquiring the
irrigation assets and operating and maintaining the infrastructure works
once constructed. Contractual or other arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for the provision of extension services and community support would be
worked out between HIMAT, and all the extension agencies including SEN
The arrangements would require, inter alia, that HIMAT and the extension
agencies define by October of each year the location and program of
extension services to be provided by the institutions in the following
year. This would ensure suitable coordination and r ailability of
resources both in terms of manpower and financing and permit an adequate
level of extension services under the project. The specific program of
extension services required for the first year of project implementation
(1989) would be included in the contracts. Preparation by HIMAT and
submission to the Bank of the final contract agreements with Caja, INCORA



- 18 -
and SENA and of the final operational agreements with INDERENA, Secretaria
de Agricultura de Antioquia and Secretaria de Desarollo del Norte de
Santander would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.02 (c)).
3.23     Institutional Development.  Under the training subcomponent, a
total of 42 training activities and 366 training events for about 5,700
participants would be included to improve technical skills in irrigation
and water management and close information gaps at the professional and
technical levels. Overseas training would also be provided for 21 staff of
HIMAI. The training program would include seminars on the objectives of
the proposed project and its role in the Government's irrigation strategy,
for management staff (about 100) of every involved agency to ensure harmony
and prompt support to all activities. At the technical level, about
450 staff would also be trained in small-scale irrigation technology as it
is made available by ICA and other sources, and in comunication
techniques. Finally, training activities would also be extended to
communities organizations at the regional and local levels. A detailed
training plan covering the six years of the project has been prepared and
is shown in Annex 4. The consultants to be hired under the project (one
for project evaluation and three for institutional development for a total
of 42 man/months) would be located in HIMAT.  Draft terms of reference are
included in Annex 4. The Technical and Programmui-g and Budgeting Divisions
and the regional offices of HIMAT would be strengthened in terms of staff
and organization so as to improve its ability both at headquarters level
and in the departments, to ensure adequate and timely promotion,
construction, coordination, supervision and evaluation of subprojects as
well as to provide as3istance in water management and irrigation equipment
to the field staff of the extension agencies. The Technical Division for
small-scale irrigation would be strengthened with three additional
professional staff. In addition, a new extension section for small-scale
irrigation would be created in the new Extension Division. The Extension
Division would include a unit chief and three professional staff. Each of
the 15 HIMAT regional offices would receive one additional professional and
on average, two additional technical staff to concentrate exclusively on
small-scale irrigation activities.  The Programming and Budgeting Division
would be strengthened with a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit recently
created and staffed with one section chief. four professional staff and two
technical staff (Annex 4). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
HIMAT: (a) would submit by September 30, 1989, and December 31, 1989 final
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the project evaluation and
the institutional development consultants respectively, and employ them by
Marcn 31, 1990; and (b) submit to the Bank the annual operational training
programs by October 31 of each year, starting in October 1989 (paras. 3.10
and 4.01 (h)). Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that, in
addition to the forty additional staff already engaged, HIMA? would assign
or employ seventeen additional staff by January 31, 1990 and seven more by
January 31, 1991, and maintain all such 64 additional staff for the life of
the project (para. 4.01 (h)).
3.24     Environmental Protection.  INDERENA, in coordination with HIMAT,
would be responsible for the environmental protection component to be
included under the project. The component would permit INDERENA to carry
out its role of approving each individual subproject before construction
begins and to ensure that erosion-control measures are implemented in the



- 19 -
project areas. To permit HIMAT the flexibility required for the protection
of the small watersheds, the work would be carried out by private
contractors.
3.25     La Moiana Pilot Pro1ect.  La Mojana is an area of about 450,000 ha
in the northern plains of Colombia bound by the rivers Magdalena and Cauca
and considered to be of great agricultural potential. However, because it
is a flood and alluvial area of great ecological importance, its
development must be approached carefully. Initially, specialists already
familiar with La Mojana, from HIMAT, ICA and INDERENA assisted by an expert
in lar.d management, recruited internationally, would draw ur terms of
reference for studies and subsequent constructions and investigations to be
carried out. Draft terms of reference for the initial study are included
in Annex 6. The study phase, expected to require six months and involving
50 man/months of local and foreign experts, would positively identify
representative sites and investigations to be undertaken. Civil works
expected to be completed during the second project year would entail
establishment of three pilot sites totalling 300 ha for investigations
complete with the necessary equipment and vehicles. Investigations on
these sites, to be carried out during the three following years is
provisionally expected to involve 288 months of local expert time with
24 months of foreign expert assistance. Reporting of research results and
preparation of recommendations for follow-up investment would be completed
during a further six months with 18 months of expert time. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that HIMAT would draft and submit to the Bank
final terms of reference for a land management international expert by
October 31, 1989, who would be employed by March 31, 1990 (par.. 4.01 (i)).
Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.26     The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in HIMAT wruld consolidate and
send to the Bank yearly reports on physical aspects of project
implementation. The Unit would also be responsible for assessing results
of the bi-annual evaluation of project impact that would be produced under
contract by an approved consulting firm (para. 3.23), and submitting the
report and the assessment bi-annually to the Bank, as well as producing a
final evaluation report at the completion of the project. The yearly
progress reports would include information on the status of physical works,
while the evaluation reports would assess the level of land intensification
and the level of agricultural production and productivity so as to
demonstrate the effectiveness of extension services and the availability of
credit. To permit this monitoring and evaluation function, HIMAT, in
cooperation with the other implementing agencies would prepare and submit
every year to the Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture and DNP, annual work
programs in accordance with formats agreed upon at appraisal. This would
include the list of subprojects to be constructed and financed in the
following year on the basis of the agreed selection criteria (para. 3.19)
and the extension agencies that would be responsible for technology
transfer in each subproject. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
HIMAT would submit to the Bank: (a) by October 31 of each year, starting
in October 31, 1989 the annual work program of HIMAT including the list of
subprojects to be constructed, the extension agencies responsible and other
related project activities to take place during the following year; (b) by
April 30 of each year, starting on April 30, 1990, yearly project progress



- 20 -
reports which would be forwarded to the Bank no later than three months
after the dates above; and (c) by April 30, starting on April 30, 1991, and
in alternate years thereafter, bi-annual evaluation reports of project
impact as well as a final project evaluation report six months after the
closing date of the project (para. 4.01 (j)).
Cost Recovery
3.27     The proposed project would entail a significant improvement on
HIMAT's present cost recovery policy in that it would recover a reasonable
share of off-farm irrigation infrastructure, and fully recover on-farm
irrigation costs and O&M costs. This would result in a substantial
reduction of the implicit suosidy to water users. Up to now, HIMAT has
never recovered investment costs in large-scale irrigation schemes and only
with the implementation of the Bank supported Irrigation Rehabilitation I
and II Projects has HIMAT aimed to collect 1002 of O&M costs. It has had
no standing policy, mechanisms, or legal authority for the recovery of
investment costs in small-scale irrigation subprojects. All off- and on-
farm investment costs in this type of projects have been provided free of
charge to project beneficiaries, although the beneficiary communities have,
in most cases, contributed a large share of the unskilled labor required
for civil work construction.  Under the proposed project, first, the
irrigation schemes would be transferred to the community as soon as they
are completed, and the community would therefore bear full responsibility
for O&M costs. To cover these costs, the individual water users would pay
a quota which would be set, collected and administered by the community
itself. Second, all on-farm irrigation investment costs (primarily water
hoses and sprinklers) would be paid by the farmer directly or through the
use of credit by including these costs as part of tbe farm investment
p'lans. The on-farm investment costs are estimated to reach about
US$57 million in the six years of the project (para. 3.07). Third, the
farmers would be required to pay a reasonable share of off-farm irrigation
investment costs (at least 20?), estimated at about US$17 million bringing
their contribution to about US$74 million. Assurances concerning the
implementation of these cost recovery measures were obtained at
negotiations (para. 4.01 (k)); the measures would be incorporated into the
Manual and the formal adoption of the Manual by HIHAT would be a condition
of effectiveness (para. 4.02 (b)). In order to assist the farmers defray
part of their sizeable contributions to off- and on-farm irrigation
infrastructure costs and ensure that they have the repayment capacity to
meet their contribution while providing an incentive for the community to
participate with their labor in the construction of the irrigation schemes,
HIMAT, in turn, would require the contractors to use community labor to the
extent possible for the construction of the irrigation schemes. This
would: (i) provide the beneficiaries with some additional income;
(ii) provide an incentive for the community to actively participate with
their labor in the construction of the irrigation schemes; and
(iii) simplify the contracting procedures between HIMAT  nd the civll works
contractors.
Environmental Impact
3.28     The initial environmental examination of the proposed project
conducted by INDERENA in coo?:dination with HIMAT indicates that this



- 21 -
project, as designed, would result in an improvement over the environmental
conditions that prevail at present under rainfed agricultural practices
where agricultural production is less intensive and more exposed to soil
erosion problems. The relative small size of each individual subproject
and community-wide participation would eliminate conflicts over water
supplies and land use and avoid largc-scale disruption of hydrology and the
possibility of regional flooding and drainage hazards. The project wo-.ld
not encroach upon forests or swamplands, impede movements of wildlife,
require resettlement of population, or threaten historical and cultural
sites. Possible problems of watershed erosion in the catchment areas would
be avoided or controlled by having INDERENA responsible for supervision and
by providing funds under the project for HIMTA and INDERENA to undertake
the necessary actions, including micro-watershed protection. INDERENA
would also be responsible for pre-approval of each irrigation subproject
which would further help guarantee the preservation of the environment
(para. 3.24). INDERENA and HIMAT are fully aware of the Bank prohibited
list of agrochemicals. Utilization under the project would be monitored
and regulated by INDERENA. Training would be provided to the community to
ensure appropriate and environmentally-sound operation and maintenance of
the irrigation schemes.
Project Benefits, Justification, and Risks
3.29     Benefits and Justification.  The major benefits of the project
would be of three types. First, the project would help reduce rural
poverty by increasing income and reducing crop and price risk of the
expected 43,000 small farmers who would receive irrigation under the
project. According to illustrative farm models (Annex 3, Tables 4-15), net
income is expected to increase from the present *without-the-projecto range
of US$500-1,390 to about US$2,020-6,700 in the year of full development (in
constant terms and at an exchange rate of US$1 = Col$ 327.1). Second, the
project would expand agricultural production of primarily foodcrops and
some export and import-substitution commodities by increasing agricultural
productivity and crop-ping intensity. It would also increase crop
diversification into higher value crops. Total incremental agricultural
production under the projact has been ebtimated for the year of full
development (1997) at about 710,000 tons over production without the
p.-Ject (Annex 3, Table Z2). Third, the project would result in an
increase in the private sector share of irrigation financing thereby
reducing public sector outlays. This would help improve the fiscal
position of the country and, by substantially reducing the implicit subsidy
to water users, would lead to a more efficient allocation of resources. A
further benefit of the project would be the impact on employment. Annual
incremental labor demand would peak at an estimated 27,500 man-years at
full production. This incremental labor demand is expected to benefit
underutilized farm family labor.
3.30     The project is well justified in both financial and economic
terms. Financial rates of return from the illustrative farm models are all
above 502. The economic rate of return for the project is 232 while for
representative irrigation schemes of 75 ha (diversion scheme) and 20 ha
(reservoir scheme), the economic rates of retu i would be 362 and 19Z
respectively. Switching values have been calculated for the project as a
whole and for the representative irrigation schemes. Market factors



- 22 -
(pricec and market access) and productivity increases would be the key
variables affecting the ERR. Net benefits would have to fall by 20t, 37Z
and 262 in the overall project, the 75 ha irrigation scheme and the 20 ha
scheme respectively before the EER would tall below the opportunity cost of
capital of 12X.   Since one of the major benefits of the proposed project
is the expected reduction of crop and price risk, the possibility of such
drops in net benefits io unlikely.  The reservoir schemes (20 ha) also
produce additional unquantified social benefits in the form of making water
available for home and animal use and they should be financed under the
project despite the relatively low EER of the representative scheme.
However, selection of schemes (about 50 are expected to be financed out of
850) would be subject to meeting the 152 ERR criteria (para. 3.19).
3.31.    Prices and Marketing.  Total agricultural output in Colombia,
which haa been historically increasing at rate of 4.52 per ye:ar, would
reach an estimated 26.7 million tons in 1997, as compared to 18.8 million
tons in 1989, an increase of 7.9 mil:ion tons. Incremental production
increase under the project would therefore represent less than 102 of the
overall increase (para. 3.29). Given the ration-wide scope of the project,
the small nature of each irrigation scheme and its limited Effect on total
gross production, the availability of marketing channels for basic
foodstuffs, and that the pricing mechanisms provide, by and large,
satisfactory market signals to the farmers, marketing of the incremental
production to be achieved under the project is not expected to be a
problem.
3.32     Project Risks.  The economic risk of the project appears to be
low. The main risk would be a slower than expected transition towards more
intensive land use if satisfactory levels of technical assistance are not
achieved. The extension and research components under the project would
specifically address this to mitigate the risk. Likewise the availability
of credit could be a risk, especially given that the Bank would not finance
this component. However, the financial sector, and particularly the
provision of agriculture credit are central to the Bank's policy dialogue
with Government and the timely provision of credit to this and other
ongoing Bank loans would continue to receive close attention. A secondary
risk relates to the possibility that the selection criteria of areas and
individuals be biased in favor of larger farmers in view of the expected
high profitability of small-scale irrigation. This risk would be minimized
through the regular supervision of the application of the agreed selection
criteria.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01     During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that:
(a) agricultural credit would be available from Caja Agraria and/or
FFAP to the beneficiaries of the irrigation schemes, and that a
review process, at the request of the Borrower or the Bank would
be undertaken should current acceptable policy on agricultural
rates change (para. 3.08);



- 23 -
(b)  appropriate level of counterpart funding for the project
would be available for the project at all times (paras. 3.14);
(c)  ti) HIMAT would follow the procurement procedures outlined;
(ii) HIMAT would submit bidding documents for ICB and LCB for
goods and works--based on Bank's sample bidriing documents--for
Bank approval, before any investment starts; (iii) HIMAT would
submit to the Bank for review and approval, before bids are
invited and contracts awarded, all procurement documentation for
ICB and for the first five contracts for goods and works to be
procured under LCB; and (iv) for contracts above US$200,000
equivalent for goods anxd US$300.000 equivalent for civil works,
prior Bank review of procurement documentations will be required
(para. 3.15);
(d)  the opening of a Special Account in Banco de la Rep6blica, in
US dollars, to cover all eligible Bank expenditures under the loan
(para. 3.17);
Ce)  HIMAT's audited reports for the accounts of the project, the
Special Account, Statements of Expenditures, the farmers'
contribution to off-farm irrigat3on infrastructure investments,
and H:MAT's overall financial statements would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year, starting
with the audited reports for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 1989 (para. 3.18);
'f)  the criteria to be applied for the selection and priorization of
irrigation subprojects under the project, including accessibility
of the areas for the purposes of execution and supervision, would
be adopted for the life of the project (para. 3.19);
(g)  (i) the agreed technical criteria and specifications for road
repair and improvement would be used for the duration of the
project; and (ii) HIMAT would enter into a Road Maintenance
Agreement with each municipality where roads are to be improved or
repaired prior to any work being started (para 3.19);
(h) HIMAT woulds Ci) submit final terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank for the project evaluation and institutional development
consultants by September 30, 1989 and December 31, 1989
respectively, and employ the consultants by March 31, 1990;
(ii) prepare annual operational training programs by October 31 of
each year, starting in October 1989 (para. 3.23); (iii) continue
to employ the 40 additional staff employed for the project; and
(iv) assign or employ 17 additional staff by no later than
January 31, 1990, and seven more by no later than January 31,
1991, and maintain all agreed staff for the life of the project
(para. 3.23);
(i)  HIMAT wouid prepare and submit to the Bank final terms of
reference for a land management international expert for La Mojana
Pilot Project component by October 31, 1989, who would be employed
by March 31, 1990 (para. 3.25);



- 24 -
(j)  annual work programs, including the list of subprojects to be
constructed in the following year and extension agencies
responsible, yearly pro4ect progress reports and bi-annual
evaluation reports would be submitted to the Bank for review by
the dates indicated (para. 3.26); and
(x)  the proposed cost recovery mechanisms and policies would be
adopted by HIMAT for the duration of the project (para. 3.27).
4.02     The following would be conditions of effectivaness:
ta) The Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
HIMAT, satisfactory to the Bank, making the proceeds of the loan
available to HIMAT (para. 3.14) and authorizing HIMAT to draw from
the Special Account (para. 3.17);
(b)  HIMAT has formally approved the Manual establishing the technical
criteria for selection of subprojects and financial -equirements
for cost recovery (para. 3.19 and 3.27); and
(c)  submission to the Bank of final contractual and operational
agreements between HIMAT and ICA, INCORA, Caja Agraria, SENA,
INDERENA, Secretaria de Agricultura de Antioqula and Secretaria de
Desarrollo del Norte de Santander (paras. 3.21 and 3.22).
4.03     Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan to the Republic of Colombia for US$78.2 million equivalent; the
terms would be 17 years, including a five-year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate.



.toi nso sla                                                      luss  0001
68*81~ ~ ~                        lo8l  ,88488                                          t 1.8.E8
local         Ofobion         total        iochwngu   Costs        lOCal   1foeign   lot41         facbFw.'    C"is
A  011    W 11116AIlUM 18                                                                  18 IttlRltSlttUCIU#t
....~~.           . . .  ...... ... .........   ..   ....
01tt#i"ltt lltl IWAIII                                    14.c29.J60 O 10, ,t9,8t40 0  25  51S 2u000            42       50   45, 31i 9 17,b50 b  la. Ol6b 54?                    b
fSiJlyOI" ITPt SlSlf4                                       S10,988 0    605.412 0    1. 436.400 0             42         3    2.540 5  1,850            0 4,391 3     42         3
tCCtSS RIMAM% IhP#Ottttttl                                 1.669. 375 0  1.4984 125 O   3. I8 a5.00 0           47         6    5, 164 I  4.550 0   9,t44 7             47         6
tS-b l0s41 oil   liAih I#ttItAlIlf  411I#NtUCOUld            It. J49. 72  a t2. 79J. J77 0  Jo, 143, 100 0          42       59    t,i tl41 0 is. III 5  92, 152 b          42       S9
a  ONU  FAtR" 1tttest"l4lNS                                  10 479. 789 4  4.931.6t5 6  15. 411. 455 0             32       30   32. 038 5 15,Ot6 9  4t, 115 4             32       30
C  U04401.0611i iGtt"SILt
f1lStIMIJt                                                   554.b25 0       6.bl,b2  0     b61, 250 0           10        I    1. bv5 b      1" 4    1. 8tl4 0          10        I
Itt41#1tG                                                    eO7. 206 0      4fl.792 0      tt6.000 0            6        2    2.467 a       149 2   2. 616 9            ti        2
ILSf42Ca                                                     197.6SSi 2      S9.004 a       286.660 0           Jl         1       604 3    272 I        B7b 4           il        I
S.b lolal ItC11#010Gtt l#A^ltst                               1. 55g.4S8 2      199,421 8    1. Ibil,9 0 0          II        3    4.7b7 b    bO9  7       . 5317 3         I1        3
O  lttSIIIlUIIGal  0tl0ilP"ttt                                1,059.529 4    96?.382 S   2. 016. 911 I              47        *    3. 239 2  2,926 9   6.1bb 0              41        4
t  fl4tlPItutREIt14  PR01fC1101                                 2S3.261 6        62. 190 4      115,452 0           20        1       774 3      I90 I       gb4 4          20         1
f   I  010 tANA PIIUI Ptt.ltCI                                  310.0483 4  1. 044. 296 6   t. 414.345 0            74        3     1. 131 3  3, 192 6   4.323 S            14        3
lot al b4Stl It  Co5St                                         311, 071, 919 0 IS. SM8 334 2  5 1. 0b0, 17 3 1        IS       100   94. g91 9 bl. 107  ISbb.099 b            Is       100
Physical Cotxain,enLies                                      1,875.579 S  1,516,625 6   1.452.205 0                46        7    5,1 34 0  4,1120 0  10,5S4 0             46        7 
Price Cowiilricies                                          41.,696.096 3 27.354.674 3  69,050,770 6               40      IIS    17, 042 4 12,317 1  29.359 5             42   ~ 9 
............     .........   ..  ......   . ...     ...  . . ...........   .............   ..   ......   ....................... 
loos   POl  C rttoutc   tUI                                     4. bill, 5j14 7 48. 919. b34 0 1 2J. 5b3. 146 7       40      242  11 7, Ibil 2 7tl,244 9 19b ,01J I          40       126
..   .  .   ..  ..   .   ...  . .   ............ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     .  . .. . .    . . .
Ietbr.ary 3, IS89  12 39
Source: Table 4.
cr1
1 *U.UIW.  UEbW             6 t~~~~~~~~eua~~~n   U~                                  t



COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Financing
Project          Financtal                              World
Beneficiary      Intrmediaries      Government            Bnok              Total
Amount        X   Amount        X   Amount        X   Amount        I  Amount         X
0ff-Farm Irrigation Intrastructuro      4.0         a     18.6       11     32.9       27     69.6       68    119.9      100
On-Farm Investments                     29.5       62    27.4        48        -        -        -        -     68.9      100
Technologly Transfer                       -        -        -        -      3.7       60      2.6       40      8.2      100
Instituiotnal Oeolopment                  -         -        -        -      3.7       64      3.2       48      6.9      100
Environment                               -         -        -        -      1.1      100        -        -      1.1      100
La Mojana Pilot Projoct                   -         -        -        -      2.0      4.0      3.0       60      6.0      100
38.6       17    40.9        21     43.4       22     78.2       40    196.0      100
S=r  M=  = s                        =3   =   = o                       =n 
Source Milsion



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3
COLOMBIA
Small-Scale Irrigation Project
Disbursement Schedule
Project
Yearly Std.
Fiscal               Disbursement    Cumulative    Initial            Yearly          Total
Year     Semester   Profile a/          Profile       Deposit      Disbursement    Cumulative
Z              t      ------------- (US$ Million) ---------------
1990           A             0                           4.1                             4.1
B             2              2                           1.6             5.7
1991           A             2              4                           1.6              7.3
B             4              8                           3.1            10.4
1992           A             6             14                           4.7            15.1
B             8             22                           6.3            21.4
1993           A             8             30                           6.3            27.7
B             6             36                           4.7            32.4
1994           A             9             45                           7.0            39.4
B            11             56                           8.6            48.0
1995           A            10             66                           7.8            55.8
B             9             75                           7.0            62.8
1996          A             10             85                           7.8            70.6
3             8             93                           6.3            76.9
1997          A              5             98                           1.3            78.2
a/ Latin America-Colombia, Agriculture Disbursement Pofile published April 22, 1988
reduced to seven and a half years due to existence of Special Account.
In FY97, Semester A, project is expected to disburse only 2? (rather than 5S
as in the standard profile) in order to recover the initial deposit.
Source: Mission



COLOMBIA
SIALL-SCALE IRRIGAT1  PROJECT
Project Coanhsuat b  Year
(COL PESO '000)
Base Costs                                            Total
1909        1990         1991         199'         1993          1994        COL FESO    (USS '000)
CZCZZCC2=Z %:2=Z=Z==a= :CZZZZZ===== 2=====27=:==   Z=2--=== =C = C=CC=zC=:          ====    = __
A. OFF - FARM INVESTMENTS
__________ _____ . ____
DIIJERSION TYPE SYSTEM              1,175.776.0 248627174.0  540654.90.0 6,229.630,0  6W1546575#0  4.030v455.0   25.519.200.0  78.016,5
RESERVOIR TYPE SYSTEM                 154.920.0   1769040,0    2479860.0   3834040.0   345v000.0    129,540.0   1.436.400.0    44391.3
ACCESS ROADS IMOPRVENENT              112"'00.0   325,000.0    592,500.0   810,000.0   9454000.0    502,500.0    34187Y500.0   9,744,7
Sub-Total OFF - FARM IN'ESTIENTS       1*4434196.0 3363.814.0  5P906,350.0 7,422,670.0  7,344,575.0  4,662,495.0  30.143,100.0  92,152.6
B. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
EXTENSION                              17,300.0   77,850.0    1389400.0    98s900.0   129,000.0   154.800.0           616,250.0   1.084.0
TRAININ6                               44.000.0   601000,0    168,000.0   216,000.0   216,000.0   152.000.0           856,000.0   2,616.9                       1
RESEARCH                               234032.0   47,972.0      61,736,0      78,500,0     75,420.0            -      286t660.0      976,4                      G
Sub-Total TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER             844332.0   185922.0   368,136.0    393,400.0    4200420.0   306,800.0    1         9758.910.0   5,377.3
C. ENVIRONMENT                               250.0    23.506.0    70.219,0       75,430.0    75,580.0    709468.0        315,452.0      964.4
b. ON - FARM INVJESTMENTS                        -   381,772.0  1.172,804.0  29517.164#0  44578,33540  6,761,390.0  15,411t455.0  47,115.4
E. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT             497.815.6  540.921.1   398.321.1   2156571,1    192.791.1   171,501.1   240169911.1   6,166.0
F. LA MOJANA PILOT PROJECT                 3,250.0  3929225.0   406,105.0   280,105.0   280P105.0    52,555.0   1.414.345.0   4.323,9
--- - - -  ---- -   -------------           - - -----   - - -- ----     ---------- -
Total BASELINE COSTS                     2,02,S843.6 4,888,060.1  8W321,934.1 10,904,340.1 12,891,796.1 12.025.199.1  51.060,173.1  156,099.6
Physical Contingencies                  150140.6  378o613,9    668,914.5   8469715.5   847,758.8   560,061.8   3,452.205.0  10,554.0
Price Cortinsencies                     256,574.5 29020v452.9  6,296v894.3 129694,936.7 21,220,756.0 26.561,254.2  69,900770.6  29,359.5
----          -------          ---- ------                ---- ------- ------------        ----
Total PFOJECT COSTS                      20435.558.7 7.2870126.9 15#287.742,9 24,445,894.3 34.960,310.9 394146P515.0  123.5634148.7  1964013.1
=z=-===Z= =--   zzzz - ===     ====='   =========================Z=====                     ==-==-====                00 e w
ID F
7a::es                                   454583.1   15.3370,4    277,763.2   464,358.8    567,764.3    428,909.7    1t909.749.4   3.137.5                       M b
Foreisn Exchange                        994,729.9 3,150,434,8  6,246t103.8  9,930,073.7 13.895#256.6 14,703,035.2  48.19 634.0  78244.9                      0  p t
__________ ----------------------   ---------   -----------------  -_  ____ __ -_    -     -  -     -   -     ----  -_ --------    __ - -  - _ -   --    _ -_  -  -
Jamarv 309 19089 14:47
Source: Tables 5 to 10.



COLOWBIA
SMALL-SCALE I6R16ATION PROJECT
Project Coonents bh Year
Totls lncludin4 C ntinrcies                                                Totals IncludinA Contanaamies
(COL PESO  e000I                                                              usI 000)
m99        3990        1l            992         93          194         Total         99    1990    199       192    1993    1m        Total
A. DFF - FARR INVESTIIENTS
DIVERSION TYPE SYSTEM             144,660.4 4.390,297.6 9,554.280.3 146385.26.6  7.414v883.8 14,035.715.2  61,2235763.9  4067.2 10,475.5 19,321.1 24p654.5 25,93.9 17,274.7 101,097.0
RESERVOIR TYPE SYSTEIM              192071.5  270,532.4   468,533.0   887.916.6   981,341.0   453v134.8  3.253.5.9.4   540.7   645.5   947.5  1.521.7  19425.3   557.7  5,S6.5
ACCESS ROAlS IMli ENT               144.576.7  517,154.1 1159.*03.0 1,939634.7 2N4764595.1  .8902,725.7  9.039999.3   407.0  1234.0 2344.2 3.324.1  3,59. 1  219e.  13.12.?
Sub-Total OFF - tAR. INVESTWENTS     1,781,308.5 5I77.994.2 11t182t016.3 17.213,477.9 203872s19.8 16.291.575.8 72519sI12.5  5.014.9 12,355.0 22,612.9 29,500.4 30,316.4 20.051.2 119,150.7
8. TECINMLaG T.4tiFER
EYTENStON                            19,366.8  107#653.5   234,551.7   204,62.5.1   325s946.5   477,378.3  1t369*421.7    54.5   2!6.9   474.3   350.7   473.3   557.5  2'19'.:
T.AINIMG                             49.'2667    82,963.9   284s.4   446,573.2   545#034.e   468.l12.2  1.872639.1   138.7   1..0   575.5   765.3   791.6   576.1  30P45.3
RESEARCH                             15.743.3   669361.2   104,946.1    12i,3.3   191t359.6              -     551302.6    7.5   159.3   212.0   279.3   277.9           -  1.ioc.1
r1e-Total TEDCNOL06Y TRWER              94i3?6.8  256,971.6   623,916.2   914.191.6  1.062.239.8   945,490.4  3.97263.4   265.7   613.2  1,21.9  1,395.4  1,542.9  1.13.7  6,242.6
C. EJ)IROIHIENT                          '2800    329510.1   11t.122.4   156329.6   193,359.3   217o973.3    717,573.7          0.9    77.6   240.9   267.9   27r.9   269.3  1,313.4
I. ON - FARM III.STEKTS                       -  528121t.3  1,992,150.5  5.227.893.6 1126.269.0 20994.64.9  40.369409.2           -  W10.1  4.009.6 9,959.5 16,996.4 25.139.6 5,074.3
E. INSTITUTIOAK DEVELOPMENT            555,967.2  749,596.7   677.61.9   447POS7.4   488.811.4   531.291.9  3.450.223.4  1565.?  1.796.2  1,370.4   767.6   710.0   653.9  6#P3.3
F. LA NOJANA PILOT PROJECT               3,626.2  542v936.0   62.795.6   586,145.1   718.811.7   165,491.8  2'.029796.4    10.2  I 295.5  1,401.0  I&A.5  1.044.0   203.7  *.e.9
. -- -- -- -- ^_ -- -- _- -- ___  -  -  -  -  -  -  --  - -  - - - -    - _-  - -- - - - - -- - - - - --- - - ---- - -- - ---- - -- - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - *
Total PROJECT COSTS                   24354558.7 7,297l,26.9 15.879742.9 24,445,994.3 34o950.310.9 399t46.515.0 123.563.149.7  69856.0 17t39?.6 31001.6 4!o595.3 50 777.5 480480.3 191.013.1    e   7
#sS:rs:n:;; S :t:::.gS,: 5S3zSSSSS   St::S::::S: t::::S:::;S  =:2:S:r=S:S2  ::::n=z:::za   fl=::St :t::::; 5: r:X:::  5:5::::: S:::=   ===: :::.-  
Janwar 30, I99  14:47
Source: Tables 5 to l10.



COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION POOJECT
Off-Farm Irrigation Infrastructure
Detailed Cost Table
(In Col '000)
QwUnt Itr
Unit  ;989    5920       5299      1992     1993      1994    fatal   Unit Cos
I. INVISINELNI COSIS
...............
8  OSIGM I OIVERSIOI I                            4A   6E420   8.430   13.800   14,SS0   12.371    1.225   58.800              so
g. SUPERVISION of cohsIAucIoN I OIVERSIOI          HA     2. 180   6.560   11. 650   13.780   13.9SO   10,680   s8.800           36
C  CIVIL Mous I DIVERSION I                        "A     2.160   6.560   11.650   13.?80   13.250   10.680   58.800            Ils
0. EOUIPNEN1 I I0681091 I
... ...... ...... .... .........
PIPES                                           NA     2.258   6.097   11.070   11.000   11.000    9.3t5   58.800            128
filiIS                                        HA     2.250   6,097   t1.070   Is.00o   11.000    9.375   18.o00             44
Su -fomai EQUIPeNI I t VERSION 1
f. DESIGC   I RESERVOIR I                          Ha       200      200      260       320      200        20    1.200         141
f. SUPERVISION Of CW SIRUCIIOM I RESERVOIR I       HA        120     140      200       320      300       120    1.200         III
C  CIVtIl HaOIS I of isvOlR I                      HA        120     140      200       320      300       120    1.200         ssa
H. E4UIIPNEMI I OfSEStfl0 I
PIPES                                           HA       120      140      200       320      300       120    1.200         204
fli11GS                                         HA       120      140      200       320      300       120    1. 200        547
Sub-lotal EQUIPHIISI I R0S1VDI90 I
1. ACCESS ROADS INPOOVErIEMI                       go1      4*       130      237       324      338       201    5. 275      2.t00
fatal IVEWSINMIN COSIS
fatal1 
February 3. 19ss 2 3Is
Source: Mission.
IN . tn
ID H X~
l'-
0
tD X



COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Off-Farm Irrigation Infrastructure
Detailed Cost Table
(In Col$ '000)
Base Costs                                                                             Iotals Including Cotingencies
19B9         1990         19S1         1992          1993         1994         loIal           1989          1990          1991           1992          1993           1994         lotal
;:: : :: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                  .   :. . ....... .  :..    . ..:: .: .  :......... .: .    ::.  .     .    :::. :.::::::::::::::,.:.: . . :
327 420 0   429. 930 0   703. 800 0   142, 050 0   b31, 126 0   164. 47  0  2. 998. 00 0    18S 04S 9   624. 142 3  1. 261, 089 4  1. 609. 281. 7  1. 669. 837 2    530 907 0  6. 010.303 4
18 480 0   236. 160 0   419.400 0   496.080 0   602. 200 0   384. 40.0  2. 116.804 0           92. 292 S   342.840 6    745,534 1  1.075, 847.3  1 328. 726 0  1. 241. 068 7  4.826,299 1
381.500 0  . 48,000 0 2.038.750 0 2.411, S00 0 2. 441. 260. 0  , 869. 000 0 10.290. 00o 0    490, 438 9 1. 826.653  3  3.985,836  6 5.767.646 4  7. 142, 984 1  6, 690, 531 0 26.903.970 3
289,024 0   780.416 0 1.416,960 0 1.920.000 0 1.920.000 0 1.200.000 0  7.526.400 0    354.889 7 1. 188.302 S  2.658,098 a  4.415.368.4  5,412.11S 5  4.141.511 5 I8 176.U86 3
99. 32 0   268.268 0   461.080 0   660,000 0   660,000 0   412.500 0  2.587.200 0             121.993 3   408. 479 0    913.721 6  1.$17.182 9  1.660.621.0  1.425.707. 1  6.248.304 1
. . . . . .    .... .. ...    .. .. ... .. ..    . . .........     .... ......    .. ........    .. ....... ..  . ..........     ..... . .. ............    .. ... .... ..    ............     . ...........     ... .. .... .
388.376 0 1.045.6S4 0 1.904.040 0 2,580,000 0 2, 580, 000 0 1. 6t12. 00 0 10. 1I3, 00 0    476. U3 01, 5.96. 7S1  6  3.571,S20.2  6. 933, 1I1 2  7,273,.36 5  5,5713.21B S 24.425 191 0
28.200 0    28.200 0    36.6600        4 S.120 0    28.200 0       2,820 0    169.200 0      33. 163 2    40.938.          66. 167 6      97.851 6      74,611 9        9.102 6    320.835 1
14. 040 0    16. 380.0    23. 400 0    37,440 0    35, 100 0      14, 040.0    340.400 0       16, 51 I 0    23.779. 3     41.S96 3      8. 196.0      92, 867 9      45, 319.6    301.270 2
70.560 0    82.320 0   117.600 0   18B.160 0   176,400 0    70, 60.0    706.600 0              90.678 6   130.991 2    230.079 8    460.670 0    517.007 6    2S3. 115 0  1.672,461 9
24. 480 0    28.560 0    40.800 0    65, 280 0 ' 61, 200. 0    24.480 0    244.800 0           30,.0S  7    43. 487 0      75, 537 4    150.122 6    112, 530 3        84.609 2    557,345 2
17. 640 0    20.580 0    29.400 0    47, 040 0    44, 100 0    17,640 0    176.400 0           21.660 0    31. 336 2       S6. 16I 9     108,:176 6    124.323 3       60.968 4    401, 616 4
42, 120 0    49, 140 0    70. 200 0   112. 320 0   105, 300 0    42. 120 0    421. 200 0       53, 718 7    74, 823 2     131, 689 3    258,299.0    296, 853 6    14.5 57.     958, 961 5
112,600 0   325.000 0   592.,000   81Q0 000 0   845, 000 0   502.00 0  3.3187.00 0    144,576 7   517. 164 1  I. 1.9. 203 0  1.939.634 7  2.476,695 1  1.802.726 7  8.039.889 3
..... ........................  . ....... .. .....  ...... ..  ....   .... ..   . .......   ............  ...    .........    ...... .... ..  ...    ......    .  ... -   ..    ....... .. . ..... ................    ..   . ...........    .  ...    .... ..    .......... .. ..
1.443, 196 0 3.363.814 0 6,906,350 0 7.422,670 0 7.344.176 0 4.662.495.0 30,143,100 0  1,781. 308 S 6. 17.1.984 2 It. 182,016 3 17.213.477 9 20.872,89 8 16.291.576 6 72.519.182 6
::::::: :       .:   -  i z-  .   :     .:: :::9z : ::: .   : :: .  : ::-z     : :::   :::   az:  ::::   ::  . ::zIz;     ::    : :::-zz :::     :::  ::- s:::: :::-z   ---: :::::  : . ::: -:: :z~
1, 443, 196 0 3,363,814 0 6.906.360 0 7.422.670 0 7.344,575 0 4.662,496 0 30, 143. 100 0  1, 781. 308  5 , 171.984 2 t1. 182.016 3 17, 213.471  9 20, 872.819 8 16. 291. 576   8 72, 39. 382 6
Source:  Mission.
IN 
OQ  cr
0    ,  -
:4~
t( A



COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Off-Farm Irrigation Infrastructure
Detailed Cost Table
(In Col$ '000)
Breakdown of IotaIS l,cl Cant                    ParaeIors
lUd 3IS Ic"dsia. Clwsl 1nu: 'u1                                    1US9  *0001
fUSs  '0001                                ...........  .... ..  .....                Phy
- - - -           local It.cl  UJtlS,  a             Cant  fo    Gross 1a  Sumfry
19a9     1990      1991     1992      9193     3994    IosIi      for  tach    lx,ssl      laxze     lotal     Rate  isch    Bate    Account
.    . .....  . . ..... .  .     .   . ...... .  . .     . . . .. .  ... .. ..  .    ;I.  . . .. .    . ..... . .   . .      .      i     .
1.0J4 0  1. 49 2  2. 510 o2.1b o2. 429 3    09 4  10.940 0                         10,240 e            10.940 0   005       0         a       Of
259 a    Sia 0  1.5017   1.843 8  1.929 9  1,527 5   7,886 6                      7.886 6         -   7.885 6   0 06      0         0      SUp
1.380?  4.3ss 2  8.060 1 9.884 6 10.374 ?  8,234 S  42.293 1    13,099 6          25.1931              42,293 1  0 S   0 4            0       cmi
999 I 2.83b 4  s 37S 3  7 9670  7.861 6 S.104 6  29.743 1    19.435 4             8.07b 9  2.2.0 ?  29.743 1    0 1 0 6o         008        to
343 4    974 7  1.847 8  2.601  2.2 702 4  1154 t  10.224 2         6,80 9        2,776 4    166 8  10.224.2    0 1 0 65         0 08       EQ
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                   .   ..  . ....  ..  .  ..   ....  .  .....   . ..  
1,342 6  3.810 0  r.223 1 10.16B 2 10.564.0  6.859 3  39.96? 3    26,1164          10,S53 4  2.997 S  39,967 3
93 4     97 7    131 a    167 7    tOo 4       It 2     610 I                      610 1               610 I  0 09       0         0       Di
46 S     56 7     84 1    139 2    134 9       99 8     517 2                        ?17 2             517 2   0 0      0         0      SuP
255 3    312 6    465 3    772 2    750 9    ]II 6   2.a67.8        1.359 I      1.508 7             2,867 8   0 15  0 47          0       cm
84 6    103 8    154 8    297 3    259 6    104 1    999 2           621 8         299 B      71 6     99S 2    0 1 0 6S        0 08       EQ
61.0     748    111A       185 4   -180 6      75 0     688 3        449 9         187 2     Sl 6      6883    0 1 0 65         0 08       tQ
145 6    17 6    266 3    442 7    431 2    179 2   1.643.4         1.073 2         447 0    123 3   I.64] 4
407 0  1.234 0  2.344 2  3.3241 1 .599 1  2.218 7  13.125 2         6.227 8       6.897 3            13.125 2   0 I0 o47   o         0      cU
.   .   ..   ..   .  .   ..   .. .   .   .   ...   .   . . .   .   ... . .   ... . . .   .  .   .   .
5.014 9 12. 355 0 22.612 8 29.500 4 30. 316 4 20. 091 2 119.B90 7    51.8i; I      64,893.7  3.120 8 119.8S0 7
:::   .  a   ..   ..   .   ::::::  :   .   ......................... -   .  .  ..............   .   .   .. .  .....  ...... ....... .....   .   .  
5.014 9 12.315  0 22.612 8 29.S00 4 30.316 4 20.051 2 119.SS0 7    91.876 1        64.8a3 7  3, 120 8 119.850 7
,~~~~~~~~~ .         . .   . .  . .  . .  . .   . . .  .... ... .. .. ................... ... .
Source:  Mission.
10
I -i
o  



COLOtBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
On-Farm Investments
Detailed Cost Table
(In Col$ '000)
Quantas b                                                                        base Costs
Diat  1989  1990        I9        3992         1093        2994        Total     Cost  192   1990         31          292         13993       1994        Total
;.S;::S::.2t;.: ;nn:rt:c #tsfl:n=:t **:cz::nx.tt-      *r==s=5  :::=::: : ::   ::  fl.r-,::n   : .r::::    -::::a t:: -:::::;::='::::='
1. INVESIIET COSTS
A. INCREIENTAI F.ITOIICTIGN EXPENSES    A I      -   142.992  664.344   1.953.094  3.769*635  5s.t2,0B0   1242101865        1    -  4292          444.0 1#94l,i .e 3,7?9,p63.0 5.6S2W900.0 I2.23t*S".0
9. 11*1641ION E0UIPIENT EXPENSES    AMfOUl      -  238.780   508460      566070    901.700   1#079.580   3W200.590         1    - 2390780.0  a20.4600   5Lh.070.0  909.700.0 1379.20.0  1.2x ".:9.
Total  RIMESIMENT COSTS                                                                                                             - 381,772.0 1.t72u904.0 2,517,164.0 4579,335.0 67061.390.0 15411t..0
Total                                                                                                                                 -391,72.0 I.I?22804.0 2S517l64.0 4.578.335.0 6.76263W0.0 15.4113455.0
Jra   30. If8  14146
Source: Mission.
a,
ett1
o S1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



COLOMBIA
SHALL-SCALE IRRICATlON PROJECT
On-Farm Investments
Detailed Cost Table
(In ColS ')
Ireald4a   of Totals lIcl. Cant                   Paraeters
Totals IncluAding Contatgemaes                                 46i9t 1003                    ---------------------------
Totals IrciuAnS Contnseg uss                                                      LUSt 100' -----------------------------------------  FSrJ.
--------------~---------------------~-----~-------------------------------~--  -- -- ---------------------------------------------------                   Lcadl IE;:cl.  Atlei I             Cant. Fat.  Gross Tar. Suarv
t09   1990         1901        tS92          1*3           3994        Total       1989  399      199t    192       3993      e994    Total    For. E;:ch.    laues)      lanes    Total    Pate  En:ch.   -ate    icvrnr,t
- 397.0.9 S  132.L9.21 4,052,21.1  965 ^644.2 IN6465P598.3 32  r96738.6            -   42.0 2.2e2.0   t44.? 13*3.903.6  1.737.? 45,320.0    140753.7         30,566.2         - 457.0          0  0.31          0      rn
- 330e314A    863t681.3 I,l?566?.6  2.053.420.7  3.349.006.6  7.772.370.6          -   788.2 1.746.6 2,034.9  2ACe?.?  4,322.0 11*654.3         3.784.7       7*869.6         - 11.654.3       0  0.3           0      1D
- 53.12!.! 1.992.150.5 5#22's83.6 31.626.69.0 20.94684.9 0.369.309.2              -.260.l 4,029.6 89959.5 36s13.4 25.939.6 569974,3 8lI53B.5    3t8435.9                     - 56974.3
- 528.121.3 1.99.150.5 5.221483.6  l*626.26.0 204994494.9 40.369109.2              - 13260.1 44028.6 3.959.5 16,986.4 25.839.6 56,74.3    189538.5           38435.8          -  6974.3
_____ _ _ _ _ __ . .._ _ -_____-_-__-_-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------------------  -------------------o    ~    ~    ~~~    ~~~    ~    ~    ~    ~        ~~    C
Source;   t'leis on.
al.-l
a E
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~*fi



COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE lRIR [CAT ION PROJECT
Techinology Transfer
Detailed Cost Table
(In ColS '000)
Unit        1148    41410    lugs4   31910'     41914     41414    10Wi     Unit uut    491        4V910      31414     41412       39,14.     Wit!4      Wtoo,
A  3494481c3  1o4Ip4i1uI                 5145             4        2        2        2                            t0      4.9540   6, 160 0   3.080 0   3.080 0   2.080 0                            39 400 0
lotal 10105101,411 4465                                                                                                              6. 160 0   3.080 0   1 080 0   3.0800 0                           I. 400 0
AlGalC IipIRis                      14A8S             2        6       a        t0        s0                 36         940   1.880 0   b.640 0   1. 20 0   9.400 0   9.400 0                   1J1 840 0
11110 164641119                    slANS             2        6       8        40        30                 i1i        990   1,100o 0   3.300 0   4.400 0   S. S00 0   9.900 0                 vi. so0 a
REGI0N I4IPIBVISONS                 IINIMS            4        6       a         40       10                 28         IS0      600 0     800 0   1.200 0   4.900 0   4.900 0                   9.10 00
9*b l0ta3 S*AIA44I                                                                                                                3.980 0   9.840 0  13 120 0  16 400 0  16 4000                   914* 40 0
a  iBawU  AiLOGumct
I5PA8 41*4                         D AYS 300          4       12       16       20        20                 12       1.000    4.000 0  12. 0000  16.000 0  20.000 0  20.000 0                  12 000 0
04030l 64843                       "VIS 300         08 a     32       4 6        2         2                2 6       C.0  800   0D      1. 200 0   1. 600 0   2.000 0   2.000 0                  1 b00 0
.   I-o Aa 4804  A430446a                                                                                                  4. 800 0  13. 200 0  11.600 0  22.000 0  22.000 0Is    0                         L
C  ItIAi PLO! 44*4(6*LS                  H4A            12       36       48       60        00                216         100   1.20004   3,600 0   4.800 0   6.000 0   6. 000 0                   21.1100 0 
O  villcti OPialR*48C 1IPim6i9         go 000            24      84      404      144       144                So0         490   5.100 0  12, 600 0  49,000 0  21.600 0  214,600 0                 16.b00 0
E  0MAIKIMIS AND0 PSItICAIIOUS
h40Ras40s                             No              4       42       46       20        20                 12          94      316 0   *..4280   I.S04 0   1,.8800   C1.6A0                    b IbLO
fui11CA11m1 Olf 14)0815            9149             4       42       46       20        20                 12         100   4. 200 0   3.600 0   4.800 0   6.000 0   0.000 0                  to 600 0
Sub 4o4W  C0MLKNC3   S AD 1 C19 114 1 C1101S                                                                                      4. blb 0   4.126 0   b.104 0   1.880 0   1.880 0                 we *4. 0
S  C ANDN A  ES&AO4 k1UOPIP4TM          sils             4        6       a        40        40                 38,        19       646 0     924 0   1.232 0   4.940 0   4.96400                   9. B%32 0
1141191S0
CAJA Af16*IA kIZfhNImN           514LL14414)L44   4.000   4.900   6.000                                  I3.900o      41 3  11.300 0  11.690 0 128.400 0                                        Mj  99".. 0
CAJA 6G1811* fiZINSION           SI41t I"tOLOiasI 44. 0    lb. 000   48.4000   44.9500                                  6 6                                  1461400 0 429.000 0    .94.00 0   382 200 0
5..b l01a1 1AHNS414N                                                                                                             41. 300 0  7118%0 0 "318.400 0  148.900 0 429.000 0 464.8100 0   bib 2W. 0
SAiANIIIS                           AG10IS           43       it      42        94        94        l8      234       3.1720  48.1920 0  29.600 0  12.240 0  92.880 0  92.880 0  69.100O0   JbI8.010 0
OP4IAIII. IPI, NOIMS                ALOOIS           43       is      42        94        54        38      244       2. 280  29. 080 0  34.200 0  WM916  0 423. 120 0 423. 320 0  Sb. 040 0   4815 '1t0 0
S.b~ lotal 94NA 1141NSI43 IRAISINO                                                                                               44. 000 0  60.000 0 4b8 000 0 21b.000 023lb.000 0 49.000 0   84.b NO41 44
40384 4444314484N1 Costs                                                                                                             I8. 412 0 482. 142 0 Jb.Ob9.0   0 J910.J.20 0 420 420 0 .406.800 0 ) *4* ',30 a
30343                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~84.33220489.-822 0 168424 0 2142.400 0 420.420 0 20b.800 0 4. P51. I4-1 0   60W
..    .....    .z...  .    ..   ...    .....00   17
lobr...ry J4. 414891432 44j1
0j



COLOMBIA
SNALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Technology Transfer
Detailed Cost Table
(In Col$ '000)
101411 Includirng Conti nIonci sO
for   U&ed    out ise  8          Cons  for   Orals lea4 lwwwryr
144 1140       1941 I     1Ogg?      144        1494       10141      flag  1940   l44j$    1912    144    1404   loaBl    i%Ch  1cae6I   tones   total    Rate  ta"h    Rateo    8.Cu.it
0 073 0   4.204 I  64. 267 4   8.444 8                             22 844 8   II 3  10 2    10 0    of I                        6) 2   41 0    30 2               %I 2       0   08a          0      to
o.813o0   4.2h4 %     .2674   0.4448S                              22.0445a t Is  14 02      lb    I  I                        91 2   410    to02                 32
2. 1096   117 91   12 7311I  19. 416 0    23.1i80b3                66.2364  9   4   lao    267    333    34 4                  III80           itsa              lea80       0     0          0     !At
1.232 0   4 902 0   1.449 I1 ISI 3 B9   11.8990a                  38.462 6    I9   309    16 I    196    20 I                  69 0            090                09 0      0      0         0  ~.It
012 0   1. 244 3   20310    3,0981        3.119 1                10. 8298 a         30      4 1      93      99               t a9            isa               Is a       0     0          0     sat
4. 009 6  13 604 8  22.211 8  338913 0    41 3260                 1lb. 024 2   $II3  32 6,   44 4    68 I    boo0              20b I           2067              200?1
4.480 0  lb. b91 2  21.08110  41. 308 %     0.3390 4              13I.103 7   12b  340    948     708          73 2            261 I0          2930              263 0       0     0          0     S8I
898 0   1. 609 I  2.7088&   4 130 9       9 039 6                14 434 4    29   40        69       II       1 3             26 4            264               20 4       0     0          0     $61
9 37b 0  18.260 3  29.190 3  49.439 4    9b. 4300                 kb4.29980   lt I 436    00b  3       19    so80              227 3           2717              212 3                                             1.
3.3140 2   4.982 4   S.117 I  12.9521 6    16.339 3               42.3600      1 8I  It 9    1095   21 6    22 3               76 9   468A   301 I                1  9      0   00b          0      "Al            a
S.649S7  11.438 3  26.%6796  460717 1    9.2219                   190.0088S   100  436    6371    713    so02                  2068   182 2   1086               1688a       0   0 6          0      141
42071   1600O1   2. 96 I1h   3.80         4100CM                13. 181I    12   AI7    97          0I      09              2317    48       184               7371        0 02            1    htAl
1. 340 2   4 982 4   8.11 III    12. %21 0    Is 330 3            42.3100      38   It9    109S   21 9~   22 3                 7s90   49 8    30                  is 190    0   0 0          0      "I8
1.76009   0.9S426 101to287   10. 4181    20.043*b                 99.6497    90b  156        2117    281    29 2               490        60   490               IS 0
0580   1. 2788   2.0988   3. 213 S        3. 93 1I               11.216 9    I 9   3I1      4 2      99      9 7             2095  12 3       8aI              2095       0   00b          0       onI
19. 680.366  O,Wb24.61 ,l                                        30.9l1 9   946~260b    414 3                                 789I19 70   10bI                  1867I       0   0 1          0      11
204.626 I  326.8409 417 378 3 1. 001. 849 8                            360 1   473 3   i8? 6 1. 411 It i44 4 1. 207              1. 41 I      0   0 I           0      Is
14 30086 101 W  b 234.66 1t    204. b2b I  329.8406 b471. 378 3 1. 3b9. 421 1   64eS 2604   414 3   390 1   473 3   W8   2.1is? 2  223 4 1.$113a               2. IS) 2
21. 140 4  39. b71 I   122. 300 3 19 1. 3b.8   234.040 8200.9284O  80096791 8    9    8 I A    241 3   288   J3199   241 3 1.308 I          1.3061 I              108 I     0      0          0      kI
28.010 3  41.292 0 162. 28  I 254.73895   310.993 9 207. 183 8 1. 070.57 1 4   794 0 II6   325 2   436 0   461 7   326 A 1.1331 2  110 b 1.660 86               1. ;37 2     0   0 I           0      la
49 2001782.90 9284.688U4 .440.73 2   64t. 014 8408 112 2 1.1M.6b30 I  1381 1480   9199.   blb6 .1 1I b   blb I 3,049                   l  b 12602,l0   1       3049, I
81.901826 4,.1 14 4 018. 1281 3 901.141 0 1.00Z,2.2398446. 490 4 3.114.4180b  2404 003J 0I. 126   1.384 A 1.6'428  I . 0b 1 e  . 141 4  b71 0 6,6J204           b. III 4
44.31b08 20. 918 o M2.41b 2 8 14. 191 0 3.002.234 8 446.4404 3.7917. M  4  2b9  I0b32CM20  II34 1.3   3.42 8 1.10 lb  I0.242 0  732 061.6300b                   0.24w 0
0
all



-37-
COLOMDLA                                                                    AMEX  I
SMALL-SCALE  ICRIGAION  PROJECr                                                            Table i
nOatUttOna1  DovelopOMat                                                              Page  I of t
Detailed Component Cost
(In ColS '000)
l'41:rtg                                                         7j1*.:s:s
Llltt     1939 :790  1991  I992  899JM 94 t7UI  'Jr.t 2st    7D9        90       9't       :?        :         @04 
fluSuuuut  gu t .u    gag. gag *us. gnu flu..  uguggggu  ggggggggg ggn.gg  Sussan  ,n*Xasaa-ss g5gg9  sggIuu nasXs*a
t . SM'JSTIE!T 2.05S
A. ECtNICAL ASSISTANCE               4mOlwl         6     4    1!2    -   -   -    42       4h6g     0 3     1 00IPSM.3  553C0.) --
!. '04t'4!0S
.tCcZi                             EVIIS3       95  125   10    s   t9    -   |67         I' <  !06#400.0 140,000.0 122.250.!  :1,1i0.   2!.3.0              1        4.3
ft9Ettni                        tRTietpACTi    6    6        6   J    -    -   '1        '973   47420.0  47-.0.0  47820.0  2.910.              -         -        M.:
Iub'QtXl ' tl0l!lS                                                                                 154 220.0  97-i20.0 171.020-0 . 44i78.0 25t40.-
t. .EN!tt.5
.Ws                                 MIT               O !0              -               :          .200.0  '5.000.) ]                -         - '
*.OTCtYCLES                         L'NtT        9     .          -     -    -   -4.00O 0                                       -         -                    * -00-.4.0.3
Sh-To.thl  8e1L3                                                                                    7,o000.0  70000-0         -         -         -         -   :47000.0
0. Eau~PT
4tCOOCOUTES                         UNIT        I!     -    .- -        -        15      2.300  57,0".0          -         -         -         -         -    7000.0
'ID0 9UFlP16I                       UNIIT       t5                          -    15      2000   30.000.          -                   -         -         -   30.000.0
C19SOlitCATIOJS                     LUDIT       17                       -     7           S50   114.20.0        -         -         -  -                     1.050.)
S0IL SAMULIN                        LOT          l                     -          I          !     325.0         -         -         -                  .   -    5
S*b,-t'l 13tPl11T                                                                                   19,S37.0                            -         -         -
E. PJ&14IITION an PRgTN
EV    T TION MM0                                 t 1                        1    6       4:000 4O000.0           4.O    4,000.0   4,000.0  4,000.0 3 400.0 .    ,000.:
9ONOI ION                           Um.          t     -                    -     t      100  21.30.o            -         -         -                   .    21.300.0
Sq4ottj t  M.i0IM11AN ID PTIS                                                                      25.3*0.0   4.000.0  4*000.0  4,000.0  4,00.0   4,-00.0   45.303.
eot l   EISIET   COST!                                                                               ?.#.795.0 J7J.1^.0 330.90.0  #8.070..0   43.3".O !264.133.0
1l. I8IrT 10393
A. STAfF SNLAltE  bW VILLWN
SECTraN ;1lEF                    .2                      2       2    2   2   12    2,313.3   4-7.6.6   4.7664   4,740.6  4,746.6  4,746.   '.7si.A   :3,599.6
WuESSIOIAL I 4W                         t      I    I    3   3    3   3    1I   2,247.6   4,742.8  6,742.8  6,742.3 s,74.2   4,2.8  St,42.3   40,456.3
PMW ttNi.2                       AA             '  :          '       2    '    12    2.113.8   4*-2 .6  4g2=7.6  4,227.6  4.22?7.S  4,=7.6   4=.2?i.3,3..
PEFS1IOL 3                       "MAR          :0   17   17  17  17  17   95    1.891.5   1,015.0  12.15!.!  32.15!.5    15!.!            15.  322155.5  1   79go92.1
P91SS1M. 4             *h                       I    I    I    I   1t  I    S    1,593.1   1,590.1   1,590.1  !50.1   1.590.t 1 t59.1   I,                 . '.360.1
a    1    9t16I                                       I          I   I    ! S        1,460.7   1,405.7   1.463.7   1,405.7   1.4!.?  1,45.7  1,465.7   39,794.
1S31tM1       5        J          01EW          3    3    3   3   3   3 !9    1g401.6   4,2t10.4   4*:10.3  4':..9   4,23.8  4*210.3   4.10.3                  e , 4.8
AUXIUAB I                        "              I    I    !    I   1           1    6  I293    1:.93.0   14-33.0   lf293.0   1-tS3.'  1.3.0  1,.8.0    '.6'8-3
'QP R1  I                        mow1          9     I    9    9   3   9   48    W612.4    9.2"9.)  9,299.2  9M29.2  9,289.'  9,299.2  9,2994    5.5,;.)
AUxtLIAR 2                       400110         I    I    I    I   1   1    6    1,107.8   1.107.8   1.107.0   1,107.3  14107.8  1W107.0  1*107.8             W4,66.3
909E16N9  2                      rIiA           7    7    7   ?    7   7   42   !Ol.7    7-081.9   7,001.?  '-Pt.9  .oSt.9   7,011.9  '.091.9   42,491.4
JUXILIAR I                       VMITAR         6    6    6    S   S    S   36    !O11.7    6.010.4  69070.2   S,070.2   S-07v.4  S.070.2  6,070.2   36,421.:
SECRTARY                     - 'MI1                        2 '       2 '       12      93.'     1 846.4   1,846.4   1.846.4  1,46.4   1,846.4   1846.4   11,473.4
19697941                         pM14yTJj      9    9      0    0   9   9   5          73".4   6,645.6   6,645.6  6S44,6  AS64.6    645.6   W4...6  .39,87.S
UEMl                              "MA           I          I    I   I   1    6        617.9      617.9    s17.9    617.?    .17.9    617.9    61.9    3,707.4
S-jb-Ntal STAFfF WA tES AND AOWA2dU                                                               15,070.6  39.11,.1 T9.tl.t  39,111.1  599111.1  90.111.1  121,426.1
9. 'JEI.ES A,0 ANI 4
!MP                                40.        15       34   34  14   24  18            1800  127000.0 61,i80.0  i21.2O0.0  R4100.0  61,:20.0   1,23.0    -000-.3
OOTOICYCLES                        40.          -    'g   29  29 8   8 2   140          9IO           -   5.040.0  5.040.0  5,04.0  5,040.0   ,040.0 20 .:9.
Sub-361t l'iHCLS  0 An I                                                                        27,000.0 46t240.0  WP,24.0   S4O.O  Zs,40.0  6,?240.0  I3S,:CO.O
C. ATERIILS
OFFtCE SUt                        AMS           5    15   15  15  15  15   90            650    950.0  9g750.0  9.750.0  9.750.0  9.750.   9,750.0   59500.0
PJLItA1I0S                         UNtT        15    1     15s  1 15 Is   L     00       160   2,400.0  2,400.0  2,400.0 ,400.0  2,400.0   2,400.0   t4.400.0
s-froutl ATEIRIMS                                                                                 12,15150i.    110.0  1             .0  !2,150.0  12,150.0   ,:1101.3
'letl RECRRENT CO051                                                                                 115.02d 167.t50t.1 157s50.1 167.5*1.117,5101.1               '52.5'4.i
fou.l                                                                                                 497,015.6 5U,921.1 39,321.1 '.t57t.1 192,791.1 171,501.1 2?016g$1.1
gunf  susgums .5mm. .usn                   -  ,5Sam6 .S.me            _
r. 3u, Sts899  1446S       SourcO:  188808.



-38-
COL-jS%XA                                                                 A.424L'  I
SIIAL-SCALE  tRRICATION PROJECT                                                          Table 6
tnacttuttonei Development                                                            Ptag   2 ot 7
Detailed Component Cost
(In Cols '000)
?31416                                   U9   "NO)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S   33
959  1990    191       1992     19 1M994            2t1 -      1'1    19t0    !99   1992  199  1994 Tht.    Val.. &. Ch. Timm9)   tax4   t34      491  -
.,599.  114o3r.0  03t433.0        -                     :1.109.7       7.6  3U8.   192.0           -           9 4      649.4               - 4.
i,97.0 L91,617.6 29319.33,  41,89.9  14,017.7            117.95.?   134.9  462. 1  423.3  '1.8  78.5       1,10.7       481.3  589.4        -:,Z71.        I*
3484.1  M.236.8  11.842.2  10.241.2   -  23~~:n1574.4   130.1  128.0  165.4 14.1              !319.6      019.4 6                  1. 
3.374.1 :5~o~.s 201,11.7  92.113.   54,417.7  99.337.1   dl.*0   10.1  !88.1 11.7.9  '83 M   1,930.3    1,040.9  51.4        193.
1.611.6                  -   .2.411.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  44.5  -             . ~~~~~~~~~~44.0  37. I  .       1.2    34. %'.::.
!.106.9  96,920.0                                    -133,006.9   341.1  331.3                                .M        4021.0   471.      .3  4?:.1
'~~~~~464.4  *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i:  4.4    t4.3                                                   -'42        IC.:    ..           
i6.1    347-                                     4.7          39.   5.2            34.7         243s
362.5                63.3      1.3                    -    -           1.0        0.9    3.2        -    14       0 5.35          2     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   X    r
*.714.5                 .                                 994 .5      0.                                     340.?      :L2. 4   33. )      4   'to.?
9.480,0  5,230.4  i.17.?  0,361.  1007.3. 12,26.1   47-4"2.2    .26   13.2   13.? 14.21 14.6 15.1   93.4                    -   33.4        . 33.4        0                     V 
1,789.0        -         .                                33,51.      41.0                                    V   *    6.  40.1   :u.            37.2      3  3.6         3      3
*91.38.4  1,230.4  1,17.9  8,211.7  12,879.3  13,296.7   'I, 0.308    '9.6   13.31   M?.  :.21 1.6  I5..1  127.4          45A U.1 M1.             2. 4
',33.  16,-.9 P303,3.6 100,394.0  640137.0 -12,29.7 1,S14.'15.3  1,202.8 1,*M334  *-1.5 :7.1 43.2  15.1 3.512.1 i  ,94.! -1.2130     11.7 .31
I,13.6  6,59.3  1,069.7  *,845.1  12.011.0  !4.633.4   16,509.        15.:   15,7   12*3 14,9  5?A'*    .     M 4                520,4           :t4%
,151.9   9=.356  U1,15.4  13.926.8  16,91.6 23,739.6   79,973.9    31.3   =32    32.1  22,9  39.7 Z!.5  !140.                  :00.6        -  140.6                     3
S.74.9  5,845.1  7,15.2  1.731.8  10.652.8  12,96.    %0118.3    13.M   13.9   14.5  15.0  15.5  16.0   W82                     3M.             55*2      0      
'1114.8  44,458.3  1.439.4 H6,14.  81,036.1 98.051.8  3663740    59..  106.1  110.1 113.8 117.? 121.1  51.9.0              -  129.0        -  129.0       I    .3             Mn
!.700.9  2,190.3  3,692.0  3,294.2  4.006.8  '.889.3   :1450.6        5.0    5.2    5.4  3.6  1.8  6.0   13.2               - 11.21         *   33.2      0    0         3    3k.
!,64t.6  2.026,5  3,481.4  3.027.3  1,693.3  4,59.8   17,37.0         4.6    4.8    5.0  5.2.  5.4  1.5   30.6                  30.6        -   30.6    32    I          I    30
A,716.1  5,82.9  7.131.9  1,617.1  10.610.5  12,944.8    4,9*99.0    13.3   '3.9   144  14.9  15.4  15.9   V7.              - 17.8              3'.1a     0    I         3    14.i 
1,437.0  1,17.9  ,1P72. 36490.9  3,M3.9  3.944,2    15.:.0.0          co    4.2    1.4  4.5  4.7  4.9   36.0                -   2A.1        -   36.       0    0         2      14
.3,41.1 12.1    .1315743.3  19,206.8  23,413.3  MeW5.4  1115.242.O    !0.3   30.7   31.1 r33.9 34.0  135.2  1'4.0           -   1.4.0        -  194.0      3    3         1 0
1,240.7  1.231,6  1,875.1  N229.1  2..391,5 3405.6   M3,13.0          .3.    3.7    3.8  3.9  4.1  4.2   23.1t              -   23.1t    .       :3.1          * 0             :,,
'.931.7  9.791,4  1199114,627.1  17,945.1 21,71t.0   33,955.9    32.3   22.-4   24.2  5. 1  M3.  36.0  14'.?               -   147.7            1 47.7    1    2         5
1.790,6  9.3927  10"M,27    12,537.  11,23,  1060.         194.          .1   3.0 :5.1  21.5  32.2  22.0  136.6             -  126.6            1:r6.6    0    1         )
..-M.0   2.MS8   3,123.9  3,813.6  4,6S3.6  5.676.2   31,0891        5.      6.1    S.3  6.3  4.8  7.1   31.               -   18.5        .   38.3      i    i         0    SAL
'.443.1  9.189,2  11P230.8  13,701.0  16,741.7  20,429.8   78,1M3.   21.0   31.9   22.1  3.3 .5 4.3  3.1   132.6               139.6           138.0      0                    -,AL3M
9192.0    114.3  1,046.1  1,276.2  1,017.0  1,899.5    7.32.2        1.9    2.0    2.1  3.   3.3  3.3  1.2.9              *   129              1:.3        0                 S
'4.97.1 123.2910 1304U6.6 1.84,052.4 X634,4  9 273943.1 10,0412-12    339.2  39.     M0. 1 315.4 326.  M3.' t.81.0            1,817.3          AIM87.
30,123.  84,700.3 104,258.2 127, .72,116,460.9' 191,686.6  694,000.0    24.9  :2.1I  310.8 318,9 33.235.9 1,1p79.9      '13.4  467.5.       '. 1'9.9      3   M 
-   ,75.1  9#586.0  19.118,1  t2,85.Q0 1516.0   54,110.4         -   16.4   17.4 18.0' lv,  19.4   90.2          MS'      5.7       - 4.2         i  3.6          2
-10157.9  9t1675.6 112,044.2 '38,23. 169346.0 30,7.    49,0.          84.9  =1.    2.2 MO6. 346.0 M.4 t1270.1           '66.9  1013.        -  ,7.
T:10.6  [13484.  11,540:1'.9 39,07.8  34,687.6  30.1616   U15,9924    30.7   32.2   33.4  34.6  3.937.1      20t4.0      41.3  162.7        -:34.0         31.3           0    54?
As 14  3,319.4  4,075.6  4.974,2  6.01770   7,02.4.4   39.513..0      '.4    1.9    8.2  8.5  8.8  9.1   10.2           11.3   40,0        .    0.2      3  !.2         1     M
3.395.1  16,804.2   2.9612.5  23,102.0  307064.6  37 -6.0  144,344.4    28.3   40.1   4W.  4324.%A. 3.                    1.4 102,7         -  24.2
:.14.0 231,684.8 394#319.3 347,412.6 424,64544 51900.1 1,935,57.3     62.   012.8  57.3 395. 116.8 63.8 WU.31.2        118.3 3,=2.9        - 3,141.2
M3,67.2 748,59.7 677.681,9 447,867.4 489,811.4 531,398. 3.45.9,33.4  10531,786.2 1.370-.4 761.6 710.0 153.9 1.533.3    3.2:3.1 3.63.      1.7 ..15.3
.ourcce Kiaes.oa.



COLOiBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Environment
Detailed Cost Table
(In Col$ '000)
quaa nilay                                                     Sas Cos
,,            , ,   ,,,,   ,   .......... -- -- -- ..unit. U  -it---.-...'.''.....'..'....       ..'...'.''..'..'.''.''..'..'..'.....'......'.'.....'..~' '' 
unit   ISt9 190 1S9   1992  1993  1994   otUl  Cost  I969    1990              I"19      1992      1993       1994    1o0*l
5155:g sa:t sass  =sasg  gaas.  =as:: gsa.; a:;::  :gas  :;fl#ss  sa::  -a s:sassa:  aa::::,   :51a55::  a:s.a:: 5.:5;:X:;
I lml[ISlEMIl COSIS
A   IuDERiNA suPIEisioU       vISItS      5    I    55    20    23    20    90    50  250.0    350.0    110.0  S.000.0  1,150 0  1.000 0   4.,500.0
S. 9ENIIUIEIAIUDI
P5*80MG                      11*       -   U    16a   ISO   ItO      60t  15       5 316   - It. 696 0 53.0,. 0 56. n0. 0 56,880.e 53,088.0 231.632.0
coisimUtilo                  NA        -   t@    04  90 go    a4   3m1             9S I         5,460.0 16,34e.0 11,550.0 17, 500 16,380.0  13.320.0
Sg-loI.I BEAHksialiu                                                                             23. 56.0 59.4658.0 14.430.0 14.430.0 69 4s8 0 310  52. 0
lot.l aIuvSIiEni coSis                                                                        250.0 23,506.0 10,218.0 71,430.0 17,580.0 70,4568.0 315,452.0
,,,,, ,,,,s, s.. sa gs:;   --s,g  ,.......,g ,,,g..
lotUl                                                                                          250.0 23,50.  16.   0212.0 15.430.0 75.580.0 70, 68.0 315,452.0
_.__  __.__   _.    _   ..._   ................  _   _ ..   ..  _   . ._.   __  _.._.._. __.................__.._.__..................._............._.._..__.__.._.._.._....................................    ......w    *>    __    ~e        _        _        _        ~
fdwusup 3, 19M  12:38
Source: Mission.
0
Il
5:3



COLOMBIA
SNALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Environment
Detailed Cost Table
(In Col '000)
*                      ~~~~~~Ikocngm  ol loeS.i Incl. Coal
lot.ls including Caoe             .4......... - -- --------------- ----- -- ---------- ---
laSsie  Including Contingencies                                              US$ '0001                               local                         Oly.
----- -- -------------------------------------------------------   -----------------------------------------                             ttu             a                 -for .    I. . 8  Cont. for.   Gross las Ssiery
1eas     ie 19110              sa1112      I191        1se       totel        19S9 ig"  1e1   ISe2   N93  1394  lotal             Inch  To..l  lases   ital    late  Elach              late    Iccowat
..::: ...a SS ,; *4J5S*  :CSSl  *SSUSS   ...s. a$ss.... *Usa.an.szXas ...;......za$.:: S.. .U: :8.:4 35sa; *Sas  .5.3............................ : 3355  sSs$::  38335. 534::   :85.38:3.::.   3535....... 555    ;:.s,;:s:.&: :,h,:,
280.0     40IJ.8    3.269.?      .0554   2.6V 0 .S   3014.2   3015 I .0    0.11  1.2    2.6   3.5   4.2    3.6            36.0         -    6.0           -     16.0        0      0           0      SUP
- 24.414.?  90.0640 Ili. O   111S. 1 344.022.1 I6. 221. a540.619.2           - 56. 4  82. 3202.0 209.2 202.S    6520    I.3.   60.4                  -    s3.e         0   0. 2           0       Cm
-  ?.551. 521,1 88 1    36214.0  44431.1  50. 6fl.5  366.6215            - la.0  56.2  62.2  64.5  62.4   262.5            53.5  20M.e        -        262.6        0   0. 2           0       cm
- 32,026.2 161.652.1 154.263. 1 tS,451.S 214.8M,1 107.502.6                  - 76.4 228.3 264.4 212.1 264.5 3,361.l    221.0  890.3                   - 1.331.)
..... -------      -- - - -   ---------   ---------    --------- --...----    ....   ..... ...... ........ .   ......   ..  ....   ..... ...  ... .....    ......   .... ....   .... .... ......... .....
280.0 32.510.1 119.122.4 156.322.6 191.359.  261.913.3 1311513.1   0.6 AI.6 240.8 261.9 211.8 266.231 1233.4   221.0  906.4                               -  13,33.4
.....   ...                   6.......  ..s..............     ....    ...  ..                    Z- . .... 5      ...  .   S . 4 ......  ....a. ...... Z*  ,   ,.-.   ,... f.
210. 0 22.53l 3  It 122.4 356, 3228.6 353.3J9. ) 2321.02.3 111.*I3.1   G. 01 It.6 240.9 261.9 2118   268.3 3133.4   221. 0   M06. 4                       - 13. .4                                                   C
Z ..  . ..      .........h.S.. .... a s.a . .a ...A.. ....... ..... s   ..  .  ..a 5.4    .. .. a.... an 54. ... a aSs  . 5   5 5*  5    5455. ;48.85*   ... 455                                                     3;
Source:  Mislion.
0)   c
0
Ml



C'
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
La Mojana Pilot Project
Detailed Cost Table
(In Col$ '000)
unht    l1        99        1les      1992       11u        194    lo0e1     Cost   OM        left      161        1t32       39M      ISU       Iot
S*S*S*  *83#      f.s.&..*                      .a*s               .S..Sn..sa.......... a .........  a ss.a... ssaa  sa   .     ...                s;..  s .....* ...s
1. IUNvSilMi  cesIS
. CO.SUInUi stbilcis                   IIll    1.210    13.100   182.ee    182.000 o    112.0o0  41.100   68.8110       I 3,250.0  S7,50o.0 142,000.0 1o2, 00. e 1,2000.0 4. 100. 0   687, 80 0
B. FIE6 D 0 OM IIOIt IMP1l5S    MIAUII              -   214.125   224. $sS   IS, 10     9L. 105   11.455  126.495       1          294.25.0 224. 105. 8, 105.0  U. 105.0  It. 41.0   2264981.0
101.1 IfISINIU  COSIS                                                                                                          ,250. 0 392.225.0 4068 105.0 20. 105.0 28. 3W.0 52.555 0 1.414.345 0
ass;;;. azzsssn.  San,,;.;  asa;.aas .3;$    ss.s;sS:  555;;  .;a;
3.1.3                                                                                          2210.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;a,ao 232,4221.0,6 404548.105    280-05000.015.0i 5'2,115.0 1414.41 
sass;;. sas.as;as .           ssassaa  ss;. ..;. a.anS; .. a. .s..
fbssarp 3J.  980  32.39
Source:  Misslon.
O-
"I"
N 



COLOMBIA
SHALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
La Mojana Pilot Project
Detailed Cost Table
(In Cols '000)
a rtealm     ofol totals  nch  Coal
$1S0  1000                             parameters
lotals Including Conti"tI 53 0001                                                                                                       oc* I                       Phy.
..---. ----.----........---..-...-.-.-...--..---.---.-........-...--  - ------------ ------------------------------------                                   IElnd.                        Coas6   el. for.  Gross Ian Smury
16        1990        3663       1992        INS         IU64       loetl        16n    1090     6S91      1692     1936     1994  tIOtl    for. Idn. tasl"l   laes   fatal    Dalo  Ench    1ale    Accoun
s.::::.::,: s , .........s........... 3s:.: .S.....: ,,..aa ::  ..  s:::...... :: . ::::: ::::, :ass. ::5:;:...: ::55:::::55 :c .::5: 5::5s55:::s;:  ...........n.....,...sa..ss.....*.........ss.s..................55....a.......s. :.:s :::::::::: ::::
3626. 2 134.984.4 310.691.6 381. 125 * 461.520.1 t29524.2  1.421.423.2  10. 2   322. 1   6283                 53. 2   G6. 0 159.4 2.452.2          1.966.0   4842             - 2.452.2        0   06            0        IA
- 40t.s1.6 382. M. 1 20.619 5 251U.26o.S  35,81. .  1.282.323 2                -   963. 4   212.1   311.4   365.0  44.3 2. $06.            1,110. 2   196.5           * 2.106.          0  e 68           0       cm
..... ... .. .... ... .........  ............ ...... ... ..... .. .. . ...... ... . ..... ........ .......  ......... .. .... .. ..... ......... ..................   . ... ........ ........ .......... ..
3.626 2 542.936 3     62.21.6 me. 141.1 SU  &II..  I61.4691.* 2.109.196.4  10.2 1,26.5 1 .401.0 1.004.5 1,044. 0 203 * 4.85  9                      ,618.2 1,280 7              4.618 H
S.:::::Z    ....  :..   St. : a.......  *-3. aap..Z.4. :. ::4.:..a.......S..  as .......s  As....z . .:.... a;*.SS ;S. . as.               .   a: .:.... a.:. az -s :               -:: .5,::::
3,626.2 542.935.0 69t2.17. 586U 145.1 16.11.1 1565 1.86 2,709.796 4  10.2 1 26. 5 1,401.0 1,004.5 1.044.0 203.2 4 II6. 9                           3626.2 1.280.7            - 4.H8.9
42.;ssn   s........  n.s. .:... .a..:.. S.sss..        ..as.....    - A3s..s..  .sas as.... S.     n;;.A : a...... asiaass. a.&&s.; 4. :S-S:33    ss;sa     as .:.:.. .X.444.  zzSS3n
Source:  Hission.
to
N
00



- 43 -
Table It
COLIMIA
SMALLSCALE IRATII FIOJECT
Project Procuremant
(US6 411 Mlion)
Civil Worke                      Equlpment             Consulttnta
____________ -------____-       __----_   ______________-________   Training                            TOTAL
Project Component               ice       LCD      Other        ICa       LCD      other        other                    N.A.        COST
---  -- -- - -- -  
Off-Far, Irrigation Infruetrucur         -        91.50     20.10        -         -         -             6.0S        -           -         114.90
(Sank Financi;n  561)               -        i .06     11U.6        -         -         -             4.81        -           -           6l.50
On-Pr. Inweetm_nt-                                 -          -               -         -           -                  -          56.90       56.90
(no Sak Financing)                                                               -          -
Technoloew Tr..s  r                                                                                                                  2-  -  -  -  -  -  -  6.2  6.20
(bent Financing 401)                -         -                               -         -            -                        2.50        2.50
Inat tutionai Oeveleopmnt
Technical Aitnce                    -         -         -           -         -         -             0.60        -           -           0.60
Training                            -         -         -           -         -         -            -            1.90        -           1.90
Vehiclea                                                            0. so     -         -            _-                       -           O.50
Sml  Euip t                         -         -         -           -         0.15      0.1i         -            -           -           0.30
Project Eval. A Pro.                -         -         -           -         -         -             0.0        -           -           0.30
lecurre- cr_te                                -         -           -         -         -            -            -           8.S0        S.80
Subttal Int. Oweolat                  -         -         -           0.80      0.18      0.15          0.90        1.90        3.80        6.90
(Bank Financing 465)                                    -           0.28      0.07      0.07          0.42        0.80        1.88        3.20
Environmental Protection                 -         _         1.10        -         -         -            -            -           0.00        1.10
(no Sank Financing)                                     -           -         -                                   -           0.00        -
La Mojans Pilot Project                  -         -         0.60        -         -         -             2.40        -           2.00        8.00
(Bank Finaneing 601)                                   0.36         -         -         -             1.44        -           1.20        8.00
TOTAL                           0.00       91.S0     21.e0        0.0      0.15      0.15         11.60        1.90       68.40      196.00
TOTAL tl FDWNCP1                  0.00    58.04      12.01        0.28      0.07      0.07          6.67        0.66        5.28       78.20
Note; Other Procuremant lathed. coneiat matly of li-ited competitive bidding for coneultanta and of ahopping with three quotations for ci-il wi rk
----- for irrigation  ceaaa coating lso than U170.000 equivalent and equipment valued at lee than USO.000 equivalent.
Source: Mission



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 12
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
Amount               X of Expenditures
Loan Category                                 USS million                   Financed
1. Off-Form Irrigation Infrastructure               66.5
(1) Civil Works                                            stx for eivil works contracts
(ii) Consultants                                           60  of consultants expenditure.
2. Technology Transfer                               2.5
(1) Extension Service.
Cajo Agrarla & Others                                90X of expenditures
(ii) Applied Re_ereh - ICA                                  SOX of expenditure
S. Institutional Developmsnt                         8.2
(i) Training
- Foreign                                              1001 of expenditures
- Local (including project promotion)                  e   of expenditures
(ii) Vehicles and Equipmet
- Foreign                                              100X of expenditures
- Local                                                SOX of expenditures
(iIi) Consultants
- Foreign                                              1OOX of expenditures
- Local                                                60X of expenditures
4. La Mojana Pilot ProJect                           3.0
(i) Consultants
- Foreign                                              1001 of expenditures
- Local                                                SOX of expenditure
(ii) Clvil Works                                             C6X of civil works contracts
5. Unallocated                                       4.0
TOTAL                              78.2



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 13
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
_____________________________
Basic Parameters for Price Contingencies
Inflation Index
Inflation Index                                      (Ad3. for Devaluation)
Local      Local     Foreign       Foreign                           Foreign       Local
Inflation    Cost in   Inflation         Costs    Exchange              Coso In        Costs
Rate   Col I a/         Rate    in US$ a/         Rate    Irtdx       Col 2      in USS
(4x8)      (216)
(1)        (2)          (3)          (4)          (5)      (6)         (7)         (8)
Year 0 (1988)          26%      1.00 3 U'             1.0000       327.1      -          1.000 
Year 1 (1989)          24X      1.12          5.3x      1.0266       355.2    1.086        1.115       1.031
Year 2 (1990)          28X      1.38          5.6x      1.0800       419.1    1.280        1.382       1.078
Year 3 (1991)          22X      1.69          4.11      1.1300       494.5    1.610        1.706        1.12
Year 4 (1992)          22X      2.06          4.1X      1.1870       588.5    1.780        2.100       1.167
Year 6 (1993)          221      2.51         4.11       1.2300       888.5    2.100        2.583       1.195
Year 6 (1994)          22X      3.07         4.1X       1.2800       812.6    2.480        3.174       1.238
Source: Exchange rate and Colombia Inflation forecoots ft!A Country Division; International Inflation
forecast froe Bank Quidellnoe of October 4, 1988.
a/ Half the factor for the current year and full factor for the preceding year.



ANNEX 2
-46-                           Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Procedures and Criteria for Subproiect Selection and Prioritization
Introduction
1.       This annex describes the method, procedures and the criteria that
will he used in selecting and assigning a priority ranking to the small-
scale irrigation subprojects to be implemented at vereda level by HIMAT as
part of the National Small-Scale Irrigation Program, including any financed
partially from the proceeds of the external credit now being negotiated
with the World Bank.
Types of Applicant
2.       HIMAT will consider applications for irrigation projects only if
lodged by community entities (i.e., 'Juntas de Accion Comunal," Water Users
Associations, cooperatives or municipalities) and accompanied by a list of
potential beneficiaries belonging to the particular community.
Identification of Subproiects
3.       A possible subproject will be regarded as identified if the
initial visit from the local HIMAT regional office made upon receipt of an
application as specified in para. 2 above confirms that: (a) the scheme
meets minimum technical standards including: (i) sufficient water to
irrigate a minimum of 30 ha in the case of irrigation schemes of the
diversion type, and that every farm of one or more hectares in the area
(whether irrigation water is obtained from the diversion or damming of a
stream) must be provided with water to irrigate a minimum of 1 ha; maximum
size of a subproject will be limited to 300 ha under irrigation; and
(ii) the existence of access roads; and (b) the beneficiary community, at
least in preliminary fashion, is clearly informed of, and verbally accepts
the conditions laid down for inclusion of the subproject in the HIMAT
program.  A list of subprojects so identified will be forwarded to HIMAT
headeuarters monthly by the regional offices. The information will include
the original request from the community and the list of potential
beneficiaries.
Preselection of Subprojects
4.       The local HIMAT regional office concerned will prepare a profile
of the subproject and will apply the six criteria indicated in the attached
appendix. If the subproject earns a minimum score of 50 points out of the
100 possible, it will be classified as preselected. Notice to this effect
will be sent to both the applicant community and HIH&T headquarters.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Selection of Subprojects
5.       For a subproject to be classified as selected, the community
concerned must accept the conditions of financial ptirticipation that are to
govern cost recovery and administration of the irrigation facilities, and
must do so by having all potential beneficiaries sigr a document to this
effect.  The conditions are as follows:
(a) Contribution of beneficiaries to the financing of off-farm
investment costs: the minimum financial contribution from
beneficiaries should be equivalent to 202 of total off-farm
irrigation investment costs in each subproject. This contribution
from the community could be made with assistance from the
municipality, in which case, a firm committment is required.
In order to eaue the financial burden on the community, HDMAT
would require the contracting firms to recruit and use to the
extent possible unskilled labor from the beneficiary communities
and to pay them market wages;
(b) Financing of on-farm investments and payment of operating costs:
Beneficiaries would finance either in cash or through credit all
on-farm investments, principally the watering rig (hose and
sprinklers) (HIMAT will supply up to three hydrants per farm; the
cost of the hydrants is included under the heading of off-farm
investment costs).
The communities, with advice from HIMAT and SENA (the agency whose
job it will be to organize community groups and to provide
training for community members in the operation and maintenance of
subproject equipment), should estimate what quotas would need to
be deposited in a common fund in sufficient quantity to cover
operating and maintenance costs on civil engineering works and the
replacement of community equipment. They should also design the
mechanisms to be used in administering these resources; and
(c) Prioritization of subproiects and their inclusion in the
investment program: notice of all new subprojects classifed by
the regional branches as selected will be sent to HIMAT
headquarters monthly, accompanied by a profile of each scheme, its
points score, and a copy of the document signed by community
members.
6.       MIMAT headquarters will decide the total number of subprojects to
be included in the annual investment program, according to what budget
resources are available. Prioritization of subprojects--i.e., a decision
on whether they are to be included in the annual program or postponed--wiLl
be based on consideration of the following criteria: (i) the points score
obtained by each subproject; (ii) possible inequities in the regional
geographic distribution of subprojects included in the investment program;
and (iii) the implementation capacity of the HIMAT regional offices.



-48-                           ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Depending on the results of the procedure, the community, HItAT regional
office and relevant sector entities (Caja Agraria, ICA. SENA, INCORA,
INDERENA) will be notified that the subproject has been included in HIMATs
activities program for the following year and that detailed design work on
the subproject will commence. Physical implementation of the subproject
will also depend or. whether the initial design suggests and complete design
data and economic analysis by HIMAT confirms an internal economic rate of
return or 202 of more for *diversion, schemes and of 152 or more for
*reservoiro schemes.



..49_                    Annex 2
ADDendix
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBTA
SHALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Criteria of Subproiect Selection and Prioritization
1.       Whether a subproject profile is preselected will depend on how
well it meets the following six criteria (each weighted as shown):
(a) concentration of small farms, 25Z; (b) agroclimatic conditions, 252;
(c) access roads, 20Z; (d) institutional presence in the area, 1OZ;
(e) concentration of projects, 102; (f) project size, 102. A project must
receive a minimum score of 50 points out of the possible 100 in order to be
considered eligible for the selection phase.
Concentration of Small Farms
2.       This criterion is designed to favor subprojects where small
production units predominate and where insufficient rainfall is the major
obstacle to increasing real smallholder income, using the land more
intensively and employing the available labor force. Height above sea
level is to be a determining factor, since the position taken is that
small-scale conusnity irrigation schemes are needed mostly on the Andean
slopes where rainfall is poor. The scoring system and points scale to be
used are as follows:
NPUC  -  No. of farms up to 5 ha in size
NPUD  -  No. of farms up to 10 ha in size
TP    -  Total no. of farms in the subproject area
APIIC  -  Area cove:;ed by farms up to 5 ha in size
APUD  -  Area covered by farms up to 10 ha in size
AT    -  Total subproject area
.Scoring
(a) For number of farms:
(i) Projects located at 1,200 m above sea level or higher:
2                   Points
(NPUC X TP) x 100        90 - 100                  15
so-  90                   12
70 -  80                   9
60 -  70                   6
50 -  60                   3
Less than 5O               1
(ii) Projects located below 1,200 m elevations use the formula
given in Ci) substituting NPUD for NPUC and applying the same
point scores.



Annes 2
-50-                      Agpendix
Page 2 of 4
(b) For area covered by farms:
(i) Projects located at 1.200 m above sea level or higher:
X                       Points
(APUC /  AT) x 100   70 - 100                       10
60 -  70                       8
50 -  60                       6
40 -  50                       4
30 -  40                       2
Less than 30                        1
(ii) Projects located below 1,200 m elevation: use the same
formula as in (i), substituting APUD for APUC and applying
the same point scores.
Agroclimatic Conditions
3.       Through this criterion the preselection process takes account of
the annual number of days of sufficient soil humidity, a variable which
being the major factor in crop growth has a major impact on small-farm
output and the generation of benefits. Three types of area are envisaged
as suitable: those with development potential, those that provide optimum
physical conditions for implementing the subprojects, and those where
rainfed farming is productive but supplementary irrigation would allow
intensified cropping. During the identification phase in the course of
field work, the use of existing general rural weather maps of no less than
1:500,000 in scale would be acceptable.
Points
Less than 60 days of sufficient soil humidity per year         0
60  - 120 days per year                                       10
121 - 180 days per year                                       25
181 - 240 days per year                                       15
Over  240 days per year                                        0
Access Roads
4.       Where there are access roads into subproject areas, a maximum of
20 points out of 100 are assignable as follows:
Points
Passable all seasons to 10 t vehicles                     20
Passable all winter to 5 t vehicles                      15
Passable half winter to 10 t vehicles                    12
Passable 10 t vehicles summer only                         8
Closed to 10 t vehicles throughout the year                0



-51-                       Annex 2
Appendix
Page 3 of 4
Institutional Presence in the Area
5.       The purpose of this criterion is to highlight subprojects where
certain public- or private-sector agencies are available to provide
production services or support in the form ofs (i) technical assistance
(ICA, SENA, DRI, INCORA, Caja Agraria, municipalities, Agricultural
Secretariats, producer associations, regional corporations, universities);
(ii) marketing assistance (IDEMA, producer associations, cooperatives); and
(iii) credits for production and marketing (Caja Agraria, Banco Cafetero,
Banco Ganadero, INCORA. CORFAS, FINANCIACOOP). A maximum of 10 points out
of 100 are assignable here, as follows:
Points
Agencies providing technical assistance
marketing assistance and credit                         10
Agencies providing technical assistance
and credit.                                             6
Agencies providing credit                                  4
Concentration of Subproiects
6.       Use of this criterion is designed to guarantee efficient
utilization of the operating capacity of the implementating agencv in
regard to monitoring and evaluation activities and extension in irrigated
agriculture. It carries a ma imum of 10 points, to be allocated acccrding
to the time a vehicle travelling always in the same direction would take to
reach subprojects in operation, under construction or identified:
Points
Less than 1 hour                                          10
1 - 2 hours                                               7
2 - 3 hours                                               4
Over 3 hours                                              0
Proiect size
7.       The intention in this case is to favor relatively larger projects
because of the opportunities they allow for economies of scale in
construction and in providing support services. The criterion carries a
maximum of 10 points and a minimum of 2, as follows:
-       Points
200 - 300 ha                                             10
150 - 200 ha                                              8
100 - 150 ha                                              6
50 - 100 ha                                              4
30 -  SO ha                                              2



-52-                      Annex 2
Appendix
Page 4 of 4
8.       In the case of "reservoir" subprojects, the last category would be
20-50 ha. In order to avoid creating false expectations in rural
communities, HIMAT when draving up profiles of 'identified' projects,
should preferably not involve the potential beneficiaries in assembling the
information on which the preselection method described here would be based.



ANNEX 3
-53-                         Page 1 of 8
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Production, Incremental Farm
Investment Costs, and Agricultural Credit Aspects
Introduction
1.       The project would establish about 850 irrigation schemes, each
ranging between 20 and 300 ha in size (and averaging about 70 ha), and
comprising the holdings of several farms. The area under irrigation per
farm would range between 1 to 2.5 ha, with each beneficiary receiving
irrigation on an average of 1.4 ha. An estimated 43,000 small farmers
would thus be provided with supplementary irrigation, covering an area
estimated at 60,000 ha over a six-year period. The farmers would install,
at their own cost, all the on-farm irrigation equipment, i.e., watering
hoses and feeding sprinklers on the hydrants, and the entire system would
operate by gravity under natural pressure. All construction and pipeline
installation off-farm, including the hydrants needed to irrigate the
1-2.5 ha would be carried out by contractors under HIMAT supervision. The
farmers are expected to contribute 202 of the costs of the off-farm civil
works and equipment. The average cost of these off-farm civil works and
equipment, up to and including the pipes and the hydrant, are estimated at
Col$ 434,000 per hectare (from Annex 1, Table 5) and the farmer's
contribution has been established at Col$ 87,000/ha. In addition, the
farmer will have to pay for on-farm irrigation equipment, consisting of the
watering hose, including its connection to the hydrant, and for the two
sprinklers needed on each hydrant. These costs are detailed on Table 2,
and total ColS 52,000 for a 1 ha Farm Model, and ColS 78,000 for a 2.5 ha
Farm Model.
Phasing and Distribution of Development
2.       Development at farm level will be determined by the pace of
completion of irrigation infrastructure, the effectiveness of the extension
services provided and the readiness of smallholders to adopt improved
practicbs. For the project as a whole, the expected phasing is shown in
Table -1 of this Annex. Irrigation schemes would be of two typess
diversion ("bocatoma') and reservoir ('lagos"). Only 5 of all schemes
would be of the 'Lagos* type and on average these would cover only 20 ha
each, for about 20 beneficiaries. All or most of these would be located in
the hot zone. The remaining 95 of schemes are expected to be distributed
through the three agroclimatic zones, 35 cool, 301 mid and 30? hot. which
also roughly correiponds with the distribution of smllholdings.  These
'Bocatoma' schemes depending on diversion of stream flow would irrigate on
average 60 to 800 ha for 60 to 80 beneficiaries.



-54-                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8
Illustrative Farm Models
3.       For each agroclimatic zone, illustrative models are presented in
each case showing the present situation under rainfed conditions and a
realistic expectation for the future with supplementary irrigation and
agricultural extension service available. For the cool region and mid-
altitude zones two illustrative models based on Bocatoma irrigation are
used, representing the situation of farmers who will develop 1 ha with
irrigation (i.e. 2 hydrants provided by the project with hoses and
sprinklers purchased at the smallholder's expense) and those who develop
2.5 ha with extra hydrants at their own expense as well as investments in
hoses and sprinklers. In the hot zone one model for development of 1 ha of
irrigation is used for Bocatoma systems and another of 1 ha for Lagos.
4.       Cool Zone, Model 1 (Table 5).  This farm consists of 1.2 ha of
sloping land more than 1,800 mm above sea level. At present 0.1 ha is in
rough pasture used for grazing and the remaining area is cultivated,
including 0.2 ha for household garden (brassicas, onions, peas, beans,
carrots, herbs and some fruits), 0.4 ha of maize and 0.3 ha of beans (dry)
either separately or in association with maize and 0.4 ha of cash crop,
most commonly potatoes. More than one crop, most commonly potatoes. More
than one crop is grown on part of the area for an overall crop intensity of
about 1202. Cultivation is mostly by hand, some improved seed is used and
some fertilizer, but chemlcal pest control is not common and yields are
generally low, 1.2 ton for maize, 0.6 ton for beans and 12.5 ton for
potatoes. All labor can be provided by the family, but in accordance with
custom, smallholders group together pooling their labor for seasonal
activities.
5.       Supplementary irrigation will be used initially to increase yields
of existing crops and to increase the area planted to maize providing a
significant increase in income for a modest increase in production cost.
In the second year, some improved techniques demonstrated by extension
would be adopted and some more profitable through labor demanding annual
crops (mostly vegetables such es peas, green beans, and onions) would be
introduced. For these changes, production costs and labor requirements
would increase by 55 and 702 respectively, but net benefits would increase
by more than 1002. With growing confidence in extension, further changes
would be made increasing the share of vegetables still further, reducing
the area of traditional maize and beans and investing in some perennial
crops such as Curuba or Tree Tomato. Crop intensity on the area actually
irrigated is shown to reach 180Z, but in fact progressive smallholders with
labor available will exceed this level. The pace of change and eventual
yields assumed in the model are considered realistic and in line with those
already achieved by the more progressive beneficiaries in irrigation
schemes. At full development, yields used are: 2.6 ton for irrigated
maize, 1 ton for beans, 20 ton for potatoes and vegetables, and 10 to
12 ton for tree crops. The model, however, shows the conservative await
and see" attitude of smallholders to be appropriate in this case where
supplementary irrigation becomes available at a relatively low cost.
Subsequent increased costs of adopting improved practices and crops can be
met largely out of income. Table 5 shows net benefits to increase over
five years by 140? and the reward to family labor to increase from
Col$ 1,390 to ColS 2,770 per day.



ANNEX 3
-55-                         Page 3 of 8
6.       Cool Zone, Model 2 (Table 7).  This is farm of 3 ha of slopelands
of which 0.6 ha are currently in rough pasture for grazing and the
remaining area which is cultivated consists of 0.2 ha household garden,
1 ha maize, 0.5 ha beans, 1 ha of potatoes, and 0.2 ha of vegetables for
which few improved practices are employed. Overall crop intensity is about
120S. Production methods and yields are similar to those described for
Model 1. With completion of irrigation infrastructure, this category of
farmers would develop 2.5 ha of his property for irrigation. Like his
smaller counterpart, he also would use supplementary irrigation to increase
the production and area of the crops already known and grown. As
confidence builds he would progressively adopt improved techniques
eventually replacing part of the area in traditional maize and beans, with
vegetables and perennial crops. Overall crop intensity would be increased
to about 135Z through some double cropping on the area irrigated. Returns
from this development are high. Net benefits would increase in five years
by 1802 and the reward for family labor would increase from Col$ 1,380 to
Col$ 2,820 per day.
7.       Mid Zone, Model 3 (Table 9).  This slopeland farm of 1.5 ha
contains 0.3 ha of uncultivated rough pasture land and 1.2 ha under
cultivation, which comprises 0.2 ha of household garden, 0.5 ha of maize,
0.4 ha of beans either separately or in association with maize and about
0.2 ha of yuca or other root crop. Overall crop intensity is about 1052.
Production methods, like those in the cool zone, are largely unimproved,
with hand cultivation or in some cases use of animals, some improved seeds
and some use of fertilizers. Yields are low, but because of more favorable
growing conditions are marginally higher than those of the cool zone. As
in the cool zone, the first impact of supplementary irrigation will be
increased yields of traditional crops and an increase in crop area.
Subsequently, following demonstrations, improved techniques will be
gradually adopted and more profitable crops, initially annuals (vegetables)
and later perennial crops, will partially replace maize and beans. Crop
intensity on the area equipped for irrigation would be increased to about
180Z. Net benefits can be expected to increase in five years by 2402 and
family labor reward can be expected to increase from ColS 1,440 to
Col$ 2,500 per day of work.
8.       Mid Zone, Model 4 (Table 11).  This farm of 3.5 ha of slopeland
contains 1 ha cf pasture and 2.5 ha under cultivation including 0.2 ha of
household garden. 1.0 ha of maize, 1.0 ha of beans, 0.5 ha of yuca and
0.3 ha of vegetables. Present crop intensity is about 115?. Production
methods and yields are similar to those for Model 3. With supplementary
irrigation available, this type of farmers will elect to equip 2.5 ha of
his land for irrigation. Initially the yield of present crops will be
increased and small increases made in the area of vegetables. Subsequently
improved techniques will be progressively adopted, the vegetable area
increased further and some tree crops (e.g.-, granadilla) established in
replacement of traditional crops.  Overall crop intensity by the fifth year
would reach about 1302 but on the 2.5 ha actually irrigated secomd cropping
would be commonly practiced and intensity would reach about 15OZ. Net
returns can be expected to increase by about 1502 and family labor rewards
to increase from Col$ 1,900 to Col$ 2,750 per day of work.



AMPEX 3
-56-                        Page 4 of 8
9.       Hot Zone, Model 5 (Table 13).  Farms in the lowland areas are
mostly larger but only a part of the area is likely to be developed for
irrigation.  These farms on flat, undulating or sloping land have an
average of 2.0 ha of which 0.4 ha of pasture remains uncultivated and the
remainder is devoted to household garden 0.2 ha, maize, sorghum or millet
0.8 ha, beans or pigeon peas 0.4 ha and yuca 0.6 ha. Present crop
intensity is about 1202.  These farmers have a wide range of crop choices
available to them. Most would develop on average 1 ha for irrigation
initially irrigating the crops already grown on part of the area and
increasing the area of maize. After benefitting from improved yields for
one or two seasons, largely due to supplementary irrigation and some
improved practices, most would begin to introduce high value vegetable
crops such as tomatoes, pepper, onions, garlic, watermelon or lettuce and
still later would begin introducing perennial crops. These may include
cocoa and plantain, mangoes or papaya. Crop intensity on the area
irrigated would reach about 180Z by the fifth year. Table 13 shows that
even following this conservative approach and with the realistic yields
assumed net benefits can be increased more than 1002 by the fifth year and
family labor reward increa-sed from Col$ 1,540 to Col$ 1,870.
10.      Hot Zone, Model 6 (Lagos System Irrigation) (Table 15).  Farmers
in these lowland areas are mostly beneficiaries of INCORA settlement with
farms averaging 5 ha of undulating land with coarse textured free draining
soil. At present about 2 ha of the land remains in poor pasture used for
grazing of milk cows and the remaining area contains 0.2 ha of household
garden, 1.4 ha of cereal which may be maize, sorghum of millet, about 1 ha
of yuca which is an important crop for these farmers and 0.4 ha of pigeon
pea grown around the verges of the plots. Same second cropping is
practiced under rainfed conditions but during most crop seasons some crop
land lies idle so that crop intensity is about 10O. The amount of water
available in *Lagos schemes will be sufficient only for an average 1 ha of
irrigation per family. Experience to date has shown these farmers to be
slow in adopting improved methods and new crops. Initially they can be
expected to use supplementary irrigation to increase the yield of existing
crops and slightly increase the area planted to maize. The household
garden in most cases will not be located on the area to be irrigated and
will remain under rainfed conditions. From the second crop season they
will begin adopting some improved techniques demonstrated by extension and
from the second year can be expected to begin substituting some high value
vegetable crops for traditional maize. Yuca, pigeon pea and part of the
maize area would probably continue to be grown, without irrigation. From
the third year some investments would be made to introduce tree crops on
part of the area. With adequate water, these areas offer opportunities for
multiple cropping with three or four vegetable crops annually. Because of
the slow response of farmers in this category to date, the model (Table 15)
assumes that crop intensity will reach 1082 overall or L2OZ on the area
irrigated. Progressive smallholders will far exceed this intensity. With
the realistic assumptions used smallholders represented by this model can
expect to increase n;t incomes from CoiS 540,000 to Col$ 851,000 during
five years while family labor reward could be expected to increase from
ColS 1,740 to Col$ 2,160 per work day.



ANNEX 3
-57-                         Page 5 of 8
Cash Flow of Farm Models
11.      Cash flows have been prepared for the farm models mentioned above.
These cash flows appear on Tables 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14 of this annex.
The costs of incremental inputs for agricultural production, the farmers'
contribution to off-farm civil works and equipment costs, and on-farm
irrigation equipment costs have been included in these cash flows. The
cash flow for all farm models is positive every year, although net income
in Crop Year 1 before financing would be lower than without the project
(see table below):
Farm Models Cash Flow
(Before Financing)
(In Col$ '000)
(In Constant 1989 Terms)
Farm    Area     without                          Crop Year
Model   (ha)      Pro1ect       1        2       3         4          5
1        1          179         87      315     396        338       618
2        2.5        454        270      733     745    1.1,175     1,317
3        1          167        103      303     206        582       582
4        2.5        524        402      850     645      1,335     1,309
5        1          339        261      465     494        577       684
6        1          543        432      608     678        614       851
Sourcet Annex 3, Tables 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 14
12.      The farmer however is expected to obtain credit to finance
incremental production and investment costs under the project, and
therefore to maintain, or increase, his net income over the without-the-
project year. The following table shows net income, in current terms,
after financing and debt services



ANNEX 3
-58-                          Page 6 of 8
Famn Models Cash Flow
(After Financing and Debt Service)
(In Current Terms)
Farm    Area     Without                         Crop Year
Model   (ha)     Proiect        1       2       3         4          5
1        1         200         325     422     706        738     1,897
2        2.5       508         833     987   1,283     2,697      4,043
3        1         187         358     397     310     1,346      1,787
4        2.5       587      1,022   1,181   1,073      3,160      4,019
5        1         380         581     669     901     1,330      2,100
6        1         608         809     915   1,283     1,428      2,275
Source:  Annex 3, Tables 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14
13.      Incremental Production.  These results reflect the expected
incremental production in each one of the farm models. The incremental
production has been applied to the number of schemes to be developed under
the project, according to the phasing appearing on Table 1 of this Annex,
and the total incremental project production is shown on Table 22, in
volume and value.
Incremental Investment Costs
14.      incremental farm investments costs would be incurred by the
farmers at the beginning of Crop Year 1 and would comprise agricultural
production costs, on-farm irrigation equipment, and contribution to off-
farm civil works and equipment costs. The detail of these incremental
investment costs per farm model appear on Table 3.
15.      The incremental on-farm investment costs that would be financed
-under the project includet (a) agricultural inputs needed each project
year over inputs without the project. These total Col$ 12,211.2 million
(Table 16); and (b) on-farm irrigation equipment costs, which would take
place in Crop Year 1 (Year 2 of the Project), and periodically every three
years as required for replacement purposes. These total
ColS 3,200.7 million (Table 17). Table 19 shows the yearly aggregated cost
of.incremental investment costs, totalling Col$ 15,412 million, or
US$47.1 million in constant terms.
16.      The farmers' contribution to off-farm civil worl!s and equipment
costs (also in Crop Year 1) has been included as an investment cost in the
farm models to determine farmer's net incremental income and credit
requirements. Table 18 shows the aggregated yearly cost of the farmers'
contribution, totalling Col$ 5,203 million or US$15.9 million in constant
terms. Table 19 shows total on- and off-farm investmez.t costs of
Col$ 15,412 million or US$47.1 million in constant terms. For the purposes
of total project cost, Annex 1, Table 1, off-farm investment costs (the



-59.                           ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 8
Government's 80Z and the farmers' 202 contribution) have been included
under the Off-Farm Infrastructure Component (and have been excluded On-Farm
Investments Component) to avoid double-counting of costs.
Agricultural Credit
17.      All farmers would need credit at the beginning of Crop Year 1 to
finance shifting to more modern technology f;r agricultural production, on-
farm irrigation equipment, and their contribution to off-farm civil works
and equipment costs.
18.      Agricultural credit needs for each farm model have been calculated
so as to finance the additional investment costs needed in the first crop
year with the project, and at the same time maintain throughout the project
years an income in real terms which is not lower than the income without
the project. Credit needs and debt service are shown in the cash-flow of
each Model, and are summarized in the Farm Models Cash-Plow tables
(Tables 4 to 15); net income after financing and debt-service in current
terms is always higher than income without the project, and therefore there
would be no problem for the farmers to meet debt-service payments.
19.      Yearly credit needs have been computed by applying credit needs
per farm model to the number of farms of each model developed each year as
shown in the project phasing (Table 1). Total credit needs are shown in
Table 20 and are summarized below, in constant and in current terms:
Estimated Credit Needs
(In Col$ millions)
Crop Year     In Constant Terms        In Current Terms       In US$ m a/
1 (1990)             871.6                   1,202.7               2.9
2                  1,856.5                   3,137.5               4
3                  Z,065.8                   4,255.5               7.3
4                 2,179.0                    5,469.3               7.9
5                 2,292.3                    7,037.4               8.7
9,265.2
a/ At mid-year exchange rates.
Source: Annex 3, Table 20
20.      These credit needs are a small fraction of total credit available
for the agricultural and rural sector in Colombia, as indicated by the
table below showing the total credit provided annually by Caja Agraria and
FFAP, the agriculture rediscount line of the Banco de la Rep6blica (the
Central Bank), which between them finance over 902 of the sector's
requirements:



-60-ANE3
Page 8 of 8
Total Credit Provided by Cata Agraria and ?PAP
(In ColS millions)
FPAP            Cala Apraria           Total
ColSm   USS         ColSl    USSm a/   ColS m    USS m al
1986          99,209    506.7      80,259   409.9    179,468    916.6
1987         118,781    490.8    102,807   424.8    221,588    915.7
1988 budgeted    150,000    506.1    125,000   421.8    275,000    927.9
a/ At mid-year exchange rates.
Source: Annex 3, Table 21 and projections for 1988.
Furthermore, PFAP has just issued its allocation for CY 1989 which has been
budgeted at ColS 196,000 million.



-61-
ANNEX 3
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CM ttIII                                                                          able Le
SMALL SCALE IRRIATION PROJECT
ARICULTUR. OELEpLNT
PROJECT PHAMS
YEaSf PROJEtT              WMIT           YR    YR 2        Y  3     YtR 4    YR        YR 6    TOTAL
SMES COPLTES               sowHEIE9        30       V7       158      216      US        144      0SO
HA           2300      6725    11850    16200    16125    10800    60000
-ACtILTRA  0EWL MT
s;CE                     No               0       28        60       66       70        74      298
M    I (a)             Fa              0       840     1800      Igo      2100      2220      40
MlDL  2 (b)            Fa              0       560     1200      1320     1400      140      SSO
TOA. FARM FALIES   Fa                  0      140      3000      3300     3500     3700    14900
AP RIRIGATED             He               0     2240     40.0    5280       5600      5820    2M0
HIII ZOtE
sacis                    No              0        24       Si        S7       60        63      255
IIam  3 (c)            Fa              0       720     1530      1710     1800      1890     7660
Mm 4 (d)               Fa              0       480     1020      1140     120Q      1260     5100
TOTAL FARM FAMILIES   Fa               0      1200     2550     20O       3000     3150    1270
AEIW IA IATED            He               0      1920      8                4800      5040    20400
NOT ZOI
SCHEME                   Ne              0        24       S1        57       60        63      255
ML   S (t)            Fa               0      1392     2950      3306     3460     3654    1490
AM  IRRIGATED            Ha              0      1392     2958      3306     3460      3654    14790
SCm                      NO              0         4        8        to       10        10       42
MM    6 (t)           Fe              .0        g0      160      200       200      200       840
AM  IRRIGATED            He              0        90      160       200      200       200      840
PROECT TOTALS
SCHM                     NO              0        80      170       190      zoo      210       860
TOTAL FARM FAMILE    Fan               0     4072      9569     9656    10180    10704    43280
AA IRRIGATED             Ha              0       632    11998    13346    14090    14614    59870
(a) 30 ?m   f I Ha   irrigated per schu
(b) 20  aram  ot 2.5 Ha irrigawtd per schu
(c) 30 tar  of I Ho   irrigatd per schuss
(d) 20 tarm  ot 2.5 Ha irrigatad par sie
(a) SO far   at I Ha   irrigated per schue
(t) 20  a otl Ha   irrigated persdha
Source: Mission



-62-
ANNEX 3
Table 2
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATON PROJECT
On-Faon Irrigation Equipment Costs
(Coll)
1 ha Faru Model    2.5 ha Farm Model
Unit     (2 Hydrants)            (3 Hydrants)
DESCRIPTION                 Unit       Cost    Quantity      Cost    Quantity    Cost
- Valvo Coupling                           U         1,600          2      3,200          3    4,800
- Union PVC 3/4^                           U           125          2        250          3       376
- Elbow PVC 3/4'                           U           135          2       270           3       405
- Pipe coupling PVC 3/4'                   1           126          a      1,000         12    1,500
- Flexible P.le PE 3/4'                    U           220        100    22,000         160   33.000
- Stake (steel)                            U         1,800          4     6,000           6    9,000
- Elevator (galvanized)                    U           300          4     1,200           6     1,800
- Sprinklesr Type 322                      U         4,600         4     18,000           a    27,000
(2-2.6 stm; 0.8 to 1.2 M3/ha)
TOTAL COST                                               S1,920                77,880
1/4/89
Source: Mission



- 63 _
COLOTIA
ULL-CALS 1otnTW4 MJWT
Incremental Paro Investment (per Peru Model)
C@laSOo In Constant Terms
Crap Year I (Project Veer 2)                 Cra  vera 2     Crm Ver 8             Cra  veer 4   tr  )             Ca  Ver 5
__---  __ _ _(_-                                        PYS)          (Pt 4)      _ _ _                                    (Pt 6)
On-Fte tnveetento
Increentl          On-Iet.              Off-Peru           Irentel         Incrementel    ncreental                                cenl
Prer     Area    Pra4etian      Irri Tetiue             Zee* tm t           Praduction       Pr_dualan    Productlin    Irrlgatlin                Production
model   (he)       Cas  1J    wipeent 2/    BTOVATL    Cas  8/    0AL   C % 8/                    Cam"          Cast      IjabCp.et   TOTAL            COst.
I        1          18             82         70          67      187          eJ               97           162            82      214             174
2      2.8         III             78        18          217   ISO             lo0             2OS                           2      874            3802
8        1          26             82         76          07       168                         280           160            8       212             164
4      2.8         ea              78        144         217      8a1          IJa             47            m               a2      27             26
5        1          80              2         so          67      16           71              1S4           187            82     1IN              142
6 l   1             24      5 S               7           or      18e          69              126          1i8             52      202             i68
1/ Fre- FPre Models an Tables 20 to 28 of the Aeticultural D elae.t Working Paer.
2/ Fre- Table 2 of this Aofie.
S/ froe Ceash-Flowe of each Faer ldl. Tables 4 to O of this 4Apt.



- 64 -                                ANi  S
TABLE 4
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cash Flow for Farm Model 1 - 1 he Irrigated (2 hydrants)
(in ColS '000)
Without      Crop
Project      Year
I        it       III       IV          V
INCOUE:1/                                    305       861       609       1e9        676       918
INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
(1) Production Coats 1/                    126       144       194       228       298       300
(ii) Contribution to
Off-Farm Investments 2/                           87
(iii) On-form Irrigation Equipment 8/                   52                            62
Sub-total         126       298       194       228       340       8OO
Not benefits before financing 1/             179        78       8S1        go   3963           618
Inflation factors 4/                        1.12      1.8U      1.69      2.06      2.51       8.07
Net benefit  In current term                 200       108       632        61S       646     1,697
Incremental costs over
Year without project:
In Constant Terms 5/                                 167        68        97        "14       174
In Current Terom                                       217
Debt Servico: Medium-Term
a years 0 24%                                                 110       110        110
Net Income after fi..mncing
(in current term)                          200       825       422       706       7389    1,97
1/  In January 1989 Term  from farm model on following Table S.
2/ Source: Table 4 of Annex 1 (Project Cost)5 setimted at Coll 48,000/ha
of which the formr is expected to contribute 20X.
3/ Annex 8, Table 2.
4/ To calculate Cash-Flow In current term:  Without project year (1989) 241, Crop Year 1 28X,
afterwards 221.
S/ BOneficlories would receive credit to finance all Incrmental cost, including off-farm
(COLS 87,000) ond on-farm (COLS 70,000) invetments, in Crop Yenr 1 (se  Table 8), in
current term. ineremetal costs from Crop Year 2 onwards could be financed through the internal
generation of funds, and therefore It Is assumed that no credit would be required.



; ~~~~~~~j                                                        _                                                        _       a          .. 
v                                                                    _,.~.,_____              .          wan'a     'F   ' .  -
# __ __ ~ 0 , ,  '~'                                   :. o. ...n.a.                                                  ..0___;      l-;a - - ;:- , _ ____..  - i  - a;- *a
. ;-  _  v_ >g  *                             :r<F_-____o_oo ;-                                                             s               n  ~f3--  _          _ .      scIS g  '"  -  '~'  Ui  s-" i
. | w - ~~~- -   *:- -                                                                                                                  i- -.wso;  eew-0t!-w       i;  i acc   3    --  1
3 j  -t_ t_ o O -'  - - _fOO+{- t__O a-!                     Wt r *  t-5                                         p       i@sts___         to  
5**                                        ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-                                    dT1?~~~~~~~~~~N  A~~~~SU3?' ~~~~~~~
~~~~~~!. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      V



- 66 -
ANNEX a
TABLE 6
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cosh Flow for Form Model 2 - 2.6 ha Irrigated (8 hydrants)
(in ColS '000)
Without      Crop
Project      Ye r
I        II       III         IV         V
INCOME 1/                                     740        e00    1,169      1,829      1,809     1,905
INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
(i) Production Costs 1/                     280       847        486       584        682       588
(Tl) Contribution to
Off-Farm Investments 2/                           217
(Hii) On-farm Irrigation Equipment 3/                     78                             52
Sub-total         280        642       486       584        684       588
Net benefits before financing 1/              464        246       788        745     1,175     1,817
Inflation factors 4/                         1.12       1.88      1.69      2.06       2.51      8.07
Net benefits In current terms                 S0        842     1,239     1,585      2,949     4,048
Incremental costs over
Year without project:
In Constant Term  S/                                  a6s        ISO       298        874       802
In Current Toros                                         491
Debt Service: Medium-Term
3 years 0 26.7X                                                 252       252        252
Net Income after financing
(in current terms)                          o6o       888        967     1,288     2,697      4,048
1/ In January 1969 Terms from farm model on following Table ?-
2/ Source: Table 4 of Annex 1 (Proj.ct, '!oat*), *etimted at Coll 484,000/ha
of which th, farmer Is expected to contribute 20X.
3/ Annex 8, Table 2.
4/ To calculate Cash-Flow In current terms: Without project year (1989) 24X, Crop Year 1 28W,
afterwards 22X.
S/ Beneficiarlie would receive credit to finrnce all Incremental costs, Including off-farm
(COLS 217,000) and on-form (COLS 139,000) invetments, In Crop Year 1 (see Table 8), In
current terms. Incremental costs from Crop Year 2 onwards could be financed through the lnternol



t0   Stt    5t B 1   tt   ltt 5 61tt  Nt   tU   tVj   *  o                            UOISSvW           :SaDnoS
nsr  11s  rtr  rT    rs   rs  rvia  '*1   Ms  *ff   .5   ua                    togs
*  C    5  5     5     C ~~~6     I5     5           gn 111105
vs ri    rim   TIN  va   ves  rim  lisi  ii  sst             *3,            niN
we   w vs         re   re    n      r -    vs   wes   wes  *c o               O
i-is   is   ni   -as  Vas   rut  ga's   I'm   To   s-s   eo              Wm D
r-u   r-s   r     ra   .i-   r-U   i's   Is   t-ea I jog   t it          UM3ia
gus  s-sos  rus  s-eli s-ass  s-us  Sus  5L   5152~~~~~~~ 55    5U  SwAN
rut  reta  S      r-s    tia  VW           set V-e   V=   s-S   s-u        sEt
t-tt  t'U  rtv    ratru       r ru     rc   ota ltti    t vu   va            o
mz    nt%  mr   Itt  .M    i's   ZI t4   ta   tVs%    Z t  It4           atwe
|6ttttttiSt r     rb   rt   -is   as;  vss   s-g  vs               ml 3
r    nz   zrt  rez   r t co r wi   Z  o tZ   r t   rib  rt *z Du
Stl  Vt          s tl    s.  lt  S  Stl s*  tl. rs Volt    sa    Se smash
r-gs t-ga  u.s  Tsi    5s5  Vir           g: a- t
rut  ogi  495  i 5*s   15   13      Use
*nSi  sas  l *      5   ri. us-s           gi ur
r it rttt   S rtt  rtr  alb             a m
ro  ra  ruA  rt rVS rs 
s s s   s-,   s-s   ru   rus   sle        aM
I's st  t tt   i't  et *      s'l -  UZ gAme
Von    o -C sem  t'-- a  i Zt r ot  lo w   A 0N 
am) VA* a  Utt cit
$-ttr 6,01t 4*'1V$Ol *tStt *ttW     ' "tl *'tl'ittt  rttn  I'm   rcA
Iss   rs" TOO  s-s           e TOO  vse   TOO  TOOe  r"   vi   I "A
ro   rep  wIls  On   wll *W   0,0T               *vo   To   0-6         I=aC D
VW"  rec  111   O'Q    ri Wrs VOL       ; e VW.  rTc z  's   't         aul
s   r"   TOP  TOO  I'll T"   *T"   TOO  wn   rs    s                         N Ma
r S   rt St   e t'L  S'k  lt   v      L v   -L v s   lt  rI t   r e        a  m a
rQ    rg   rQT   r      s rQ    rQ    rQt   r    rc   rg z     s          am tlt
rut rw Y     v   r s s oN  o' w   rYi rboi i salt re   r C'D   @'i    ttoom
too 52) ON
US 55    5    115   li  W WU    TM 154
5          a      s    a     I et        g @         a    ll
oL    es   is   ns   U  Si tn              55t      
L     S    S11 t              5 *    t    *            5j llu
S tt      tZ     tt     tt    et           a          m at
IS  It tt tt  tt tt   It tt    E35o
rs    rs   rn   rtes  rs  *r         r     r e: a-       
s-s    '-s        -Is   O's   rs    se   to           Wm Du
  t T       'tl  Vtl   t'l   O'    t't   t I        ol
'    s-s et*    s-s't   C'    s ti  0S'   I't            Wm
s-    t-   t-s   t        s   VIt   Slt  it            so VW
re5   is   *s    s-s   tts   it    s   t rD             aSDia
s-s   s-s   s-s   s-    so   s- c s-s   "Ia              RIuM.
fm  liL oLuDo"
oel  ri     -s   ss O's  t.,t C     I  t .,          a 353
s-  lst 55    l;t    ';t s-p  i   5 g ii   s   S Z      c mu
g'1   51   at I          t     I'    It 'Sc           Wm 1n
O'-    VW   u-s   S-:   C: a T        1    es           m:"O
rl    rt   zt    W      t 1    :i    W    t I           a ma
enl   *n   *lt  rtt   4 rtt   rr1  1.n   vol    .w   e_1111
5 Ia   es   s-    st  55t   sit                1JU
I's  l25    55    5,e  51    I                )5O
51    gt   s~           st    sc            St'A 
I-s   I's   I's   Tos  V-I   r-s              mu
55l   Si   I-   Is   5-s   55              u m aw
tL'    re   tvo   1-    5-    1-0             go
" VI~~ ~ VC   I'    $1    Ole         tt: V11*
O's  Olt   0-0   6-0   0-6   11             A  tIV
I'D  r-    r-    re   t,g e    -a t eia
I,        it,   C&     I&5    55    Is,   i    is   Si S*        i 5,lb
**s    as  .  as  'C fr .a-   t. t! 0 S: ' 55VW . 
Sha Cailn:gm
-L 9-



- 68 -                                 ANNEX S
TABLE 8
COLOMBIA
SIMALL-SCALE IRRI"ATION PROJECT
Cash Flow for Form Model 8 - 1 ha Irrigated (3 hydrants)
(In Coll '000)
Without      Crop
Project      Year
I        It       III        tV         V
INCOME: 1/                                    286       828       488       614        868       816
INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
(i) Production Cos  1/                       69        96       135       80w       229        288
(i1) Contribution to
Off-Farm Investmsnts 2/                            67
(iiI) On-farm Irrigation Equipmnt 3/                     52                             52
Sub-total          69       24         185       808       261       238
Net benefits before financing 1/              167        94       303        206       582      5C2
Inflation factors 4/                         1.12      1.88      1.60      2.00       2.51      8.07
Not benofits In current torme                 187       130       512        424     1,461     1,787
Incremental costs over
Year without project:
In Constnt Terms 5/                                   165        6        239        212      14
In Current Term                                         226
Debt Service: Medium-Term
8 yere 0 24X                                                  l1       lS         115
Net Income after financing
(in current term)                           167       858       807       809     1,84       1,767
1/  In January 1989 Trms from farm moel on following Table S.
2/  Source: Table 4 of Annex 1 (Projoct Comte), estimted at Coll 484,000/he
of which the famer to expected to contribute 201.
8/ Annex 8, Table 2.
4/  To calculato  Cash-Flow in current torms:  Without project year (1909) 241, Crop Year 1 281,
afterwards 22X.
S/ Beneficiaries would reolve credit to finance all incremental costs, including off-farm
(COLt 87,000) and on-farm (COLt 78,000) investments, In Crop Year 1 (se Table 8), In
current terms. Incremental coat. from Crop Year 2 onwards could be financd through the Internal
generation of funds, and therefore It is -        tl-t    -r  It   Id    r   ir



uolsstw              :ianos                     *   ril rSimC  cot 6*',  SO V-                t e Stu I-'m  rw  rat    t                  S
-ad rst rac I'm  ew9 s   ratm  VLK Bi srs  re    wia it%b
sr                    o s  es *  *  em *  s    O'    all    re    re             -w   o
woe I*'m   e lk?C rem    rrz  rV ttt                        1  Ws rt               e m t     111
C.g    *             i's    sI            gg *s C         g    re    r-            a N%W
tsn    vis   ts   r-sl  rts    -s    reS   tmtit  rsc   re            n               l
I 'm           u    tI'm i'm I ll   I      t'     Z s h    Ill  g    *e CI
rt    ra    rzt   rz-          c    za   ra    rs    srv    rPi   r-s
ruC    rot  CreZ   rtt   re        tZ*    Z tt   *a    C-t   rot   mu                   s
I'm   tI .t     1   I'M iZ tt    l'tC    I   I?C Z   r Zt   re,  Cge
,i    IS             i 's    i 1I's   4's    Cs          Is     I 's    v            a     t
r      rte    r       cf    r      t't* I   t I'l    Is,  I  t VIC   rCa      lo      m
c es) Up etSJ .     t
s-c re    me    r.    I'S    re                 a     aict
lil  C *L  I' lt  rt   Pt3    ro LIe
CUTl    fll 11    *       k    18                 SO
.  a  t          a iL s  CSW        re vS ma
ccliL e        L U    * U  r 56   r  re          aim
rr:  t il;   rr    * u.   rat  rt-c    o           t 
cmet        c-s )  ctt ltll   c-at   itlu
t5.   32) cm      wcm            va               va
*t-    *tt.  *s-t   tZ    *Zt   *it C*-t   I'm 5          l   ta *cu    s -ON
lot  eK:  .5 nl        K n  c5 r           n el  too t  S t   rsitt  rr.                tfS
I's-   : o    :*  5i  b   res*  rse    r'    s n               g-n r  sr  rnim
*5 ,c  sce   5get  g-ee   sec S     ect  c-i  s**5   let   53t   IlL                    
1.   t. :I   f      c-cc4   Ce.   WIc  S . 1'    0  S O'    S-b    CS                 im
rr.   rt   rCS    r          ni CST    n-st   re i -t r st   r nt   frl ret          a ur
C:    se    ot    c-s    C-               O'    O's    O's c-u        Ila 055    lo"f vGM
OHS) Jamt
t      5      5      0      C         S          I      S            w   3
Es    Om      KS           on   Et       ES I t S    tfSS       ail n AvOll*s
t s   it      ci: t C   t   5t    iP    in       VIi
9 I              I      I      S      9      C      I                  d
it     A      I      nt    it    6t       s             a             m
n         CS         a U     9            i *  It  *    *
U          l  it    *U    it    It               U      eC
!   SI    I      Ii    It      B      K                               EW M
it                   :t tt i             I i t
I S;     IS          cit C.    S    l S   I t    C       VIt .
i     d       I   C         S      It     I't   It    t1                  t
tt t      ttt    VI    tt    tt        tt1 I'D    Zo  fi         '    Wm
.C                                                                                                            I   1        's el mM
It    I.e 'C  -e    s's    t O      t I    t     C' 1s  Ii             a LI
*-:    cc    s-C C   : t     :    t       g*t    gC    s-s      l      tam lo
'l   *'@ l'l   'v e           '     *t            O's             X"t
;  ,$    t~C   tt    C's, C    I't t   t't    *'1                    tXo
Ic    se      s-    .se            bc     sF rg    5   .  5  5       531
t C    S t    t'C    S'G    C t    C-.-   : )1   S'Ci   0'C     t*itt 
 t    * |    gt'    ';  It-    C'S 0  t'    Ct'l    01         l
t         t        Zt     Xt   :t   I"    Ct  CO           PM
5:    55       o      : ,t  ,       _ I   IC     CI                   RI ezoc
* *C *t. *t It *l  It                                    an
t-  t-i 1't      e           - i; tst |tl l       tt
:s c-i'       t'    t .5    t'    t sc  tsis
i , 55    I-s    L  t  I ,I tC    C   t I   I            UriSt
It    IC   0    C     c St         re       gsitlsm
z I  'O   ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~z I            fit :1tl
I e D c,c   VS    VC e s                             1111W 1
[c -   lct      :    -Cl    1 c     ' cSII1
etC    tt    c:t    t'o  it t CS                  a1via
tC    tC     ;t    t'C      Ct    OC         im     n_s
a:   eg- * -       Ill   ret   c-st VA
PC    ICl   :-:    rt    s-i   'I-
Ct    C     ;e      c-c    t-,    c-s       etit l
': C     i   C-t  Cert      i
CI,W  l.  55.  5.  lbR  55   Sb  cc.  CB   Ii.  5c.
Llbcvx wivjrnm
-69-t
-69-



- 70 -                                  ANEX 3
TABLE 10
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRICAtION PROJECT
Cash Flow for Fare Model 4 - 2.6 he Irrigated (8 hydrants)
(in Coll '000)
Without      Crop
Project      Year
I        II       III        IV         V
INCOME: 1/                                    682       898     1,146      1,281     1,867     1,761
INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
(1) Produetion Costs 1/                     167       228       296       686       444        452
(ii) Contribution to
Off-Farm Invoestmnts 2/                           217
(iii) On-form Irrigation Equipment 8/                    78                             62
Sub-total         167       518        296       686       496       462
Not benefits before financing 1/              524       880       850        645     1,861     1,809
Inflation factors 4/                         1.12      1.38      1.69      2.06       2.51      8.07
Net benefits in current terms                 587       524     1,487      1,829     8,416     4,019
Incroemntal costs over
Year without project:
In Constant Terms 6/                                  861       188       479        889     4,019
In Curront Terms                                        498
Debt Service: Modilum-Trm
8 yers 0 26.7X                                                 25S       266        258
Not Income after financing
(in current terms)                         587      1,022     1,181     1,078     8,160     4,019
1/ In January 1989 Terms from form model on following Table 11.
2/ Source: Table 4 of Annex 1 (Projoet Costs), estimated at Col$ 484,000/ha
of which the farmer Is expected to contribute 20X.
8/ Annex 8, Tablo 2.
4/ To calculate Cash-Flow In current terms: Without project yer (1989) 24%, Crop Year 1 2ax,
afterwards 22%.
6/ Soneficiurits would receove credit to finance all ineremental couts, Including off-fer
(COLU 217,000) and on-farm (COLU 189,000) Tnvetments, in Crop Year 1 (se  Table 8), In
current terms. Incremental costa fre Crop Year 2 onwards could be financed through the Internal
generation of funds, and therefore it Is assumed thot no credit would be required.



sm" rmi             r saIl r rd           stidn rw rw  rsw Ue lUmI
UOTSSTl   :so2nos
srat  rto   ico   vn   vot  rim   rut lw    IVD         *      3     as ,  m o * b-    sum
re    re    re   r*    iS    O'    c-c           e     -c    -c    -c            e    alp
ratb  rw    11    s rl    Mlt  C'n   I,$ t       ,1    SC s     m    * 41           tsv
ru    Ci.   Ic.          *h  Tin   Ca    Cc.  lx    I C    C        't      Sl  
cwe  rscii  $,l  *I 't *Coll *I sl   5 l   cr   81    a's *   aC                 cinfll
rat   r3   Cf rl       l rt  1t tW    ti   tWi   * co   c-.    -
ru    cii   ri    I's    ris  *I    s-    I Ss   I'll  tCa    & ,;i.
-       e t           at t b    t eb t.   lw    tS    c ft eI's  *   5* 
re,    -b   rat   rb   zi.   re*   re zii             t. i    ie   Oi             Iil E im
Iem   I'm   SI    I's   r         rs  cx     I's cx       ri ct m    -n           i rl
I      l 1.   b     'l    2*Ok  l*O    I      lb *e     I   r I g    rca r   m, "NM
re    I ) 1    IDell
V51I 51 31 *   111  5  S   c-l l ;,I   fl*e     l a
*91    3ltt  9-tgl   *-t   t-,   41           l
11l   2'1  Ila s    1,0   I's   a-,A               Wu
-a            la     CL) *i Dc  -   -u    r . 
I'a   cl    4111   I's   rat  slt              NM r.
a,i  CL)   c'd   130        9m I 'm L          is rimb
rcc          : t     *ra  t- .l l  c-%I  eM  ,  r
0-it-t r til 4tl9  oati  *|2?i s*|ki *SLO   *ti 1 1 0-t   rrt                       '61
e rl clOlli 'e        01  e     s o, S   eal l1W   0131  0         rm |  "        WON
O bm r e-wb  *eOs  o's   I' m *                cel e   *    0e : * iO   c,;      A e2.I
e      e* Cm    O-g   em   e e m    cmt  * eo o -ic  c- at   e    -Si -Zs
*ir   *tr *''-tel   VW.  sIr   *-tP0  vtl  V*II    3-s I *           Csi t r .-
e Ki   e     r30 I' :   eo n      .n *    -l S- N * ,$I  e-txi  *pi  ci r; glib
cnt   rui   s'       -tta   2 r s u t s    tit   sItt   9-u    ru    eec          Lst Xl
esi   tei    cu    CUt   ov    51    ci   Sin   eiO    S-K   o3s    am room
tOW, ml
ei ee     O
O  i  *      C      C~ ~ ~~ 0     c     c                  NWcal
et3          Ks  DU  IC1  W tts  KS t3 to W 1                          *1u
tS l Sa                    I t SL b     on    til   51:               'bL
r  t;    t;    c       tZ  ti e: si                t; a :t
LICZ         C      l U    a         0:        C      r5           S W9isps
Cl     L        ts    ts      Li    ti    U        o           IJa)lk
tS    L t                  a                   aI      I I  t n
ts    ts a      a          a     ai    a a c    c     ct                  .
t     e      t      c        c      cz                a ttMXYR
C5    a      C       1     31    3      31131 i
11    a1    a3It           I      It     U     U       i      c       rmu
It    it    tt    tt    it    it    t          n      *2       w  n   xt Wo
"MlCt ID VW
,.S    ,.,    ,5    c0    ,-S   ,-t    cS    cc    CC c-            c 4 lb
e-    I      I' cc    cs   i.    e*.6o   CCt   PS    SI            rM
919   IT    W$I  tsl   l ra     st O'     l S I t                 t > 6 a
rA    s.    s&       s      &s  -s    Ss    Ss S .                      vii
re    rct  tC-    rs.    ro          rt S I     -l rt    ro            so
rt    c-i   51    rt    5I    5-i   t-Z    rl    t:,                1t: !im
tC    C:    CO    rS    ro    SCt   ro    I.    *1                   nt r1t
0    C-Ct  l*t   $L    IC  ti           #'I    C't      UM M
I, dI'    I, 6W'Uce
a t    t0     CtC:   C.:   CCt   IT:   c-c:   V-:-   cc    C-             rtnis1c
C31   CV    C         9 C ,:- C-::             1 ST.31
e S;       : t             tli    t I               onTt
*     ** :   ** C   :  tl C-i   t0                  Pti
,:     -                   C      C IC             WM3
CtC    tt    Ct     s:    c:    cC                rift
,'    ,-,    c1    ,:    .-:    * -i
D'o   O's'    ,    9-1    Is!   0-1    11W me 3mn
c - c-F    o   t     l e   c
S 's 5I 5                       t  * .J;
t1  tl    C-I   c-1   c-1   O-l t
5.1   I'G    It    SIaSs     0 5 I1i~
r3    Olt   sC    re    Vsb    CID
SI     t SC          0C    s0     $a
51    sC     , Z ;         II S- I                 5 n    3
re   It    *1    33    0-1   al                 o: VIl.
ZC      s    z iC    :t C-C    CI        ViS Nutm .D
Cc,.   cc    Sc    *|-   tb   33.          t   it. -     .   t1     03.
S t  it 0   'AL  X:r4  M       OISflI     r.'as le
1* ~   ~        ~       ~       tttS> **                       Ot!:t51*
t   3DI                                                                 IC. C.V1    b-w
-IL



-72 -                                  ANNEX 
TABLE 12
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
________________________________
Csoh Flow for Fars Model C - 1 ha Irriqated (2 hydrants)
(in Coll '000)
----------.--------------------------                                    -- -----
Without      Crop
Project      Yar
I        II       III        IV         V
INCOME: 1/                                   445       627       642       734        872       982
INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
(1) Production Costs 1/                    106      la        17"       240       248       248
(it) Contribution to
Oft-Form Investments 2/                           87
(Iil) On-farm Irrigation Equipmwnt 8/                   52                            52
Sub-total         106       275       177       240       295       246
Not benefits before financing 1/             339       252       485       494         77       684
Inflation factors 4/                        1.12      1.38      1 .       2.06      2.51       8.07
N- benefits In current terms                S80        U84      786      1,018     1,448     2,100
Incremental cost  over
Yer without project:
In Constant Terms ./                                 169        71       184       169        142
In Current Term                                        288
Debt Service: Medium-Term
S years 6 241                                                 117       117       116
Net Income after financing
(in current term)                          S80       581      6s9        901     1,380     2,100
1/ In January 1969 Terms from farm model on following Table 18.
2/ Source: Tablo 4 of Annex 1 (Project Costs), stimated at Coll 484,000/ha
of which the formr Is expected to contribute 20%.
8/ Annex 3, Table 2.
4/  To calculate Cash-Flow In carrent terom:  Without project yer (1969) 24X, Crop Yoer 1 28S,
afterwards 22X.
5/ Benotictortes would receive credit to finance all incremental costs, Including off-farm
(COlA 87,000) and on-for (COLt 82,000) investments, In Crop Year 1 (se Table 8), In
current terms Incremental costs from Crop Year 2 onwards could be financed through the internal
generation of funds, and thorefore It Is assumed that no credit would be required.



uotssrw   :ezfnos                        o          r rues     T t r        o "s or     r,  r ret t  Si-l
IC I    n 0 I'    fS   toI SI I IU ow  Fe   re   lito
X ~~~~~~~~~4 rtz rtzt O'st O'   orl4rhr  r s  
te   so   os   so   ce   re   *0  *S   I'   ro   e1               r     W
BC   rO    SC   tot  rs   ra   *1  **  rw   eo   I'mm
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~)g et go  rrr  Se    1 ; it IS   tS  66   r6 s-c
I                                             * 4~~~~~~~~~~~~m  *g   *4.  'to   *.t  *    *4.  t-t *U 53   re jg  u
ris   r t  rrt  iIst  r t  rsi  rr  Tr t Irt  rS rn                     Cl
i-s   rr         I Ss  Ht  I    rit           Fl,Y   e s irig so r   Ioa
s- rs c-    su   * d   d tS #8         *dUs-   roe  tst  rt,        *
ow)t Mm rnm.
ce  o re      c-c '   Vg   a,I         a ma.t
re _         i   .    vtll  Mstt I             Mt
r to&        l tu   s-U   ,i tso  c-c  g-,   
tal        Fts   *     AIt rt  14  - rs          snc
I'            "     I r C  r so     n  ! * t
lb tc IS     . I  b t        I     Ih Icht
l  ta  t- 3        JI1 ta    1   Lu
I Lt rsat  rg  rIlt  11   g    G m *     101_
SC   I       " IN WM LU I            *t
S  -zrars    5t;t   tt - . f
9,,.  8"  la   41t16  F411I's   tUs rM rm       "  I'm   so-            ML
rt.  t P   rt3  rtp   it P rP  rZs  rt   rt   rh.  ri-              * 3,
c-I  O's    ct   a-c  rg   4,-   Wit  O's   e,         ie. raglm.
rd    4   Fee  z a r g-  re   to   r    re  r*            t             W.
* IC    =    o F: c-u -r i   -Q r S    e |    t    ' c'    *g '      Ire
t rr  rat9  rts, re,'   rt  rP rV          t VW .  g.  *6 c  t
**  S '  'i I's t      'Y 0   $1  re   O's   L.  I'm   I OS          OW
,j   r:.  rs  rL   r.   Mc        rz   I a   -StJ rFs  re s-         .  l
C          rt   r2t   * C   rc   rc s    rt f r-  I  MS   Z a         arm
tlo:.  o
tt'12, 111w
t                g        *       * e         *    *    *            Wo r
tSi  as     tts U    tts  to   t  si   to    Us   to iWem .1a>.
an t   n   on   on Bv             S!    Ut      Si   t Utt   3        gust.
t    t-    *    t    t       t.    '   ta    p    p    t            w i
m     a           U                     a U r .   *
U.   t.   it   t.   4.   a.   5.   t.    I    I                     iJD.
ai   a    a    tt   a    a    a    a    a    a    S
Ui  t#   tt   Ui   U    #    U    tt   tt   tit            _l       1
OWe,' V cr
-i is    t   3~ te   ig   3.5   3z   ii   30   *                     *V.iU
c   t      at A*  : A   ts   re s-i     Z 06   L   g #     ft       Ag00O
I~~~~~&   -             rtII r    II     t    Te 4 I  ,Dso
Z-$ OS 3       31-1 0   6    0a gc it I0 4   I      0-6           we
S.6  001   I's  II .    s   03   It  6t I
I8   00 ct   90       t O    I    a    In
tt     '   jt   -tX    t     *t    :t tLI c60          so
St *I  *-5   01 *'C    5*           t   tiAr
ts * e~~~~1r   Is I   I: .1s*
tl    Ot    t   re   3t   It   t         3 :     UW0.
IV t         tt   9-V  O',  bJ   tl tl 
t     t     f    c- o  t  fI o    **1   is         * X.
0     Ia  it 0         of   PA Si St   is            IttS1
r It   *'  t  81  ;   *:   t-t  el               sr. n
"I   Ct *'1            S1t   St   Ci   *I
itt  i  tt Ca   t       rt.    r t   t r t         $W~
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ c    r    o               It     t, of    XM,       O
VI   It   It   9  Z   iDt                  *_ '.;
06   6 5LI to    to    O     0s   05              6?.mgs
isz  to   to   of   I a  @        t       IItt.>"
tE      t o  et                             &W.t  t 0
*g   ft.  ,tt   g  t I t   ft           At.
g32   Ot  CC   S-Ot  lto   It   It
VC   O, *l    Lt   **W1 
i~~t  01   Ii   Li   03   Ct~~01Ril
fto   0    it   30     0-0   C         lib vz
fts   to   cc   S  e go   gotl
"",M               W   * .for     "l
to    t    t oC . g to    t-             8:5L.
C *   Wb   l    .   ~~tC   00   0*   ftft  Ite   gt            a
*:tol  to.  3:. i;*a:t 30   tEt  jt
OS.  Lb   6.  ~0.  0g M. U o.   ibm                   to,O.55
*: :r:ie,t.. -B:Xj ."mLm0Ut 5n3 "
;;fi~~~~~~~~~~~rc Sio e



- 74 -                                 ANNEX )
TABLE 14
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRITATION PROJECT
______________________._________
Cash Flow for Form Model 6 - 1 he Irrigated (2 hydrants)
(in Coll '000)
Without      Crop
Project      Year
I        II       III       IV          V
INCOME:l/                                    686       729       820       947        959     1,049
INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
(;) Production Costs 1/                    148       167       212       269       293        808
(ii) Contribution to
Off-farm Invostments 2/                           87
(iii) On-form Irrigation Equipmsnt 8/                   52                             52
Sub-total         148       306       212       269       84 68
Net benefits before financing 1/             548       428       608        678       614       741
Inflation factors 4/                        1.12      1.38      1.69       2.06      2.51      8.07
Net benefits in current terms                606       584      1,028     1.897     1,541     2,275
Incrwental costs over
Year without project:
In Constant Terms 6/                                 168        69        126       202      16
In Current Terms                                       225
Debt Servico: Medium-Term
3 years 0 241                                                 118        114       118
Not Income after financing
(in current term)                          606       809       916     1,268     1,428     2,276
1/  In January 1980 Tems f rom farm model on following Table 15.
2/ Source: Table 4 of Annex 1 (Projct Cost), eatimated at Col8 484,000/ha
of which the farer Is expected to contribute 20X. Some of these models would be developed
In lako areas wh-re cost  are higher, but farmer  would contribute the difforence by giving up
land for conals and embankmento.
8/ Ann*x 8, Tablo 2.
4/ To calculate Cash-Flow in current terms:  Without proJect year (1989) 24X, Crop Year 1 28%,
*fterwards 22X.
6/ 8-neficirito  would receivo credit to finance all Incremental costa, Including off-form
(COLO 67,000) and on-form (COLS 78,000) Investments, In Crop Yar 1 (sce Table 8), In
current term. Incremetl cost from Crop Yer 2 onwards could be financed through the Internal
genoration of funds, and therefore It Is assumed that no credit would be required.



UO1 SS1ll :avjnos
tm  g tswr    s sw sm               t sm aa  r  ra saws , w,,
VW   #3     I' ma ra CVrn  ro 63 rtu VWeu em.                     wV! t
r6    VI   re   66   66   r6   #6   re   66   a O 6                  iNWM*
rt'  SW    t           I            IYm I' s m.' ra   VW   ru   JU'  't l 3 UID VIA
66   t       6   @ 6   re r6    I'   re 6     6    I 11     e          @61,D. .
#6   6.   **   iU    S3   #3   #3   *,   ,*   6,   6,               a ....u,]
66',  VP    -I1 r6   66   1C    6   g.e   ge  *I    Ia                a..,.
em,tl  sw    f-it  sit I Tm    fit,  fit 63 1        sim,  VIe,    a:    11I.
S-i:~~ ~ ~ ii   *&   IL'  cv i  i  i    uI'#            66
41 sSg   C S.  ii.  ri-  1*    l         A.                               . 6  .IS .  i's. i
r3    m3   re   I       *i   rs   Ire    to  St-  6,  to  El              g
6t'.  6t.   t6,   6. M  I6    t    t'l r6i   ll il'  iL    *          t I  IM
#66   ;       t #6     6 19 6 66   lot  #6   I it  * t6  *1t         t61.m
C   C' I I O. 66. II
66   66    gill  6 '=   I t6' 66            111: *Z *  .6
.61   ga   el5  @W6  II .          O .6       S 6* *. .
666 61:   .1  61;. 6 1   4' *W 6i    *: t>.
I*.  '6   l. 6   6.b  p6  Sw.                gmi
I'll ra a      'e,s       *     " 1 m
I.r  rc6   i      .. rr    : Ir .            6 * r
a m,1 ARM' o 41t   1   3    **            61
_ gr                a r-  PM. b mD  66W U16    I'
r6.  VI.  6.  66o-  #          O   r6 6.  r6 6.   6   66.
r4t    t   VI   I            to' 4of   0 *  I   *
r:I        : 6    It     161' II    6 .   I    6 6   66             `    t.,.,
Vs  Vrs  9,,1K   *ei   wit  "a It 'W. ra   re   I 4                0 11110.0,
t. rt-   I'D   IV   I'm aIr'm  I'   I'  e-  t- n-                 *    . m.
,*a   fe   r* a   '#S   I Is IS   VI-    l*6K  r           's got  -to  *  s
;,-   14 I? 'AS  .a          I a tS*lt* tF     *'|     *r             ~n  ! rm
661  65 65 65 65 *t  *5 S5 #5 65 s  .   5t t
I' .           Os r6 s  I'm    rt5        a ts     6 6r' ts  ts  wf  e   61w
;  *    I    *    *    *    @ ~~~~n    s    us    so   t m  f' .II,
66  6   16 61    6    6 IF,           614 661  66                     V104ns r
It e        ItS   IL                     t    tS     e     M rn.
6Z    6 t        5    6 tS         6 1'   1t  6i      6t tS
6.   66   6.   6.   6.  ..    6.   6-   6.   6.    6                  661...
is I             1: tU 11          v 5            1        1       5:6316.6)
a-:  -      -                C-                3     r              6. "   ll,
ft    6.   t.    6t   6.   6.   6.    U                     C taS f'   a6g  go.
16   b6   t.    1.   t'   P6   t6    t    t.   t.   tt'             t   tr!                                                                                       I
'31  3.                   !1
,    ,.   ..   .    .t   .    .t   s~~~~It .t   It   ..       b:.
I' *   t     s t    t:    It   :               r*; t             , t
zI    *    tX   *@   ~~t'    Ve    ;    * tt     ww t.r 
[1&   tt   tZ    tt~~   tZ     t    Itl 1- tZ   I    tbt;J.-
3'6 66   i   l   t 6  @1  61   16t   It  61 C   6 C                                                                                                  ! .
66   66    66   U  61~~~ 6'   61 9 l . 1      6Lt   I' 6   a 3-.;.,
- t   t w       s1   tW t91. t    s    :;        c    r
it  6            tt   t1    I-         *'--.
"- 1-:   *: 6:    t: tI 1          1: 61             Vlt:W6
tr 1r   11   16         l   16 ^.rot
66   66    66        It tt     It       ,,t?
11          1 5 16   t                       .):
e:   1:  *:    1:   1:  tS    .s wrt'
6   '      1 6     '   6'   6        t.s-  ;.6
itr         *          it   tg    tW.t.Wp
i         I,.   W  W.:6-3. .tg.
t:   Of. I           .,  I   ::           Itt.l
66    ::  ;:   .I.   61  .1:  ,
6:   66   61   61   66   6              ...S:,,t:
e:  :t 66           :  6' 6        6w1   n1.
*: 61   6'   Cl   6s 1   6             't  6wa :
;I 66   11   It   tl   11   tElhl .1t
tt_m w w
tb    lb   6.   ,6          *.  6b   tt.   lb    :,   ,b
J.~o  - -: :.u  w s-: _ s
11 *leSI.
t xs--L



- 76 -
ANNEX 8
TABLE 16
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGTION PROJECT
Incremental Production Costs
in Coll million - constant terms
Crop Yoar    TOTAL  Model 1        2       a        4       C        6
1   143.0    15.0    88.7    18.6    81.8    42.5         1.9
2   664.4    69.4   156.0    86.8   182.6   190.2         9.4
a  19C1.1   289.4   425.2   816.2   444.4   499.9    26.0
4  8769.8   462.6   806.2  6o8.a   860.8   931.9    51.0
5  6682.9   811.2  1217.0   986.6  1226.8  1410.1    81.2
SUBTOTAL
PROJECT COSTS 12211.2  1687.6  26837.1  1996.6  2695.9  3074.6   169.5
6  7814.6  1136.5  1557.6  1199.6  1510.0  1802.7   109.8
7  8564.0  1862.0  1774.9  1472.9  1799.6  2025.5   129.8
8  8514.0  1531.2  1771.6  1427.5  1661.8  1016.4   136.0
9  9655.8  1558.0  1772.2  1471.2  1688.4  1927.1   136.4
10  9406.6  1558.4  1759.1  1499.7  1691.0  1764.5   182.9
Ii  6410.7  1551.1  '761.9  1510.0  1704.8  1764.6   128.4
12  7965.2  1561.1  1744.0  1324.8  1457.2  1764.5   124.1
13  7946.1  1551.1  1785.0  1819.7  1451.0  1764.5   ;24.2
14  7906.7  1561.1  1720.7  1306.6  1483.6  1764.5   124.2
15  7906.7  1551.1  1726.7  1306.6  1438.6  1764.5   124.2
16  7906.7  1561.1  1726.7  1806.6  1488.6  1764.5   124.2
17  7906.7  1551.1  1726.7  1806.6  1438.0  1764.6   124.2
18  7906.7  1551.1  1726.7  1306.6  148U.6  1764.6   124.2
19  7906.7  1561.1  1726.7  1306.6  1488.6  1764.5   124.2
20  7906.7  1551.1  1726.7  1306.6  1483.6  1764.5   124.2
132281.6 24298.7 28590.8 22367.5 25694.8  30225.$  2069.5
Source: Coot. of Table 8 applied to Project Phasing in Table 1.
Note: The etream from Years 6 to 20 are use  In the calculation of total
--   cot/benefits of the Investment.



- 77 -
ANNEX 8
TABLE 17
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
______________________________
On-Form Irrigation Equipment Invostmento
In Coll mlllion - constant terms
Crop Yar    TOTAL  Model 1        2       a        4       5       6
1   238.8    48.7    48.7    37.4    87.4    72.4       4.2
2   508.6    98.6    98.6    79.6    79.6   158.8       8.8
a   S".1   108.0   108.0   68.9    go.9   171.9    10.4
4   80e.7   152.9   186.8   131.0   118.6   258.8    14.6
5  1078.6   209.0   177.8   177.8   151.5   848.8    18.7
SUBTOTAL
PROJECT COSTS  8200.7   602.2  656.4   514.7   476.0   991.2    6S.2
6   602.7   108.0    68.6    80.9    59.9   171.9    10.4
7   741.7   162.9   101.9   181.0    88.0   263.8    14.6
*  1008.0   209.1   189.4   177.8   119.2   348.8    18.7
9   602.7   108.0    88.6    00.9    69.9   171.9    10.4
10   741.7   152.9   101.9   181.0   68.0   265.8    14.6
11  1008.0   209.1   139.4   177.8   119.2   848.8    18.7
12   502.7   108.0    68.6    80.9    69.9   171.9    10.4
18   741.7   152.0   101.9   181.0    00.0   258.8    14.6
14  1008.0   209.1   189.4   177.8   119.2   848.8    18.7
16   502.7   108.0    68.6    80.9    59.9   171.9    10.4
16   741.7   152.9   101.9   181.0    68.0   265.8    14.6
17  1008.0  2069.1   189.4   177.8   119.2   848.8    18.7
18   502.7   108.0    68.6    88.9    59.2   171.9    10.4
19   741.7   152.9   101.9   181.0    86.0   2u.8    14.6
20  1000.0  2068.1   189.4   177.8   119.2   848.8    18.7
14462.7  6647.2  2106.9  2608.2  1010.8  4840.2   274.7
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- -- - -- - -                       __ 
Source: Cost of Table 8 applied to Project Phasing In Table 1.
Note: The streams from Yers S to 20 are usod In the calculation of toetl
cost/benefit. of the investment.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
TABLE 18
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
______________________________
Farmers' Contribution to Off-Farm Civil Works and Equipment Costs
in Col$ '000 - constant terms
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------_
Number     Amount                          Yearly
Year  Farms developped   of farms   per farm        Total             Total
2       model 1              840          87        73,080
2             560         217       121,520
3             720          87        62,640
4             480         217       104,160
5           1,392          87       121,104
6              80          87         6,960         489,464
3       modei 1            1,800          87       156,600
2           1,200         217       260,400
3           1,530          87       133,110
4           1,020         217       221,340
5           2,958          87       257,346
6             160          87        13,920       1,042,716
4       model 1            1,980          87       172,260
2           1,320         217       286,440
3           1,710          87       148,770
4           1,140         217       247,380
5           3,306          87       287,622
6             200          87        17,400       1,159,872
5       model 1            2,100          87       182,700
2           1,400         217       303,800
3           1,800          87       156,600
4           1,200         217       260,400
5           3,480          87       302.760
6             200          87        17,400       1,223,660
6       model 1            2,220          87       193,140
2           1,480         217       321,160
3           1,890          87       164,430
4           1,260         217       273,420
5           3,654          87       317,898
6             200          87        17,400       1,287,448
__-_________________________________________________________________________
5,203,160
Source: From Cash Flow Models (Tables 4-9) applied to Project Phasing in Table 1.



- 79 -
ANNEX 8
TABLE 19
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incranent.l Production Cost and Investments
in Colt million (in constant terms)
Crop
Yoar 1        2         8        4         6
(PY 2)   (PY 8)   (PY 4)   (PY 5)   (PY 8)    TOTAL
A    Off-Farm Investments 1/
(Fa monr  Contribution)                       469.5   1042.7   1169.9   1228.7   1287.4   6208.2
8    On-Farm Investments
(a) Incremental Production Costa 2/           148.0    684.4   1951.1   8769.6   6682.9  12211.2
(b) On-Fore Irr-pation Equipment 8/           288.8    608.5   566.1    808.7   1076.6   3200.7
Z81.6   1172.9   2617.2   4576.6   6761.6  16411.9
C    Estimated Yearly 4/
Agricultural Credit Needs                     671.6   196S.6   2066.6   2179.0   2292.8   9266.2
mm.   inmas  -      CCM=   zum=
1/ From Table 12
2/ From Table 10
3/ From Table 11
4/ From Table 14



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
TABLE 20
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Yearly Agricultural Credit Needs
in ColS million (in constant terxs)
--------.------------------------------------.----------------__-------------__
Estimated
Number  Credit Need
of farms    per farm                       Yearly
Year    Farm Model    developpeod  (Col$'O0O)      Total            Total
2       model 1              840        157       131,880
2             560         356      199,360
3             720         165      118,800
4             480         361      173,280
5           1,392         169      235,248
6              80         163       13,040         871,608
3       model 1            1,800        157       282,600
2           1,200         356      427,200
3           1,530         165      252,450
4           1,020         361      368,220
5           2,958         169      499,902
6             160         163       26,080       1,856,452
4       model 1            1,980        157       310,860
2           1,320         356      469,920
3           1,710         165      282,150
4           1,140         361      411,540
5           3,306         169      558,714
6             200         163       32,600       2,065,784
5       model 1            2,100        157       3x9,700
2           1,400         356      498,400
3           1,800         165      297,OCO
4           1,200         361      433,200
5           3,480         169      588,120
6             200         163       32,600       2,179,020
6       model 1            2,220        157       348,540
2           1,480         356      526,880
3           1,890         165      311,850
4           1,260         361      454,860
5           ^,,654        169      617,526
6             200         163       32,600       2,292,256
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------_
9,265,120
Source: Mission-Credit Needs in Crop Year 1 (PY2) from Cash Flows in Tables 4-9
------  this Annex, applied to Project Phasing of Table 1.



- 81 -
ANNEX a
TABLE 21
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCA4LE UIR'ICATION PROJECT
Total Crodit Granted to the Agrecultura' Sector through the
Agricultural Financing Fund (FFAP) and Caja Agrarts (1981-1067)
(Coll million In current terms)
--- -    ----------------------                                    -------
Sources and Activities           1981    1982       1988       1984       19s6       1988       1987
_ - - _ - . _ - - ~~~~~~~- - - - - -_- - --                             - - -- -- -- -- -- -
Agricultural Financing Fund   27703.0  37374.0   50669.9   08001.5   76597.4   99208.8   118780.9
Agriculture                   16890.3 22018.4   80464.7   40098.4   50060.4   60710.4    70608.n
Livestock                      8122.4  8990.2   12814.6   18590.8   17739.5   2a884.6    29008.5
Other Activities               4890.6  6886.5    789a.7    8217.8   10197.5   14826.9    19168.4
Cao3 Agrarla (Ord. Resources) 21691.1 29717.1   41471.7   40719.6   54308.0   60259.2   102806.6
1. Agriculture                11688.8  18950.8   17048.0   12905.9   16874.7   28047.8    34126.9
2. Livestock                   6067.2  8480.7   18070.0    8690.5    8765.8   14044.8    19849.2
3. Other Activities            2861.6  4216.6    6788.9   11977.0   14280.4   16222.1    2.373.3
4. Other nvestments            1688.0  8120.0    4821.8    7156.4   14667.6   19846.2    27867.4
Agriculture            28526.6  85967.2   47510.?   63060.8   67035.1   68765.7   104784.9
Livestock              121890.8  17421.6   26684.5   27181.3   26624.8   88808.1    48065.7
Othor Investment.       6677.9  18702.4   16746.4   2780.7   89845.5   62598.2    68197.1
General                4994.1  67091.1   92140.6  107621.8  182900.4  179468.0   2216r7.7
Vr. X                              a65.6     87.1       16.6       2;1.5      85.0       28.5
-- - - - - - -                   -- - --- - ---- ------------ ----------
Source: Fondo Financiero Agropecuario. Caja Agraris Recursoo Ord1narics (Incluys DRI).



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
TABLE 22
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incirmentel Production - Voluw and Voluo
In Tons; and Coll million (Consant Term)
Crop   Household                                                   Tree                                    Value in
Year      Garden   Maize  Bean* Potatoes    Yuca Vegetables   Cr v   Cocao Plantain                    Col8 million
1        2366    2887     248      1844    1152        1872                                  9839          434.0
2       1038e  10189    1028       6912   4838        18898 91s51                                         2012.3
3       26048   17793   2006      18628   9504        65243                                138127         4876.4
4       43808   24062   2785      8914   16840       188425    7962               2600    269312          9647.2
5       68912   80272    8870     506n2  22608       224695   25012               9644     480026        16143.7
6        78576   28s88    8829    64416   26544      810967    48816     1S8    17859    674000          21929.5
7       84089  24768   26         82716   88U00      85967   58406       U82    22490    675146          26263.3
8       84089   24878   2678      82716   8880       a888800   74876    1288     24216     710731        28976.4
9       84089  24878    2578    82716  88600         88800   72940   1948        18648     704040        28784.9
10       84039  24878   2657       82716   88800      388800   70616    2s88       7637    691096         28113.5
11       34089  24878    2673    822716  a880         08sa00   66920   256          80o    680242         27824.6
12       84039   24878    2578    82716  88800        a88800   72716   286                   685678       28002.0
18       84089  24878   2578       82716  awo         a83800   7088    2856                 88s880        27780.8
14       84039  24878    2578      02716   88800      888800   70616   28c6                 683578        27750.0
1s       84089   24878   2657      82716  88m80       88800   68920    2c86                 679682        27306.6
16       84039  24878    2578    82716  88800         88800   72716   2358                  868678        28002.0
17       84089   24878   2578      8292716  a300       8800   70818    2866                 638380        27780.3
18       84089   24878   2578      82716   8860       a8880c   70616   2856                 688678        27750.0
19       84089   24878    2578    82716   88800       888300   86920   2860                 679882        27n80.5
20       8408i  24876    2678    82716  s80           388800   72716   286                  685678        28002.0
TOTAL    1400611 456070  48758   1888600  550416    6108662  1054816  29796    108158   11085684           444180.3
=======   mum:   au                mu.          muuu                                 -              -
-------------------------------------                                       .----------------------



-83-                          ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Policy in Colombia
1.       The Government of Colombia's policy in agriculture has always
been, and still is, to provide a certain degree of protection to
agricultural production. One important protection measure is that the
agricultural sector has been assigned priority access to credit resources
under special conditions and terms. This priority is based on
agriculture's importance to production, exports, income and employment; the
risks inherent in agricultural production; and the need to compensate for
macroeconomic, trade and exchange rate policies, which have often had a
negative impact on the agricultural sector. The Government has therefore
viewed low-cost agricultural credit as an instrument for promoting
production of certain crops and adoption of new technology, for protecting
or increasing the incomes of specific sectors of the farm population, and.
for improving income distribution.
2.       The resulting agricultural credit policy has pursued three main
objectives:
CL)  to supply institutional credit to the agricultural sector at below
market rates;
(b)  to improve the sector's income level, especially that of farmers;
and
(c) to stimulate agricultural production and productivity.
The main policy instruments used to pursue these objectives were forced
investments to create the necessary resources for FFAP, subsidized interest
rates, and directed credit allocation.
3.       Resources.  Agricultural credit in Colombia is guided by existing
legislation and b.nking regulations. The Junta Monetaria (Monetary Board)
which governs the banking system, is responsible for regulating the
implementation of Law 5 of March 1973, which created an agricultural fund,
Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (FFAP). FFAP is the major beneficiary of
resources collected by the Bav.co de la Repdblica (BOR) from the banking
system.
4.       The nain mechanisms to transfer resourceg from the banking system
to FFAP are the forced investments. Under this mechanism banks and other
financial institutions are required td invest in certain types of bonds
('A' bonds) and other financial instruments with interest rates
substantially below market. In 1986, these investments totalled
ColS 102,000 million. The required level of such investment is expressed
as a percentage of the institutions' portfolio and/or deposits. Another
type of investment--reserve replacement investment (ISE)--involves
authorizir.g commercial banks and financial corporations to earmark a
percentage nf their reserve requirements for the purchase of certain types
of bonds. ISE is also a form of forced investment, in the sense that the



-84-                          ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 3
only alternative is to leave funds with the BOR as reserve requirements at
zero interest rate. The bonds (most importantly for agriculture,
Resolution 39/789 bonds) pay higher interest than "Al bonds but still less
than market rates.
5.       Forced investments totalled about Col$ 183,000 million in 1986,
and 472 was allocated to FFAP, the agricultural financing fund. To
transfer the funds obtained through forced investment into credit flows to
the rural sector, FFAP functions as a traditional refiuancing mechanism for
BOR. The three agriculture-oriented state-owned financial institutions,
the Caja Agraria, Banco Cafetero and Banco Ganadero, are the principal
users of FFAP funds, with Caja Agraria the largest user of the three. FFAP
rediscounting permits the expansion of credit: by rediscounting their loans
through FFAP. financial intermediaries (Caja Agraria, banks and financial
corporations) can leverage their own funds by four/five times, depending on
the rediscount margin (presentil ranging between 70? and 952).  FFAP
rediscounts mainly loans made to medium and large farmers, but also loans
to small farmers (normally made by Caja) who meet F"AP's lending criteria.
These funds are available to all banks on a first come, first served basis.
Final credit beneficiaries with access to funds mobilized through forced
investment pay interest at rates substantially below market.
6.       Interist Rates.  With few exceptions, between 1975 and 1982 the
interest rates applied to most credit lines in the rural sector have been
i ueg&ative in real terms and well below effective market-determined interest
rates. However, in the 1980s there has been a trend towards a slight
increase in most rates. In 1983 and 1984, when the inflation rate dropped
to 17-18?, most rates became positive, and the differential vis-a-vis
market rates decreased. The rates were, however, quite widely dispersed.
The following table shows the progress of interest rates:
Agricultural Credit Interest Rates
Intermediary
Institution            Market        Inflation
Year        Interest Rates            Rate           Rates
1975            15-16.5               26.8           23.2
1976            15-16.5               26.8           20.1
1977            15-16.5               26.8           33.9
1978            12-16.5               26.8           17.4
1979            18-21.5               25.6           24.6
1980            21-24                 37.8           26.5
1981            21-24                 39.2           26.3
1982            21-24                 26.8           24.0
1983            21-24                 34.2           16.6
198k            21-24                 35.5           18.3
1985            21-24                 35.0           22.4
19e6          21.5-26.5               32.0           20.9
1987          19.3-29.0 a/            32.0           22.0
a/ The low interest rate of 19.3? was applied only for seasonal crop to
small farmers which are alloca*si e sly O hr uht inlY e  *n- 1 FFP P C,,



ANNEX 3
-85-                             APPENDIX .
Page 3 of 3
7.       On December 28, 1988, a newly issued resolution of the Junta
Monetaria of the Banco de la RepGblica reduced the dispersion of interest
rates. Starting January 1, 1989, three rates have been set, two of which
for small farmers, 21.52 for seasonal crops and other short-term borrowing,
and 26.52 for medium and long term, and the third rate, 28S, for all other
farmers for seasonal and other short-term borrowing. The rates have also
been made variable by tying them to the DTF interest rate the average yield
of all Certificates of Deposit (a market-determined cost of funds to the
financial intermediaries), with the first rate of 21.5Z to remain
5.5 points under the DTF rate, the second 26.5% to remaia half-a-point
under and the third rate of 282 to be at one paint above the DTF rate. For
medium- and long-term borrowings of farmers other than small farmers, the
interest rate will rise two points over the DTF rate. The same increase
will apply to marketing loans.
8.       Directed Credit Allocation. FFAP's funds are administratively
allocated to specific rural activities. The amount of credit provided is
in proportion to the costs of production involved in a particular activity.
The trend is increasingly for PFAP to finance all agricultural products and
activities, including the purchase of land and livestock, and agricultural
marketing and processing activities, although this last credit line has
just begun operating. The three agricultural banks essentially grant
credit for any financially viable agricultural investment, contingent on
the availability of funds. However, Caja's credit is to some extent
directed to target groups of beneficiaries (based on the level of their
assets), to specific areas (after natural disasters), or to specific crops.
All credit is tied up to the existence of extension assistance, provided
generally by Caja. but also by other developrent institutions operating in
the sector, such as DRI, INCORA and PNR. This enables first the
presentation by the farmer of a professional investment plan vith his
credit application, and most importantly, a competent follow-up on his
activities. This system has assured that agricultural credit recoveries
are satisfactory.



ANNEX 4
-86-                         Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Institutional Development Component
Introduction
1.       The institutional development component program discussed in this
Annex aims to close the gaps in institutional capacity identified in HIMAT
and other implementing agencies. The quantity/quality sunmary estimates 1
given below reflect the nature and magnitude of these gaps. Inputs consist
of:
(a) Technical Assistance
(i) man/months of specialist services needed to eliminate
capacity gaps in the institutional milieu in wtich
executives, professionals, technicians and beneficiaries of
all types will be carrying out project tasks;
(ii) training activities needed to eliminate gaps in information.
theoretical knowledge and practical skills within that group
so that performance efficiency will be assured;
(iii) the minimum of supplies, equipment and vehicles needed to
ensure that those technical assistance and training
activities can be carried out in a normal fashion;
(iv) operating expenses associated with the above.
(b) Training: the annex also includes ai draft format for the
preparation of HIMAT's annual work program and followup
(Appendix 6).
Technical Assistance
2.       The institutional development component calls for 42 man/months of
specialist services, as follows:
-    24 man/months in organization and institutional development:
aspects of organization and allocation of functions, internal
practices and procedures, interinstitutional relationships, and
analysis of general institutional capacity.
-    12 man/months in community social development and communication:
consultants to assist regional branches and agencies which have
project execution responsibilities, and in particular to supervise
extension and training activities.
1/ For a full review of the institutional development component see the
wo:-king paper "Componente de Desarrollo Institucional (CDI).



-87-                         ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
6 man/months in management training: specialists to prepare and
help refine the executive training pLans of HIMAT and other
agencies, at both the headquarters and local levels.
Organization and Institutional Development Experts (24 mlm) (Appendix 1)
3.       Professional Profile:  master's or doctoral degree in the social
sciences or organizational science, with experience in public
administration in developing countries. Fluent Spanish.
4.       Performance Expectations:
(a)  systematic and detailed application of SACI* in order to update
PPI** goals, resources and tasks and to expand and update
information on institutional capacity gaps already identified;
(b)  formulation of an institutional development plan focused on the
internal organization of HIMAT and the interinstitutional links
that support PPI--after careful examination of HIMAT's current
organization chart and functions.  The plan may propose changes in
procedures and practices when necessary;
(c)  coordination of the work of other experts, supervision of their
tasks, and approval of results; and
(d)  provision of expert advice/information in the institutional
development field to all agencies involved and to interested
parties in the private sector.
Community Social Development Experts (12 m/m) (Appendix 1)
S.       Professional Profiles  sociologist with extensive experience of
field work in rural settings. Fluent Spanish.
6.       Performance ExPectations:
(a)  systematic analysis of how potential PPI beneficiaries react to
communications from and benefits made available by both offic!.al
and private agencies active in their districts, and evaluatioi of
the degree of correspondence between services supplied and needs
as perceived by interested parties. This applies not only to
inputs needed in setting up and operatzAg PPI projects but also to
the other facets of economic life (output, purchase of inputs,
sale of products, etc.) and social life (health, education, etc.);
*   Sistema de Analisis de la Capacidad Institucional (System for the
Analysis of Institutional Capacity).
** Programa de Pequefna Irrigacion (the Small-Scale Irrigation Program).



ANNEX 4
-88-                        Page 3 of 4
(b) routine design of programs to guide communications among the
agencies involved in the PPI and between them and the community.
with a view to the progressive elimination of distortions
identified in the course of the analysislevaluation process
outlined above; and
(c) provision of expert advice/information in the coamunication and
social development fields to all relevant agencies, officials and
communities.
Management Training Experts (6 m/m) (Appendix i)
7.       Professional Profile:  doctoral degree in economics or public
administration, with experience in management training in the public and
private sector. Fluent Spanish.
8.       Performance Expectations:
(a) revision and updating of the management training plan incorporated
as part of the institutional development component;
(b) cooperation with the agencies responsible for carrying out
management training activities included in the revised plan, so as.
to ensure that both the form and content of those activities match
capacity gaps (duly identified in conjunction with participating
executives) likely to affect the execution of PPI tasks; and
(c) availability to HIKAT's Department of Organizational Development
and to all PPI executives for study of additional management
training needs that may become apparent during the initial part of
the PPI execution process.
9.       The general principle guiding the work of specialized consultants
should be that they do not themselves carry out directly the tasks
indicated or implied in the preceding descriptions of performance
expectations. but instead that they advise their counterparts in H$MAT or
other agencies how to carry them out so as to achieve the desired ends.
10.      The final result anticipated from the combined activities of these
specialists is that PPI tasks will be completed on schedule, at the leas%.
possible cost, and as specified. It is also anticipated that H$NAT, as the
agency responsible for the general coordination of the PP$, will gradually
acquire the full institutional capacity it needs to continue in the future
the series of activities .merely initiated through the PPI. Capacity
actually created and PPI tasks successfully concluded shall be the sole
measures by which the quality and efficiency of a specialist's performance
will be judged.



ANNEX 4
-89-                        Page 4 of 4
Training Plan
11.      The institutional development component calls for 42 separate
training programs and 366 training events for about 6.700 participants as
follows (refer to Appendix 2 for full details)t
(a)  Executives                                                   TOTAL
HIMAT           65 (regional)        +       6 (Bsogota)       71
SENA            25 (regional)               20 (Bogota)        45
INCORA          24 (regional)        +       5 (Bogota)        29
CAJA            16 (regional)        +       2 (Bogota)        18
DRI             20 (regional)        +       1 (Bogota)        21
(b) Professionals
HIHAT           70 (regional)        +      30 (Bogota)        100
SENA           40 (regional)         +       8 (Bogota)         48
INCORA          40 (regional)        +       9 (Bogota)         49
CAJA            22 (regional)                                   22
DRI             40 (regional)        +      10 (Bogota)         50
(c) Technician a/
HIMAT            42 (regional)       +      27 (Bogota)         69
SMNA             45 (regional)                                  45
INCORA          156 (regional)       +       I (Bogota)        157
CAJA            154 (regional)                                 154
a/  All technician training to have a high practical-content.
A format for preparing HIMAT's annual training work programs and followup
is proposed in Appendix 5.
Cost
12.      Baseline costs for the institutional development component are
estimated at US$6.1 million of which about 486 are iz foreign exchange.
Investment costs account for about 532 of total baseline cost and recurrent
costs for 472 (Appendices 3 and 4).



-90-                       ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIALIST
1.       The institutional development component of this project calls for
42 man/months of technical assistance designed to help eliminate the
capacity gaps identified through the application of SACI (system for
institutional capacity analysis). This time is meant to ba utilized as
need dictates. Some areas where there is evident need are:
Organization and Institutional Development: Management Training
2.       Professional Profile:  master's or doctoral degree in the social
sciences, organizational science, or public administration. with experience
in public administration in developing countries and management training in
both the public and private sectors. Fluent Spanish;
3.       Performance Exnectations:
(a) systematic and detailed application of SACI in order to update PPI
goals, resources, and tasks and to expand and update information
on institutional capacity gaps already identified;
(b)  formulation of an institutional development plan focused on the
internal organization of HIMAT and the interinstitutional links
that support PPI--after careful examination of HIMAT's current
organization chart and functions.  The plan may include proposals
for changes in procedures and practices when necessary;
(c)  coordination of the work of other experts, review of their tasks,
and utilization of their findings;
(d)  provision of expert advice/information in the institutionil
development field to all agencies involved and to interested
parties in the private sector;
(e) revision and updating of the management training plan incorporated
in the institutional development component;
(f) cooperation with the agencies responsible for carrying out
management training activities included in the revised plan, so as
to ensure that both the form and content of those activities match
capacity gaps (duly identified .n conjunction with participating
executives) likely to affect the execution of PPI tasks.
(g). availability to HIMAT's Department of Organizational Development
and to all PPI executive'to study additional management training
needs that may become apparent during the initial part of the PPI
execution process;
(h) preparation of the PPI Operating Manual;



ANNEX 4
-91-                         Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
(i)  provision of assistance with the assessment of present staff and
their qualifications for activities and tasks forming part of the
PPI; and
(j) provision of assistance with setting up of the PPI information
system.
Community Social Development; Communication (Among officials of the
Agencies Involved tnd with the Community)
4.       Professional Profile:  sociologist with extensive experience of
field work in rural settings. Fluenit Spanish.
5.       Performance Expectations:
(a)  systematic analysis of how potential PP1 beneficiaries react to
communications and benefits targeted on their districts, and
evaluation of the degree of correspondence between services
supplied and needs as perceived by interested parties. This
applies not only to inputs needed in setting up and operating PPI
projects but also to the other facets of economic life (output,
purchase of inputs, sale of products, etc.) and social life
(health, education, etc.):
(b)  routine design of programs to guide comunication among the
agencies involved in the PPI and between them and the community,
with a view to the progressive elimination of distortions
identified in the course of the aralysis/evaluation process
outlined above: and
(c) provision of expert advice/information in the communication and
social development fields to all relevant agencies, officials and
communities.
Observation
6.       The general principle guiding the work of specialized consultants
should be that they do not themselves carry out directly the tasks implied
in the preceding descriptions of performance expectations, but instead that
they advise their counterparts in HIMAT or other agencies how to carry them
out so as to achieve the desired ends.
7.       The final result anticipated from the combined activities of these
specialists is that PPI tasks will be completed on schedule, at the least
possible cost, and as specified. It is also anticipated that aWMAT. as'the
agency responsible for the general coordination of the PPI, will gradually
acquire the full institutional capacity it needs to continue in the future
the series of activities merely initiated through the PPI. Capacity
actually created and PPI tasks successfully concluded shall be the sole
measures by which the quality and efficiency of a specialist's performance
will be judged.



COLOMBLA
SHALL-SCAI.E IRRICATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES
No. of participants;
seriousness of institutional
Capacitv oago       _
Source of
Staff caL*oo.E          ActvwL       coda   &genL.             1      2     3                             trainerL               Content of trxa%Lu
ELetutivU                  1.1              Himat   Bogota                                                 IICA              tearning models and the
Regional         12                                  SENA               learning development pattern.
Incora  a                                                                       Psychology of the learnin4
a                24                                                     process.  Activities planning.
ORI     R                                                                       Creation ot audiovisual and
other teaching materials.
Teaching methods: classes.
demonstrations. illustrated
talks. workshops.  Group
dynamics.
Himat   a                        6                            IICA              What is the Small-Scale
R                53                                  HINAT              Irrigation Proqroe (PPI)!
Incora  B                        5                                              Special features of the PPH.
a                      24                                              Distribution of tasks.
ORI     a                        I                                              Expected results.
R                      20
Caja    B                        2
a                      16
Sena    a                       to
R                      25
1.3             Himat   a                        6                             IICA              Bring participants up-to-ddte
R                      53                            SENA              on management tleory dEad
Incora  a                        S                            SCl               practice; emphasize
R                      24                                               inter-relationship betweeni
DRI     a                        I                                              financial and managerial
R                      20                                               concerns and need for
Cajd    8                        2                                              increased awdreliess of
R                      16                                              organizational structure.        . . I
Sena    a                       I0                                                                              (     I.
R                      25                                                                               ' m rc
o3 x:I
0* ..



DLBhIPIUtIRAIINING AC-IIYTIE
No. ol participants;
seriousness of institutional
capac i t  gap
Source of
Stalf category          AtvLcode            Agny                            I   3                         .triner&_              Content of tra.nlng
1.4             Hiidt   B                         6                            U. Nt).           Environmental mnaAgement ol
R                      53                            IICA               projects.  Legal issues.
Incora  8                        S                            U. Taoeu          mkethods. and sequencing in
R                      24                            Lozano             environmental studies.
ORI     R                        I                                              Environmental impact ot
B                      20                                               projects.
Caja    8                        2
a                      16
Sena    B                       90
R                      25
1.5             Himat   8                  6                                   IICA              Collection. comparision. aid
A                53                                  SCI                analysis of actual adid dntati-
pated project results;
application of corrective
measures and experience to n&.w
projects.
1.6             Hiimat   a                 6                                   SENA              Determining size and                   w
R                53                                                     characteristics of a communitV.
Incora  B                 5                                                     Hethods of identifucataou..
R                24                                                     promotion. dissemination.
Caja    R                 2                                                     organization, and tallow-up.
a                16
ORI     a                  I
R                20
Profeis6mnaal              2.1              Himat   B                 25                                   IICA              Learning models and the learli-
A                14                                  SENA               ing development pattern. Pat-
lncora  8                 1                                                     tern of the learning proLess.
A                24                                                    Activities planning.
DRI     a                  I                                                    Creation of audiovisual and
B                20                                                     other teaching materials.
Caja    B                22                                                     ledchinig methods:  classes.
demonstrations, illustrated
talls.  Group dynymics. 
2.2             Himat   B                       25                      IH AI                   What is the PPI?  Special        fl   Pt
R                      24                            SINA               leatures of the PPI.  lIasi      *  a
Incora  B                        I                                              distribution.  fxpected          o
R                      24                                               results.  General quidelmif,.   rn
ORI     R                        I                                              IOr projett *dentlf.adt 1mii..
8                      20                                               basit  desutin s%tidits.
Caja    8                       22                                              Ixpected re%ults.  field
studies.



DESCRIPTION Of TRAINING ACTIVITIES
No. of participants;
seriousness of institutional
cap,!citv gahp
Source of
5. I                    Activity  Aode                                                                      j.aLY   1  2  3  9  5   t cadAg  Cnkent of traiing
2.3             Himat   B                       15                            SCI               Study of basic methods of
R                      IS                           U. Ntl.           establishing that execution of
Incora  8                       6                                              a project is possible.
R                      24
2.4     .       Himat   8                       20                            IICA             Collection, comparison, and
R                      24                           U. Andes          analysis of actual and
Incora  6                       I                                              anticipated project results.
R                      24                                             Applying corrective measures
and experience to new pr .jetts.
2.5             Himat   8                       25                            SC!               Design and construction of
R                      24                                             small water-management
Incora  8                       I                                              structures.  Earth dams.
R                      24
2.6             Himat   a                       25                            IICA             Quantity/quality control.
R                      24                           SCI                Inter-relationship                    >
lncora  E                       I                                              consultant/contractor/super-
R                      24                                             vising agency.  Civil works
supervison: technical/leqal/
issues. monitoring complaints/
remedies.
2.7             Himat   a                        3                            Interndtional    Study of techniques for
Irrigation       dbtaining information thdt
Center, Utah     provides indirect means of
Stdte University determining how much water is
available for a particuldr
project.
2.8             Himat   8                        3                           E(Kernal           techniques for evaluating
dnd determining morphometriccil
changes produced over ttmw *ni d
catchment area or river
ihannel.                          D>
uoa c,
2.9             Hiamat   a                       3                            Interndt inidl    Jetermimiiq ileinad liur        *  . .
I lriJdt ionk    irrigatio t st I,t%tiu  of ti of     7 U
(e0itI. htidil   i  op p   ill*l.                    1
Stad  Pte l t 11s %tXtstIY'I
2.10            liimat   8                       6                           I Aliteri I        lte.aiques uf daimaIyf i,g n aold
sstterpretihsq .erial
photoqraph%.



DESCRIPTION OF T AINING ACTIVITIES
No. of participants
seriousness of institutional
aacilV aoh
Source of
Staff catgoLy           Activity code       Aancy                          3      4     _                trainers              Content of tra;.ujg
2.11            Himat   a                       20                            SENA              Analysis of factors with an
R                      24                                              impact on rural ou put.  Supply
Incora  B                       I                                              of techical inputs and
R                      24                                              cultivation of food crops.
2.12            Himat   B                       20                            IICA              Understanding the financial
R                      24                                             management of irrigated farm%.
Incora  B                       1
R                      24
2.13            Himat   B                       20                            SCI               Irrigation systems. Water-use
a                      24                            SCIH              schedules.  Evaluation of
Incora  a                       1                                              irrigation systems.  Cropping
R                      24                                              systems and increasing output.
2.14             liamat   B                     Is                            HIHAT             Exchanges of views/experience
R                      25                                             among protessionals working on
Incora  B                       I                                              the PPI.
R                      24
Caja    R                      22
ORI     B                        I
a                      le
2.15            Nimat   a                        3                            U.S. Census       Determining criteria and
R                                                   Bureau (Isreal)  methods to ensure greater
reliability and promptness of
computerized agricultural data.
2.16            Himat   B                        2                            External          Techniques of measuring sLreda
flow.
2.17            Himat   B                        2                            External          Development strategies;
planning methods; techniques of
planning, appraising. and
implementing development
actions; simulated planning      D3
exercises; project drea   toinj;. o * .I*
study visits; qeneral topics;  a   l m
semindrs, project discussion     *
panels.
2.18            Himat  B                         5                            SCI               Use of negotiable instruments.    I-
R                      Is                                             turrent ateiounts. letters of
credit. dad baiik stdtements.



DESCRIPTION Of TRAINING ACTIVITIES
No. of participants
seriousness of institutional
capacity gap
Source of
Stalf tategr            Activi codt  Anncd                      1      2     3                              trAi*nr rsontoftraining
2.19             Himat   B                        S                             ESAP               Techniques of budget planning.
R                      20                                               execution, and control.
2.20             Himat   a                                                      ESAP              Accounting codes and cost
R                       IS                                              accounting techniques.
2.21             Himat   8                        5                             U. Andes          formulating strategies tor
changing. operating. anid
Managing enterprises.
2.22            Ihmat   8                        150                            Local              Techniques for training farm
R                      28                                                extension agents.  Irrialatioon
Incora  8                       14                                               systems and their operation.
Sena    R                       49
Caja    R                       53
lechni4ians                 3.1              Himat   B                       27                             IICA              What is the PPI?  Specidl
R                      42                             SENA               features of the PPI. Isi
Incora  B                        I                                               dist.tbution.  Expected
R                      158                                               results.  General guidelinesc
Sena    R                       45                                               for identifyinq prolects.
Capa    R                      154                                               Basic project design Studles.
Results expected. field
trials.
3.2             "Imat   a                        27                             IICA              Environmental management ol
R                       42                            INDERENA          projects: legal issues.
Incora  B                        !                                               Iethods and sequencing ol
R                      156                                              environmental studies.
Sena    R                       45                                               Environmental impact oe
Capa    R                      154                                               projects.
3.3              Himat   8                       27                             SCI               Surveying equipment and
a                      42                             UNIVERS.           techniques for the PPI.
Incora  B                        1                            OISIRITAI
R                      20
'U 
3.4              Himat   B                       27                             S((S              laking ot samples. de% riptlion a -a
aR                      35                            IGAC              of profiles. physiSdl/clht.iqdil U  'U
Incora  A                       12                                              sdinlysis of soils,                   - I
Interpretation of results.       "'
3.5              Ilimat   B                      27                             StNA              Irrigation systems.  wdter-use
R                      42                             IIIhAI            sthedules.  Evaluation oa
Incora  8                        I                                               urrsuation systems.  (ruppen
aR                     154                                              %YIamst  dad improved output.
Cjda    U                      154
Senia    R~                     45



pESCRIPII0o Of TRAINING ACrEVIICES
No. of participants
seriousness of institutional
iR' wgag
Source of
staff cateprv           Atotvity cade       Agency             1                                          t   ra4ners            LneAoftpn
3.6             Himat   B                        15                            SENA              Computers.  Use of specidl
R                      35                                               software.
3.7             "ihat   B                        27                            SENA              Methods of training extens;on
f                      42                                               agents.  Irrigation systems dod
Sena    R                      500                                              their operations.
Encora  a                       77
R                     200
Caja    a                      654
3.8              "ieat   B                        3                            Utah  ..lversity  Techniques of measuring streom
I                                                                       flow.
3.9             Himat   B                        21                            SENA              Understanding the tinanLaIl
R                      42                                              management of irrigated tarms.
Incora  8                        1
R                     156
Sena    R                       45
Caja    R                      154
3.10             Hieat   B                       27                            SENA              Packing. classification.
R                      42                                               transportation.  and  ue,serva-
lncora  B                        1                                              tion of food crops.
R                     156
Sena    a                       45
Caja    a                      154
3.11             Himat   a                       21                            FEDECAFE          Processing ol perishables.
a                      42                            SENA               fruit. milk. vejetables. medt.
Incora  fl                       I                                              etc.
R                     156
Sena    R                       45
Caja    R                      154
9ther                      4.1              Bilat   B                        12                            lICA. bYIs        Management and operation of
R                      12                            (Colombid)         various computer software
IEXINs            packages.
4.2              Mayors                         800                            HIMA[             What is PPI?  Special features %   ' .
ol the PPI.  lash di%tributmun.        X
txpected results.
'D ' 
0 I*I.



I
DESCRIPTION Of tRAINING ACTIVITIES
No. of participants
seriousness of insti'utional
capac6ty gap
Source of
Staff categar          ActivitX code       Agenc1                                                        trainers              Content of trining
4.3           Staff of producer                420                           HIHAT             What is the PPI?  Special
associations.                                                                    features of tile PPI.  Ia%k
regional                                                                         distribution.  Expected
corporations.                                                                    results.
universities
OD
0*~l
0-I f.
0. x
,I  .)
.,1



___________ -_-- --- - ._ _                                                                                                   - - -----T ---
- - -      0 0-0       -                                                                                                    fl - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
------                                                                         -  - ---                     -                I
-     -     -                                                      -  -        -U  -     - U-   -0-    -     -0 0 -.   -0   -    -   -   0 -
-     -     -     -     -     - ; -     -     -     -     -  -     -     -     -                    -     -     -     -    -   -     -     -   -    -h   -     -     -     -     -     -   -     -  
!  t    if |             g f     [ |    t             i i 3  i          I              I   -                                                          I
jI~              sj~                       .                                                  2i                      I                                                K o.
.~~~~~~~~~;i~    ;j1-.                                                                                                                        o
- - - - -  - -                                                                       --  -                                                                              |n
0 -                           !.~ - - -       - - -        -  -, -                                
j-i!  i  '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~-
-; - -a -    #- 111 1 ---                                - - - - - - - - - - -t 6                                     -  e e-
*                                                     .     _     9                        _a    _  _                                      
* . .         1 0                                                       t4-
_ _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _.                   _          _  _ _    _  _ _     _ _        _  _ _     _-__               _    _



-.q
"'4~~~~~~~~
0. 
WIW   ci~-                                        - - - - -                                                     - - - - -                       



CULOIA
li4ALL-5CALE IRRIGATIO 184 6JWT
856TIPTUIOSAL OEVEO.0tlE CE'MPOIN
Dloiod Cost Eotoest.o
Cole ('000)
eole,it                                                           Bee., Coots                                  Foreign fachnog.
Oseacretia.          Unit1     A   a   a   4   a   *   Tota    Coot             A          a2              1               6          a        Total      a
INISSTHEN COSTS
4. TWaICALAS5ISIMdCE .e./rti    a  24  12   0   0   0          42  4,410.0  21,900.0  111.6000   sa,m.o            0.0       0.0        0.0   195.loo.0 100  19b,300 0
S. TRAINING
Local            S~~~~~~weet.    Is  125  1   t6  to   0    16r  1,20.0  Joe.400.0  *40.000.00  123,200.   20,160.0  21.260 0       0 0    411 .000  34  143,664.0
FoeeZ.     Portlclpoot.  6   6   6   4   0   0          28   1.410 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 41,820.0  41,020.0  47,520.0  23,910.0  00  0.0    141,310.0  100  86a1,310.0':IO  1 M  0    7 G.   4 0:0023.10.  000.4  1
C. v84ICt1s
4a4 Jeeps                Unit       9   10   0   0   0   0         19  1,000.0  53,000.   70000             00        00         0.0        0.0   833,000.0  65   113.10W.0.
Mstorcycl.e              14I,t    2$   0   0   0   0   0           go    600.0  14.00001       0."40        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0    14,000.0a  6s    11900 0
6,Atet.l 1e&kic1*0                                                                  71.000.0  70.0000          0.0        0.0       0 6        0.0   141,000.0  05  I24.9iW0.
Nicrocoopulero     lM,unt    is 0 0   0   0   0              i5  1.60000  57,000.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    st,400.0  SF,   46.46.0.0
Video Iq,.;p             h.t       Is   0   0   0   0a             1   2,000.0  30,000.          0.         003.0                0          00         oo  0  55   25,500 0
Comim,,nicatt,oe         Im        87 0 0 0 0 0                    Il    $510.   is,100           .0        0. 00 0D               0        0.0    J35 o  as    *.392.s
s.I ,Seep I  0%           Lot       a   0   0   0   0   0           8    325.0      325.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0 0        0.0        325 0   as      215 3
S.651itte gq... gent                                                                6015.            .0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0    98.a's.0  56   ea.s,e a
 EVALUATION
,Li..on ReOWt.      Report        8 1                 1       64.000.0   4.000.0   4,000.0   4.000.0   4,000.0   4.000.0   4,08.0.0    24.000 0   0                0.0
4,000.0   4.000.0   4.0100.0   4,000.0   4.0l0 0   4.000.0    24.000.0   0            0.0I
Prrnt,ae       Aooesl      1~~~~~~ 0   0   0   0   0       1 -1.300.0  _21,100.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0 0        00a    213.   60    82.10 $o 
S..bt.el  :ooto                                                                     21.300.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0 0       0.0    28,300.0  40    12.160 0
betel INvSSltpE COSTS                                                              30.,.   7,20020000 48,4'10.0  2'5,2'00.0  -40,00-0.104150 46                        2.62
SIC1RPEM COSTS
Seellee Chief  .mr./pe.r    2~~ 2   a      2 a            82    am.16     ,6.        ,6.        ,6.    4,766.6   4,766.4   4,166.6    25,899.4    0             0 0
Profeeeieeol   rn/peer    S~~1   s   a   a   0   3       IS  2,247.6   6,142.6   4,4.          ,4.6   6,742.6   6.1426    6,142.6    40,456.6    0             0 0
Profeee.oael 2         seei/year    2   2   2   2   2   2          82 12131.6   4.227 6   4:227.6   4,22.4         4,221.    4,221     4,221.6    25.365 6    00.
Proleeeiomel S  eso/pear    10  7  87 I  17   ?      95 8 A.?6,8. Al,56I2,585 12,85.51  12156.6  32,155     179,692 1   0                                   0 0
Plrofeeelaoee  4       rnjFpeer        a     I        I            0   1,4.I,4.    2,50.8    1,59.1               1,90.6   1.590. A   8,590.8-      4.40 a   0          0.0
11'oft.er              see/ypee     a   I   I   a   I   1           6   1.46.    1,46.7   1,4561.1   1,46.?    ,44.?   l.455. 1    1.465.?          4.194 2   0          0 a
Pe.ftGoeesoo   S       eec/peer    I   3   3   a   a   A           I*  A,0.    4,1.6 4210.6             4,210.6   4,280.61   4,280.    4,210.6    2S,264 4    0          a00
Aeseiair A             see/peer    t   a   A   A   A   a            6   a 6.0 1.0 1.0        12.0  0      SU26.0    821.0   1.263 0    1,261 0      7.4960a   0          0 0
1-rook" A            rnpe                                        6 1124   4,4.             ,20       4249.2   4,:249 2   4,299.2   4,4.          6,195.2   0           0 0
La~iier 2g             rnae                                         6   A,307.6    8801.6   8,01.6       ,0.    8,801.0   1,101 a    1, 101.   .6  4,4   a   0            00
Teeoeeor 2              npe                                 1      42  1.1.        ,6.        ,6.        ,0.9   1,0l10   7.0684    1,I061.4    42,491.4   0              0 0
6.sreterp        u/p:::'y.b   a   a   a   6   a   6          16  '.08.    6:,010.2      ,7.        0,010.2   6,010.2   6.010 2   6,O0ro:42.    00
MRl/poor    3   2   2   2   2   2           2    4.2        ,0.4      16.4        .6.      1,646.4    8,B46.4   1,046.      3106.420100
sa/,       9   9   9   9   9         84    164        4,.645.    6,6145. 6    6,645.6   6,645.6   6,64! 6   6,645 6    59,613L6            0
Clerk                  rnpo             .                              6 41.9       6ay.0      687.9      431.4     681.9      11        00.9 3681. 4    a,o  0         00
SuAbtal. Adileeomi Staff
4 56 boo          ~~~~~ND.  II  34  34  34  34  54    885  1,600.   21,000.0  61,200.0  41,200.0  61,200 0  61,200 0  61,200.0   333.0OO.   60   149.W  0                  ,,9D Ir'i
lhtorcpcleo               ND..     0  20  2$  28  26  26    140    160.00             41.0   5,040.0 a 5040.0   5,040.0   5,040 0   5,060.0    25,1200 0  460   85,820 a          :,
Subtotel Vekacle. 0084                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21,000.0  64,240.0  66,240.0  66,240 0   56.240 0  66,240.0   354,200.0  60   214,420 0
C. PALPNI58NAIIPN
Write SwepIi.e          Anweol    Is  85  Is  Is  85  as          40    510 0    9,750 0    9,7500  ,0  9         9,150   0      9.P. 0   9110.0    Go,1000   20    18.10  0
P41; ications           Ih,&t     15  I5  as  85  Is  15          go    850.0   2,400.0   2,4  000     240 22,400.0          2.4110 0   2,4000     14 4000   20    it:0 
S,,btotel Ads,ehetret~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,,                      1~~~2,110 0   12.8100   12.8100   12,81500   A2.50 0   12.160 0   J14. 900   20    84.66w00
1.A.8 NIAUO48Jff CASES                                          7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------ -.... -..-....    ....          . ..
,-to, ortaftmi cosis                                          11b.~~~~~~885020    8536,508.1 161,618 8 151,8.8bt  161,5u018 161,101 8   9.2526U  A  24  229,500 0



If I m A 1
PIII MA
FlIJURB EAIOK P3AMACION V SEIUIEIITO DE U  CAPACITACION
EaIld./SubUId
Firnm Reopmea.ble
Cetc*ngse         Cildio.   Feb    SUI.tI do Capscidd ladlwlvdl Oravedad dot    ActUvided de    1 Uid  OWp0 del
Permal )          Toros*    E.j4.         ;       ;rlpcl4.              Mfidt         Cepoelt       Xoprelerr. 3/
TeamO                                                    (feFb_. c6dP) - 2     -  -
A ac 0it  F              (1.1.1.)                                 a1381456                            I         a    4 
'0J
A-  C=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
1,/  M               1a              c;               D;              E=               F
EvolelMa del dAki  dIsp6el de realigae  la eSLIvidad de copecitecl6a                  con *l superior ljrirgico de lon
funci@oAtloO cofespsedk.



-[03-               ANNEX 4
Appendix 6
X  S W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1T  --  -t-
I  'I~  t                       t-I         -I--T~~1~LA~~
X       lT  T-T-  -TinT-T--  ~1~ 
;       8. .          . .                                -i:T-
ft jt 
o  . I                                                   
4  |9      f t    t f       f f           f IKT 
I       '   |    ..          11     I ii'  4 14}11 jI   .!  II
ff .k .      i .* .    i .k .i .   . ..            .f..l
. ~ ~      -.-I}--               Xf .  



-104-                          ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
"HALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Infrastructure
1.       Three types of infrastructure works would be carried out under the
proposed project: (a) construction of diversion-type irrigation schemes;
(b) construction of reservoir-type irrigation schemes; and (c) repair and
minor improvement of access roads. Both types of irrigation infrastructure
works would include studies, design, construction and supt,-vision of
constructior..
Detailed Features
2.       Project works would include:
(a)  the construction of a diversion and headwork control structure in
small perennial streams on the lower Andean slopes in the
diversion type irrigation schemes, and the construction of small
dams on intermittent streams in low undulated terrain of the
Northern part of Colombia, in the reservoir-typt irrigation
schemes;
(b)  construction or improvement of small sediment basins or lakes in
the reservoir-type scheme to accumulate the water which will be
conveyed and distributed to the project area;
(c)  construction or installation of a main concrete-lined canal or
pressurized PVC pipe to distribuce the water to the irrigation
systems;
(d)  construction of an underground, gravity-pressurized distribution
network of PVC pipes, and pressure tanks, and installation of
water hydrants and sprinklers at farm level. Up to three
hydrants, permitting the irrigation of a farm area of up to
2.5 ha. would be installed per farm; and
(e)  repair and/or minor improvement of about 1,300 km of access roads
in the project areas (about 1.5 km per scheme). This work would
permit easier access for the construction of the irrigation
schemes in all weather conditions.   t would also facilitate
access of research and extension teams and improve marketing
outlets for agricultural production and inputs within each
subproject area. The work would include ditch cleaning and small
drainage structures, conformation of subbase and base as required,
and provision of additional gravel material in selected
deteriorated sectors of the road. The work would be carried out
by the same contractors that would construct the irrigation
schemes in accordance with the criteria and standards defined by
Caminos Vecinales for this type of work in Bank-financed rural
roads project.. HIMAT's lists of contractors has been found
acceptable by Caminos Vecinales for carrying out this work.



ANNEX 5
-105-                            Pago 2 of 4
3.       Experience from the small-scale irrigation pilot project financed
under Loan 2667-CO. has shown that the more efficient way to implement the
construction program is to make the selected contractor responsible both
for enpineering design and construction of the irrigation schemes. HIMAT
and INDERENA (in matters related to environment protection) would revise
the proposed engineering designs, and approve the start of construction
following the procurement procedures for civil works outlined in para. 3.15
of the main text. Once the contractor has been selected and construction
started, the supervision and control of the works would be carried out by
local consultants hired for that purpose by HIMAT. Each scheme would
provide water and the infrastructure to irrigate up to 2.5 ha per farm.
Whenever water is available in sufficie..t volume at the source, the
engineering aesign of each.subproject would allow for the future expansion
of the irrigated area (beyond the original 2.5 ha maximum per farm) by
including additional outlets which would remain closed until expansion
takes place. The costs involved in the purchase and installation of
additional hydrants, water hoses and sprinklers would be the responsibility
of the beneficiaries.
Subproject Selection
4.       The selection procesw  for an area to be financed under the project
would followt clear and specific steps and be guided by well-defined,
objective criteria. This would permit the most efficient use of financial
resources, avoid political pressures, and target the poorer segments of the
rural population. The selection process would typically include the
following steps:
(a)  a community or a group of individuals from a community interested
in the small-scale irrigation program and considering that the
area of their property has adequate resources, meet together and
through their representatives make a -equest. to HIDAT;
(b)  HIMAT registers the request and HIMAT staff visit the area
resulting in a recounaissance report which indicates the potential
for constructing an irrigation subproject on the basis of the
adequacy of natural resources;
(c) during the visit, H_U%T explains the selection criteria outlined
below and detailed in Annex 2 and the expected contribution of the
comunity to the construction, operation and maintenance and
financing of the scheme and that the assets would be transferred
to them at the completion of the work. HIMAT also requests the
agreoment in principle of the community to the conditions for
participation;
(d) if the reconnaissance report indicates that the area meets the
minimum technical requirements and after the beneficiaries have
accepted in principle the conditions for their participation,
HIMAT evaluates the request under the specific criteria for
selection (see below). If the suproject meets the criteria, final
selection of the subproject is decided when a formal agreement is
reached with the community. Construction would eventually proceed
once it is included in the program and budget for a particular
year; and



ANNEX 5
-106-                           Page 3 of 4
(e) the community, with the support of SENA. starts administrative and
legal procedure; to become a legal entity in order to be able to
receive the irrigation assets, and to set up appropriate
management and financial instruments to permit the satisfactory
oporation and maintenance of the schemes.
Under the specific criteria for selection agreed under the project, each
subproject will be evaluated and rated in terms of: (a) coacentration of
small !arms; (b) suitability of agroclimatic characteristicr;
(c) availability of institutional support (primarily extension and credit);
(d) concentration of subprojects; and (e) size of subproject dimension.
The ratings of each project would provide an objentive measure for the
inclusion of the subproject in the oapproved subproject list, and its
relative priority for inclusion in HIMAT's program of construction and
budget for a particular year. Expected average time and the steps needed
by HIMAT to select and construct a project are summarized in Table 1.
Implementation of the Comoonent
5.       The project is expected to construct a total of 850 small-scale
irrigation schemes covering 60,000 ha over six years and benefitting about
43,000 farmufamilies. Project infrastructure investments were costed per
project and per ha, based on similar works carried out in the Pilot Program
ULzanced by Loan 2667-CO (adjusted to January 1989 prices). Prototypes for
diversion irrigation systems (averaging about 75 ha each) of which about
800 would be constructed, and for the approximately 50 reservoir
subprojects (averaging 20 ha) have been prepared and a cost per ha of
US$1,450/ha and US$4,700/ha respectively have been estimated (including
road repair and physical contingencies) (Tables 2 to 5). These average
unit costs have been applied to all irrigation schemes expected to be
constructed under the project. The yearly program of development of the
850 schemes is shown in Tables 6 and 7. Year 1 of the project (1989)
envisages starting 90 projects of which 30 would be completed. HIMAT would
employ local contractors selected under LCB or price quotations procedures
with proposals submitted from a minimum of three contractors. Contractors
will be responsible for conducting surveys, basic studies, design and
construction of vorks. Supervision and control. would be carried out by
consultants contracted by HIMTA as well as by HIMT.'s Regiona' and-Central
staff. Draft tes of reference for contractors and consultants are
indicated in Appendices 1 and 2. HtMAT would refine these terms of
reference and included them in the sample bidding documents and present
them to the Bank before any bidding procedure starts. All subprojects are
small (20 to 300 ha) and do not require higher technology to be designed
and executed. In addition, the proposed project will have benefitted from b
the experienee of the Pilot Program, financed under Loan 2677-CO and
therefore no difficulties are foreseen in the design and construction
process of the subprojects.
6.       Construction equipment (pipes, fitting and accessories) most of
them locally manufactured, will be supplied by construction conitractors
under contract terms. These contractors will provide these items to remote
areas of the country and will therefore simplify HIMATs actions. The
quantity of equipment necessary for each subproject is not large enough to
justify the difference in cost required for HIMAT's bidding process to take
full responsibility of its acquisition and transportation.



ANNEX 5
-107-                             Page 4 of 4
7.       Physical contingencies have been included in this component to
take into consideration the likely variations in the characteristics of the
areas selected for inclusion in the irrigation programn (topography,
distribution of holdings, etc.) and the uncertainty surrounding civil work
and equipment needs estimates since they will only be known after each
subproject has been designed. Physical contingencies of 152 for civil
works, 10? for equipment and S2 for designs and consultant services have
been applied.
8.       Operating costs of the irrigation systems are minimal given the
simplicity of the technology. They will be covered by a monthly fee which
the community itself will determine with the assistarce of SENA and pay to
a community fund. The communi.ies or group of beneficiaries will be
adequately organized to operate, maintain and manage the irrigation
systems. HIMAT would periodically supervise all subprojects under
operation and inform the communities of their findings in order to correct
possible deficiencies, and improve the efficiency of the systems.
Total Cost
9.       Baseline costs of the component are estimated at US$92.2 million
and physical contingencies are US$10.5 for a total cost of US$102.7 million
(Col$ 33,600 million) of which US$43.9 million corresponds to foreign
exchange costs (43Z). Design and construction of wvrks (including
provision of pipes, fitting and accessories) and improvement of access
roads amounts to US$92.5 million (ColS 30,300 million) and consulting
services for the supervision of construction are estimated at about US$10
mi1lion (ColS 3,300 million). Details are presented in Table 8. Costs
were calculated using January 1989 prices.
Environmental Impact
100      The initial environmental examination of the proposed project
conducted by INDERENA in coordination with IMAT indicates that this
project would not require an environmental impact assessment. This is
because activities to be undertaken under the project are going to improve
the environmental conditions in the subprojects areas over those prevailing
now under rainfed agricultural practices which use soil less intensively
and therefore expose the soil to erosion problems. The relative small size
of each individual subproject and community wide participation would
eliminate conflicts over water supplies and land use. Any potential soil
conservation or water problem identified in the subprojects catchment area
would be assessed by HIMAT and INDERENA and appropriate measures
(replanting, civil works) would be introduced to avoid or reduce existing
unfavorable conditions. These measures would be carried out by contracting
firms under the supervision of HIMAT &nd INDEREN4. Under the project about
US$225,000 (Col$ 73 million) have been included to support adequate
conservation programs in civil works, and about US$725,000
(Col$ 238 million) for reforestation programs, totalling US$950,000. The
proposed project would also provide about US$14,000 (Col$ 4,500,000) to
finance INDERENA's supervision activities during the life of the project
(Table 8).



-1.08                                           Annex S
COLOMBIA                                          Table 1
SMAL6-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Approximate Period R;quir;d t; Process and Con;truct a Sub-Project
8ttween 20 and 300 ha
Time
Responsible              in the
Activity                   ODecription                              Organizas   i             Process
1     Request by a group of farmers or comaunity       C=Munity, Municipality
or Group of Farmers
2     Register and answer to the coinunlty with        HIMAT, Regional Direction          7 days
information related to conditions for
financing
3     Request  NDOERENA information on water right.
at th- source of water                           HIMAT, Regional Direction         7 days
4     Identification Mission (technical, social
and environmetal aspects)                        HIMAT Region                      7 days
5     Technical Report                                 HIMAT Region                      4 days
6     Project Selection                             - HIMAT Region                        7 days
7     Final Agreemet with the group of farmrs or  HIMAT Region and Farmers                15 days
* otunity
SUB-TOTAL                                                                          47 days
a     Invitation to Contracting firm  for project
execution                                        HIMAT Contral or Region           15 days
9     Old opening, analysis of proposals and           HIMAT Centcrai or Region           20 days
selection
10     Contract negotiation and signature               HIMAT and Contrector              SS days
SWB-TOTAL                                                                          9  days
11     Studies and Design                               Contractor                       45 to 135 days
12     Revision of Studios and Design                   HIMAT - INDERENA                  15 days
13     Design modification (if required) &.4            Contractor - HIMAT                15 days
approval
14     Subproject Construction of works                 Contractor                       75 to 280 days
1S     Provisional Reception of works                   HIMAT - Contraetor                15 days
18     Final Reception and delivery to the Farmers'   Contractor - Himat - Farmers        7 days
Association (logally stablished)
SUW-TOTAL                                                                         172 to 447 days
==
TOTAL                                                                         309 TO 584 DAYS
PERIOD REQUIRED FOR LEGAL ORGANIZATION OF FARMERS  (after farmer,' agreement)
1     Farmers' decision to be organi2zd,
discu,-'on of by-laws and legal requost to       Farmers, Lawyer, HIMAT            30 days
the Ministry of Agriculture
2     Administrative and legsl proeedures              Ministry of Agriculture          120 days
TOTAL                                                                             15  doys
Source: Mission



Annex 5
-109-                                   ----------
Table 2
Page I of 3
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRtGATION PROJECT
Divorsion Type Model (75 ha)
Dotailed Costs
Cols
Decription                Total    Foreign Exchongo  Unskilled Labor   Farmer
C04t     s    Amount    S        Amount   Contribution  X
1 DIVERSION STRUCTURE
a. Civil Works
-River Manage                      76,1000  48     so,196  a5        24,500            a
- Excavation in h,zk               40,00   48       17,200  E4       21,600            0
- Cielopeon Concrete              860,600  44    290.,4ea  10        66,000            O
- Concrete Type C                  e6,o0o  44      26,486  13         7,800            0
- Stone Protection                 46,996   44     21,120  14         6,720            6
- Excavation for Pipes              8,100  43       3,483  76         6,156            0
- Compacted Fill                    4,900  43       1,986   62        2,340            6
Sub-total                      890,6_   44    390,638  15        185,116            O
b. Pipes
-pip;D 6                          266,00   65    165,70   O               0            6
Sub-total                      255,000  66    165,750    6             o             a
c. Accesor ier
-Union z                          11O,966  65      71,500    6            e           O
- lIbots                           64,600  65      85,166   6             6            6
- Gate                             48,906  65      31,260    0            0 a
-Scram                             26,890  65      18,720   0             0           0
- Cover                            13,006  66       8,450   0             0
Sub-total                      258,890  65   164,970   9              0            0
2. SEDIMENT BASIN
a. Civil Works
- Land Cleaning                     2,200  86         792  85         1,430           0
- Excavation in Rock Struct.       38,400  30      11,520  75        26,800           0
- Excavation In Earth Struct.       6,900  80       1,06  iS          4,618           0
- Ciclopean Concrote              400,006  44    176,006  10         40,06            0
- Concrete Type 8                  38,906  46      15,180   13        4,290           0
- Excavation for Pipes              6,306  30       1,896  76         4,786           0
-Fill for Pipe.                     3,606  44       1,540  52         1,620           0
- Cement Finishing                 27,090  32       6,649  36        10,260           0
Sub-total                      616,406  42    21T,362  19         96,;dS           0
b. Pipes
-Pipe.                            294,666  66    132,600   0              0           0
Sub-total                      204,660   65    132,690    0            6           0
c. Accessories
- Union                            15,066  6s       9,760   0             0           6
- Reinforcing Steel                22,566  65      14,625   0             6           6
Sub-total                       37,506  65      24,375   O             6           0
3. MAIN LINE
a. Civil Works
- Land Clening                    22,966  36       7,920  65        14,300           0
- Excavotion in Rock              120,060  43      51,606  68        69,6C            O
- Excavation in Earth for Pipes   270,069   30     81,966  i6       205,290           6
- Fill for Pipes                  19,906   44      66,996   52       76,960           0
- Valve Protection cages           28,600   46     12,960  16         4,666           0
- Concrot Type F                   42,960  45      1,909  13          6,466           a
Sub-total                      6832,86   38    238,380  6e    387,169              0



Annex 5
-110-                                Table 2
Page 2 of 3
Description               Total    Foreign Exchango  Unskilled Labor   Farmer
COst     X    Amount    %        Amount   Contribution  X
b. Pipes
- Pipes                         2,430,001  69  1,468,M93     a            0            9
Subtotal                     2,489,'AD   66   1,4t8,000   0            a            0
c. Accessories
- Union a                         833,053   65    219,375   6 6   O
- Union Z                          75,063   a6      48,760   0            a            O
- Collars                          16,000  a6       10,400   a            a            a
- Welded Attachnend                22,400  65       14,669   o            a            o
- Drainage Volvo                  330,060  65    214,560    6             O            9
- Vrntose Valve                    66,'m    06      39,000   0            0            0
Subtotal                       840,900  eS    546,586   6              O            0
4. SMALL RESERVOIRS
a. Civil Works
- Land Clearing                    66,O0    86      23,766  66       42,900            O
-Excavation In Rock Struct.       *80,36  38    144,0W   75         360,000            0
-Excavation In Earth Struct.      276,009  30       82,86W   76     207,M0            .O
-Concrete Lining Type           1,029,0W   43    438,636   14       142,860            0
-Concret Type F                    21,0W   84        7,140   1O       2,106            0
B-rick Masonry                     68,436   89      26,676  86       25,992            0
-Cement Lining                     27,00   42       11,340  88       10,269            0
- Velve Protection Boxes           20,06   43        8,000  15        3,000            a
- Compcted Fill                   1916,3WO  44      44,000  52       t2,000            O
- Gravel Filter                   240,aeo  44    166,366   4          9,630            6
Subtotal                     2,818,400  38    692,516  37        855,652            6
b. Pipes
- Pipes                           s90,0    eo       64,0W    6            0            o
Subtotal                        906,3    69      64,0a    O            O            0
c. Accessories
- Reinforcing Steel               646,3W   66    851,3W    4         21,600            O
-cate                             38,000  S6       24,766 W               0            0
- Valve 4                         a3w,oW    es    195,00    a             6            a
- Valvo 3                         1065,0    6S     68,2to   6             6            O
Subtotal                       983,M    65    688,966   2         21,600            6
S. NETWORK
a, Civil Works
- Land Clearing                  1.96,00   36      n  ,28   e 65    126,700      128,700  65
- Excavation In rock              440,00W  48    189,23W  64        237,600            0
- Excavation in Earth for Pipes 2,250,3W   3o    675,30  76    1,7161,0W    1,710,30   78
- Compacted Fill for PIpes      1,36w,3w   44    594,0w   52        720          702,000  52
- Road Cross with Pipes           227,56   44     10,10    6         13,66             o
Subtotal                     4,405,560    6   1,829,569  6s    2,791,965    2,S46,760   57
b. Pipes
-Pipe 4                           720,000  66    482,000    6             6            6
-Pipe 3                         1,876,003   6   1,122,003    6            0            6
- Pipe 2                        1,230,300   So    720,003    6            a            6
- PIp  1-1/2                      846,00O  6e   6507,0    6                            6 a
- Pipe la                         736,0W  6s    42,003       o            6            o
- Pipe 3/4'                     1,316,00   60    769,60    6        a                  a
Subtotal                     6,651,0W   6s   3,903,sw    t             6            6
c. Accessories
- Valves, elbows, tees, ete.      665,136  66    482,315   o              6           6
Subota  6_ 6--------63
Subtotal                       eec,166  ec    432,315



Annex S
-1 1 1-                                 ;; 
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
Description                Total    Foroign Exchengo   Unskilled Labor   Farmer
Cost     %      Amount     x      Amount    Contribution. X
6. FARM HYDRANT
a. Civil Works
- Proteccion box                   622,506   43     224,675   16       78,375            o
-Excavation in Earth                22,300   38       6,6C0   76       16,943            0
- Compacted Fill                    11,606   44       6,184   52        6,032            o
Subtotal                        522,506   4a     224,675   16       78,375            o
b. Accessorios
- Hydrants                         361,606   8S     234,650    a            o            a
- Accesornis (codes,toes)          142,56M   66      92,626    0            0            0
Subtotal                        S08,506  aS      327,275    o            o            o
7. IMPROVEMENT ACCESS ROAD
a. Civil Works
- Ditch Cleaning                   81a,606   26     202,506   8S      526,500      324,090   40
- Subbase                          465,000   25     101,250 W  5      263,26d      182,000  40
- Gravel for Base                2,227,s09   Es  1,291,950   11       246,025       66,825    3
- Drainage Structures             a87,600   52      159,960   46      123,60M       30,756   10
Subtotal                      A,750,U0   47   1,765,606   31    1,157,775       5s3,575  16
8. TOTAL
a. Civil Works                    9,346,206   38  3,598,151   46    4,834,167    2,540,700   27
b. Improvement Access ROed         ,7560,000   47   1,766,600    1    1,1S7,776     s83,575  16
C. Pipes                          9,630,00   6o  5,906,956    0              0            0    6
d. Accesories                     3,283,80    65   2,134,470    1       21,756            0   0
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION            2Si62j,Ose   61  18,284,171   21    5,518,83 8   3,124,275   12
9. SURVEYS
- Topography                       666,066    6           6   to       00,006            6
- Land Tenancy                     4560,666    6          0   1        45,0M0            0
- Min Lin6 306,66    0                                    o   1         3,600            0
- Alignmsnt                        890,666    0           0    s1      96,006            0
Subtotal                      1,636,66O   0            0   12      198,86 W
10. DESIGN
-Studies a Don;gn                2,86,0       6                0            0            6
Subtotal                      2,686,666    0           6   6             o            0
11. SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION
- Supervision and Control        2,801,000   6            6   6             6            0
Subtotal                       2,601,006 W       O           6            a            O
TOTAL COST                      32,377,800  41  13,284,171   18    5,712,298    3,124,275  10
A. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES -
- Civil Works A Ace*rA Road      1,964,430  41      802,313   42      823,791      468,641
- Pipes and Accessories          1,291,380  61     793,542   0          2,178            6
- Surveys, Studies a DOsign        168,340   0           0    5         9,930            6
- Supervieion of Construction      130,656    0          6    0             0            0
Subtotal                      3,574,200  45   1,595,865   23       835,897      468,641   13
TOTAL COST A CONTINGENCIES      35,952,006   41  14,686,626   18   8,548,196    3,S92,916   10



Annex 5
-112-                               Table 3
Page I of 2
C%L0MDIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
DIVERSION TYPE MODEL (75 ha)
Sumsary Cost
Cols '00
Fore;gn
Unit     Total    Cost        Labor Exchange  Tax
DESCRIPTION           Unit Quantity    Coat        Cost   per ha  X    x       %       x
A. SURVEYS
1. Topographie              h       7?S0.       8.00   688.19   8.00          1O        0
2. Land Tenure              he      75.00       6.90    460.00   68.0         10        0
3. Main Line                km       1.60      24.00     36.00   0.48         10        0
4. Site Layout              km      1S.OO      40.00    090.90   8.00         15        0
Subtotal                                            1,686.90  22.48   6   12         0
B. STUDIES & DESIGN
1. Studies a Design       Global    1.90  2,080.80  2,080.80  27.74   a    0            0
Subtotal                                           2,988.86  27.74   6    0
C. DIVERSION SMRUCTURE
1. Civil Works            Global    1.90    890.60    890.6e   11.67   3   1S          30
2. Plps                             380.00      8.58    255.90   3.40   1    0         60 7.50
3. Aceosorlsa             Global    1.09    263.80    253.80   3.38    1    6          85 7.50
Subtotal                                           1,S90.40   16.64   4   18        42
0. SEDIMENT BASDI
1. Civil Works            Global    1.90      616.40    516.40   6.69   2   19         29
2. Pipes                           390.00      6.80    204.90   2.72    1    0         60 7.50
3. Accessries             Global    1.90      37.50      37.50   0.60   0    0         65 7.50
Subtotal                                             757.90  10.11    2   13        39
E. MAIN LINE
1. Civil Works            Global    1.90    632.86    682.88   8.44   2   60           23
2. Pipes                    km       1.35  1,800.00  2,430.90  32.40   8    0          60 7.50
3. Acoesories             Global    1.90    840.19      848.90  11.21   3    0         85 7.S0
Subtotal                                           3,903.70  52.65  12   10        5S
f. RESERVOIRS
1. Civil Works            Global    1.80   2,318.48   2,316.40  30.91   7   37         24
2. PIpe                     a       60.a0      1.80      90.00   1.20   0    0         66 7.60
3. Accessories            Global    1.06    983.a0    968.60  13.11   3    2           65 7.50
Subtotal                                           3,391.40  46.22  10   25         37
C. NETWORK
1. Civil Works            Global    1.00  4,485.So  4,446.50  59.64  14   63           19
2. Pipes                    km      11.06    604.64  6,651.90  89.68  21    0          80  7.50
3. Accesories             Global    1.99    665.18    665.10   8.87   2    0          66 7.50
Subt: cal                                         11,781.60  167.09  3W   25        48
H. IRRIGATION OUTLETS
1. Clvli Works            Global    1.00    522.58    522.50   6.97   2   15          29
2. Accesories             Global    1.00    563.58   653.58   6.71   2    0           6S 7.50
Subtotal                                           1,026.00   13.68   3    8        47



Annex S
-1 1.3-                                        ___________
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
F,rei gn
Unit      Total     Cost        Labor Exchange  Tax
OESCRIPTION            Unit  quantity     Cost        Cost    per ha   U     U      s       %
1. IMPROVEENT ACCESS ROAD
1. Civil Works               kb        1.E9   2,6N.900   3,7S0.00  59.0   12    1S          47
Subtatal                                               3,750.0   sa.oo   1      1s       47
I. TOTALS
Total Ctvil Works                                     18,694.20  174.62   40    47       23
Total Acces Road                                       3,769.0    60.00   12    1S       47
Total Pipes                                            9,689.00  128.40  39      a       so  7.S5
Total Accesorses                                       3,288.86   43.78   19     1       65  7.50
Subtotal                                              26,091.2e  8460     8     20       43
Total Consultant Services                              3,766.80   50.22   12
Total Supervision of Construction                      2,601.08   34.68    0
TOTAL COST                           32,37.39  431.70  IN
PtWSICAL CONTRIOECUES                 3,574.20   47.66   11    29        36
TOTAL COST & COITINOB4CZES           35,952.80  479.36  11l
Source: Mission



Annex 6
-1.14-___________
Table 4
Page 1 of 3
COLOMB1A
SMALL-SCALE IRRICATICON PROJECT
Reservoir Type Model (29 he)
Detailed Costs
Cols
DOecription                Total     Foreign Exchange  Unskilled Labor    Former
Cost      %     Amount     X      Amount    Comtribution  X
1. RESERVOIR AREA
a. Civil Works
- Clearing and Orubing             1S6,606   65      97,060    6            0
Sub-total                      1S,000   65       97,500    6            O            a
2. DAM
a. Civil Works
- Land Clearing                    255,600   40    1M2,ne6  65        165,750            6
- Compcted Fill Dm Material    2,640,006   74   1,599,000    O              O            6
- Gravel in Shoulders            2,069,006   46     906,060    9      180,000            6
- Sand and Gravel f lIter         860,006   47      376,006    4       32,066            O
- Rock materiol for protection     650,061   43     279,56    O 9       68,S6O           6
- Earth for protection              05,060   42      27,309   57       37,060            6
- Protection gres                  39,00016  42     163,800   37      144,369            6
- Agragate for Base                 49,016  76       39,600    6            0
Sub-total                     6,240,011  64   3,388,296  1O        617,800            6
3. SPILLWAY AND MAIN CANAL
a. Civil Works
- Excavation In earth              360,006   33     118,890   76      273,600            6
- Excavation in rock               24,6006  38       91,200   68      139,200            6
- Selected fill                    129,046   45      54,000   48       55,260            6
- Brick masonry                  2,340,006  41      959,400   16      351,000 O
- RoCk protectioa                  306,060  43      129,609   14       42,606            6
Sub-total                     3,368,060   40   1,352,400   26      861,0e6            6
4. INTAKE
a. Civii Works
- Excavation inearth                19,606   33       5,940   76       13,686            a
- Excavation in rock                16,696   38       8,896   68        5,860            6
- Se.lcted fill                     19006o  46        4,5W0  48         4,600            6
- Rock protection                   25,060   43      19,750   14        3,500            a
- Concrete Type C                   62,05  43       20,875   14        8,7S0            6
Sub-total                       i25,560   41      51,885   29       38,330            6
b. Pipes
- Pipe 18                          Swi,m    65      390,006    a                         0
Sub-total                       S96,96    aS     390,060    6            O            6
c. Accessories
- Control valve                    760,060   65     455,806    0            6            6   6
Sub-total                       700,060   65     455,6680    O           O            6 
5. PUMPING AND MAIN PIPE
a. Civil Works
- House                            26,006  41        62,600   15       30,666            6    6
- Excavation in earth for pipe      12,666  38        4,5601  58        6,980            6    6
- Excavaeion in earth              189,60   33       69,480   76      130,866    o         O
- Compacted fill for pipe          100,006  35       36,000   48       46,660            0   0
Sub-total                       492,606   37     166,966   45      219,760            6    6
b. Pipes
- Pipe 30                          176,001  65      116,606   0             0            0
- Distribution Pipe 30             610,000  C6      331,50     0            0            a
Sub-total                       680,060   65     442,600   0             0            0



Annex S
Table 4
Page 2 of 3
Description                Total     Foreign Exchange  Unskilled Labor    Former
Cost      %     Amount     X      Amount    Comtribution  X
c. Accessorieos
- motopump                       1,700,00o   66   1,165,000    a            o            O
Sub-totel                     1,700,600  86   1,165,666    0             0            0
6. PRESSURE TANK
a. Civil Works
- Excavation In Earth                2,400   33         792   76        1,824            0
- Concrete Type C                   76,000   48      36,060   13        9,750            a
- Concrete Type F                   21,600   41       8,610   16        3,150            a
- Fill                              36,00    37      12,950   52       18,200            0
- Brick masonry                     4S,600   41      18,466   16        6,760            0
- Cement Finishing                  21,601  35        7,560   38        8,208            0
Sub-total                       266,906   42      84,362   24       47,882            0
b. Aceessories
- Roinforoing Steel                 40,00    65      26,006    5        2,066
Sub-total                        40,006   65      26,606    5        2,066            6
7. NETWORK
a. Civil Works
- Excovation in Earth              9,00,08   33     297,in   76       684,660      684,600   76
- Compacted Fill                   560,60   42       21,060   52       26,000       28,660   52
-                                   -_                   ____-
Sub-total                       950,100   33     318,066   75      71no,ao      71,06   75
b. Pipes
- Pipe 25 655,600   es                               57,60   6              0            0
- Pipe 1-1/2 *                   2,260,000  6e   1,462,6010   0             0            0
Sub-totdl                     2,860,000   65   1,820,660    0            6            0
c. Accessories
- Valves, elbows, etc.             280,00   65      132,610    0            0
Sub-total                       283,00M  65      182,660    6            0            0
8. HYDRANTS
S. Civil Works
- Valvo protection box             226,060   48     101,200   15       33,060            0
- Excavation in earth               16,66   33        3,300   76        7,666
- Compected Fill                     5,066   47       2,3S0   62        2,660
Sub-total                       235,060   45     140,850   18       43,206            0
b. Accessories
- Hydrante                         152,060  65       98,800   6             6            0
- Accesoeies (elbows, tees)         60,660   6       39,660    6            0            6
Sub-total                       212,06   65      137,800    0 a                       6
9. MEJORAMINETO CAMINO DE ACCESO
a. Civil Works
- Ditch cleaning                   810,600   25    202,500   65       526,506      324,006   40
- Sub-base                         406,006  25      101,250  65       263,250      162,000   40
- Gravel for ase-                2,330,060   68   1,351,406   11      250,300       69,. I   3
- Drainage structureo              205,000   52     10$,606   40       82,6006      20,68   10
Sub-total                        3,75,600   47   1,761,750   30    1,128,650       578,400  15
16. SURVEYS
a. Topography                       200,006    0           0   0            0             6
b. Land tenancy                     120,600    0          0                6            6
c. Main line                         24,000    0           0   0            6             0
d. Alignment                        660,606    0           0   0             6            0
Sub-total                          944,666    0           0   0             6            0



Annex S
-116-                                 ___  
Table 4
Pago 3 of 3
Description                Total    Foreign Exchang.  Unskilled Labor   Farmer
Cost     x    Amount    x        Amount   Comtribution  X
11. DESIGN
a. Studies a Design               l,eii,i66    6          a   6 O           O
Sub-total                        1,601,160   0           0                             g0
12. SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION
a. Supervilion and Contirol      2,261,460    6          0   0             0            0
Sub-total                        2,251,460    0          a    0            0            0
12. TOTAL
a. Civil Works                   11,752,596   47    ,5680,137   22   2,535,772     710,096    6
b. rmprov int Access Roads        3,756,866   47   1,761,760  35    1,126,050      578,400   15
c. Pipes                         4,080,000   65   2,662,00    0             0            0    a
d. Acce"sories                    2,932,6NO  65   1,985,666    6        2,000            a    0
a. Surveys, Studies A Deign       2,746,16                          0 0   0  0           0    aO
f. Supervision of Construction    2,251,460   0           0    0            O            0   a
TOTAL                         27,511,119  48  11,600,687   13    3,665,622    1,206,496    6
PHYSICAL CONTINENCIES
- Civil Works and Roads          2,325,375  47   1,0926   24         549,573      192,960    8
- Pip"  and Accessories            71,200  65      455,780   0           200            0    0
- Surveyo, Studies A Design        137,258    6          6    a            0            a   6
- Supervision of Construction      112,573    0          0   6             a            6    a
Total Contlngonct e              3,276,406  47   1,548,766   17      549,773      192,960    8
TOTAL COsTs & CONTINMCIES        38,767,516   44  13,446,393   14   4,215,595    1,470,3d0    5
Source: Mission



Annox 5
___________
Table 5
-1 17 -                                Page I of 2
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGAT ON PROJECT
Reservoir Type Model (20 he)
Sunary Coats
Coll ('lo
Foreign
Unit    . Total      Cost        Labor Exchange Tax
DESCRVPTION           Unit  Quantity   Coat        Coat       W.? he   %    %      %     %
A. SURVEYS
1. Topography                he        26       8.00      200.06
2. Land tenancy              ha        20       6.06      120.09
3. Main line                 km         1      24.09      24.66
4. AlI gnrnt                 km        15      40.60   6am.00
Sub-total                                              944.60    47.20   3    0         0
S. STUDIES & DESIGN
1. Studies a Doalio        Global       1  1,801.16   1,861.16    90.06    7    0          0
C. DAM AND SPILLWAY
1. Civil Works             Clobal       1  9,760.00   9,760.90   467.S0
Sub-total                                            9,7560.90   407.50  35   1s        S0
D. INTAKE
1. Civil Works             Global       1    126.560     126.56      6.28         29      41
2. Pipes                      a        3       17.14    686.09    36.00            a      a6
3. Accesoaoe              Clobal       1    711.61      7W6.00    35.9            0      6s
Sub-total                                            1,426.b.    71.28    5    3       63
E. PUMPING AND MIAIN LNE
1. Civil Works             Global       1    492.00      492.90    24.60         46      .37
2. Pipes                      M       409       1.70     6801.00     4.00          0      6S
3. Accsoros                Global       1  1,700.96    1,790.00    865.0          0       65
Sub-total                                            2,872.W    143.88  10    8        so
F. PRESSURE TANK
1. Civil Works             Clobal       1    2W.00       296.90    16.00         24       42
2. Acceaorles              Global       1      40.00      40.09      2.90          6      aS
Sub-total                                              240.00    12.96    1   20       46
0. NETWORK
1. Civil Works            Clobal        1    960.00      956.96    47.60         7S       33
2. Pipes                     km         3    933.33   2,806.09   140.00           6       6s
3. Acossorlsa             Global        1    280.96      236.96     14.00         0       86.
Sub-total                                           4,6391.9    261.56  1    17        6 58
H. HYDRANTS
1. Civil Works            Global        1    235.96      235.90    11.75         10       45
2. Acceoriee              Global        1    212.00      212.09    19.66          6       86
Sub-total                                             447.96    2Y.36   2    16        56
I. IMPROVE MNT ACCESS ROAD
1. Civil Works              km       1.56   2,S00.96   3,756.961  187.50  14   15         47
Sub-total                                            3,75;00   U18.5   14   1S         47



Annex S
-118-                                          ;abl; 5
Page 2 of 2
Forei gn
Unit       Totel      Cost          La)-or Exchange Tax
OESCRIPTION                                Cost        Cost      per he    %     x       5      %
t. TOTAL
Total Clvil Works                                       11,752.56    587.63   43    22        47
Total Improvement Aecss road                             3,76s.00    187.560  14    1S        47
Total Pipes                                              4,086.66    204.66   16      6       6s  7.6
Total Accosori.s                                         2,932.6     148.66   11      6       05  7.s
Sub-total Construction                                  22,514.60  1,125.75   82    18        53
Total Consultart Service                                 2,746.16    137.26   16
Total Supervision of Construction                        2,251.4S    112.57    8
TOTAL COST                             27,S61.11  1,375.58  106
PHYS?CAL CONrTMnENCIES                  3,276.41    133.82   12
TOTAL COST & COMTNOINCIES              36,787.52  1,839.38  112
Source: Mission



-119-                                               Annex S
Table 6
COLMOBIA
SMALl-SCALE IRRICATION PROJECT
O.volopmnt Program for 86U Subprojects
YEAR                    DESICN                SUPERVISION IF CONSTR.              CONSTRUCTION
____   ____ -_           _    _   _   _    _   _     _                 -               ------------------------_
CY   Quarter  Start    CY    COMplete  CY           Comple        CY      Starting    CY    Complete  CY
1       1         t6
2         20                1S                      16                 16
3         26                20                      20                 20                10
4         30                20                      20                 20                20
2       1         30       90       25      as              25      53         25       55       20    .30
2         35                25                      25                 26                20
3         as                25                      so                 25                20
4         40                35                      30                 36                27
3       1         40      140       40     110              30    11i          40      110       30      67
2         45                40                      36                 40                46
3         46                46                      46                 45                43
4         56                46                      46                 45                46
4       1         56      180       S0    176               56    165          so      170       S1    ISO
2         56                es                      SO                 5S                5S
3         6O                eo                      5                  as                56
4         S5                as                      5o                 6                 SS
6       1         66      225       S      225              SO    290          56      225       55    218
2         65                65                      60                 66               6e
3         50                55                      46                 66                65
4         46                S1                      46                 61                SS
6       1         16      206       45    216               46    201          46      216       60    225
2                           29                      46                 29                46
3                  1e               74              39     129                  74       39    134
TOTAL             98W       850      860   8aS               ea6    8tO         960      8W       ag6    9S6
Source: Misson



Annex S
-120-                                        Table?
COLOMIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIATION PRECT
Dewvlop_ t Progra for 66,M0  he
(NO)
YEAR                    OESSIN                 SUPERVISION OF COMM'               CONSTRUCTION
CY  Quarter   Start    CY   Complste  CY            Complete      CY      Starting    CY   Complete  CY
33               -          - -  _                                    -         -       -_   __ 
1      1       10
2      2,200             2,160                      gm sa6
3      2,01             2,220                    1,56              1,50s            1, IN
4      2,S06             2,250                    2,10w           .2,66              1,20W
2      1       2,6SO    6,200   2,166  6,620             2,166  4,00        2,100   4,006   1,3dO  2,306
2      2,560             2,156                   2,166              2,156            1,460
3      2,600             2,2W                     2,200             2,200            2,666
4      3,J0              2,180                    2.200             2,200            2,066
3      1       3,560  1V,56    3,006  8,036              2,400  8,666      3,066    0,656   2,8S6. 6,706
2      3,5w              3,31                   2,4W               3,300            3,860
3      4,000             3,760                   2,606              3,766            3,066
4      4,0W              4,000                   2,766              4,666            3,090
4      1       4,011   15,066    4,00  14,660            3,166  16,166     4,66   14,066    3,566  11,860
2      4,001            4,60                     8,6W               4,666            3,86
3      3.661             3,670                   3,166              4,M66            3,560
4      3,666             3,306                   3,166              4,00             3,6W
3      1       3,161  15,806   3,306  14,870             3,201  12,200     4,M0  16,666   3,666 14,100
2      3,00              3,27?                  3J,3s               3,610            3,250
3      2,1,6             3,81W                    3,7r6             ,445             4,06
4      2,106             3,066                   4,600              3,O0O            4,M66
6      1               11,60    2,800 12,675             4,666  14,2W6     2,506  14,646   4,600  14,250
2                         445                    4,660               745             4,666
3                               3,245            2,800  16,66               3,245   2,866  16,806
TOTAL           oo,oo 66,OD666  6,66 6o,666               66,ooo 66,00J      6,a616  66,066  6o,aw  80,0s 6
Source: Mission



mWAtUllU UMo
$mosm, 632
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. _1m   .Ial  .~ 2
lrl~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tl lptk  lSltttM llatl - CI
Cmsp                         20       6,3        430   23.43    24.m0    123AS       S.32     26.430    St   332,43    429.4311   93am11   I4ti         0192.29    114.415   2010.801   1   219.19   a         a               
U0v2s3   of 0,enctlIMR       2        2.119    0.No    22.43    U311       23.3     WO.6D    2am1       5    23.43D   33.f        420.43     31,619     50.23    1364.41   2.111.31   1   91141,0   0          a   0         0   to
Civil exits                  20       2.219    0,219    11,3    23.1111   23.3      20.61     26.3    219   321.52   2,241.00  I.GU.22    342.4115    2.442.320  2.31,43   3G.23.3M1 212.5241,    410  4,13.4    0           a   CB
2a2&pm' -u                   toW  P   2.23    6.61    I2.=3    Is,=1    Is,=         1,319    56.81    in    2.0?4    2.19,4   1.4.1692   2.13.31   I.13.31   2.mc.3        1.23.43  la   22,34   lb  4.*3.to  13 5       A.43   on
I iltimo           to        2. 25    S.AW     22.43o   215.01    I201)4   0.331     9.31      44   19232     2.611        ,233M.   4 3. 6.430    43.3   4123,0   2.251.Z3  20   220.1   19  1.*I.43  1 5       g.o0   CB
sitIptlmbl.ia2  1 22  SMWm
ongp                         ft         23       23        23                  l       30      .2,0    242    2 323      323       314310     41.23m    213.21131    .430     3.23   1       3.43   a          0   0         0   to3          6.2
Ogmalela of caetngtlm         0         In       219      X13       320      230       230     I,m      oil124.00        36.310    23.43      33.419     23.2go    24,019    219.430   3     34M   0           0   0         0   a
C2a22 20235                  to         VA        190     23        33D      23        23      2.23    us    12.34    A.3m 0       ql,43     241.4      25.43      10.31      WO.3   is   No."1  41    X1.61   0             a   ao
roa im.2                20         I3      219       23       320       2         23      V.3)   36    K4.M        23.311    419,3       lb.2       61.13     24.419    244.4311  19   34,4319 lb    MAN2311        120.311  to
Vilimp             20         I2n      24       no       33        23       In       2.2311   41   13.619    20.31      29.43      40.0411     46.112    21.601    256.43   20    We.619  19    224.43) 1      12.311  co
bl   2w~~~~~~i     ha~~k      45,      23  .   33        24       233       32       2.21   2,31  22.32      32.1    3101) 5.10)    020.43   30.43    sm,31   8.21,3M  is  410.21   41  2,3981m,2       0         0   21
g36I01a2  IaaStulwtlsa                                                                                        2.443,25  31.302.64  5943.MO   3.M.2,R)  1.341,99  4OVA.4    3,2141.1211  If 3.422,23  42 22.31.31  20    202.23
C0aa2   . 32du6q            20          0        25       3        us9      No        a3        2     336        0      36 1      360 W01111   0  119.U0DI'       53L       35.6)2   0         0   ..;    41.123   a       0   IN
..........~~~~~~~~....... ....
-bsItt                20"         0       29       44        19       19        64       310*   25t       0       2.4      1.2        *33        213        *01       23.20    0        0  3      29    0
"co   MIS_OM                                              _        _         _        _ 2  3  3                            _         _         _                     _       _     _ 2  .  .          _             _ 0  0
0*.201a2 igwawini                                                                                                 216 eS 140        3.226      29.43      19.31      32.30     22902   0         0  3       62.219   0        0
*N   WlalSIUli
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- _ _
111 1PtF  0wit 19 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
12f19tWtflU IES"t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
bsw   t   2Xe  m   211D  m   m   at  l,ae    Ul   w ztD       Xl.D      Ib.nD      ^,lZG      ".aD       tab       Ittil Xe   s   9.Z    o          o   o          O   n           g 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I'
S"whiud1tntttin   1*   D   le   2Ete  m   ace  IXI  l.xZe    1l    Ie.oe  ri."o  n.ce  ". re  a.ttD     t^,o(e    le*D    S       l.OD   O         O   O          O   te~~~~~~~~~~~~~I:-



ANNEX 5
-122-                          APpendix 1
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Contractors
Scope and Work
1.       HIMAT, the institution responsible for project implementation,
would invite experienced contracting firms to submit proposals for:
(i) preparation of engineerin4, agricultural, economic and environment
(when necessary) studies required to confirm the technical feasibility of
the small irrigation projects identified for financing under the project
and assess its economic justification; and (ii) construction of the
irrigation systems.
Responsibility of the contractor
2.      811HAT would engage a contractor firm for a particular project or
group of small-scale irrigation projects located in one region, to provide
the services of qualified specialists responsible for the studies and
activities as well as for construction works mentioned above (para. 1).
The selected firm will be responsible for the following studies:
EnaineerinR:
(a) make a study of the most efficient type of hydraulic development
plan for the selected project (diversion, reservoir-dam, pumping
or mixed);
(b) undertake site topographic surveys for the proposed irrigation
system and land tenancy maps of the project area;
(c) analyze all existing meteorological and hydrological data of the
sources of water identified for the project, so as to properly
design the hydraulic structures:
(d) conduct soil investigations as needed for the major structures
proposed, as well as investigate construction materials, locations
and quantities available for project works;
(e)  prepare to the extend necessary in accordance with instructions
provided in bidding documents, detailed designs, drawings,
specifications including bills of quantities and cost estimates;
(f)  study the access road to the project, recommend repairs or small
improvements needed in ditches, drainage structures and
reinforcement of base material in critical points of the road to
upgrade its quality for all year use and service in accordance
with the standards set by Caminos Vecinales for this type of rural
roads; prepare description and details of work, including
*specifications and bill of quantities;



ANNEX 5
-123-                         Appendix 1
Page 2 of 4
(g) prepare manuals fot the irrigation system operation, water
distribution, proposed delivery scheduling and for conservation;
recommend annual maintenance schedule of access road; and
(h) recommend the farmers' organization and administrative procedures
for water management including annual budgetary requirements
covering replacement parts and staff.
Agricultural Development
3.       Produce a plan for the agricultural development of the project
with irrigation. describing agricultural changes under the proposed
project; illustrative farm development models until full development;
cropping calendar, expected crop yields; farm family labor and hired labor;
farm gate prices; gross returns, production costs, net returns (without
accounting for labor costs) and labor requirements per ha; needs and
availability of fertilizers and seeds. The plan must consider the
following:
(a) land tenure, farm size distribution and social characteristics of
the farmers (number of families, family size and labor force) in
the project area;
(b) climatic and soil conditions, present agricultural production and
farm practices in the project area;
(c) institutional aspects concerned with smallholder development,
small-scale irrigation, land settlement; agricultural services and
facilities available in the region and in the project area
(research, extension services and credit);
(d) water use and agricultural development of the area, strengths and
weaknesses of ongoing programs; identify farmers' training needs
in water management and agriculture; and
(e) rationale for small-scale ir-igation development in the project
area, and the potential for increasing farm family income.
Subproiect Costing
4.       Submit data on investment and annual operating and maintenance
costs as well as replacement of equipment costs. This in sufficient detail
to permit physical and financial supervision of subproject progress.



ANNEX 5
-124-                          Apgendix 2.
Page 3 of 4
Construction of the Irrigation Systems:
(a) present a proposal for construction of the irrigation system and
the repairs to the access road, based on unit prices for
materials, manpower and equipment needed for main construction
items described in HIMAT tender documents, including detailed unit
cost of on site provision for equipment, pipes. fitting and
accessories (PVC and metalic). (To the extent possible, paid
unskilled labor should be hired from the beneficiary conwunity):
and
(b) present the estimated schedule of activities, period for studies
and for construction, with adequate detail of technical personnel,
qualification and experience and the firm's equipment for
construction.
Reports
5.       Quarterly reports on the progress and cost during the studies and
design stage are required in accordance with IHMAT standards.
Services to be Provided by HIMAT
6.       HIMAT would provide information at the contractor's request,
related to available aerial photography, general maps of the region and
meteorological and hydrological information of stations in the region and
if available in the project area.
Procedure for Submitting Proposals
7.       Contractors invited to submit proposals are requested to provide
in detail the following:
(a)  a description of the firm, including its background and experience
iu the work described on the terms of reference; list of past and
present contracts for work of similar nature with a brief
description of each and the scope of services undertaken, key
personnel, equipment and office facilities and construction
equipment;
(b) a technical proposAl on the scope and methods to be used by the
contractor firm to carry out the work, in case of being selected;
detailed description of activities and programmed schedule;
(c) the composition of the team proposed to be assigned to the project
both in the field and in the central office, indicating the
positions and detailed job description of each and the names,
qualifications and professional experience of each professional to
be assigned to the positions;



ANNE 5
-125-                        Appendix 1
Page 4 of 4
(d) terms and conditions under which the duties and responsibilities
described above would be carried out and financial proposals;
(e) the proposed schedule of personnel assignments and an estimate of
the total number of months; and
(f)  a list of vehicles and equipment anticipated to be required and
will be available, in carrying out the contractor's
responsibilities.



ANNEX 5
-126-                          Apoendix Z
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SHALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Supervision of Construction
Scope and Work
1.       HIMAT, the institution responsible for project implementation,
would invite experienced consultants or consulting firms to submit
proposals for: (i) representing HIMAT in the supervision of construction of
small-scale irrigation works as described in the designs provided by HIMAT
for a project or projects; (ii) the preparation of engineering drawings as
built for the corresponding project or projects; and (iii) produce
quarterly reports on progress of project construction.
Responsibility of the Consultant
2.       BIHAT would engage a consultant or consulting firm for a
particular project or group of small-scale irrigation projects located in
one region, to represent H MAT on the construction site and provide the
services of qualified specialists responsible for the supervision of
construction works and related activities mentioned above (pars. 1). The
selected consultant or consulting firm will be responsible for the
following:
Supervision of Construction
3.       Provide the staff, eqoipments and services to supervise and
represent HIMAT in the construction of works for the project or projects
mentioned in the invitation letter and considering the following
activities:
(a) check lines and levels of works, quality and suitable construction
materials in accordance with the designs produced for the project;
(b) provide site supervision of the construction to ensure a timely
completion of works to the quality required in the contract
documents; review construction schedules nd advise on work
methods;
(c) measure the works on a monthly basis and certify contractor
payments, including final payments and completion certificates;
(d)  approve any temporary works prepared by the contractor; recommend
adequate modifications to solve any problem or improve the
designed works as required; and



ANNEX 5
-127-                          Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
(e) prepare as-built drawings on completion of the works.
Reports
4.       The consultant should submit quarterly reports on the progress and
cost of the works to HIMAT. in accordance to HIMAT standards.
Procedure for Submitting Proposals
5.       Consultants or consulting firms invited to submit proposals are
requested to provide in detail the following:
(a) background and experience in the work described on the terms of
reference; list of past and present contracts for work of similar
nature with a brief description of each and. the scope of
consultancy services undertaken, and of key personnel;
(b) a technical proposal on the scope and methods to be used to carry
out the work, in a case of being assigned to it; detailed
description of activities and programmed schedule;
(c) the composition of the team proposed to be assigned for
supervision of the project both in the field and in the central
office, indicating positions and detailed job description of each
and the names, qualifications and professional experience of each
professional to be assigned to the positions;
(d) terms and conditions under which the duties and responsibilities
described above would be carried out: financial terms are not
desired at this stage;
(e) the proposed schedule of personnel assignments; and
(f) a list of vehicles and equipment anticipated to be required and
will be available in carrying out the-consultant's
responsibilities.



ANNEX 6
-128-                         Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
LA MOJANA PILOT PROJECT
A. BACKGROUND
Area and Location
1.       La Mojana is a large, flat flood plain having an irregular surface
and covering an area of about 450,000 ha. It lies mostly in Sucre
department, 200 to 325 km south of the city of Barranquilla where it has
the Cauca river as its eastern, San Jorge river as its western and
northwestern and Magdalena river, Brazo de Loba as its northeastern
boundary. These rivers discharge into the Magdalena which flows to the
Caribbean. The major rivers are navigable.
Climate
2.       The climate is hot and humid, wi,h mean temperatures of 270 C to
280 C and relative humidity of 72? to 82Y. Rainfall varies from 4500 mm in
the south to 1503 mm per year in the north. The wet season,--which-extends
from May to November accounts for roughly 852 of annual precipitation.
Soils
3.       Soils are mostly deep alluvial clays which are subject to surface
cracking. They are generally fertile being enhanced by annual flooding and
sediment deposition. Natural levees several meters above the general
ground level have formed along the major rivers. These levees typically
100 to 500 m wide are subject to inundation about once every four years.
Most lands have high water tables throughout the year but on the levees the
water table drops during the dry season resulting in moisture deficiencies
for crops grown at that time of year.
River Lakes and Swamps
4.       La Mojana serves as a ponding area for floods of the rivers which
carry large volumes of water. There are a large number of permanent swamps
and lakes scattered throughout the area but the largest and most extensive
of these are located in the west and northwest. La Mojana flood plain
constitutes a unique tropical wetland environment. Preservation of the
habitat and ecosystems of this area must be a major consideration in any
studies and planning for development.



ANNEX 6
-129-                           Page 2 of 5
Subregions
5.       La Mojana is considered to consist of three subregionsl having
somewhat distinct characteristics. These are, the area occupied by the
Sinu tribe in the north, the central area of the lio Cauca and the higher
area of the south which receives the most rainfall.
Inhabitants
6.       The Hojana is sparsely inhabited by an estimated 285.000 who are
concentrated mostly in a number of small towns around the periphery of the
flood plain. With development, many more people could be settled in the
area. La Hojana is also the home of the Sinu, Indian tribe.
Present Land Use
7.       There is evidence of a once thriving pre-Colombian agricultural
civilization along the San Jorge, Cauca and Magdalena rivers based on
massive works for drainage and land shaping. Cultivators today are
distributed along the banks of the main streams where they grow subsistence
crops such as cassava, plantain, maize and sorghum on small plots located
on the raised natural levees of the navigable water courses. They
supplement their subsistence by fishing. No irrigation or systematic
drainage is practiced. Their fields are often infested with weeds and
since cultivation of the clayey soils without powered tilling implements is
difficult, they frequently burn the vegetation to prepare the land for
planting. Extensive areas away from the water courses are used seasonally
(when not inundated) for cattle grazing. Other extensive areas in the less
accessible reaches of the flood plain are hardly used at all.
8.       The local farming population is poor and requires an active
program to taise production and living standards. Any plans for
development would need to ensure an uninterrupted water regime and would
need to prevent the encroachment of potentially disruptive agricultural
practices which might disturb the natural fauna and flora which to date are
relatively pristine.
B. PROPOSAL FOR A PILOT PROJECT
Introduction
9.       A gradual approach to development of the area is recommended.
beginning with a pilot or study phase to identify areas for development and
preservation and to develop appropriate cropping systems that fit the
unique physiographic conditions. The pilot areas selected for study should
be representative of broader resource regions to provide guidance for
future development on an expanded scale.
1/ The World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Walter Ochs and Daniel
Hillel which visited the area during March 1988 identified six potential
subproject areas that had been designated during previous planning
efforts.



ANNEX 6
-130-                             Page 3 of 5
10.      Within the institutions responsible for irrigation and drainage
development (HIMAT), the environment (INDERENA), and research (ICA), a
large volume of general information is already available for La Mojana.
HIMAT has already prepared plans for construction of a protective dyke
along the Cauca river to prevent entry of flood waters into adjacent areas.
With the possibility of studies to develop an overall strategy and plan for
flood routing, rational development and conservation in La Mojana,
implementation of piecemeal plans for flood protection should await the
outcome of these studies.
11.      Given the present general knowledge of the area aad need for more
specific studies, a five-phased approach to pilot studies is proposed. The
conclusions of each phase would determine the tasks of each succeeding
phase. Likely phases would be:
-    preparation of Terms of Reference for the initial study (two
months);
-    initial study and plans for Field Research (six months);
-    Construction (establishment of pilot sites for field
investigation, (one year);
-    Field Research (three years); and
-    reporting of conclusions and proposals for fallow-up investment
(six months).
Terms of Reference
12.      Terms of reference for initial study and planning would be
prepared by a team of three experts from HIMAT (hydrology) INDERENA
(biology), and ICA (agronomic research) assisted by internationally
recruited wetlands expertise. Tasks of the team would be to review
existing information available for La Mojana, to identify information
needed for development of a pilot program of investigations to outline the
expertise needed for this purpose and to prepare detailed terms of
reference for the initial study. This phase would be completed in six
weeks including two to three weeks in La Mojana.
Initial Study and Planning
13.      Studies to be carried out under terms of reference defined above
would be aimed at:
-    identifying and quantifying the resources of La Mojana for
development and conservation;
-    identifying representative zones for development, and/or
conservation and selecting typical sites for pilot investigations;
-    examining the specific socio-economic situation of settlers and
indigenous populations, and in consideration of traditional rights



-131-                          ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
and practices, to make recommendations for inclusion in pilot
areas studies;
examining the fauna and flora specific to the area and making
recosmendations concerning the importance of conservation in
development plans for La Mojana;
studying the routing of flood water through the La Mojana
wetlands, making recommendations on areas to be retained for
ponding and areas which can be developed for agriculture. To make
projections of the impact of this development on the hydrology of
La MoSana and possible impact on the habitat of fauna and flora
indigenious to the region;
-    examining existing agricultural production methods and
recommending practices and crops to be investigated;
-    studying the soils and water regimes of the representative areas
and proposing structures required for drainage and irrigation as
well as soil management measure to be investigated;
_    outlining overall research objectives for each site and a three-
year program including details of the crops, soil and water
relationships to be examined and techniques to be investigated;
I - in consideration of the programs to be carried out, preparing
detailed proposals for establishment and implementation of pilot
investigations at each selected representative site. These
recommendations would include detailed plans civil works,
(drainage, irrigation, buildings, roads) agricultural and research
equipment. vehicles, staff numbers types and qualifications; and
| - preparing detailed terms of reference for each post and
recommending to HThAT; (i) the posts which can be filled from
local sources; (ii) posts for which international recruitment will
be necessary; and (iii) the most appropriate means of contracting
the investigations to be carried out and ensuring adequate
supervision.
14.      This study phase, expected to require six months is likely to
require a wide range of expertise.  The actual composition of this team
would be proposed in the terms of reference prepared by the initial HIMAT,
INDERENA, ICA team. For the purpose of provisional costing (Table 1). the
team is considered to include:
Provisional Composition of Team for Initial Study
Chief            6 months      Ing. Agric. (E)          4 months
Meteorologist   I              Ing. Agron.              6
Hydrologist      2             Pedologist (E)           3   0
rIng. Civil (2)  8   *         Pedologist              3   0
Biologist       4   4          Zootecnist               3   n
so0cologist     3   9          Ag. Economist           3   4
Anthropologist  3   a          Flood Route Spec. (E)  3   0



ANNEX 6
-132-                         Page 5 of 5
Construction
15.      The construction phase is thought to require only six months, but
considering possible delays in the appointment of contractots, the
difficulty of access to La Mojana and seasonal climatic factors, the whnle
of the second project year is allowed for completion of this phase.
Provisionally and for the purposes of costing in Table 1, three pilot sites
are included, with a total area of 300 ha. Construction would include,
drainage and irrigation works, roads, buildings for research and
accommodation. water and power supply.
Field Research
16.      Field research to be carried out during the third, fourth and
fifth project years would provisionally entail:
Field Research Inputs
Expert Staff (local)                6 x  3 years
Research Assistants                 6  x  3 years
Expatriate Experts                  am z  3 years
Research Material, 0 & M
Reporting
17.      At the conclusion of field research, selected experts from the
three phases of the program would be retained to draw up conclusions and
proposals for follow-up investment and/or further research requirements.
This phase to be completed during the first six months of project Year six.
would draw its conclusions from all studies and research carried out
through the pilot project. Provisionally 12 months of local and six months
of foreign expertise would be required in this exercise. Costs for travel,
attendance at seminars to present project findings and for publication of
results are included.
Tentative Costs
18.      The baseline costs for this component have been estimated at
US$4.3 million, of which 35Z would be in foreign exchange (see table
attached).



CEIWWIA
UULL-SAE IMItlIC   AwJeCt
LA tOJM  C    lNl
0Detiled Coot b"imto
emotil                                                      as" cot                                  orsnE,$^
h65|EflI00            U*           |    51    8    4    S     Slot    Coo              8   2          *        4        6       4       90908        *      _
_  ..........................._ ___ _____.__.___-__--_._----___---__---__-____-_________-_____-__-__.-______-_-_-____-_.-_----------------------------------------------------------....  . _ _ _ ___-__-_----____------ 
A. C400teotSo,                  5.      0  So0     0    0    0    0    300          918        0  292,500        0       0        0        0    292.00      10  204.180
o. E,_ po ot         *     eo           0    0      a    0     a    0       a   o.oo           0       oae.o                      0        0      11.0       0   113.4lO0
C. k..dio..ad a.e..ch
Stott
Torofot.               L           O    0           0    0    0        5         0        0        0        0       0        0        0          0      0         0
f    a      1    0    0            a 0    0     I    3.2a1    3.250        0        0        0        0        0      3.280     s0    2.60
1od... sea Plai        .           0    40    0    0    0    0    40         8.425        0   65.000        0       0        0        0    45.000       0         O
F    m     0    10    0    0    0    0         10    3.250        0   82.A0         0        0        0        0      23500     s0 o 24.COO
Fiel.4 .eoc            L    a      0    0                       a 8    0    205    1.825  0        0  110.000  16.50D   lb.000        0   46s,000       0         0
F       a        0 0                     0    24    3.250         0        0   26.00   25.000  26.000         0      7.00      50   42.400
R weW;ro               L           00    0          0    0    82    12    1.00           0       0        0        0        0 2.Q0    21.600         0         0
F                            a 0    0    0    0    a    I  6    3,210  0   0        0        0        0   80.     000          s0   1l.00
su l. Stotff           L           a 0   40   96         la    1    345          0        0   65.000  10.000 16i.000  164.00  21.,50    554,6CO
F   a       I   t0 o         0 a         6    41         0    3.2bO   32.800  25.000  26.000  26,00   80.600    133.210
Reeeercb 3,et.           t..    0    0    8 e       o         0 a    3   o   30 0  0 O   e        0  0.00    O,OCO e0.000                210.000  C0   162.000
5   ope.etS  Coot.   SMIte    0      a    3    a    3        a    18   18.81          0    1.616   *.ns   4.12       4.M      1,Slb     11.325     40    650                      Sa.
,. x
tXX14 ffi -&_r C4-^- tX O 0 ~~~2    2    2    2  e                    616   o       o          04D  13o0    13 50          MM               40    *_ ;
fow t.0 Cast*               a;              A    a 5        a    15    31        650               S DO   3.250    3.250    3,-20    q,fu     2u 150o   40    5.e06
10114.                                                                        .8QJ V!   32.2M   406.501  260.010, :au. lob  byM.t. 11 41..j4   31   49b,348
....t   .    . l.. . ..  .   ..o.                  .    .    .



-134-
ANNEX 7
COLOYBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Agricultural Development - Working Paper
2.  Componente de Desarrollo Institucional (CDI) - Working Paper
3. Project Cost Tables (COSTAB)
4.  Irrigation Infrastructure - Working Paper
5. Potential Development of Colombia's La Hojana Floodplain (Back-to-
Office Report)
6. Marketing - Working Paper
7. Aspectos Agrondmicos y de Capacitacidn Agraria - Early Working Paper
8. Informe de Actividades del HIMAT - Aflo 1987
9. Sistema de Analisis de Capacidad Institucional (SACI)
10. Proyecto de Riego en Pequena Escala - Estudio de Factibilidad
11. Estudio Apreciativo del Estado Actual de la Pequena Adecuaci6n en
Colombia - Draft Report
12. Proyecto de Riego en Ladera Pi*lones (and maps)
13. Proyecto de Riego en Ladera 'Tahamil (and maps)
14. Proyecto de Riego 'Santa Barbara' (2 vols and maps)
15. Plan de Operaciones del Servicio Nacional de Extension por Objetivos en
Beneficio del Pequeflo PrcZuctor Agropecuario - Caja Agraria
16. Evaluaci6n de los Sistemas de Pequefia Irrigacion de Potosi y Santa Rosa
17. Feasibility Study on the Small-Scale Irrigation Package Project in
Slope Area (vols. I, III, IV, V)
18. Proyecto de Ricao en Ladera Santa Sofia - Boyaci



7;r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~7
o        5o       IOD ta   tOtSo 150  200        250       330
KILOMETERS- 
12-                                                                 0               o              100             ISO             nO0                 .?
COLOMBIA                                                                     MILES
-     Paved trunk rods                                                                                                 j              Mo CZ o
--oPaveo roads                                                                                                      '   I 
Unpaved roads
* FNCV Directorates                                                                       ElNA MRTADbolo 
-.------- Railroods                     8ARRANOUC                                                             0\P
Railroad discontinued                                 ATLANTICO           .6.6       R0 F,.o            -0.i
o    International airports                                    So  a          MAG         4A. U  N
*    Paved airportz                                                                            1
* Unpaved oirports                             QATAEN    F- -- -
-    Seaports                                     CARTAGENA
River ports                                                                                   va 
Navigable rivers
to.           :- ~~~Other rivers                    ~                                                     ~-Cdoff1
Elevations above 1400 meters                                                        Q.-
Deportment, Intendencda, and Comiscria boundaries                                   q i                *MOttP                                -'
._._.Internotionol bounfories         >.8    9   Ico                                  E     RE 4  EBA R
-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Slwt Ama bc<Sto TO  *op   sii on     ifcot t6n            
PANAMA MPA,to R                                                                                                     -         DE /           V E N d
_  -X  X  - N14TER   m  fC,T NORTE   *    V E N E Z U E L A
lobo         T oft.0.to *PeniI.~na F.S..d
OR         BA-                                                                     t                        o,     -_ |
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I It <0w 
_A~~~_
R u t o  rooAnX    Cosilibt>Jur+,co<ft S.,gog                                                 \ARAUCA Ctrocot2
- -
CO      /1  ~~~~~~P.niiI.oo~~~~~~~i%  ~~~~~~O'JA        N   R                             CAS       NA
<.on.t  i<   A, 44,
________                                                        .a. %   UUAO 'o ouo ,1 
Ir3S          ?                                t Atim  i                    Pw sef'i         Amj                     I           !T          I300
Pi -,f:c    Ocea"                                                     QUIN5E'           @                           o    - Ds....,.                                            V    HAD o
N ~                                                                                         o..co. o  Sob ase -  O                ,_ t -  I
wOall.,.  Alto.,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            T.. .Tmm
R  *    1LoL..-o~~~~~~~~~  Tio.on6    Cn  t,~~~~~~~~~~    Pt.so                                                            ,,.                         0
Tw,oeo  ~~~~  '~I.~~-J~~  -~~  Ri.'..                                                                                                      SO  TA(Y ~oiso 
0.-  R 2 , 3  0     Lsndetu~ 
N.  ~     ~           /                /         u              PI#Ioto     C  A  Q c.-dot
OA                                      t
Sm L.6sa,.                   IAU       T, 
4----           PUTUMAYO~~~~~~~~~~wcpaGlI
m R ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ t   MZN
'~~~"VALL CA  ~   ~              ~              ~            ~ ~ ~~SOZU~~~~TH~



