D)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18051
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
C'OLOMBIA
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3113-CO)
June 22, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
Average Exchange Rate for 1997 US$1.00 = Col$ 1138
Exchange Rate May 1998 US$1.00 = Col$ 1384
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Caja Agraria         Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Bank for Agricultural, Industrial and Mining
Credit)
CONPES               Consejo Nacional de Politicas Econ6micas y Sociales (National Council for Economic and
Social Policy)
CONSUAT              Consejo Superior de Adecuaci6n de Tierras (Superior Council for Irrigation and Drainage)
CORPOICA             Corporaci6n Colombiana de Investigaci6n Agropecuaria (Colombian Corporation for
Agronomic Research)
DRI                  Fondo de Cofinanciaci6n para la Inversion Rural (Rural Investment Cofinancing Fund)
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FAO-CP               Food and Agriculture Organization-Cooperative Program
FEDERRIEGO           Federaci6n Colombiana de Distritos de Riego (Colombian Federation of Irrigation Districts)
FONAT                Fondo Nacional de Adecuaci6n de Tierras (National Fund for Irrigation and Drainage)
FINAGRO              Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario (Fund for Financing the Agricultural
Sector)
FY                   Fiscal Year
GOC                  Government of Colombia
ICA                  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (Colombian Agricultural Institute)
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDB                  Interamerican Development Bank
INAT                 Instituto Nacional de Adecuaci6n de Tierras -1 (National Institute for Irrigation and Drainage)
INCORA               Instituto Colombiano para la Reforma Agraria (Colombian Agrarian Reform Institute)
INDERENA             Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables (National Institute for Renewal Natural
Resources)
ha                   hectares
MvLI                 Medium and Large Scale Irrigation
MSI                  Medium Scale Irrigation
NGOs                 Non Government Organizations
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SENA                 Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Apprenticeship Service)
SSI                  Small Scale Irrigation
UMATA                Unidad Municipal de Asistencia Tecnica Agropecuaria (Municipal Unit for Agricultural
Extension)
WUA(s)               Water UJser Association(s)
The Institute changed its name and functions from HIMAT (Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y Adecuaci6n de Tierras) to
INAT in 1994. Throughout this report, INAT will be used.
Vice President:                        Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit    Andres Solimano
Director, Sector Management Unit:      Maritta Koch-Weser
Sector Leader:                         Jonathan Parker
Staff:                                 Elsie Garfield



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 3113-CO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................                         ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction ................................................                         1
A. Project Objectives and Description             ......................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives           ...............................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................4
D. Project Sustainability ..............................................6
E. Bank Performance ................................................7
F. Borrower Performance ..............................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome                 ...............................................9
H. Future Operation ................................................9
I. Key Lessons Learned ...............................................               10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1. Summary of Assessmeints .11
2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .12
3. Project Tietable .13
4.   Loan/Credit Disbursemnents: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .15
6. Studies Included in Prcject .16
7. Project Costs .17
8. Project Financing .18
9. Status of Legal Covenamts .19
10.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................. 21
11. Bank Resources: Stafi Inputs .....................................              21
12. Bank Resources: Missions .....................................                  22
APPENDIXES:
A. Mission's Aide Memoire ............................                               23
B. Borrower's Contributiona to the ICR .......................... 31
C. Borrower's Comments on the ICR ..........................                         41
D. Map IBRD 21413 - Project Location
This document has a restricted distribuation and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTA1'ION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 3113-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Cornpletion Report (ICR) for the Small Scale Irrigation
Project in Colombia, for which Loan 3113-CO in the amount of US$78.2 million was
approved on August 1, 1989 and made effective on July 11, 1990.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, eighteen months later than the original
closing date. Total disbursement is expected to reach US$44.1 million after the last
disbursement which took place on May 7, 1998. The first cancellation of the loan amount
(US$28.2 million) took place on June :24, 1993. Cancelation of the remaining unused
balance of US$5.9 million is expected to take place in June 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Elsie Garfield of the Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Sector Management Unit (LCSES) of the Latin America and Caribbean Region
assisted by Juan Morelli, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Antonio Vaccari and
Carmen Nielsen, LCSES. The report was reviewed by Jonathan Parker, Sector Leader in
the Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit.
Preparation of the ICR began dluring the Bank's completion mission of August 1997.
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is contained in Appendix B. The Borrower's
comments on the the ICR prepared by the Bank are contained in Appendix C.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 3113-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Public investment in small-scale irrigation (SSI) began in 1984. In order to gain
experience in this new area, the Rehabilitation II project (Ln. 2667-CO) which supported
rehabilitation of existing medium to large-scale, publicly owned irrigation districts included
a pilot SSI component.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The project's objectives were to: (a) increase agricultural productivity and
cropping intensity and therefore rural incomes of about 43,000 small-scale farmers; (b)
reduce market risks by smoothing out production throughout the year; (c) develop the
technological base for the future development of La Mojana Region; (d) improve cost
recovery from public sector investment in irrigation; and (e) strengthen community
participation in the construction, financing and O&M of SSI schemes. The project
components included: irrigation infrastructure, technology transfer, institutional
development, environmental protection, and La Mojana pilot project. When the project
was restructured in 1993, the original project objectives were maintained, but the
numerical targets were reduced to fit INAT's implementation capacity, and the means for
achieving them was modified through addition of a medium-scale irrigation (MSI)
component which would test aspects of the new law. In late 1995, the Bank also agreed
to include a rehabilitation program for SSI projects that were not functioning adequately,
most of which were build under the Rehabilitation II pilot.
3.    The original project objectives were clearly defined, but unrealistic in terms of the
implementing agency's capacity and country experience. The belief, at the time of
appraisal, that the SSI program was highly successful proved premature and incorrect (ref.
ICR Rehabilitation II, Rpt. No. 16584). The new project was significantly more
demanding than the pilot, including the requirement that beneficiaries contribute part of
the investment costs. The key project risks were underestimated and measures for
addressing them were inadequate: (i) due to INAT's inexperience in agricultural matters
and a radical reorganization of agricultural sector institutions, provision of support
services was inadequate contributing to a slow transition to intensive land use; and (ii)
despite the Bank's active policy dialogue and on-going project, access to credit was a
serious problem.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project implementation was initially slow, but improved substantially in 1994 after
fundamental changes in sector policy and institutions introduced by the new irrigation law
and the mid term restructuring of the project. The project did not start-up until mid-1991,
two years after approval, and implementation continued to be slow due to weaknesses in
the project design, serious counterpart funding shortages, and cumbersome procurement
rules. By the end of 1993, less than 10%/o of the loan amount had been disbursed. INAT
and the Bank worked hard, with support from the FAO-CP, to restructure the project and
get it moving. This yielded results particularly after the introduction of the new
Operational Manual in 1995. INAT's progress in establishing a solid basis for the
sustainable, long-term development of SSI, led to optimism about the project's prospects
and to the Bank's decision in 1995 to extend for one year the loan's closing date. The
broader political and fiscal crisis in Colombia which characterized the last two years of
implementation resulted in instability in INAT's management and severe budget cuts.
INAT was slow in carrying out the MSI component for which one project was selected for
construction. When farmers committed themselves to proceed with the project in 1997,
budget cutbacks and competing priorities led INAT to postpone construction. The Bank
granted a second, six-month extension of the loan closing date in June 1997 to complete
SSI schemes which were under construction but could not meet the closing date deadline.
At that time, INAT requested the Ministry of Finance to cancel US$3.8 million of loan
finds which it could not use due to fiscal constraints.
5.    The project partially achieved its objectives. Concerning the first and second
objectives which are interrelated, INAT completed 226 SSI schemes, and rehabilitated 116
SSI projects, directly benefiting 18,039 small-farm families. However, reliable data is not
yet available on whether agricultural productivity, cropping intensity and rural incomes
have increased, though preliminary eviclence indicates that some projects are highly
successful while others having achieved only modest returns or failed. The third objective
was partially achieved with the research program for the La Mojana wetlands eco-system
making a major contribution in terms of both the innovative, integrated research
methodology and the findings some of which are already being used. In regard to the
fourth objective, the fact that farmers are now accepting responsibility for part of project
inivestment costs and all O&M costs is a major accomplishment and break from the past.
Considering the fifth objective, substantial progress has been made by INAT in the
development of an appropriate approach and institutional capacity to promote community
inivolvement in SSI projects on a sustainable basis, and the Operational Manual for SSI is
now being shared by the Bank with other countries as a model. The objective (added when
the project was restructured) of testing the new institutional and legal mechanisms for
irrigation development through the MSI component was partially fulfilled with the new
mechanisms tested and found to be effective up to the construction phase for the Guamo
project.
6.    Sustainability of the individual SSI schemes constructed and the SSI program
itself is considered uncertain, though there are many reasons to be optimistic. The current
state of the SSI schemes financed under the loan is variable, but factors which strengthen
the prospects that the project objectives will be sustained include: the revised incentives
fiamework pressures farmers to improve productivity and convert to high value crops;



iv
new arrangements for provision of extension services and applied agrononiic research are
taking hold; and INAT is committed to continue supporting the projects. Frequent
changes in INAT's management over the last two years and the fiscal crisis in the public
sector have introduced uncertainties about the sustainability of the SSI program despite its
solid grounding in the irrigation law, clear methodological and procedural framework in
the Operational Manual, and demonstrated capacity of INAT's regional offices to
effectively carry-out the program. Although there is a good pipeline of new projects and a
proposal being considered by the IDB to include SSI under its loan, nothing has been
decided. However, the program could continue under the auspices of other agencies
(public or private), though access to credit and the continuing violence in rural areas
continue to be concerns.
7.    Although the Bank's performance was deficient during the early stages of project
design and implementation, its' overall performance is considered satisfactory, due to
major contributions made, with support from the FAO-CP, since 1993. The Bank failed to
let the pilot under Rehabilitation II develop to the point where a more in-depth assessment
could be done, instead it pushed forward with the new loan. There was a major
improvement in the Bank's performance following the decision in 1993 to restructure the
project. Substantial technical support was provided to INAT, and supervision missions
continuously pressed INAT to respect and operationalize the new irrigation law
particularly provisions for farmer participation and cost recovery. The Bank exercised
flexibility in resolving problems and taking advantage of new opportunities, including
extension of the loan closing date when it believed that this would allow for the
consolidation of INAT's capacity to promote and support SSI development on a
sustainable basis.
8.    Both the Government (Borrower) and INAT (Implementing Agency)
performed deficiently, though both should be recognized for positive contributions. The
adoption of the pioneering irrigation law in late 1992 fundamentally changed sector policy
and supported the project objectives. However, the Government failed to show a strong
commitment to the project, and oversight of INAT was weak and sporadic. The project
was badly weakened by frequent changes in INAT's top management and several
restructurings from 1990-94. In the last two years when INAT had developed a good
pipeline of SSI projects and capacity to carry them out, it was badly affected by drastic
budget/expenditure restrictions stemming from the fiscal crisis in the public sector which
were particularly harsh because INAT was perceived by key Government decision-makers
as performing poorly.
9.    INAT's overall performance was deficient, but the dedication of some of its staff
whose efforts were strongly supported by the Bank and, at various times, by top
management led to some significant achievements under the project. At the time of
project restructuring, the staff activated the SSI program, identifying ways to address the
flaws in project design and defining implementation mechanisms which resulted by mid-
1995 in the excellent Operational Manual. INAT improved its capacity in non-engineering
areas, decentralized implementation, and improved project management, achieving a major
improvement in project performance in 1996-97. However, shifting priorities and
persistent management problems resulted in the failure to construct the Guamo project,
complete the La Mojana research program, complete the impact study on time, and finish



v
all of the projects for which the second loan extension was granted. Audit compliance was
weak.
10.   The project achieved, at least partially, all of its objectives. INAT has developed
an appropriate approach and institutional know-how to promote SSI. In a major break
with the past, cost recovery and community participation in all aspects of the design and
management of SSI schemes is now accepted practice. The provisions of the irrigation law
have also been successfully tested for a MSI scheme, and the La Mojana research program
has yielded valuable findings. However, since a reliable recalculation of the ERR for the
SSI schemes is not possible at this time, the project's outcome is currently rated as
deficient.
lFuture Operations
I11.  INAT is committed to continue technical support for the existing 534 SSI schemes
including the budding departmental fecderations of SSI districts. It has obtained funding
and is taking the necessary steps to complete the 20 projects incomplete at the closing
date. It has a portfolio of 217 SSI projects with completed feasibility and design studies,
and the Guamo MSI project waiting to be financed. INAT with support of the Ministry of
Agriculture has requested the IDB to finance these projects under their on-going
operation. The fiscal crisis which is expected to continue into next year and the perception
of INAT as a poor performer make the outcome of these discussions uncertain. Currently,
there are no plans for a new Bank lending operation. In the meantime, INAT is looking
for alternative ways of promoting S SI which would give municipalities and communities a
more active role.
]Findings and Key Lessons
12.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a) Bank support for the work of a dedicated group within an organization which has
many weaknesses can lead to some success;
(b) Borrower ownership and commitment is fundamental for effective implementation and
sustainability, but is difficult to maintain when changes in the management of the
implementing agency are frequent;
(c) The scope and objectives of a project should be carefulfly calibrated to the capacity of
the implementing agency and project risks identified at appraisal should be closely
monitored and credible solutions fiund if they materialize;
(d) SSI projects require a high level of attention to technical, economic, institutional and
social issues in addition to engineering;
(e) an engineering-minded irrigation agency with a narrow mandate and limited experience
in agricultural matters is unlikely to have sufficient capacity to ensure that on-farm
development activities are adequately carried out; and
69 greater involvement of WUAs and the regional irrigation offices in all stages of project
implementation should be reinforced in order to improve project impact.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3113-CO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.   In Colombia, about 2% of the 27 million ha under agricultural use are irrigated,
80% of which was developed, managed and operated by the private sector. In the early
1980s, the Colombian government initiated, with support from two Bank loans, an
ambitious program to rehabilitate and complete 15 medium to large-scale, publicly owned
irrigation and drainage districts in order to improve returns. Public investment in small-
scale irrigation (SSI) began in 1984. In order to gain more experience in this new area, the
Rehabilitation II project (Ln 2667 for US$114 million, 1987-96) included a pilot SSI
component to construct 150 schemes between 10 and 200 ha, to benefit 3,900 farmers for
a total cost of about US$11.4 million. T'he government's poverty alleviation strategy,
directed to small farmers and poorer segments of the rural population, included the
construction of a large number of small-scale, gravity irrigation schemes, primarily for the
production of foodstuffs.
A. Project Objectives and Description
2.    The project's objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to:
(a) increase agricultural productivity andi cropping intensity and therefore rural incomes of
about 43,000 small-scale farmers; (b) reduce market risks by smoothing out production
throughout the year; (c) develop the teclmological base for the future development of La
Mojana Region; (d) improve cost recovery from public sector investment in irrigation and
thereby reduce the subsidy to water users for fiscal as well as for resource allocation
purposes; and (e) strengthen community participation in the construction, financing,
operation and management of SSI schemes. The project components included: (a) off-
farm irrigation infrastructure (civil works, engineering and equipment); (b) on-farm
irrigation infrastructure (irrigation equipment and agricultural inputs); (c) technology
transfer (applied research and extension); (d) institutional development (support for the
irrigation agency, as well as technical assistance and training for other participating
entities); (e) environmental protection (to protect or recover areas affected by soil erosion
in catchment areas of small watersheds); and (f) La Mojana Pilot Project (studies and pilot
projects to develop sustainable production systems for this environmentally-fragile area).
3.    In 1993, the Government requeslted the restructuring of the project to reduce its
size (loan reduced from US$78.2 to US$S50 million) and to take advantage of new
opportunities stemming from changes in sector policy and institutions introduced by the
new irrigation law. While the original project objectives were maintained, the numerical
targets and means for achieving them were modified. The targets were reduced to fit



2
INAT's implementation capacity: the number of SSI schemes went from 850 to 250, the
total area to be irrigated from 60,000 to 17,000 ha, and the number of beneficiaries
decreased from 43,000 to 17,000 small-scale farmers. A medium-scale irrigation (MSI)
component was added with the objective of pilot testing the procedures and conditions in
the new law through the financing up to 3 MSI projects involving 20,000 ha and
benefiting nearly 1,000 farmers. Additionally, resources were allocated for feasibility,
environmental impact, and design studies for new medium and large scale irrigation (MLI)
systems. In late 1995, the Bank also agreed to include under the SSI component a
rehabilitation program for approximately 116 SSI projects (of which 45 were originally
financed by this loan) that were not functioning adequately.'
4.     The original project objectives were clearly defined, but unrealistic in terms of the
implementing agency's capacity and country experience. Based on two evaluations of a
small number of completed SSI schemes, the Bank and Government believed that the SSI
program was highly successful. In hindsight, this conclusion was premature and later
proven to be incorrect as indicated in the Rehabilitation II ICR.2 Problems were not
adequately assessed and the new project was significantly more demanding: the area to be
developed was 7.5 times and the cost 15 times that of the pilot project; and unlike the pilot
project where cost recovery measures were not applied, the new project required
beneficiaries to finance at least 20% of the off-farm irrigation costs and all on-farm
investments.
5.     The key project risks identified at appraisal were: (i) slow expected transition
towards more intensive land use if satisfactory levels of technical assistance were not
achieved; and (ii) availability of credit. The risks were underestimated and the measures
for minimizing them were inadequate. Regarding the first, INAT was an engineering-
minded agency with limited experience in agricultural matters, so it had great difficulty
supervising the entities that were to provide support services such as research, extension
and training. More importantly, shortly after the project started up a radical reorganization
in the agricultural sector resulted in fundamental changes in the roles of the institutions
such as ICA which were to provide these services. Although alternative solutions for
extension were tried, the provision of support services thought at appraisal to be
guaranteed was far below the required levels. Concerning the second, despite an active
policy dialogue and Bank financed project to improve the key credit institution serving
small farmers, access to credit was a serious problem with most farmers left out of the
formal system. The assumption that beneficiaries would be willing and able to pay their
share of investment costs in cash prior to construction also proved ill-founded. A key risk
factor not identified at appraisal was INAT' s implementation capacity.
A large proportion of the other 71 projects were built under the Rehabilitation II pilot.
2   Rehabilitation I ICR (Report No. 16584, May 16, 1997) pointed out problems in the identification and
evaluation of the SSI schemes, designs, construction, subsequent usage of the systems, and insufficient
technical assistance to guide the users in the proper use of the water and soil resources. The low quality of
the civil works was worrisome, as was the insufficient training given to the users on operational aspects,
which caused premature deterioration of these irrigation systems.



3
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    The project partially achieved its objectives. Concerning the first and second
objectives which are interrelated, INAT completed 226 SSI schemes (27% of the original
and 90% of the revised targets), and rehabilitated and completed 116 SSI projects so that
their full benefits could be realized, directly benefiting 18,039 small-farm families.
However, since INAT has not competed the impact study, reliable data is not yet available
on whether agricultural productivity, cropping intensity and rural incomes have increased.
Preliminary evidence from the impact survey suggests that the direct project beneficiaries
are in the process of diversifying production and intensifying land use, introducing higher
value crops in their cropping patterns.3 Based on field work for the study and during
Bank supervision missions, it would appear that there is great variability among projects
with some being highly successful and contributing major benefits, and others having
achieved only modest returns or failed. I'he lack of applied research to develop
appropriate recommendations for irrigated agriculture, and inadequate and, in some cases
poor quality, extension services for farmers continue to be the main factors slowing down
production diversification and productivity increases; marketing problems are also an issue
in some SSI schemes.
7.    The third objective was partially achieved. Despite delays attributable to INAT,
the research program aimed at determining the adaptability of the strategic La Mojana
eco-system (400,000 ha of wetlands) to alternative production uses on an environmentally
sustainable basis is making a major contribution in terms of both the innovative, integrated
research methodology and the findings some of which are already being used (e.g.
mercury pollution). However, part way ithrough the program, INAT decided it did not
have the resources to finance all the studies the research agency, CORPOICA, considered
critical for completing the program so that national and local authorities and residents of
the region could proceed to develop the area based on sustainable uses. The agency is
looking for alternative funding.
8.    In regard to the fourth objective, achievements have been partial but significant.
The fact that farmers are now accepting responsibility for part of project investment costs
and all O&M costs is a major accomplishiment and break from the past. While O&M was
managed and financed by users from the outset, the investment cost recovery target was
nol: effectively enforced until 1996 (from 1991-95 only 26% of the agreed amounts were
collected by INAT) when the necessary regulations, procedures and enforcement
mechanisms had been established. Since then, no new project is constructed without the
prior legal commitment of all users to pay their share of the cost. INAT has a modestly
successful, on-going effort to regularize the situation for projects which did not follow
3A limitation of the impact study is the fact that the control population was not surveyed following a probabilistic
sample as was the case with the direct beneficiaries, thus limiting the conclusiveness of comparisons of the
with and with-out project situations.



4
these procedures including collection of the outstanding amounts. An innovative feature is
a rebate to the WUAs for the amounts collected on INAT's behalf.
9.     Considering the fifth objective, substantial progress has been made by INAT in the
development of an appropriate approach and institutional capacity to promote community
involvement in SSI projects on a sustainable basis. The Operational Manual for SSI is now
being shared by the Bank with other countries as a model, and a majority of the WUAs
have obtained, with INAT's help, legal recognition and water rights. INAT also promoted
the sharing of experience among WUAs; in several departments, federations of WUAs
have been established. In sum, the project has made a major contribution to
implementation of the new law which puts farmers at the center of irrigation development.
10.    The objective (added when the project was restructured) of testing the new
institutional and legal mechanisms for irrigation development through the MSI component
was partially fulfilled. The new mechanisms were tested up to the construction phase for
the Guamo project which underwent a modification of the project design requiring ample
consultation with the farmers. The mechanisms proved effective (though INAT was
sometimes reluctant to fully abide by them) and substantial learning was gained.
Unfortunately, despite completing all the necessary steps, the project was not constructed
under the loan due to fiscal constraints and conflicting priorities within INAT.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.    Project implementation was initially slow, but improved substantially in 1994 after
the fundamental changes in sector policy and institutions introduced by the new irrigation
law4 and the mid term restructuring of the project. The project did not start-up until mid-
1991, two years after approval, due in part to the departure shortly after loan approval of
the Director General of INAT who had championed it, a one-year delay in achieving loan
effectiveness, and weaknesses in the project design (see para 5). INAT lacked adequate
organizational arrangements to carry out the project5 and staff experienced in socio-
economic and production matters which are critical for SSI. Supporting institutions such
as Caja Agraria, ICA, INCORA and SENA that were expected to provide critical services
were subject to radical reorganization resulting in changes in their roles, including
4Law 41 (1993) aims to make investments more demand driven (allocation of public resources will be contingent
upon beneficiaries willingness to pay for O&M and some portion of initial capital costs). It also
incorporates sound criteria for future investments in irrigation with emphasis on (i) social profitability, (ii)
community participation in design, (iii) proportion of beneficiaries who are small farmers, and (iv) access to
markets. The new law provided a strong and explicit recognition of the role of comnimunities and user
associations in the design, management and financing of irrigation schemes, and established a strong
investment cost recovery policy.
5INAT's central and regional offices were responsible for execution but the SAR had not specified the detailed
organization for implementation, resulting in poor management/coordination, and inadequate monitoring
and evaluation. The institutional development component included technical assistance and training aiming
to close the gaps in institutional capacity identified in INAT and other implementing agencies, but the
program was altered and different activities were financed under this component.



5
elimination of services which the projecl: was expected to relay on.6 These problems were
compounded by the initial lack of resources required for the identification of schemes
eligible for funding, and by serious counterpart funding shortages. Procurement was also
a serious problem, even for small contracts, until a new procurement code came into effect
in 1994 which simplified procedures by giving more autonomy to implementing agencies.
By the end of 1993, only about US$7 million, less than 10% of the loan amount, had been
disbursed.
12.   The Government's dissatisfaction with implementation and request to restructure
the project served as a wake-up call to INAT and the Bank who then worked hard with
support from the FAO-CP to carry out the restructuring and get the project moving. This
yielded results particularly after the introduction of the new Operational Manual in 1995:
from 1991-94 an average of 33 projects were constructed per year; in 1996-97, more than
50 projects were constructed per year despite difficult fiscal constraints. Similarly,
disbursements increased to an average of between US$8-10 million per year for the period
1994-97, compared with a total of US$7  million for the three preceding years. Critical
factors were: INAT's establishment of working groups on key aspects of SSI, the
decentralization of responsibilities to INAT's regional offices in 1996-97, the
establishment of a department in INAT lo promote support services required by farmers
and WUAs, and the appointment of a project coordinator in 1995 to improve overall
project management.
13.   Implementation of the MSI component was disappointing despite significant
support from the Bank and FAO-CP. Despite assurances at the time of the project's
restructuring that a number of good, already designed MSI projects were ready for
financing, an arduous process of reviewing and selecting projects--with significant
technical inputs from the FAO-CP--led to the conclusion that only the Guamo project met
the requirements. Subsequently, INAT was slow in carrying out the environmental
impact, and modernization/on-farm design studies. Additional time was required to carry
out an economic and financial evaluatiorn of the revised design which concluded that the
project returns are good (ERR of 17%). Farmers subsequently committed themselves to
proceed with the project. Due to budget cutbacks and competing priorities, INAT
postponed construction of the project w:hich it proposes to include in 1999 under the on-
going IDB loan.
14.   INAT's progress in establishing a solid basis for the sustainable, long-term
development of SSI, led to a sense of optimism about the project's prospects and to the
Bank's decision in 1995 to extend for orne year the loan's closing date. Following the first
extension, project activity and disbursements accelerated in large part due to
improvements in procurement introduced at the Bank's insistence. However, the broader
political and fiscal crisis in Colombia which characterized the last two years of
implementation resulted in additional instability in management (three director generals in
6 Between 1988 and 1994, public spending on research fell by 51% in real terms. Responsibility for publicly
financed agricultural extension for small farmers was taken from ICA and decentralized to municipal
governments, which were expected to develop their own extension units (UMATAs), financed partly out of
the transfers from the central govermment end partly out of matching grants from DRI. It was not until 1994
that UMATAs had been set-up throughout the country.



6
less than one year) and in severe budget cuts, which imposed delays and ups-and-downs in
the process. A second, six-month extension of the loan closing date was approved in June
1997 based on an Action Plan to complete 59 SSI schemes (3,394 beneficiary families)
which were under construction but could not meet the closing date deadline. The Bank
agreed to the extension due to concern for the beneficiaries and in order to avoid the loss
of credibility of the SSI program which would result if the projects were halted as they
neared completion with particularly serious consequences for community participation and
cost recovery. INAT recognized that due to fiscal constraints it would not be able to use
US$3.8 million of loan funds and requested the Ministry of Finance to take the necessary
steps to cancel the funds.
D. Project Sustainability
15.   Sustainability of the individual SSI schemes constructed and the SSI program itself
is considered uncertain, though there are many reasons to be optimistic. The current state
of the SSI schemes financed under the loan is variable; while many have good prospects,
others will require continued technical support particularly for O&M and self-
management. Factors which strengthen the prospects that the project objectives will be
sustained for these projects include: (i) the revised incentives framework which pressures
farmers to improve productivity, reduce costs, increase the efficiency of water use, and
convert to high value crops; (ii) the major institutional changes introduced in the early
1990s for provision of extension services and applied agronomic research are now taking
hold; (iii) INAT's commitment to continue support to the projects through its regional
offices; and (iv) possible support from the federations of SSI WUAs.
16.   Frequent changes in INAT's management over the last two years and the fiscal
crisis in the public sector have introduced uncertainties about the sustainability of the SSI
program despite its solid grounding in the irrigation law, clear methodological and
procedural framework in the Operational Manual, and demonstrated capacity of INAT's
regional offices to effectively carry-out the program. Although there is a good pipeline of
new projects and a proposal being considered by the IDB to include SSI under its loan,
key Government decision-makers have a poor opinion of INAT's performance and
therefore appear to be reluctant to obtain more funds for the programs it manages. In
addition, since the success of the program is largely attributable to a group of motivated
individuals within INAT, staffing changes could also weaken the program. However,
there are reasons to believe that the program will continue, even if INAT no longer
manages it, such as INAT's initiative to promote other agencies interest in financing new
SSI investments and providing support services.' Broader concerns which prevail
irrespective of the entity which promotes SSI are the cost and availability of credit for on-
farm development, and the continuing violence in rural areas which discourages
investment.
7 In 1997 eight SSI districts with the support of INAT's regional offices prepared training projects to be co-financed
by PRONATTA. Also negotiations are maintained with FINAGRO to finance new SSI schemes under their
current credit lines for land reclamation using the Rural Capitalization Incentive.



7
E. Bank Performance
17.    Although the Bank's performance was deficient during the early stages of project
design and implementation, its' overall performance is considered satisfactory, due to
major contributions made, with support from the FAO-CP, since 1993. During project
preparation, most of the critical issues aLnd problems which arose during implementation,
were foreseen,8 but realistic solutions were not defined. INAT's capacity was not
adequately assessed, particularly in procurement and non-engineering aspects of the
project, nor were the other project risks adequately analyzed or addressed. A missing
dimension of the project design was a strategy for linking the development of irrigation
with the creation and strengthening of stustainable community organizations. The Bank
failed to let the pilot under Rehabilitation II develop to the point where a more in-depth
assessment could be done, instead it pushed forward with the new loan. Supervision was
inadequate during the first three years of implementation with insufficient attention to: the
degree of Government commitment to the project's objectives, and INAT's concerns
about weaknesses in the project design and its capacity to carry-out the program.9 The
Bank should have insisted early on that a project unit be established, as stipulated in the
loan agreement, in order to address management problems.
18.    There was a major improvement in the Bank's performance following the decision
in 1993 to restructure the project. Subsiantial technical support was provided to INAT
and supervision missions continuously pressed INAT to respect and operationalize the
new irrigation law particularly provisions for farmer participation and cost recovery. The
Bank exercised flexibility in resolving problems and taking advantage of new
opportunities: accepting alternative arrangements for payment of the farmers' 20%
conatribution to investment costs; agreeing to finance on-farm investment given the
inability of beneficiaries to self-finance or obtain credit as foreseen at appraisal; adding the
MSI and SSI rehabilitation components; and extending the loan closing date to allow for
the development of a strong institutional capacity to promote and support SSI
development on a sustainable basis. The Bank insisted that project management be
improved through hiring of a project coordinator and worked with INAT to improve
procurement practices. Several innovativie activities were also supported, such as a study
tour to Chile, the research program for La Mojana wetlands, and the pilot testing of the
new institutional and legal mechanisms for new MSI projects.
8FAO/WB-CP suggested in February, 1988 that "the target of 60,000 additional ha proposed by the Colombians
eventually be scaled down to more realistic size which would take into account: (i) ongoing irrigation
development; (ii) the economics of additional investment in irrigation against market absorption capacity
for irrigated crops; (iii) the type of bottom-to-top approach proposed, where SSI schemes would only be
initiated after agreement and cohsensus on their priority by the future users' groups, conflicts with the
planned size and with the institutional background of HIMAT, basically an irrigation engineering company,
and (iv) the need for a careful analysis of both technical and socio-economic constraints before each
individual sub-project is designed and approved". Note BK 103/2.9 COL, February 5, 1988.
9 In 1992, the new Director General of INAT suggested that the project be transferred to DRI which was supported by
a Bank loan to provide grant financing for rural development projects. The Bank rejected this proposal.



8
F. Borrower Performance
19.   Both the Government (Borrower) and INAT (Implementing Agency) performed
deficiently, though both should be recognized for positive contributions. The adoption of
the pioneering irrigation law in late 1992 fundamentally changed sector policy and
provided a strong legal foundation for the project objectives. However, the Government
failed to show a strong commitment to the project, and oversight of INAT was weak and
sporadic. Compliance with audit covenants was poor with reports being submitted very
late. The project was badly weakened by the six successive changes in INAT's top
management in 7 years, each with different approaches and priorities, as well as several
restructurings from 1990-94 related to efforts to modernize the public sector. The project
suffered significant delays caused by the inefficient budget process, and, in the initial years,
by the cumbersome procurement code. In the last two years when INAT had developed a
good pipeline of SSI projects and capacity to carry them out, it was badly affected by
drastic budget and expenditure restrictions stemming from the fiscal crisis in the public
sector; these cuts were particularly harsh because INAT was perceived by key
Government decision-makers as performing poorly. On the policy front, the Government
failed to address adequately the worsening problem of small farmer access to credit.
20.   INAT's overall performance was deficient which reflected in part broader
management problems within the institution aggravated by factors mentioned above.
When the Director General who championed the project was replaced shortly after loan
approval, ownership of the project within INAT was weak. In the course of the project
restructuring, a committed group of staff activated the SSI program, identifying ways to
address the flaws in project design and defining implementation mechanisms. By mid-
1995, this group had developed an excellent methodology for SSI development
(incorporated in the Operational Manual) which is being shared with other countries as
best practice. INAT improved its capacity in non-engineering areas including the
establishment of a new department and specialized working groups, and strengthening of
the regional offices to increase farmer participation; a project coordination unit was
established at the Bank's insistence in 1995. Thus, INAT achieved a major improvement in
project performance in 1996-97. However, shifting priorities and persistent management
problems resulted in the failure to construct the Guamo project, complete the La Mojana
research program, and complete the impact study in time to include the results in the ICR.
In addition, 20 of the 59 projects to be completed under the second loan extension will not
be completed until some time in 1998 due to unexpected cost overruns and lack of budget
authorization to cover these costs in 1997 (despite the availability of loan funds). INAT
back-tracked on decentralization of procurement responsibilities to the regional offices,
despite evidence that this had improved efficiency. Audit reports continued to criticize:
supervision of contracts; internal controls; and the reliability of cost recovery information.
In sum, INAT's performance was deficient in many respects, but the dedication of some of
its staff whose efforts were strongly supported by the Bank and, at various times, by top
management led to some significant achievements under the project.



9
G. Assessment of Outcome
21.    All of the project objectives were at least partially achieved. When the project
began, INAT had little experience or capacity in promoting SSI and today has developed
an appropriate approach and institutional know-how to promote it on a decentralized and
sustainable basis. In a major break with the past, cost recovery and community
participation in all aspects of the design and management of SSI schemes is now accepted
practice and constitute important elennents for the long-term development of the sector.
The provisions of the irrigation law have also been successfully tested for a MSI scheme,
and the La Mojana research program has yielded valuable findings. Unfortunately, since
the results of the study of the project's impact in a representative sample of SSI schemes
financed by the loan are not yet available and thus a reliable recalculation of the ERR is
lacking,'0 the project's outcome is currently rated as deficient.
H. Future Operation
22.    INAT is committed to continue technical support for the existing 534 SSI schemes
including training in administrative, financial, O&M and other relevant matters, and
ensuring that the WUAs (124) will obtain their legal recognition and water rights (324). It
will also support the four new departmental federations of SSI districts, and five
committees working for the establishrnent of such organizations in other departments.
INAT has obtained funding and is taking necessary steps to complete the 20 projects
remaining incomplete at the closing date, which would raise the number of completed
projects to 246 and beneficiaries of the project to 19,436 small farm families. It is in the
process of carefully reviewing the portfolio of 217 projects, involving 14,100 families and
22,000 ha, with completed feasibility and design studies waiting to be financed; likewise,
the Guamo project is ready for construction. The main uncertainty is financing. INAT
with support of the Ministry of Agriculture has requested the IDB to incorporate a SSI
component in their on-going operation and the Guamo project was also proposed for IDB
financing in 1999. However, the fisca]l crisis which is expected to continue into next year
and the perception of INAT as a poor performer make the outcome of these discussions
uncertain. Currently, there are no plans for a new Bank lending operation.
23.    A positive result of the fiscal crisis has been pressure on INAT to find alternative
mechanisms for promoting SSI and, more generally, to rationalize spending and improve
efficiency. Identification, funding and implementation of SSI projects are in the process of
0 It is unlikely that the SAR's estimate of a global ERR of 23% for the SSI component (36% for diversion schemes
and 19% for reservoir schemes) was achiexed, considering that many schemes are not performing adequately
(with limited impact on production) and that the average investment cost per ha was twice the SAR estimate.
Risks affecting the ERR that were unforeseeable at appraisal were the downturn of world market prices for.
many commodities, and the opening of the economy to international market forces, all of which affected the
profitability of many crops. In regard to the SSI projects rehabilitated under the loan, the ERR should be high
given that the initial investment costs (with the cxception of the schemes initially financed under the loan)
would be considered sunk costs. 'raking into account these considerations and evidence from field visits, there
is substantial reason to believe that overall the project had a positive economic retum.



10
further decentralization. INAT is rethinking its role which could have several positive
implications for future operation of the SSI program: INAT would play a more technical
role, with municipalities and communities take a more active role in the identification and
implementation of projects with funds passing directly to municipalities to handle the
contracting. The Operational Manual provides an excellent framework for agencies other
than INAT to identify new projects, and an indication of actions to be taken at each stage
of the project cycle to ensure farmer participation and application of the cost recovery
policy.
1. Key Lessons Learned
24.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a) Bank support for the work of a dedicated group within an organization which has
many weaknesses can lead to some success;
(b) Borrower ownership and commitment is fundamental for effective implementation
and sustainability, but is difficult to maintain when changes in the management of
the implementing agency are frequent;
(c) The scope and objectives of a project should be carefully calibrated to the capacity
of the implementing agency and project risks identified at appraisal should be
closely monitored and credible solutions found if they materialize;
(d) S SI projects require a high level of attention to technical, economic, institutional
and social issues in addition to engineering;
(e) an engineering-minded irrigation agency with a narrow mandate and limited
experience in agricultural matters is unlikely to have sufficient capacity to ensure
that on-farm development activities are adequately carried out; and
(9 greater involvement of WlJAs and the regional irrigation offices in all stages of
project implementation should be reinforced in order to improve project impact.



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives           Substantial               Partial          Negligible        Not
Applicable
Sector policies                               D/                      O                  C        
Financial objectives                                                                    ]             D
Institutional development                     1                                          E/ [l 
Physical objectives                            l                      '/                 E 
Poverty reduction                                                      "                 C             O
Gender issues                                 El                      O                  El
Other social objectives                       El                      O                  I]
Environmental objectives                      El                                         L] C
Public sector management                      El                      C                  t]
Private sector developmnt                     C                       O                  El 
B. Project sustainability                          Likely                     Unlikely            Uncertain
(v')                        (/)                 (V)
C. Bank Derformance                           Highly satisfactory            Satisfactory          Deficient
(v)                        (/)                     )
Identification                                       EC
Preparation assistance                               Cl
Appraisal                                                                       VC
Supervision                                          /                            l                   E
D. Borrower Performance                       Highly satisfactory            Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                          E                           /                    E
Implementation                                       F                           [ii
Covenant compliance                                  C                                               VI /
Operation (if applicable)            Cl                                          El                  V
E. Assessment of outcome              Highlv satisfactory        Satisfactory        Deficient       Highly
unsatisfactory
L                      E                 V               El



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/c redi atitl 6uipos.Ye.r f.S..u
Preceding operations
1. Irrigation Rehabilitation I      Rehabilitation of eight  1981           PCR issued
irrigation districts                   April 1990
2. Irrigation Rehabilitation II      Rehabilitation of six   1986           ICR issued
irrigation districts,                  May 1997
development on a pilot
basis of SSI schemes, and
improve cost-recovery
Following operations
1. Rural Development Investment     Increase incomes and     1990           ICR issued
Program (DRI)                        living standards of rural              June 1997
communities through
cofinancing of rural
development projects
2. Agricultural Technology           Reform of system for    1995           Ongoing
agricultural technology
generation and transfer



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps iln Project Cycle           : Date Plannedl
indicated in the SAR)
Identification (Executive Project Summary)            -           January 11, 1988
Preparation                                           -           June 1988
Appraisal                                             -           November 1988
Negotiations                                          -           May 1989
Board Presentation                                    -           August 1, 1989
Signing                                               -           January25, 1990
EiEfectiveness                                        -           July 11, 1990
First Cancellation of Loan Amount                     -           June 24, 1993
First Amendment Effectiveness                                     April 8, 1994
Midterm review                                        -           May 1995
First Extension Closing Date                          -           June 27, 1996
Second Extension Closing Date                         -           June 30, 1997
Project Completion                            December 31, 1995   December 31, 1997
Loan Closing                                    June 30, 1996     December 31, 1997



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY9 ;  0;0 0   FY9    FY92   FY9;  ;j0;3 000  ;    0.Y.94: FY 9   . FY96 . FY97    FY98
Appraisal Estimate            4,100   7,300    15,100  27,700   39,400  55,800  70,600  78,200   78,200
Formally Revised Estimate        0       0      2,000   3,620    9,130  22,870  40,870  50,000   50.000
Actual                           0       0      2,000   3,620    9,134  19,779  26,461   36,671   44,072
Actual as % of Estimate         -        -        13      13       23      35       37      47       56
Actual as % of Formally Revised  -       -       100     100       100     86       65      73       88
Date of Final Disbursement: May 7, 1998
Note: US$28.2 million canceled as of April 12, 1993, when project was restructured. The balance of undisbursed loan funds,
estimated to be US$5.9 million, is expected to be canceled in June 1998.



!Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
]LK)Cty Implementation
Indicators      : .n :AR          Actual              Estimated
1  SSIne wschtrnes                       226                   87 2
2. Number of ha coveid' I                                    6f                    42
3. Benefited fai1ies,                   18939                4,.00?
4  Acoess roads                                               1.3CC
5. rffiatlontinals                        I 4                                     4;66
6  Extcnsion Agents Contracted           365                   214                171
. Reforeste  watersh.ed5 La)    j        3&01                 ? 250                40
1h
IL  Modffied Ihdicators
SSI new schemes                         2 26-                 ',;5
2, Num bel ofia :ever-Td                127,93               20,0'0                85
3. Benefhed famih,s                     l<  39               I, 00                  4
4-4 M%SI projects                          0                                        0
-IlL Other Ildicat.or.i
I  SSI schemes rebabi'ated               1156
2. Benefied 'famin -                    5,100
r,ehabihaton        
3. WUAs wi Legai CapadcL  '4,D'
4. WUI.As  t Watwi Rights                 2 i 0
5,  SSI WUA FederiaTins                   4
6, ,WLA me.-nmbers zaiind in       321 pro -~Ro,
O&M 90't{1 64 S 5SI& UAs
1, Lccail Tra g,i of Exr.nsimn
-Agecnis'~
Includes 8,10C ha & rfhabflhuitae   ,si schemes.
Includes 5.30 fhmEfes ofi ha biliated S53 schezmes
-nother 'D sc e-rs financed b the pgroject are e:iecte  to be xornplle:ei n 1998. add6n: an
additianal 2,99:5 ha an    97 familes.



16
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined,...
Study       at Aprad6isal/Redefned             tts          Ipato td
Rural Women Study         Not envisoned at approval. Study    Completed  Significant in the sense that it
objective was to examine the role of          identified reasons for low
women in irrigated areas in four              participation of women in
regions with the aim of developing            agriculture in certain districts, and
a methodology to promote their               recommended activities to
participation in the irrigated (or to         encourage women's participation in
be irrigated) districts.                      decision-making in other districts
where women's involvement is
already high.
Study of Inpact of        To develop and test a methodology   Completed  Limited to negative. When the
Investment in Small Scale   for measuring the impact                    methodology was applied by INAT
Irrigation Projects      (particuarly economic) of                     in the impact evaluation study it
investment in small irrigation                conducted in 1997-1998 as an input
projects under the Bank loan.                 for the ICR, it was discovered that
the proposed methodology had a
number of serious weaknesses
including being too costly. These
weaknesses slowed down
completion of the impact study,
particularly the data processing.
Study of Feasibility of   Not envisioned at appraisal.    Completed     Limited, though the thoroughness
Drainage and Control of   Studies of MLI projects included              of the study should be replicated
Inudations and Prefeasibility  during restructuring.                    for other studies of this type to
of Irrigation for the                                                   avoid past problems of poor
Mompox Project, Bolivar                                                 designs due to inadequate
Department                                                             information in feasibility studies.
It is uncertain whether the results
of the study will be used as INAT
has a backlog of unfmanced
projects.
Study of Feasibility of   Not envisioned at appraisal.    Completed     Limited, since it is uncertain
Drainage and Prefeasibility   Studies of MLI projects included          whether the results of the study
of Irrigation for the Valencia  during restructuring.                   will be used as INAT has a backlog
Project, Cordoba                                                        of unfmanced projects.
Department
Modernization and On-Farm   Not envisioned at appraisal.  Completed     Positive impact. Led to
Design Study, Guamo       Related to the MSI component                 improvement in project design
Project, Tolima Department  introduced during restructuring.            which was accepted by the WUAs.
However, it is uncertain when the
project will be constructed.



Table 7: Project Costs
;.. .. .                            Appraisal Estimate US$M    Modified E timate IJS$M                  Atal/Latest  st
_______________ ________   (afterca nicelati On)                    S~$ M
-:-:-::Item               Local   Fo:eign;Total           Locreign    Toal    Lo .al    Foreign   XTota:
.......____                       Costs      Costs                Costsl       Csts               Coss       Costs 
1. Civil Works                              27.8      55.3       83.1       25.2      30.8       56.0       21.0       25.6       46.6
2. Equipment                                 0.1        0.7       0.8       0.3        2.0        2.3        0.2        0.9         1.1
3. Consultants and Training                 10.5       15.7      26.2       7.5        10.0      17.5        9.7       14.5       24.2
4. Technical Assistance and Research        0.3         0.5       0.8       0.6        0.9        1.5        0.1        0.1         0.2
5. Technical Assistance and Extension       0.2        2.0        2.2       0.4        3.8        4.2        0.3        2.9        3.2
6. Environmental Protection                  1.1        0         1.1        1.1        0         1.1        0.8        0          0.8
7. Contingencies                            3.4        4.0        7.4        1.2       2.5        3.7        0           0          0
TOTAL                                     43.4       78.2      121.6      36.3       50.0       86.3      32.1       44.11       76.2
%                                        36         64        100        42         58        100        42         58         100
1 Due to rounding the sumn in this column exceeds the total of the individual items (as rounded).



TIahle 8: Pro-ject hFinicing
~~~~Itii;                          :r0j;f;;;00ti  !DI (i21I;   (l'eif1      I (.t lI   .  A,C41   S I 0F()tclgf  l  [  Il (itS1  I .LI  |   OICfl         rrIolZkI #t1
.............  -  ...  .........                                                                                             .........y4 f~
I,113AR1)                                              0           78 2         782S          0)         .50 0}       0jll                       i4 1   :      44.1
2. CiQvcrn w rlti t                                  I Yd           0)         4-3.4        3fi.:6        ()          36.                       Ak e. ()   t    2,1 o
Sxibhtof:m                                      43,4         78.2        121,6         3}6.3        50n,0U       86.3         32,L1        441.1         76.2         
4:,s,                              4~ ~~~~6 64Sf            100          421)         58           100)         42,           i58          1001
3. Fi~ianacal J~t.errnxdiaries*                       10.9           0    }     4        09                 -                         -.
4, lfeneficiariesF                                    33.5           0     o 33.5               m,--
TOTAlX                                             1l17.8        78.2        l196,0        36.3         510,0        86j,3        32.1          44.1l         76.2     |
60l      4O091          1001CT 4258104                                                    58e           10
'*I,aclk of relIalilek infonatiox3.



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
S-ec    : C&etet a'Xd'c X0 sent s a' -   '       Revise             es;     or,
:ytpe; . status    f$i1m  t -m-                        cevenart
.genia    .-: -2a                                                           crct      . - Tai-ce.- ..c... . 
t.:X=t 4.GTe)                                                           wiLii...C.a>  zz.e.iss.si
-+ TOCAt nart. YT
3cc-ntwm =.diS3anae,n
,      z ^2  i52       g         C       >,,2  ,9t_                  247' to    at+ ''3         -  
:~~~&tb                                       6OpettrOX .a&n Arareri ....... .-s,
It1 Sco er.a trk
.;gr _oa. ae  -- zo r"         
anrd %'N-DERNA.,,
'.T01d),       1         C       t4;25'/0090   2-A:tofo,                                 Rev:sed versfrp of 
&02(b)                                                        ar-prove tie L-raarolfo    Mes a-  aprvas.esv sa
sel1eotio  of sP&-)rceoz ts   O  .
to   02~~~~~~~~~~~~~F=   e C+overzrac:                                       ea
'.g4          IC        cp              -                      ove7a~men- ". e  .......... -.,.- e- Se_d_3: em ^-- 
t'7tt:i- adieruztec  s :    re&:- .
availaNe. =-.4d z0rs-; -t> on  rsSVaod s zr', e      ,
E  ta-gesa egard`mg       rates  irdea Ln. 35'5
intrest. rate'1'z2i'd'    CO.to"t reached ar-
r-oasSes ar l oa/
was cance:e&.
3 05           4        OP      -              -                 vearnnenf to bugtge    At A &rro-i  d-e-=
adeqcateS roarZ e,        r . ->roie ti L rzdiccuatie .
fortsl s                   flms aVa:a.'' e0.
A       :CD                     -             ..Nt. A   ... 7.-n. - AA.s.< ;
sea-riae -e-2sc ar.e
pprava i :re   trmh   the       s oroMer             .
rcsnj;;l-et've
(di P                                                        included in the;aonua              Lnlatter     C audkS rA    ;  l
sa ve  icsstesa rrSe af ee      ate
en0d ofl'27e Es_&, yeSF-
$ ~~~~Sched,              I         0                                    Cond"M- Co_        ;i:_   so M'easqL-zs IzEsen- ..... 
;azjeemer     +. for aades. c        --s:seref  :
(d&,                                                        l--duded inr the armmn.=   yea7-s L- 'g;etr ?-oL.a o
i..vesT-ent 03rogmm- *s   exec.ui.^cr, conxEt;oims .
F,i2re martn-a .   a      -'*we ...%e.-e F-T71 ed
aaree>.eas fEroadsr    C:oris.s.te<.y  
asd for
O&M 7rior to
_tracting C7il wo-ksF,
Sched.    L    3        C                      -             cordftiors of              <o.-,l,ons rmnet for
para. 3(d                                                    dsturserent forl-         C0-caso Sri eit.
a; iduum- ',es                                                                   t schemes
RegEoatorm Lawz 3-1.
s.tudies aridt d&estg. to be
satisrac.toris.



20
Seto  ovenantPeet          Oiia,eie                       DescritinofCm nt
typA      status u  ful]fillednt   fuillment         icovenant:
Project       2.03(a)       9         CD      10/30/89      07/15/90      INAT to prepare TORs   -
lAgreement                                                                satisfactory to the Bank
for an intemational1
management consultant|
2.04(a),      9         CD     09/30/89,      07/15/90      INAT to prepare TORs   -
(b)                            12/31/90,                    satisfactory to the Bank
03/31/90                    for a project evaluation
consultant and about
three institutional
development specialists;
and to contract them
2.04(c)      5          C      01/31/90,      -            INAT to contract 17        -
01/31/91                    additional qualified
personnel and 7 more;
maintain all such staffl
until project completion
2.05         9          CD     -              -             NAT to prepare and        Covenant found of little
submit to the Bank        use.
annually a training
program
2.06(a)      9          C      -                            INAT to prepare and       -
funish to the Bank
October each year an
annual work program
2.06(b)      9          CD     -              -            INAT to prepare and        Reports submitted late.
furnish to the Bank an
annual progress report
2.06(c)      9         NC    -                              INAT to prepare and       INAT never established
funish to the Bank        capacity or means of
biannual evaluation       measuring project
reports on project impact impact.
2.07(a),     2          CD    -               -            INAT to put into effect a Payment of 20% of off-
(b)                                                        Manual, satisfactory to   farm investments was a
the Bank, for subproject problem during early
selection, financial      years of project
requirements for          execution
farmers, and cost
recovery measures
including payment of
20% of off-farm
L                                                                         investments
Covenant types:
1=  Account/Audits
2.     Financial performance/revenue generation from         8.  = Indigenous people
beneficiaries                                        9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds                 10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                                   11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5.     Management aspects of the project or executing agency  12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy! regulatory/instiutional action
6.     Environmental covenants                              13.  = Other
7.    Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



21
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
:- : : --- - -- : - - :~Des--ribe and-comment:-:-
Statem-nt Number and Title  o:-                 lack f com liance
OP 10.02 - Financial Management           Financial aspects were not frilly complied with.
Audit reports criticized poor internal controls
and insufficient contract monitoring. Audit
reports consistently late.
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned          Ri               Actual-
Stag of                                1
ProjetCycle    -         Week        S$   Wveeks   |-S$_ WJWeek   _US$
Preparation to Appraisal                        -               = -    39.9    97.1
Appraisal-Board                                                        21.7    48.1
Negotiations through Board Approval    -                                2.8      7.4
Supervision                          53.0   153.5    48.3   143.3   162.0   498.1
Completion                             -        -       -        -      12.0    53.3
TOTAL                                                  =             238.4    704.0



22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
. ! ! E~ ~ ~ ~ S~ iMCI                of       i. :Da !!!   :         ......                                             39m !!!  
y L   : :                                     S. ..  ..  .. .                  ...  ...   .  -........  .  .  ...   .   .
T9r-xoLg -App.ra:sal                                         
H tas.= ~~~~3/KSS                                               E, N.-._ 
ArQeparAzr            N' K6iS       17                            A, E, N, F.O              -                -       I             -
Preparzior                5/Si        i                                                   _       _                _ It.       __       _     _
.tr3^'sAe gl^SrtEgah. t 1^ '88 | 5                      li N, 1.5E  , F, 0
40r  ,        1N, F ,;A
3r;erpici'4- *            4/96         3          ' 13           i,N, FA                      I                I             
2                      i 1'2i90       2          4l   iE,                                   2                 3
3      g ^] 9       ' t          r 2             ME                          -        u       -3 
4                      i 6/&f'9 2St 15                             N,E                       3                 3                   2,3
-i                      I 1,S i7       3 3                          E, F, O                  3                 33
'6                        2 492        2             3              A,                       33
'-/92      t1              4             I E                        _
S                t ~~~~~~2i93      I         -1 3F                                               I      -        i
3                         4i93       K              5               E, 0                      3                3                     3
|I1CD                  F 2/'94                      1             4 E, A, N                  2                 2
;~ .1 t                t   R994       2             5              E,N, A                    S                 S
.  S 2                   ^ '9>     ; 2           r  <           0 ^. .+i                    U                 S                     2
z 14                     1-.;95                                  Ic2 ffi S    E, N          S                S
549      tN                                                        S                S
:                ' 1.~~~~~97  fl2          $  t              E, N
6~~~~~~~~
N C2r-non                    9?                        9                N              4       S         4       S
A A, ....... 3   li E
SC/Il sRteser                                                                        Tc ypesO 5if r.enns
_=  ;_----r'-t                                                                      1 = ThFla lC!t
N = Erreer                                                                           2- MZanageralAArinisrattve
A = Agnr.i?iSL                                                                        3- = stts       c eneaty
i= *-5"CFa t3e.eti-rr.e"t Sesia st
-- = ?r-.anc:a Ar.L.S
', = Wa:r Lt-   k.,^ r a Deo "rre'fl,e Sf"-ec'rst



23
Appendix A
Translated from the Original Spanish Version
COLOMBIA
AIDE MEMOIRE-WORLD BANK SUPERVISION AND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION (LOAN 3113-CO)
L   Introduction
This Aide Memoire summarizes the prelirninary findings Qf a joint mission by Mr. Antonio
Vaccari (World Bank) and Mr. Juan Morelli (FAO-World Bank Cooperation Program) to
Colombia from August 1 1 to 23, 1997. The purpose of the mission was: (i) to carry out
the final supervision mission for the project, and (ii) to begin preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the project for which, in accordance with
the last extension, the loan will close December 31, 1997. The purpose of the ICR is to
provide the Bank and the Government with: (i) an evaluation of the project's
achievements in relation to its objectives; (ii) an analysis of the project's sustainability and
future plan of operation; (iii) an evaluation of its impact; (iv) the identification and
analysis of differences between what was planned and what was actually achieved; and (v)
an assessment of the lessons learned which could be applied to improve the design and
implementation of future projects. The mission met with the Director General of INAT as
well as staff in charge of implementing the different project components, and wishes to
acknowledge their cooperation and important contributions to the mission's work.
II. Implementation Completion Report
Introduction
The Small-Scale Irrigation Project (SSI) was identified in January1988 as an expansion of
the pilot component for SSI of the Rehabilitation II Project (IBRD Ln. 2667-CO). The
Loan Agreement (Ln. 3113-CO) foir the equivalent of US$ 78.2 million was signed by the
Government of Colombia (GOC) and the World Bank on January 25, 1990 and the loan
was declared effective on June 11 of that year. The original completion date was set for
June 30, 1996. The project experienced an extremely slow start-up due to flaws in the
original design, including: (i) overestimation of the irrigation agency's implementation
capacity; (ii) the requirement that beneficiaries contribute 20% of investment costs; and
(iii) the assumption that credit would be available to small farmers for financing on-farm
investments. In mid-1993, three years after the Loan Agreement went into effect, only
US$3.2 million had been disbursed (I11% of the US$27.7 million disbursement estimate
specified in the SAR).



24
Following the Mid-Term Review and the passing of Law 41, the GOC requested that the
project be restructured, including the cancellation of US$28.2 million (36% of loan
amount) to reduce the loan to US$50 rnillion. While the restructuring kept the original
objectives intact, different approaches to meeting them were introduced. Goals were
reduced to less than 40% of what they originally were, and a component to finance up to 3
medium and large-scale irrigation projects (MLI), and reasibility and design studies for
MLI projects was added. In 1996, the GOC requested extension of the loan's closing date
to June 30, 1997, and in 1997 it requested a second extension to December 31, 1997 in
order to finish the construction of SSI projects underway.
Objectives and Project Components
The project's initial objectives were as follows: (a) increase the agricultural productivity,
cropping intensity, and income of approximately 43,000 small farmners through
construction of nearly 850 small irrigation projects (between 20 to 300 hectares, for an
estimated total area of 60,000 has.); (b) reduce risks by promoting a more even level of
production throughout of the year; (c) create a technological base for the future
development of La Mojana region; (d) increase cost recovery for public sector
investments in irrigation and reduce subsidies; and (e) increase community involvement in
project design, construction, financing, management, and administration. The
components of the project, as defined at appraisal, were: (i) off-farm irrigation
infrastructure; (ii) on-farm irrigation infrastructure; (iii) technology transfer, including the
development, application, and dissemination of technological packages, extension services,
and training of beneficiaries in community organization, and operation and maintenance of
the projects, (iv) institutional development; (v) environmental protection, and (vi) La
Mojana pilot project.
Modifications. In April 1994, the modifications requested by the GOC went into effect,
including: (i) cancellation of US$ 28.2 million from the loan; (ii) reduction of goals
(decrease in the number of beneficiaries from 43,000 to 17,000, number of SSI projects
from 850 to 250, and total area to be irrigated from 60,000 to 17,000 has.); (iii)
introduction of an MLI component to benefit nearly 1,000 farmers in up to 3 projects
ranging from 501 to 6,000 has. for a total of up to 20,000 has.; and (iv) allocation of
resources for feasibility and environmental studies, and final engineering designs for MLI
systems. The remaining original goals were left unmodified. Later, as a result of the
November 1995 supervision mission, the GOC and the Bank agreed to finance a program
to rehabilitate and/or expand approximately 115 small-scale projects that were not
functioning effectively, in order to reestablish the productive and income generating
capacity of approximately 7,700 has. to benefit some 4,600 peasant families. This new
component began implementation in 1996 within the framework of the irrigation sector
policies introduced by the new law and its regulatory norms, and in keeping with the
policies of community participation and decentralization project implementation agreed
upon with the Bank.



25
Adequacy of the Objectives. The project objectives were adequate and clearly defined,
but the goals and operational mechanisms were extremely ambitious relative to INAT's
implementation capacity and complete lack of experience in supervising the activities of
other entities which were to carry-out project activities. Moreover, several key
assumptions were unrealistic, including those regarding the responsiveness of other
entities which were to implement critical components and the ability of beneficiaries to
contribute to investment costs and gain access to credit. The project was formulated in
1989 when a paternalistic institutional system existed which placed strong emphasis on
engineering and the building of infrastructure over the need to improve production and
target socioeconomic problems. This continued to be the case for the first few years of
the project due to lack of leadership and political will for change. The resistance many
officials felt toward adopting a policy that would delegate decision-making power to
farmers-beneficiaries caused delays in the application of the new framework established
under the 1993 law and was rooted in the fear of losing control of the irnigation systems
and, in the long run, their jobs. Only in 1995, with the strengthening of INAT's groups
for SSI, Training, and the Irrigation Fund (FONAT) did a positive shift in attitude toward
the new policies begin to occur in rmany rural communities and INAT staff.
Implementation and Results
Pace of Implementation. Project implementation began in December 1991, with a year-
and-a-half delay and at a very slow pace, primarily due to the transition from the pilot
project under Ln. 2667-CO--implemented with limited beneficiary participation in the
financing of construction costs--to the new project which had more ambitious objectives,
components, and goals which required the beneficiaries who had limited investment
capacity and access to credit to: (i) pay 10% of the value of off-farm investments in cash
before construction of the project began, followed by another 10% prior to completing
construction; and (ii) finance all on-farm investment, for which it was assumed they would
have access to credit. In addition, 3SI project studies, design, and construction were
coordinated from INAT's central offices in Bogota, causing serious delays in
implementation times. These problems were partially solved and, in the final years of the
project, an acceptable pace of implementation was achieved as a result of: (i) mid-term
modifications, including the agreemnent to finance the on-farm as well as off-farm
investment costs; and (ii) the decentralization of some implementation activities through
the transferring responsibility to INAT' s regional offices.
Development of the Small Scale Irrigation Component. The project achieved nearly all
its restructured goals, which represented between 30% and 40% of those originally
established. Two-hundred-forty-six (246) SSI projects were constructed over an area
totaling 20,000 hectares, benefiting 14,300 peasant families, while 116 projects were
rehabilitated or expanded, 45 of which were originally constructed under this loan with a
large part of the others constructed under the Rehabilitation II pilot. The increase in unit
costs for the hydro-agricultural infrastructure of the projects (from US$2,000 to
US$4,000 per hectare) was another factor contributing to initial delays and affecting



26
farmers demand for projects.' Construction of projects was reactivated in 1995, reaching
a good pace of implementation by 1997 when 59 projects were scheduled to be completed
compared to 55 in 1996 and an average of 33 per year between 1991 and 1994. The Bank
objected to several contracts due to limited experience in construction project
implementation and supervision on the part of contractors. Moreover, frequent requests
by contractors for additional time and money, and problems with the allocation of
sufficient resources for the project slowed down implementation. The initial lack of
foresight regarding the resources required for the identification of projects eligible for
funding, the absence of a methodology for carrying out the program and monitoring
system for consulting contracts (feasibility and design studies) during the first few years,
affected the quality of civil works and generated extra costs that could have been avoided.
Training and Technology. INAT signed agreements with other public entities for
providing services for the technology transfer component without having in its structure a
unit with expertise in these areas. In addition, major changes in the institutional structure
and functions of these co-implementing entities (Caja Agraria, SENA, INDERENA, DRI,
ICA, UMATAs), combined with limited follow-up by INAT on their activities affected the
quality and continuity of services rendered to users. In 1993, a Complementary Services
(i.e. to complement the irrigation services) Division was created, but was understaffed and
lacked a counterpart in INAT's regional offices. Early in 1995, with the establishment of
the Department of Training and Development (Subdirecci6n de Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo)
and corresponding groups specialized in this area in INAT's regional offices, INAT's
technical and operational capacity in this area increasing considerably. This resulted in
noteworthy progress in the training of beneficiaries for their participation in processes of
investment, management, and O&M of the small-scale projects.
La Mojana. The appraisal report envisioned an initial 6-month period for the completion
of studies leading to the establishment of well-equipped experimental pilot centers. The
results and recommendations of 3 years of research conducted at these centers would then
serve to identify future investments in the region. The component experienced a 4-year
delay due to the GOC's failure to contract the studies agreed with the Bank. Supervision
missions recommended against initiating the construction of pilot centers until a solid
research program had been defined. Finally, the component was initiated through a
contract with CORPOICA in mid- 1995 to carry out research to determine the adaptability
of soils to agriculture, grazing, fishing, and other uses, taking into consideration the effects
of varying flood, rainfall, and other conditions on environmental sustainability. Three lines
of research were defined: (i) the dynamics of biosphere components in the ecosystems, (ii)
the relationships between these and their surroundings and their effects on environmental
quality, and (iii) the development of alternatives for sustainable use and management of
the region's natural resources. The focus of the research is innovative and integrated, will
perhaps be used as a model for regional planning in a wetlands area of high environmental
1 Among the causes of the increase in unit investment costs were: (i) an initial
underestimation; (ii) the new projects were increasingly far from the water source; (iii) costs
increased more than expected (i.e. price contingencies underestimated); and (iv) more
complex studies were required than originally expected.



27
importance; it is already beginning to generate highly useful information for taking
concrete steps toward the environrnentally sustainable development of the area.
Cost Recovery. Despite Bank recommendations, only in 1995 with the establishment of
the secretariat for the Irrigation Fund (FONAT) was a clear policy of incentives, subsidies,
and investment recovery approved by the Superior Council for Irrigation (CONSUAT).
That year, INAT introduced the requirement that farmers sign a legal document prior to
initiating construction of the project which indicated each beneficiaries amortization
schedule for their portion of the investment costs and commitment to pay (defined in the
Operational Manual for SSI). In 1996, the Fund secretariat designed the formats to be
used by the regional offices to record their monthly collections, promissory notes, and
forms of contract, which are signed by the user associations to make them responsible for
collecting the debt payments of the members.2
Beneficiary Participation. With implementation of the Revised Operational Manual for
SSI and the creation of the Training Department (Subdirecci6n de Capacitaci6n) in 1995,
farmer involvement in all project phases was systematized. While the regional offices,
with few exceptions, began submitting project designs and estimated costs to the user
associations for them to express their views, INAT did not allow the associations to
participate in the procurement process for selecting civil works and engineering
contractors. Until 1995, INAT transferred the management of the projects to the user
associations without any written contract after the contractors had completed the
hydraulic tests of the works and afler INAT provided a brief training in operation and
maintenance of the works.
Medium-Scale Projects. The purpose of this component was to test the new irrigation
sector policies, adopted by the Government under Law 41, through the implementation of
3 projects. This began with strong technical support from the Bank and the FAO-CP
program, but only the Guamo scheime proved viable and met the necessary conditions for
implementation. However, the construction phase was not initiated due to INAT's delays
and inefficiency in concluding the studies, revised design, and submitting the economic and
financial evaluation of the project to the user associations in order for them to formally
commit to pay their portion of the project costs. INAT has postponed the construction of
the project to 1998 and expects to carry it out with funding from an IDB project.
Studies and Design of Medium and Large-Scale Projects. In order to
portfolio with medium and large-scale projects, several irrigation and drainage feasibility
studies were completed. The usefulness of these is questionable since the availability of
resources to carry out the project, particularly since a partial cancellation of the original
2 In previous years, INAT had not operationalized the investment cost recovery policy nor
the policies defined by the CONSUALT in 1994: the majority of its regional offices did not
manage the collection of the initial L[0% that was to be paid in cash nor the collection of old
debt. In the pilot project under Ln. 2667, the investments were considered like a gift and
only a beneficiary commitment to provide unskilled labor was required.



28
IDB loan amount is currently being considered due the project being practically at a stand-
still due to lack of budget resources.3
Factors affecting Implementation
Factors beyond the GOC's control. Scarce availability of information on precipitation,
watercourse flow, and other critical indicators made design of the small scale projects
difficult and resulted in the frequent reliance on imprecise secondary data. The project had
to overcome the 2667-CO pilot program's deep-rooted policy of not requiring
beneficiaries to contribute to investments costs. In fact, demanding that they pay 20% of
these costs created more difficulty than expected. Increasingly violent conditions and lack
of security in Colombia's rural areas were other factors beyond the GOC's control,
affecting the last months of the implementation phase.
Factors within the GOC's Control. During project implementation, the fact that there
were six successive Director Generals of INAT affected the continuity of project
implementation. Further, budget allocations for the project were inadequate. Large new
irrigation projects consistently took priority over the completion or expansion of existing
projects or the realization of a greater number of SSI projects. This is expected to result
in cancellation of an additional US$3.8 million of the loan amount, because of the
reduction in the authorized budget allocation for the program this year. Another factor
strongly affecting implementation was the restructuring of co-implementing institutions
(Caja Agraria, SENA, and ICA among others) which were to carry out critical project
activities but for the most were unable to do so.4 The lack of mechanisms to facilitate
access to credit, left the beneficiaries unable to make on-farm investments which would
have allowed them to use more efficient irrigation practices.
Factors within the Implementing Unit's Control. INAT's poor administrative and
implementation capacity was largely due to the low priority accorded to the project and
the lack of political will on the part of most of the successive administrations. The
management generally failed to delegate the implementation functions necessary to
execute such a complex project, causing instability, lack of motivation, and inefficiency of
the implementation team. Definitively, INAT was not able to meet the expectations
outlined in the project's original documents. Recently, near the end of the project's
3 In the next 30 days, the GOC and IDB will decide the amount of the loan to be canceled
based on the availability of budget resources which depends on the GOC's willingness to
assign investment resources to INAT for the period 1998-2001, including for small, medium
and large scale irrigation projects.
4 The extension services originally provided by the Caja Agraria and the Agricultural
Secretariat of Antioquia and North Santander are not provided by the municipal extension
units (UMATAs); the validation and transfer of technology to be done by ICA, is now done
by CORPOICA but on a contractual basis; the promotion, organization, and training of
beneficiaries so that they can manage the projects, to be done by SENA, is now done by
INAT; and the environmental protection activities to be done by INDERENA is now done by
the Regional Corporations (Corporaciones Aut6nomas Regionales).



29
implementation, some internal changes were made, several of which should have been
brought about during the first few years.
Project Sustainablity
The sustainability of the SSI program is uncertain. One positive aspect is that beginning in
199:3, the Council (CONSUAT) been making progress in introducing the regulations for
Law 41, so that the country now enjoys an irrigation sector policy which allows organized
participation of potential beneficiaries in the investment process, project financing, and
admninistration, operation and conservation of the small-scale irrigation districts (projects).
Important advances have been made by DTAT, beginning in 1995, in the conceptualization
and organization of SSI projects and the regional offices' application of the Operational
Manual as a methodological, technical and operational managerial guide which has
facilitated decentralization of the SSI program and led to beneficiary participation, and an
improvement in their productive capacity and incomes. However, the program still lacks
funding for 1998 and positive changes regrarding resource allocation for are not expected.
Even the IDB is reanalyzing its project for MLI and will most likely cancel part of its loan
unless the GOC is prepared to significantly increase the budget allocation for the next few
fiscal years.
Future Plan of Operations
The fiscal crisis that has been affecting public investments caused the GOC to make
adjustments to the institutional structure of the State in order to rationalize spending and
improve efficiency. This resulted in INAT being required to reduce its staff, modify its
investment policy, and locate new sources of funding for pre-investment studies, civil
works, and complementary services. The following institutional objectives were
established for [NAT: the direct provision of services for: (i) organization and training of
user associations so they efficiently administer, operate and conserve the irrigation
districts; (ii) legalization and transfer of water concessions to the user associations; and
(iii) establishment of guidelines and approaches so the regional offices can promote and
provide assistance the fornulation of viable training and technology development projects
by the user associations themselves. The user associations would be able to choose the
technical entity to provide the services for the design of projects and application for co-
financing through PRONATTA,5 the Forido Capacitar, FINAGRO, and the territorial
entities among others.
Through the IDB, INAT is requesting financing for 1998 under the existing loan for a SSI
component for a portfolio of 217 projects for which the studies-designs need to be
reviewed and updated. In addition, INAT has initiated contacts with FINAGRO in order
5 In 1997, INATs regional offices in Cundinamarca, Tolima and Arauca formulated several
projects of this type and have completed the steps required for obtaining PRONATTA
financing. The Direction of training and development is identifying priority areas of
training and research which would be followed by the design of methodologies for preparing
projects.



30
to evaluate alternatives financing mechanisms for SSI via a line of credit for irrigation
projects. In addition, it will submit a resolution for CONSUAT consideration which
would authorize the implementation of projects through the private implementation
entities modality being used for LMI projects. Based on the above mentioned lines of
action, INAT will prepare its Plan of Operations for the years 1998-2000, including
progress monitoring indicators which will allow the Bank to produce the ICR by mid-
September 1997.
m. Preparation of the Impact Study and Implementation Completion Report
In January 1997, the last supervision mission recommended that INAT directly contract
the consulting firm that developed the methodology for measuring the Project's impact, so
that the impact study would be completed prior to the ICR mission's arrival, originally
scheduled for the end of June. However, INAT decided to consider alternatives whicdh
the Bank had not yet approved. To speed up implementation of the impact study, the
mission held meetings with INAT's Planning Department and the above mentioned firm.
Considering the scarcity of available resources, a mechanism and timetable were agreed
for the completion of the impact assessment, which would be now take until the end of
November when the final report would be sent to the Bank. INAT and its regional offices
would be responsible for the field survey and corresponding studies, while the firm (or
another arrangement acceptable to the Bank) would provide the personnel to manage the
work, in accord with the agreed methodology.
In regarding to preparation of the ICR and impact study, INAT's primary
responsibilities are as follows:
(i) Complete preparation of the ICR and plan of future operations, which will be sent to
the Bank before September 15th of the current year;
(ii) speed up implementation of the impact study, which should be sent to the Bank before
the end of November 1997 and which will allow important conclusions to be drawn for the
future development of SSI in Colombia. While INAT will be responsible for the study, the
identified firm or any alternative accepted by the Bank (to be defined before August 29)
will be in charge of management of the survey, data processing and analysis, and writing
the report;
The Bank, with INAT's assistance (the impact study, Borrower's ICR, and plan of
operations), will prepare its version of the ICR and will send a first draft to the GOC
before the end of January, 1997.



31
Appendix B
INFORME DE FINALIZACI6N DE LA IMPLEMENTACI1N DEL PROYECTO
DE RIEGO DE PEQUEIAA ESCALA
COLOMBIA
(PRtSTAMO NO. 3113- CO)
PARTE l: VALORACION DE LA IMPLEMENTACI6N DEL PROYECTO
Introducci6n
1.- Por la importancia que otorg6 el Gobierno Nacional a los proyectos de riego en pequeha
escala como instrumento para impulsar el desarrollo socioecon6mico de las zonas de
economia campesina del pals, que concenlran una alta proporci6n de pequetios productores
de escasos recursos econ6micos, este y ell Banco Mundial acordaron incluir un componente
para financiar proyectos de este tipo (en adelante Proyecto Piloto) como parte del Segundo
Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de Riego, financiado parcialmente con recursos del prestamo
2667-CO.
2... Un estudio realizado por JICA del Jap6n en 1986 en 3 distritos de este tipo, estim6 tasas
de retorno superiores al 24%; posteriormente una evaluaci6n contratada por INAT con la
firma HIDROCONSULTA LTDA en 1988, en una muestra de 11 distritos de riego en pequefla
escala, confirm6 los resultados econ6micos del citado estudio, los cuales sirvieron de
soporte para justificar el Proyecto de Riego en Pequeha Escala, que esta siendo financiado
con recursos del prestamo BIRF 3113- CO, suscrito entre el Gobierno y el Banco Mundial en
enero de 1990 por US$ 78.2 millones, con lecha de cierre el 31 de diciembre de 1997.
A.- Objetivos del Proyecto
3.- Los objetivos iniciales del Proyecto eran: 1) incrementar la productividad agricola y la
intensidad de los cultivos y con ellos los ingresos rurales de cerca de 43.000 pequeaos
agricultores (mediante la construcci6n de cerca de 850 esquemas de riego de 20 a 300 has.
en 60.000 has.); 2) reducir los riesgos cornerciales propiciando una distribuci6n mas pareja
de la producci6n durante el aho; 3) impulsar la base tecnol6gica para el futuro desarrollo de
la regi6n de La Mojana; 4) mejorar la recuperaci6n de costos provenientes de la inversi6n del
sector publico en irrigaci6n y con ello reducir los subsidios a los usuarios otorgados en el
Proyecto Piloto, y 5) fortalecer la participacion de las comunidades en la construcci6n,
financiaci6n, operaci6n y administraci6n de! los esquemas de irrigaci6n. Los componentes del
Proyecto eran: 1) infraestructura de irrigacion fuera de finca; 2) inversiones en finca; 3)
transferencia de tecnologfa' (que incluye: desarrollo, aplicaci6n y divulgaci6n de 'paquetes'
tecnol6gicos, asistencia tecnica y entrenamniento de los usuarios en organizaci6n comunitaria
y en operaci6n y mantenimiento de distritos), 4) desarrollo institucional; 5) protecci6n
ambiental, y 6) Proyecto Piloto La Mojana.
'En adelante los servicios que integran este componente se denominaran asi: validaci6n, ajuste y transferencia de tecnologia,
asistencia tecnica, organizaci6n y capacitaci6n comuniLaria y en administraci6n, operaci6n y conservaci6n de distritos.



32
4.- En abril de 1994 el Banco Mundial aprob6 la solicitud de modificaci6n de los contratos de
prestamo y del Proyecto que le hizo el Gobiemo, que consisti6 en la cancelaci6n de US$
28.2 millones; el objetivo 1) se ajust6 asi: beneficiar aproximadamente 17.000 pequeflos
agricultores, en cerca de 250 esquemas de 20 a 500 has. en 20.000 has. y de cerca de 1.000
agricultores en alrededor de 3 proyectos de mediana escala de 501 a 6.000 hectareas, hasta
20.000 hectareas; los objetivos 2) al 5) quedaron iguales. Los componentes del Proyecto
quedaron as[: 1) infraestructura de riego para proyectos de pequefha y mediana escala, 2)
inversiones agricolas en finca, 3) transferencia de tecnologfa, 4) desarrollo institucional, 5)
protecci6n ambiental, 6) Proyecto Piloto La Mojana, y 7) estudios de factibilidad, valoraci6n
ambiental y disehos finales de ingenieria para esquemas de riego en mediana y gran escala.
5.- En cumplimiento de lo acordado en la Ayuda Memoria de la Misi6n de Supervision de
noviembre de 1995, el INAT elabor6 un programa de inversi6n para rehabilitar y/o
complementar cerca de 116 distritos, cuyas obras se hablan deteriorado o quedaron
inconclusas, con el objetivo de restablecer la capacidad productiva y de generaci6n de
ingresos de alrededor de 8.100 has. que benefician unas 5.100 familias campesinas. El
Programa inici6 ejecuci6n en 1996, en el marco de la politica de adecuaci6n de tierras
adoptada en la Ley 41 de 1993 y sus normas reglamentarias y la de descentralizaci6n de la
ejecuci6n de los proyectos, convenida con el Banco.
6.- Si bien la mayoria de los objetivos del Proyecto fueron claramente definidos, su
formulaci6n se hizo en 1989 bajo la influencia de un modelo institucional paternalista que
imper6 en el pais hasta la expedici6n de la Ley 41, que otorgaba mucha mas importancia a la
ingenieria que a lo social y econ6mico, decisi6n de inversi6n en cabeza del Instituto, sin que
mediara la participaci6n de los beneficiarios. Este modelo se mantuvo vigente, con ligeros
cambios hasta 1994, por causa de la resistencia que ejercieron muchos funcionarios para
apropiarse de la nueva politica, que asigna a las entidades publicas la funcion de orientar el
proceso de inversi6n y poder decisorio a los beneficiarios; se podria decir que en 1995 se
comienza a percibir un cambio positivo en la actitud de muchas comunidades rurales y
funcionarios frente a la nueva politica.
7.- La ejecuci6n del Proyecto se inici6 en diciembre de 1991, con un retraso de aho y medio,
debido fundamentalmente a que se pas6 de un Proyecto Piloto que se ejecut6 con limitada y
en ocasiones nula participaci6n de los beneficiarios en la financiaci6n del costo de las obras,
a otro mucho mas ambicioso y complejo. Ademas, el Proyecto comprometia a pequerlos
propietarios con escasa capacidad de pago y de acceso al credito, a pagar en efectivo el
10% del valor de la inversi6n extrapredial antes que se iniciara la construcci6n de las obras,
otro 10% antes de su terminaci6n y el 100% de la inversi6n predial, lo cual limit6 el recaudo
de los aportes. Para obviar en parte este problema, se acord6 con el Banco incluir la
inversi6n predial en el costo de los proyectos y aplicar los aportes de los beneficiarios en
especie (mano de obra, terrenos, etc.) como parte del valor de las cuotas de recuperaci6n a
su cargo.
8.- Adicionalmente el INAT debio coordinar y hacer seguimiento al trabajo de varias
entidades pOblicas ejecutoras del componente de transferencia de tecnologia (SENA, ICA,
INDERENA, Caja Agraria y dos Secretarias de Agricultura), sin tener mucha tradici6n y
experiencia en el manejo de estos temas, ni contar con una dependencia que le prestara el
soporte tKcnico requerido. S61o en 1993 se cre6 la Divisi6n de Servicios Complementarios,
atendiendo las exigencias de la Ley 41, pero con un nOmero insuficiente de funcionarios sin
contraparte en las Regionales, para cumplir con las nuevas funciones. Con la creaci6n de la
Subdirecci6n de Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo a principios de 1995 con tecnicos de contraparte



33
en las Regionales, se mejor6 el nivel jerarquico y la capacidad del INAT para orientar el
desarrollo de estas actividades. Los cambios ocurridos en la estructura institucional y
funciones de las referidas entidades, afect6 la continuidad y calidad de los servicios que se
pirestaban a los usuarios, especialmente en los inicios de la ejecuci6n del Proyecto.
9.- La exclusi6n del costo de los estudios de identificaci6n de los proyectos como gastos
elegibles del prestamo, junto con el hecho de no contar con una metodologia para preparar
estos estudios durante los tres primeros afhos, ni con un sistema de seguimiento de los
contratos de consultoria para la elaboraci6n de los estudios y disehos, afect6 la calidad de
las obras en algunos proyectos y generd6 sobrecostos que se pudieron evitar, de haberse
tomado medidas oportunas para resolverlos.
B.- Logro de los; Objetivos del Proyecto
10- El proyecto logr6 casi la totalidad de los objetivos. En cuanto al primero, se anota que se
construyeron 226 esquemas de riego en 17.093 hectareas que benefician a 12.939 familias
campesinas y se rehabilitaron y/o complernentaron 116 con recursos del 3113-CO (tabla 1 ).
Segun las Regionales, el 61% de los distritos construidos (con 11.200 has. y 8.300 familias)
satisfacen la demanda de agua de los usuarios y estan regando el area programada en los
d3Iseflos. Si bien algunos estudios de casos y la observaci6n directa de campo permite
esperar incrementos positivos en el ingreso neto de los usuarios, es posible que estos no
sean muy significativos por causa del efecto que ha tenido la apertura econ6mica sobre los
precios internos de los productos y la incidencia que pudo tener sobre la productividad et
denominado "Fen6meno del NiAo" en el periodo en que se realizaron las encuestas para el
Estudio de Impacto del Proyecto.
11.- El segundo objetivo parece mas un instrumento para alcanzar el primero. Si este se
interpreta como la funci6n que tiene el riego de permitir sacar varias cosechas sucesivas de
cultivos transitorios en una misma superficie, la producci6n que se recolecte en las epocas
de sequia se podria vender a precios mtis altos por causa de la baja oferta de bienes. Se
dice tambien que el riego posibilita "romper la estacionalidad de las cosechas", porque
permite anticipar o posponer las siembras durante los perfodos Iluviosos para cosechar en
epocas distintas a la que lo hace la generalidad de los agricultores, lo que puede contribuir a
reducir los riesgos comerciales. Sinembargo, el Instituto no ha promovido la realizaci6n de
investigaciones para determinar la incidencia que podrfa tener la utilizaci6n del riego en el
desarrollo vegetativo de los cultivos y en la manifestaci6n de plagas y enfermedades en los
perlodos secos, en los que las condiciones climaticas pueden ser diferentes.
12.- El tercer objetivo se lograra en un plazo mayor al programado; debido a que el estudio
conducente a crear la base tecnologica para el desarrollo de La Mojana acordado en el
appraisal, lo termin6 HIDROESTUDIOS en 1994, pero el Banco recomend6 aplazar la
construcci6n del centro y granjas experimentales propuestas, hasta que se realicen
investigaciones que aporten mayores elermentos para definir los sistemas de producci6n mas
acordes con las condiciones climaticas y aimbientales de la Regi6n. En diciembre de 1994, el
INAT celebr6 un convenio con CORPOIICA para que adelantara tres lineas basicas de
investigaci6n: dinamica de los componentes de la biosfera en los ecosistemas;
interrelaciones de estos con su entorno y sus efectos sobre la calidad ambiental, y desarrollo
de alternativas para el uso y manejo sosl:enible de los recursos naturales. A pesar de este
retraso, a julio de 1997 se habia avanzado en el analisis multitemporal de la biosfera; la
rnodelaci6n hidrol6gica y dinamica fluvial; el analisis agroclimatico; la caracterizaci6n de los



34
agrosistemas de producci6n, la adaptabilidad de especies vegetales, manejo integral de los
recursos suelo y aguas, etc.
13.- En el logro del cuarto objetivo se avanz6 a partir de 1995, ato en que el CONSUAT ya
habla definido las politicas de incentivos y de reintegro de costos y se comienza a exigir la
firma del acta final de compromiso2. En 1996 el Grupo FONAT diseh6 los formatos para
captar la informaci6n en los distritos construidos antes y despues de la Resoluci6n 020/95,
modelos de pagar6 y del contrato a suscribir con las asociaciones de usuarios para que
dstas recauden la cartera a cambio de una comisi6n no mayor al 10%; a julio de 1997 se
hablan suscrito 26 de estos contratos. En los distritos construidos antes de 1996, se recaud6
un promedio anual de $345 millones en el periodo 1991/95; en 1996 $495 millones con un
incremento de 43%, y entre enero y junio de 1997 $424 millones, que incluyen $92 millones
por concepto del recaudo del primer contado de la cuota inicial de 66 proyectos3. Si bien
estas cifras revelan un mejoramiento en los recaudos, sstos son bajos comparados con el
valor de la cartera constituida antes de la referida resoluci6n, por causa de la deficiente
gesti6n de cobro que realizaron muchas Regionales.
14.- El quinto objetivo involucra temas de participaci6n comunitaria en la construcci6n,
financiaci6n, administraci6n, operaci6n (y conservaci6n) de los distritos. En cuanto al primero
se anota que los beneficiarios de muchos proyectos aportaron la mano de obra no calificada,
pero no se les dio la oportunidad de participar en la escogencia de las propuestas para la
construcci6n de los proyectos, ni de ejercer la funci6n de velar por la correcta ejecuci6n de
las obras; el segundo tema se desarroll& en el numeral 13, y sobre el tercero se indica que
hasta 1995 los distritos se entregaban en administraci6n a las asociaciones una vez que los
contratistas realizaban las pruebas hidrtulicas de las obras y les daban un corto
entrenamiento en ttcnicas de operaci6n de los distritos. No obstante que a partir de 1996 el
INAT y las asociaciones suscribieron 62 contratos de entrega en administraci6n, la mayoria
de las asociaciones de usuarios asumieron la administraci6n de los distritos, a quienes se les
capacit6 en algunos temas relacionados con esta actividad.
C.- Informe de Ejecuci6n y Factores que Afectaron el Proyecto
15.- La construcci6n de las obras civiles fue lenta entre 1991 y 1994 y se reactiv6 a partir de
1995, alcanzAndose altos niveles de ejecuci6n en 1.996 y 1997, ahios en que se termin6 la
construcci6n de 94 proyectos4 ( promedio de 47 proyectos por aho), frente a un promedio
2 En el Manual Operativo para la Ejecuci6n del Programa de Riego en Pequefla Escala, publicado en septiembre de 1995, se
incluy6, entre otros temas, una sintesis de las resoluciones 011/94 que reglamenta el incentivo a que tienen derecho todos los
beneficiarios, y de la 020/95 que establece las condiciones de la financiaci6n en cuanto a plazos, perlodo de gracia tasa de
interes, etc, y un modelo del Acta Final de Compromiso en la que se registra el valor de los incentivos, subsidios y el saldo
de las cuotas de recuperaci6n a cargo de cada predio y la firma de los beneficiarios.
La base de liquidaci6n de los 66 proyectos asciende a $16.713 millones, el valor a recuperar a $3.579 millones (21%), el valor
de la cuota inicial a $358 millones y el primer contado del 30% equivalente a $107 millones, o sea que se recaud6 el 26%. Se
excluyeron los 5 proyectos de mayor tamaflo (Anacosca, La Loma, Haco Laguna, Salitre y Pindal Maracaibo) porque la
construcci6n se inici6 entre julio y agosto; su base de liquidaci6n es de $4.402 millones y el valor a recuperar a $1.022
millones.
4 Se anota que en 1.997 se inici6 la construcci6n de 59 proyectos de los cuales 20 quedaron inconclusos. De estos
flltimos ,10 ya cuentan con recursos para terminar las obras ( 1 esta terminado, 6 tienen contratos legalizados y
3 estin en proceso de contrataci6n) y a los otros 10 se les estA revisando las cantidades de obra para decidir



35
anual de 33 entre 1991 y 1994; no obstanl:e, el esfuerzo realizado por el INAT en los dos
ultirnos afos fue insuficiente para comperisar el tiempo perdido, habiendose presentado
algunas ineficiencias que obligaron solicitar la extensi6n de la fecha de cierre en dos
oportunidades. El Banco objet6 la contrataci6n de varias firmas constructoras y consultoras
por su limitada experiencia para realizar las obras de riego y las interventorias, io cual
ocasion6 demoras en los procesos de contrataci6n. Adicionalmente, el empeoramiento de la
sitUaci6n de orden publico en zonas rurales en los a6os recientes y las solicitudes de
adiciones en tiempo yio en dinero que hicieron algunos contratistas para ejecutar mayores
cantidades de obras, gener6 sobrecostos y retard6 la construcci6n de varios proyectos.
16.- El ICA inici6 en 1992 la ejecuci6n del Subcomponente de Validaci6n, Ajuste y
Transferencia de Tecnologia (convenio 174/89) y en diciembre de 1994 se concret6 su
cesi6n a CORPOICA al asumir esta entidad dichas funciones. Las dos entidades integraron 9
equipos de investigaci6n, quienes establecieron 140 parcelas demostrativas en 50 has.
ubicadas en fincas de usuarios de 17 distritos en 9 departamentos, para investigar la
respuesta al riego especialmente de cultivos de alto valor5, seleccionar los m6s promisorios y
promover la diversificaci6n de la producci6n, a traves de demostraciones de m6todos y
resultados sobre sistemas de riego, manejo del agua, etc. No obstante que estos trabajos
han permitido iniciar el desarrollo de una cultura de riego, el escaso seguimiento realizado
por el Instituto, ha impedido conocer los niveles de adopci6n de las tecnologias por los
agricultores.
17.- La Caja Agraria, a traves del Programa de Extensi6n Dirigida por Objetivos -EDO
(convenio 93/89), inici6 la ejecuci6n del Subcomponente de Asistencia T6cnica y entre
1991 y 1993 atendi6 cerca de 2.220 pequerhos productores usuarios de 47 distritos a traves
de 45 extensionistas. Entre 1994 y 1996, en que esta funci6n pas6 completamente a las
UMATA, el Fondo DRI (convenio 218/92) y 108 municipios, financiaron los contratos de 120
especialistas en riego, quienes atendieron cerca de 7.000 usuarios de 160 distritos en el uso
adecuado del agua a nivel de finca, en tecriologia de cultivos, etc. Si bien con este apoyo se
anplio la cobertura del servicio, en los contratos DRI - municipios, no se contempl6 que las
Regionales del INAT hicieran el seguimiento de los trabajos, raz6n por la cual no se conocen
en detalle los resultados obtenidos. Adicionalmente el CECIL dict6 cursos b6sicos y
avanzados en manejo y conservaci6n de suelos y aguas, sistemas de riego y cultivos, dando
prioridad a los tecnicos de las entidades cooperantes, con lo cual ha contribuido a mejorar la
calidad de este servicio6.
18.- En desarrollo del Subcomponente de Organizaci6n y Capacitaci6n Comunitaria, el
SENA inici6 un proceso de desarrollo comunitario en los distritos, y entre 1987 y 1994 tramit6
la personeria juridica de 110 asociaciones de usuarios y oriento a los funcionarios del INAT
cuales de ellos se financian con los recursos de una adicion de $2.000 millones de pesos que le aprob6 en el
mes de Junio el Gobiemo Nacional al INAT.
5 El ICA integr6 un equipo de investigaci6n en cada uno de los siguientes departamentos: Atlantico, BoyacA, Tolima, C6rdoba,
Nariflo, y Santander quienes trabajaron en 13 distritos; CORPOICA adicion6 4 distritos de los departamentos de Guajira,
Antioquia y Meta. Las dos entidades establecieron en cada distrito dos o mas parcelas sobre:Hortalizas y frutales (tomate,
pepino, habichuela, aji, piment6n, berenjena, rabano. cebolla, tomate de arbol, maracuya, mel6n, patilla, mora, lim6n,
mango); leguminosas (arveja y frijol), y tubWrculos (papa, flame y arracacha).
6 El Centro de Estudios para la Conservacifn de la Ladera - CECIL, fue creado en 1991 con la cooperaci6n tecnica y financiera
del JICA del Jap6n. Entre 1994 y 1997 ha dictado cursos de capacitaci6n te6rico - prActica a 323 tecnicos distribuidos asi:
107 de las UMATA, 106 del INAT y 110 de otras entidades cooperantes (entre otras, de CORPOICA, DRI y SENA)



36
en este proceso7. Entre marzo de 1995 y julio de 1997 las Regionales, realizaron la
promoci6n, organizaci6n y el tramite de 295 personerias juridicas, con un incremento del
168% respecto al periodo anterior. Las Regionales progresaron en la aplicaci6n del principio
de participaci6n comunitaria, a traves de las gestiones realizadas para la firma de las actas
finales de compromiso8; y en la capacitaci6n tecnica, empresarial y ambiental de cerca de
20.000 usuarios; en operaci6n y conservaci6n de 321 fontaneros de 164 distritos y en
presupuesto y contabilidad a directivos y usuarios de 234 distritos; para apoyar el desarrollo
de estos temas, el Instituto ha elaborado y divulgado metodologias de organizaci6n,
participaci6n y capacitaci6n comunitaria. El INAT no cuenta con un sistema de seguimiento
de estas actividades y s6lo en este momento esta diseflando indicadores para determinar los
exitos alcanzados y las fortalezas y debilidades de las asociaciones.
19.- El INDERENA inici6 la ejecucion del Componente de Proteccion Ambiental (convenio
191/89) con la realizaci6n de cursos sobre estudios de impacto ambiental a funcionarios y
consultores del INAT; elabor6 una guia metodol6gica para preparar estos estudios y realiz6
la revisi6n y analisis de 45 proyectos con estudios y disehos. Para cumplir con lo ordenado
en la Ley 99/939, el Grupo de Gesti6n Ambiental, creado en 1995, conjuntamente con las
Regionales, tramitaron la concesi6n de agua de 210 distritos en operaci6n, de las cuales 159
estan a nombre del INAT y se esta gestionando el traslado de la titularidad a las
asociaciones de usuarios. De los 72 proyectos en construcci6n en 1997, a 24 se les tramit6
Licencia Ambiental Inica - los demas no la requieren. En 82 proyectos se ejecutaron Planes
de Manejo Ambiental -PMA, que contemplan actividades de reforestaci6n, la construcci6n de
pequehas estructuras, el seguimiento y monitoreo de la calidad de las aguas, etc. En
resumen, a diciembre de 1.997 se reforestaron 300 has. y se construyeron de 61 pequeffas
estructuras fisicas.
20,- Para el prop6sito dirigido a poner a prueba la nueva polftica de adecuaci6n de tierras,
con la ejecuci6n de tres (3) proyectos de riego de mediana escala el INAT cumpli6
parcialmente: se actualiz6 el estudio de factibilidad de la alternativa de drenaje del proyecto
Pamplonita, pero la comunidad no mostr6 interes, y la factibilidad del proyecto Lenguazaque
que no result6 viable. En el proyecto Guamo se termin6 el diseffo de las obras prediales y el
rediseffo del sistema original de riego por gravedad a otro por aspersi6n y goteo y result6
econ6micamente rentable; present6 los resultados a los beneficiarios de los canales P1 y P2
para obtener las actas finales de compromiso, logrando la firma del 100 y el 80 por ciento de
los beneficiarios, respectivamente, siendo el interes del Instituto financiar su ejecuci6n en
1998 a traves de otras fuentes.
El INAT suscribi6 con el SENA el convenio 028/87 (credito 2667-CO) para la ejecuci6n del componente de desarrollo
comunitario y gesti6n empresarial; el contrato 06/90 (credito 3113-CO) para la ejecuci6n del componente de organizaci6n y
capacitaci6n tecnica y empresarial, el cual se reemplaz6 por el convenio 278/93 para incluir s6lo el desarrollo de las
actividades de capacitaci6n que le autoriza la ley.
Las Regionales gestionaron la firma de las actas finales de compromiso con las asociaciones de todos los proyectos
contratados en 1996 y 1997 y con el 98% de las que estan administrando los distritos rehabilitados durante estos dos aflos.
9 El INDERENA se rigi6 por el Decreto 2811/74; la Ley 99 de 1993 design6 como autoridades ambientales al Ministerio del
Medio Ambiente y a las Corporaciones Aut6nomas Regionales; a estas les corresponde otorgar la licencia ambiental y la
concesi6n de aguas a los proyectos de pequefla escala; elaborar los terminos de referencia para formular los PMA y
aprobarlos. Esta Ley ordena a los organismos ejecutores invertir el I y el 3 por ciento del costo de los proyectos para
preservar las cuencas abastecedoras de agua y la adquisici6n de areas estrategicas dentro de estas.



37
21.- En cumplimiento del prop6sito de aumentar el portafolio de proyectos de adecuaci6n de
tierras de mediana y gran escala, el Institjto contrat6 el estudio de factibilidad del sistema de
drenaje y la prefactibilidad del sistema de! riego del proyecto Valencia, que arrojaron TIR del
15 y 17 por ciento, respectivamente, y el de factibilidad del proyecto de riego y drenaje
Momp6s, con TIR del 14.4% para el sisteina de drenaje y del 18% para el sistema de riego.
D.- Sostenlibilidad del Proyecto
22.- La sostenibilidad del Proyecto es probable, si se interpreta como tal los esfuerzos que
ha decidido realizar el INAT para lograr ka ampliaci6n de la cobertura y consolidaci6n de los
procesos iniciados de fortalecimiento de las asociaciones de usuarios para que se apropien
de las obras y demas bienes de los distritos, tomando como base los avances alcanzados en
la concepci6n y organizaci6n de la ejecucion de los proyectos a partir de 1995; asi mismo se
exploraran otras fuentes de recursos para financiar nuevos proyectos', para asi amortiguar
los efectos negativos que tendra la crisis fiscal sobre la capacidad de inversi6n del instituto a
partir de 1.998.
23.- Para asegurar la sostenibilidad de las inversiones realizadas en la construccion de 534
distritos, la Direcci6n General ha deterrninado como misiones del Instituto, la prestaci6n
directa de los siguientes servicios: a) gestionar la personerfa juridica de las asociaciones
provisionales de usuarios de 129 distritcs; b) elaborar y ejecutar un programa de entrega
formal de los distritos que han venido adrninistrando las asociaciones de usuarios sin mediar
un contrato escrito; c) disefar los contenidos y dictar cursos de capacitaci6n en gestion
administrativa y financiera, operaci6n y conservaci6n de distritos dirigidos a directivos,
usuarios y fontaneros de los distritos, coii el apoyo de la consultoria para el fortalecimiento
de los servicios complementarios contrataida con la firma CONSULTPLAN; d) legalizar el uso
del agua en 324 distritos, la transferencia de 159 concesiones de agua que estan a nombre
del INAT a las asociaciones.
24.- El INAT continuara promoviendo entre las asociaciones de usuarios la linea del
PRONATTA", administrada por el Ministerio de Agricultura, para que tramiten en 1998 la
cofinanciaci6n de proyectos de capacitaci6n tecnol6gica y desarrollo tecnol6gico que surjan
de las asociaciones de usuarios y formulen entidades publicas y privadas especializadas que
ellas seleccionen como oferentes del servicio, incluyendo al INAT. Para apoyar este proceso,
la Subdirecci6n de Capacitaci6n y Desarnrllo, con el apoyo de CONSULTPLAN y en consulta
con las Direcciones Regionales, identificara areas prioritarias de capacitaci6n e investigaci6n
y disefiara metodologias para que las Direcciones Regionales o formulen, segun el caso, la
elaboraci6n de los proyectos.
25.- Las perspectivas de construir proyectos a traves de otras fuentes a partir de 1998, tiene
como aspecto favorable ia disponibilidad de cerca de 217 proyectos con estudios y diseflos
 El INAT continuara aplicando el Manual Operativo, en su caracter de instrumento metodol6gico, tecnico y operativo para
orientar y conducir la ejecuci6n de nuevos proyectos, para asegurar la participaci6n comunitaria en los proyectos y la
prestaci6n de los servicios complementarios al riego.
En 1997 las Regionales de Cundinamarca, Cauca, Sucre y Arauca prepararon 8 proyectos sobre estos temas que tienen un
costo de $ 587 millones, que estan cumpliendo los tramites para obtener la cofinanciaci6n del PRONATTA. En los proyectos
de capacitaci6n se exige la constituci6n de consorcios o uniones temporales entre la entidad oferente del servicio y las
asociaciones de usuarios.



38
con 22.000 hectareas que beneficiarian a 14.100 familias, de los cuales el 81% fue
financiado con recursos del 3113. Los estudios y disehos de los proyectos elegibles y
prioritarios, estan siendo actualizados y revisados por tecnicos de las Regionales y del
programa "Universidad Empresa" de la Universidad de los Andes.
26.- El INAT solicit6 al BID la inclusi6n de un componente de riego en pequefla escala para
financiar algunos proyectos con recursos del credito 863/OC-CO de 1996, la cual s6lo se
podra concretar si el Gobierno apropia recursos de contrapartida en el presupuesto del INAT
de la vigencia 199812. Adicionalmente el Instituto inici6 contactos con FINAGRO  para
explorar la posibilidad de financiar con recursos de la linea de credito para adecuaci6n de
tierras, utilizando el Incentivo a la Capitalizaci6n Rural - ICR, la construcci6n de proyectos
por la modalidad de organismo ejecutor privado, en los que el INAT podria realizar la
promoci6n y el trabajo comunitario, prestar asistencia t6cnica a las asociaciones de usuarios
en el tramite de los prestamos y en la construcci6n de las obras.
E.- Desempefio del Banco
27.- El desempehlo del Banco fue en general satisfactorio, por el gran apoyo que prest6 al
INAT a partir de 1994, toda vez que coadyuv6 a ajustar el Proyecto a la capacidad real de
ejecuci6n del Instituto, y facilit6 la ejecuci6n de la nueva politica de adecuaci6n de tierras
adoptada en la Ley 41; por su iniciativa, se acordaron orientaciones de politica en relaci6n
con la descentralizaci6n de la ejecuci6n de los proyectos, la elaboraci6n de un programa de
inversion para mejorar el funcionamiento de muchos distritos; la preparaci6n de un adecuado
Manual Operativo para orientar la ejecuci6n del Programa, etc. A ello hay que agregar que
dio la no-objeci6n para apoyar con recursos del Proyecto las actividades de identificaci6n y
supervisi6n de los proyectos y para aplicar los aportes de los beneficiarios en especie, como
parte del valor de las cuotas a su cargo, todo lo cual contribuy6 a reactivar y mejorar la
gestion de los proyectos.
28.- No obstante lo anterior, en la etapa de disefho del Proyecto no prest6 un adecuado
asesoramiento al Gobierno y al INAT, acorde con su experiencia, en el dimensionamiento del
Proyecto y en la valoraci6n de la capacidad operativa y de gesti6n del Instituto para ejecutar
unas metas fisicas y financieras demasiado ambiciosas, debido, mas que todo, a que para
alcanzarlas se adopt6 una estrategia sobre la cual el Instituto no tenia experiencias previas
en la promoci6n de la participaci6n comunitaria. El supuesto de que las familias campesinas
pobres beneficiarias de los proyectos tendrian capacidad para hacer sus aportes en efectivo,
afect6 la ejecuci6n del proyeto durante los primeros afhos.
F.- Desempenio del Prestatario
29.- El desempeho del prestatario (el Gobierno) fue satisfactorio, toda vez que a pesar de la
aguda crisis fiscal apropi6 en el presupuesto de inversi6n del Proyecto las contrapartidas en
12 El 21 de agosto pasado se reunieron en el Ministerio de Agricultura, entre otros, el Viceministro de Politicas de este
Ministerio, dos representantes del BID, el Director General y el Subdirector de Planeaci6n del Inat, el Jefe y un tecnico de
UDA del DNP, con el prop6sito de analizar el estado actual y las perspectivas fituras para la ejecuci6n del credito, quienes
decidieron integrar un grupo de trabajo permanente con representantes de estas entidades y del Ministerio de Hacienda,
para que el 3 de octubre presenten una propuesta para la reformulaci6n del Proyecto.



39
las cuantias que solicit6 el INAT en cada vigencia, en su calidad de entidad ejecutora. Sin
embargo, el escaso Programa Anual de Caja asignado a partir de 1995, asl como la duraci6n
de los tramites (cerca de 45 dias) que debe realizar ante varias dependencias del Gobierno
para que el Banco coloque los recurscs en la cuenta especial, restaron liquidez para
cancelar oportunamente los compromisos contractuales; los frecuentes cambios realizados
en la Direccion General y en la estructura institucional y funciones del INAT y de todas las
entidades cooperantes con las cuales el Instituto suscribi6 convenios como condici6n de
efectividad, afectaron la continuidad en la prestaci6n de algunos servicios, aunque los
cambios en la estructura institucional posibilitaron adecuar al INAT para ejecutar
directamente los servicios de organizaci6n y capacitaci6n comunitaria.
30.- El desempeffo de INAT tambien se puede catalogar de satisfactorlo, toda vez que a
partir de 1995 el INAT realiz6 a traves de algunas dependencias recien creadas coma la
Subdirecci6n de Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo, de los Grupos FONAT, de Gesti6n Ambiental y
del encargado de coordinar su ejecuci6n-esfuerzos importantes que contribuyeron a
dinamizar la ejecuci6n de las metas fisicas, de los componentes y al logro de los objetivos
del proyecto. Asi lo reconoci6 la Mision de Supervisi6n del Banco de abril de 1996, al
resaltar los progresos en la concepci6n y organizaci6n de la ejecuci6n del proyecto, no
obstante, el optimismo durante el diseno del Proyecto y la deficiente gesti6n realizada en los
primeros ahos.
G.- Valoracion de Resultados
31.- El Proyecto logr6 la casi totalidad de las metas fisicas y financieras modificadas en 1994
y avances importantes de las programadas en sus componentes; lo cual, junto con lo
expresado en el Numeral 32 permite evaluar los resultados de la ejecuci6n del Proyecto
como satisfactorio. No obstante, se necesitM un tiempo mayor al inicialmente previsto y se
tuvieron que cancelar US$3.8 millones por causa de la crisis fiscal. Queda pendiente conocer
su impacto en el aumento del ingreso real de los beneficiarios, aunque existen algunas
evidencias que indican que es probable que se logre este objetivo, a pesar de los efectos
negativos que han tenido sobre la rentabilidad y competitividad de la producci6n
agropecuaria, entre otros, la inseguridadl rural, la apertura econ6mica y la revaluaci6n del
peso frente al d6lar.
32.- En cuanto a los servicios contemplados en el componente de transferencia de
tecnolog(a, vale decir que si bien se obtuvieron progresos importantes en su ejecuci6n y se
logr6 un cambio positivo en ia actitud del Instituto y de muchas comunidades beneficiadas,
frente a la estrategia del Proyecto y la nueva politica de adecuaci6n de tierras, se debe
avanzar en el conocimiento de las fortalezas y debilidades de las asociaciones de usuarios,
para diseflar una estrategia que permita rnejorar su capacidad de gesti6n empresarial.
33.- La poca profundidad de los estudios tecnicos, hidrol6gicos y socioecon6micos
realizados en la etapa de preinversi6n explican, en buena medida, el hecho de que algunos
,de los sistemas construidos se encuentran funcionando en forma deficiente, toda vez que,
segun informaci6n de las Regionales, no satisfacen la demanda de agua de los usuarios ni
estan regando el area programada en los diseffos, por causa de deficiencias tecnicas en la
construcci6n de las obras; este problema se puede atribuir en algunos distritos, al excesivo
uso del agua en los cultivos por desconocimiento de los usuarios de las tecnicas de manejo y
aplicaci6n del riego.



40
H.- Operacion Futura
34.- El Gobierno no tiene planes inmediatos para tramitar una nueva operaci6n de credito,
pero si de financiar nuevos proyectos a traves de otras fuentes de recursos disponibles, asi
como de emprender acciones concretas para fortalecer las asociaciones de usuarios de los
distritos en operaci6n y en proceso de construcci6n, para que realicen una gesti6n eficiente
en la administracion, operaci6n y conservaci6n de los sistemas de riego, mejoren su
capacidad productiva y de generaci6n de ingresos, desarrollen un claro sentido de
pertenencia de las obras y demas bienes de los distritos.
I.- Lecciones Claves Aprendidas
35.- Entre las lecciones claves aprendidas en el diseho y ejecuci6n del Proyecto se
mencionan las siguientes:
a).- antes de definir los objetivos y metas del proyecto, se debe valorar la posibilidad real que
tiene el organismo ejecutor de adecuar su politica institucional tradicional, a las estrategias
que se adopten, sobretodo cuando existe un marcado sesgo de la ingenieria sobre lo social,
econ6mico y agron6mico, que dio participaci6n en su ejecuci6n a antiguos funcionarios a
quienes no se les hizo una adecuada inducci6n (numeral 6);
b).- el diseho de un futuro proyecto debe fundamentarse en los resultados que arroje la
valoraci6n de la experiencia pasada, de las condiciones socioecon6micas de la poblaci6n
objetivo y de la capacidad de gesti6n del organismo ejecutor para cumplir funciones que
antes no desarrollaba, porque no hacian parte de su misi6n institucional (Numeral 7);
c).- en concordancia con lo planteado en el literal a), es aconsejable adecuar, desde un
principio, la estructura institucional del organismo ejecutor para darle la capacidad tecnica
necesaria para orientar, coordinar y hacer seguimiento a sus propios trabajos y los que
desarrollen las entidades cooperantes en la prestaci6n de servicios sociales, econ6micos y
tecnol6gicos (numerales 8, 16, 17 y 18 );
d).- la experiencia ha demostrado que muchas Direcciones Regionales no realizan una
adecuada gesti6n de cobro de los aportes a cargo de los beneficiarios, misi6n que pueden
cumplir de manera mas eficiente las asociaciones de usuarios (numeral 13), y
e).- se deben tomar medidas que permitan ampliar la base de la participaci6n comunitaria,
capacitando a las asociaciones de usuarios para que puedan ejercer los derechos que les da
la ley para emitir concepto sobre los disehos y el presupuesto de inversi6n; de participar en
la escogencia de las propuestas para la ejecuci6n de los proyectos, de velar por la correcta
ejecuci6n de las obras y para que cumplan eficientemente con la obligaci6n que tienen de
asumir la administraci6n de los distritos (numeral 14).



41
Appendix C
Translated from Spanish
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR
A. Comments of the National Planning Department
The National Planning Department (DNP), through the Unit for Agrarian
Development, shares the views contained in the report prepared by the Bank, views which
the Unit has discussed with the CONSUAT and has communicated to INAT. The
National Government recognizes that the results have not in general been satisfactory
relative to the resources assigned to the project, and agrees that it is necessary to evaluate
the impact on the productivity, intensity of land use, and income of producers. It would
also be useful for the Bank and National Government to evaluate the final results obtained
with the resources used for project design studies and complementary activities (such as
training and extension), one of the purposes for restructuring the loan. In any event, it is
clear that the experience with SSI has been better up to now, than the experience with
medium and large-scale projects: the impact on small farmers has been more visible and
the implementation more rapid.
The Government wishes to indicate that it was totally committed to the project: it
was attentive to INAT's development, assigned to it sufficient resources to carry out the
project, facilitated the reprogramming of resources for new components and for
extensions of the loan closing dates. However, the new law delayed project
implementation and loan resources ended up being canceled, not solely because of budget
restrictions, but rather due to budget priorities established by INAT for which it had full
decision-making authority. Budget reductions were in part a product of the poor results
obtained by INAT in irrigation and drainage development.
Concerning the changes that the entity went through, it is certain that
implementation was weakened, but in Colombia these types of changes are inevitable. In
addition, the Government considers thai: the change in administration does not explain, in
and of itself, the poor initial developmenit of the project, but rather the change in policy
with the promulgation of law 41 of 199:3 whose basic principles began to be applied in
1992.
We disagree with the Bank's perception that the objective of testing the new legal
and institutional mechanisms for the development of medium-scale irrigation projects was
partially achieved. For the National Government it is necessary to look in much more
depth at this issue: the simple acceptance by potential beneficiaries of the modified design
does not guarantee the realization of the objectives of Law 41.
Another aspect that merits emphasis is that the Government (not just the Bank)
continuously reminded INAT to apply the postulates of the new law, particularly relating
to beneficiary participation and recovery of investment costs.



42
It is absolutely certain that irrigation and drainage development in Colombia will
continue even if it is not managed by INAT and for this reason the Government promoted
the involvement of FINAGRO in financing irrigation investments through the Incentive for
Rural Investment (Incentivo a la Capitalizaci6n).
B. Comments of INAT
We would like to clarify several points related to Section F. Borrower
Performance, para. 19 of the report:
*  Relative to the impact of the six changes in the administration of INAT during
the course of the project, we would like to clarify that since the beginning of
the project, all the directors of INAT, with few exceptions, have maintained a
focus and given priority to carrying out the project. Another matter is that
they did not, since the beginning, have an adequate organization for
implementing it.
v  Relative to the budget and expenditure cuts which badly affected the project
during the last years, this was a problem which affected all public sector
entities and INAT's budget was one of those which experienced less reduction
relative to others.
Finally, we would like to respectfully indicate that despite agreeing with the
analysis presented by the Bank in Section F. Borrower Performance and G. Assessment of
Outcome, we believe that the rating of deficient is not consistent with the points raised in
various parts of the document about the significant efforts since 1995 of both the
Government and INAT to improve the conception and organization of project
implementation, community participation and organization, and environmental aspects,
among others.



MAP SECTION



4  0  t5C Q i tjie~~'o      A   f 250Z0o/W 
t-   :WLDMB:IA  ~~~~~~~~0 00 :SO   i0:    C tf0V 00  050\                   v          
COLOMBIAS
A  A C~~~~Pvei H*0'0i4. 
W   NCV    at00                S,                                                - 7.   ECUADOR    AMAZONAS   --
77R  E C U AD OE R~,C00d         A 4  os   .<                 -                  E N E Z U E L A
eJ   78'                      7d'               <', C*  74'N                               A         *c-
PANAMA                    P.  ~~~~~~~~~CSAAR
C~~~~ H    C 0TO~                                         ENZUL
a- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



