Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3113 CO
Loan Agreement
(Small-Scale Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 25, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3113 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, 
Meteorologia y Adecuacion de Tierras (HIMAT) with the Borrower and other agencies 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to HIMAT 
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
HIMAT;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco de la Republica;
 
(c)
"Contractual Arrangement" means each of the arrangements to be entered 
into between HIMAT and the entities specified in Section 2.01 (b) (i) of the Project 
Agreement and such other entities as shall be proposed by HIMAT and agreed to by the 
Bank from time to time;
(d)
"Estatutos" means the estatutos of HIMAT as enacted by the Borrower's 
Decree No. 132 of 1976, and as such Estatutos may be amended from time to time;
(e)
"Caja" means "Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero", the 
Borrower's bank of agrarian, industrial and mining credit;
(f)
"IDNP" means the Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, the Borrower's 
National Planning Department;
(g)
"Fondo" means the Fondo Financiero Agropecuario, the Agricultural 
Financing Fund in
Colombia, an autonomous public fund established under the Borrower's Law 5 dated March 
29, 1973, and administered by Banco de la Republica; 
(h)
"ICA" means the Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario, the Colombian 
Agricultural Institute;
(i)
"INCORA" means the Instituto   Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria, the 
Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform;
(j)
"INDERENA" means the Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables, 
the Borrower's National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources;
(k)
"SENA" means Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje, the Borrower's National 
Apprenticeship Service;
(l)
"Manual" means the policy and procedures manual approved by HIMAT for 
purposes of the Project pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement;
(m)
"peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
 
(n)
"Farmers" means the farmers, as so defined by the Manual, benefitting 
from the irrigation schemes or the technical assistance and extension services 
provided under the Project;
(o)
"Annual Investment Program" means the annual investment program to be 
furnished by HIMAT to the Bank for approval pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written 
approval of the Bank;
(p)
"La Mojana area" means the flood and alluvial area of about 450,000 
Page  3
hectares in the northern plains of Colombia bound by the rivers Magdalena and Cauca;
(q)
"Sub-Project" means a specific small-scale irrigation project financed or 
to be financed and carried out under the Project, which meets the criteria set forth 
in the Manual and has been included in an Annual Investment Program approved by the 
Bank;
(r)
"Operational Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into by 
HIMAT referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement;
(s)
"Project Agreement' means the agreement between the Bank and HIMAT of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(t)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement' means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and HIMAT pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(u)
"Municipality" means each Municipio, as so defined by the legislation of 
the Borrower, within which territory a road is to be improved or repaired under Part A 
(2) of the Project and Municipalities means all such collectively; and
(v)
"Maintenance Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into between 
HIMAT and one or more Municipalities for the periodic and adequate maintenance by the 
Municipality of a road to be repaired or improved by HIMAT under Part A (2) of the 
Project, referred to in Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement, and "Maintenance 
Agreements" means all or any such Maintenance Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seventy-eight million two 
hundred thousand dollars ($78,200,000), being the sum of the proceeds of the Loan, 
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars the Special Account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and HIMAT of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the 
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest 
Page  4
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, 
beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding 
such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated to 
fund: (A) the Bank' s investments and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. HIMAT is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
Page  5
shall cause HIMAT to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of HIMAT therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
HIMAT to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
As part of the foregoing, the Borrower shall cause: each of CAJA, SENA, 
ICA and INCORA and such other entities as proposed by HIMAT and agreed to by the Bank 
to enter into Contractual Arrangements, and that each duly perform their respective 
obligations under such
Contractual Arrangements; and (ii) INDERENA, Secretaria de Agricultura de Antioquia, 
and Secretaria de Desarrollo, del Norte de Santander to enter into an Operational 
Agreement with HIMAT and to duly perform its obligations under the Operational 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to HIMAT under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HIMAT, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by HIMAT 
pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower undertakes: (a) to cause Caja and Fondo to provide, adequate 
funds and other resources required to carry out the credit program included under Part 
B of the Project, for the beneficiaries of the irrigation schemes established under 
the Project, such credit to be provided
on adequate amounts and terms and in accordance with sound financial standards and 
appropriate banking practices; and (b) without limitation to the provision of 
paragraph (a) hereof, to exchange views with the Bank, within 30 days of a request of 
either of them, if the Borrower shall have changed, altered or failed to implement, in 
the opinion of the Borrower or the Bank, the Borrower's current policy on agricultural 
interest rates, which is reflected by its JUNTA MONETARIA resolution No. 28 dated 
December 28, 1988 which provides, in the opinion of the Borrower and the Bank, an
acceptable fiscal, economic and financial environment for the purposes of investments 
to be made pursuant to Part B of the Project.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(a)
the Borrower shall make adequate allocations in its Budget for each 
fiscal year to provide HIMAT with sufficient funds for HIMAT in such fiscal year to 
carry out the Annual Investment Program in respect of such year, and shall ensure that 
HIMAT has, at all times, and
is provided promptly with, sufficient funds to meet expenditures under each Annual 
Investment Program; and
(b)
at the request of either of them, the Borrower and the Bank shall 
exchange views on the adequacy of the Budgetary allocations referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section with respect to the following fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the agencies 
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section,
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the Estatutos of HIMAT or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended or abrogated in a manner in which, in the Bank's opinion, would 
affect, materially and adversely, the operation or financial condition of HIMAT or the 
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
that, after an exchange of views with the Borrower, pursuant to Section 
3.04 (b) of this Agreement, the Bank determines that the change, alteration or 
non-implementation of the Borrower's policy on agricultural interest rates referred to 
therein has an adverse effect on the investments made, or to be made, pursuant to Part 
B of the Project, or the attainment of the objectives of the Project;
Page  7
(e)
any party to a Contractual Arrangement or to an Operational Agreement, 
shall have failed to perform any obligation under the relevant Contractual Arrangement 
or Operational Agreement;
(d)
HIMAT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(e)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that HIMAT will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(f)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of HIMAT or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. ursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the events specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall 
occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
HIMAT has entered into Contractual Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank 
(i) with ICA for the execution of Part C (i) of the Project; (ii) with Caja Agraria 
and INCORA for the execution of Part C (ii) of the Project; and (iii) with SENA for 
the execution of Part C (iii) of the Project;
(b)
HIMAT has entered into Operational Agreements: (i) for the purposes of 
carrying out Part C (ii) of the Project with the Secretaria de Agricultura de 
Antioquia, and the Secretaria de Desarrollo de Norte de Santander; and (ii) for the 
purposes of carrying out Part E of the Project with INDERENA;
(c)
the Borrower and HIMAT have entered into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; and
(d)
HIMAT has formally approved the Manual.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Contractual Arrangements and Operational Agreements referred to 
in Section 6.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement have been duly executed and are legally 
binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with their terms;
(b)
that HIMAT has formally approved the Manual in accordance with the 
Estatutos;
(c)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by HIMAT, 
and is legally binding upon HIMAT in accordance with its terms; and
(d)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and HIMAT and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HIMAT in 
accordance with its terms.
Page  8
Section 6.03. The date April 25, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota, D.E.
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Victor Mosquera Chaux
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Catetory
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)  Civil works              55,300,000
55%
     under Parts A
     and F of the
     Project
(2)  Equipment and       
     700,000
100% of foreign
     vehicles under                   
expenditures and
     Part D of the                    
80% of local
     Project                          
expenditures for
locally procured
imported items
(3)  Consultants,     
  15,700,000      
100% of foreign
     services                         
expenditures and
     and training                     
60% of local
     under Parts A,                 
expenditures
     D and F of the
     Project
(4)  Technical Assistance       500,000   
60%
     and Research
     Activities under
     Part C (i) of
     the Project
(5)  Technical Assistance     2,000,000 
90%
     and Extension
     Activities under
     Part C (ii)
     of the Project
(6)  Unallocated              4,000,000
     TOTAL                   78,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term 'local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 1, 1989;
(b)
expenditures under a Subproject, unless such Subproject has been included 
in an Annual Investment Program approved by the Bank; and
Page  10
(c)
expenditures in respect of the repair or improvement of roads under 
Municipal jurisdiction under Part A (2) of the Project, unless the Bank shall have 
received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that a Maintenance Agreement has been 
entered into between HIMAT and the relevant Municipality or Municipalities.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase agricultural productivity and 
cropping intensity and thereby the rural incomes of approximately 43,000 small-scale 
farmers; (b) reduce market risks by having a more even-distribution of production 
throughout the course of the year; (c) develop the technological bass for future 
development of La Mojana area; (d)  improve cost recovery from public sector 
investment in irrigation and thereby reduce the present subsidies to waterusers, for 
fiscal as well as for resource allocation purposes; and (e)  strengthen community 
participation in the construction, financing, operation and management of the 
irrigation schemes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Off-Farm Irrigation Infrastructure
 
1.
Provision of irrigation to about 43,000 Farmers working in areas totalling about 
60,000 hectares through the construction of approximately the following irrigation 
schemes ranging from 20 to 300 hectares in size:
(i)
approximately 800 diversion schemes to deviate perennial streams 
on the lower
Andean slopes by use of diversion and headwork control structures, 
and
(ii)
approximately 50 reservoir schemes to create small reservoirs on 
intermittent
streams in the slopes of the northern part of Colombia.
2.
The repair or improvement of approximately 1,300 kilometers of existing access 
roads to facilitate access to rural areas, and distribution of agricultural inputs.
Part B:
On-Farm Investments
 
The financing, through credits, of (i) agricultural on-farm investments, and 
inputs; and (ii) the acquisition of small, on farm irrigation equipment.
Part C:
Technology Transfer
 
(i)
Development and application of suitable technological packages for 
irrigation 
on sloping areas; and 
(ii)
contracting of about 314 extension agents in Caja, INCORA and 
other extension 
agencies with responsibility for disseminating such 
technological packages and 
the provision of technical assistance 
related thereto; and 
(iii)
training of Farmers by SENA on operation and maintenance of 
irrigation schemes 
and community organization.
 
Part D:
Institutional Development
 
The strengthening of HIMAT's capacity to manage and implement the Project and to 
improve intra institutional and inter institutional coordination, by means of:
(a)
consultants' services improving: (i) internal organization, information 
and management systems; (ii) individual management training; and (iii) communication 
Page  11
with communities of Farmers;
(b)
local training for about 6,700 staff of ICA, INCORA, Caja and SENA, HIMAT 
and INDERENA and such other entities, acceptable to the Bank, involved in the 
execution of the Project, and overseas training for 21 of HIMAT's staff in irrigation, 
water management skills, etc;
(c)
acquisition and utilization of about 19 four-wheel drive vehicles, 28 
motorcycles, 15 personal computers and video and communication equipment, all for the 
use of HIMAT's fifteen regional offices; and
(d)
preparation of biannual project evaluation reports and promotional 
material for the Project.
Part E:
Environmental Protection
 
(i)
carrying out of soil conservation activities on 1,075 hectares, to 
include
inter alia reforestation in the water catchment areas for the 
irrigation 
schemes built under Part A of the Project and the 
construction of small 
physical structures (gully plugs, 
trenches and terraces) in critical watershed 
areas, and 
(ii)
environmental supervision of the irrigation Sub-Projects.
 
Part F:
La Mojana Area Pilot Project
 
Studies for the identification of suitable cropping systems: (i) land management 
techniques, including as needed execution of civil works; and (ii) execution of pilot 
investments and field trials of such systems and techniques in representative areas of 
La Mojana area.
*   *   * 
The Project is expected to be completed December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1995
through March 15, 2006
3,260,000
 
On September 15, 2006
3,220,000
 
_____________________
Page  12
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the  
General  Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on 
the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years               
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but               
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                   
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not            
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years but not           
1.00
more than eighteen years
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost $70,000 equivalent or more but less 
than $500,000 and contracts for goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent 
but less than $100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  13
2.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 per contract or less, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $150,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three qualified contractors or suppliers, as the case may be, 
eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Without limitation upon the provisions of the Guidelines, in respect of 
procurement of goods, works and services made:
1.
pursuant to Part A of this Schedule:
 
(a)
no requirement of local agents for foreign bidders shall be made;
 
(b)
no prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required;
 
(c)
no provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied;
 
(d)
bids for goods shall be evaluated on a C.I.F. basis;
(e)
freight costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for purposes of 
bid evaluation; and
2.
pursuant to Part A or Part C of this Schedule:
 
(a)
awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders.
 
(b)
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, civil works and goods for each 
irrigation scheme to be constructed under Part A of the Project shall be procured 
under a single contract.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to the first five contracts for goods and civil works 
procured under the procedures referred to in Part C of this Schedule under the limits 
set forth in this paragraph and each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 and each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs and 4 of 
Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix I 
to the Guidelines.
Page  14
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause HIMAT to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5), inclusive, 
set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts (A), (C), (D) and (F) of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been made out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
Page  15
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for Parts A through F of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts A through F of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories for Parts A through F of the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
