Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3113-CO
Project Agreement
(Small Scale Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE HIDROLOGIA,
METEOROLOGIA Y ADECUACION DE TIERRAS
Dated January 25, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3113-CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE HIDROLOGIA, METEOROLOGIA Y 
ADECUACION DE TIERRAS (HIMAT).
WHEREAS (A) by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy eight million two 
hundred thousand dollars ($78,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that HIMAT agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and HIMAT, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to HIMAT on the
terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary loan agreement; and
WHEREAS HIMAT, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) HIMAT declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A, D and F of
the Project by itself and Parts B and C, with the assistance of each of Caja, INCORA, 
SENA and ICA, or such other entities as proposed by HIMAT and agreed to by the Bank, 
pursuant to the terms of the respective Contractual Arrangements to be entered into 
therewith, and Part E with the assistance of INDERENA, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, 
engineering, construction and road safety practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project as provided in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, (i) HIMAT shall enter into an agreement, (the Contractual 
Arrangement) with each of Caja, SENA, ICA, and INCORA, and such other entities as 
proposed by HIMAT and agreed to by the Bank, such agreements to be satisfactory to the 
Bank, and to provide, inter alia, for the provision of technical assistance, extension 
and research services to Farmers and the financing thereof by HIMAT under the Project; 
and (ii) HIMAT shall enter into agreements (the Operational Agreements), satisfactory 
to the Bank, with INDERENA and local or regional entities or agencies, as required for 
the timely and efficient execution of the Project.
(c)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, HIMAT shall not amend, abrogate, 
waive or fail to enforce the Contractual Arrangements and the Operational Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement, not later than October 31, 1989, HIMAT shall: (a) prepare and submit to the 
Bank final terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank for an international management expert, and (b) 
employ an international land management expert by March 31, 1990, with qualification, 
experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the execution of the pilot projects 
in La Mojana Area under Part F of the Project.
Section 2.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, HIMAT shall (a) prepare and submit to the Bank final terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank for a project evaluation consultant and about three 
institutional development consultants, by September 30, 1989, and December 31, 1989, 
respectively; (b) employ such consultants not later than March 31, 1990; and (c) in 
addition to the 40 incremental professional and technical staff engaged as of May 25, 
1989 assign to, or employ, for the purposes of carrying out Parts A, C and D of the 
Project, the following additional qualified professional and technical staff (i) by no 
later than January 31, 1990, seventeen, and (ii) by no later than January 31, 1991, 
seven, and maintain all such 64 staff until the Project completion.
Section 2.05. HIMAT shall, no later than October 31, 1989, and October 31, of 
each year thereafter until the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, annual operating training programs, satisfactory to the Bank, containing a 
description of all training activities to be carried out in the following calendar 
Page  3
year under the Project.
Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, HIMAT shall prepare and furnish to the Bank: (a) by October 31 
of each year, starting
October 31, 1989, for approval, its annual work program, (the Annual Investment 
Program), such Annual Investment Program to be of such scope and detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, inter alia to include: (i) a list of the Sub-Projects which 
meet the criteria and standards set forth in the Manual and have been selected taking 
into account the accessibility for purposes of
execution and supervision of the areas where such Sub-Projects are to be carried out; 
(ii) a list of the extension agencies selected by HIMAT to provide extension services 
in respect of each SubProject under both the Operational Agreements and the 
Contractual Arrangements during the immediately following calendar year; and (iii) 
details of the other related project activities to take place during the immediately 
following calendar year; (b) on April 30, 1990, and on the same date in each 
subsequent year, an annual project progress report, of such scope and detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request; and (c) on April 30, 1991, and on the same date in 
alternate years thereafter, biannual evaluation reports on the Project's effect on 
farmland use, productivity and farm income and the environmental impact of the 
Project.
Section 2.07. (a) HIMAT shall put into effect a Manual satisfactory to the Bank, 
for purposes of the Project, containing, inter alia, the selection criteria for 
Sub-Projects, financial requirements for Farmers and cost recovery measures including 
payment of at least twenty percent (20%) of the cost of the off farm irrigation 
investments included in each Sub-Project, all on farm investment costs and the costs 
of operating and maintenance of the irrigation facilities constructed and equipped 
under each Sub-Project.
(b)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, HIMAT shall not repeal, amend or 
fail to apply the Manual or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.08. HIMAT shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,  use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) with respect to the Project.
Section 2.09. HIMAT shall, prior to repairing or improving any works on roads 
under Municipal jurisdiction under Part A (2) of the Project enter into a Maintenance 
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the relevant Municipalities for the 
adequate maintenance of such roads.
Section 2.10. (a) HIMAT shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
HIMAT shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the
performance by HIMAT of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.11. HIMAT shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, the Contractual Arrangements, the Operational Agreements, and the 
Maintenance Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HIMAT shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Contractual Arrangements, the 
Operational Agreements and the Maintenance Agreements, or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of HIMAT
Section 3.01. HIMAT shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
Page  4
accordance with sound administrative, construction, engineering and agricultural 
practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. HIMAT shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, construction, and financial practices.
Section 3.03. HIMAT shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) HIMAT shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including
separate accounts for the Project and including, without limitation, appropriate and 
adequate records of the Farmers' contribution to off-farm irrigation infrastructure 
investments.
(b)
HIMATshall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the separate 
records and accounts referred to 
in (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank:
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available but in any case not later 
than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, HIMAT shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HIMAT 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify HIMAT thereof.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,  telegram, cable, 
telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction ant Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For HIMAT:
Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia,
   Meteorologia y Adecuacion de Tierras
Apdo. Aereo 20032
Bogota, D.E. Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
HIMAT
44345
Bogota
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HIMAT,  or by 
HIMAT on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Director General de 
HIMAT (the Director General of HIMAT) or such other person or persons as the Director 
General de HIMAT shall
designate in writing, and HIMAT shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America,  as of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting  Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE HIDROLOGIA,
   METEOROLOGIA Y ADECUACION DE TIERRAS
By /s/ Victor Mosquera Chaux
Authorized Representative
