                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35265

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-28810)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR44.0 MILLION (US$64.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                       DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                                 FOR A

                TEACHER EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEPLOYMENT PROJECT




                                              June 16, 2006




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective October 2005)

                   Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupee (LKR)
                       LKR 1.00 = US$ 0.00986
                        US$ 1.00 = LKR 101.42 (September 2005)

                         FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 -     December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB          Asian Development Bank
AusAID       Australian Agency for International Development
CCTE         Chief Commissioner for Teacher Education
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
ESDFP        Education Sector Development Framework and Program
GEP          General Education Project
GOSL         Government of Sri Lanka
MEHE         Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOE          Ministry of Education
NATE         National Authority on Teacher Education
NCOE         National College of Education
NEC          National Education Commission
NIE          National Institute of Education
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
TC           Teacher Center
TEI          Teacher Education Institute
TETD         Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project
TTC          Teacher Training Colleges

                  Vice President:     Praful C. Patel
               Country Director:      Peter C. Harrold
                Sector Manager:       Michelle Riboud
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Helen J. Craig

                                         SRI LANKA
                         Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                          33

Project ID: P042266                                                  Project Name: Teacher Education and Teacher
                                                                     Deployment
Team Leader: Helen J. Craig                                          TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-28810
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (97%); Sub-national government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/22/1995                                     Effective: 08/27/1996                08/27/1996
     Appraisal: 04/18/1996                                         MTR: 11/01/1999                  11/01/1999
      Approval: 06/13/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 10/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishmizu
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Manager:                 Michelle Riboud                                Barbara Herz
Team Leader at ICR:             Helen J. Craig                                 Albert E. Aime
ICR Primary Author:             Venkatesh Sundararaman


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall project objectives were to improve the quality, cost-effectiveness, and coverage of education in
Sri Lanka. Specifically, the project was designed to: (i) improve educational attainment and equity by
ensuring that better trained teachers were widely available in schools; (ii) improve system efficiency by
rationalizing teacher recruitment, training, and deployment policies; (iii) make more effective use of
education expenditure by using resources freed up through rationalization to increase non-teacher schooling
inputs; (iv) improve the quality of teacher education and training by modifying coordination and
certification procedures; and (v) make the teacher training system more cost effective through institutional
rationalization and the streamlining of their functions. The project substantially achieved its stated
development objectives.

The objectives were realistic as they accurately addressed the major education sector issues relating to: (i)
about 50,000 mostly untrained teachers recruited during 1989-1995; (ii) a teacher deployment system that
did not make teachers available in teacher shortage areas; (iii) a weak teacher training system; and (iv) the
limited content and type of education provided at primary and secondary levels.

The objectives were appropriate in that they responded to Government's priorities, as identified in the
framework for national educational reform by the National Education Commission (NEC), and were also
aligned with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of 1996. These priorities focused on
improving the quality, equity, internal and external efficiency and financing of the education system.
Government and IDA agreed in 1995 to address the proposed education reforms through two related
projects. Teacher issues were to be addressed through the Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment
Project (TETD), and other issues related to improving education quality and equitable access were to be
addressed through the Second General Education Project (GEP2, Cr 3014-CE). However, the project
objectives were overly ambitious in terms of trying to achieve many substantial reforms within the five year
project period, especially considering the range of policy and institutional improvements that were sought
across a national project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$79.3 million equivalent of which the IDA contribution was
US$64.1 million equivalent. A summary of the costs by component is provided in the following table.




                                                     - 2 -

                                      Component                                             Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)
                                                                                   Total          IDA             % Bank
                                                                                                  Allocations     financed
 A. Rationalization of Teacher Deployment                                               0.2            0.2                  100.0
 B. Rationalization of Structure and Organization                                       0.9            1.0                  111.0
 C. Upgrading of Teacher Education Programs                                             3.7            3.1                   83.8
 D. Strengthening of Staff and Management                                              11.8           11.3                   95.7
 E. Strengthening and Upgrading of Teacher Training Institutions                       49.4           48.1                   97.4
 F. * Strengthening Management and Administration of Teacher                           (0.6)
 Education Institutions
 G. Studies and Monitoring                                                              0.3            0.3                  100.0
 H. Project Coordination                                                                1.4            0.1                   7.1
   TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                                 79.3           64.1                   80.8
 Note: Total project costs include additional US$11.6 million for price and physical contingencies. * This component is listed as a
 separate component in the text, but not in the financing schedule of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The cost of US$11.8 million
 for Component D, includes US$ 0.6 for Component F, as noted in Annex 11 of the SAR.



The components were appropriately designed to address the project objectives. The project design is rated
satisfactory. The rating is based on the project activities being clearly linked to the objectives and the
Borrower's priorities and implementation capacities as assessed at project preparation. The priorities
included policy measures to improve teacher deployment, rationalization of teacher training institutions,
and improving the quality of teacher educators and teacher training facilities. The policy measures
involved substantial risks, given Sri Lanka's political climate where policies can change rapidly. Extensive
stakeholder participation at central and decentralized levels was undertaken during project preparation to
minimize the risks. The project design was influenced by experience in implementing the first IDA-financed
Sri Lanka social sector projects whose lessons were taken into account during project preparation. The
lessons included the need for: (i) strong borrower ownership at both central and provincial levels, and (ii)
securing up-front commitments to implementing policy reforms, while making allowance for a complex
bureaucracy operating in a potentially volatile political environment.

The project had eight original components which are summarized here: Component A: Rationalization of
Teacher Deployment aimed to improve the quality, equity and cost-effectiveness of school staffing by: (i)
controlling teacher recruitment; (ii) relating projected teacher demand to teacher supply; (iii) linking the
cadre entitlement for each province to the budget allocation for salaries; and (iv) requiring all teachers
entering the service to have successfully completed an accredited teacher education program. Component
B: Rationalization of Structure and Organization of Teacher Education aimed to establish a national
framework for an integrated and cost-effective system of teacher education, with a coordinating mechanism
that covered all institutions involved in training teachers. Component C: Updating Teacher Education
Programs aimed          to upgrade the initial and continuing teacher education programs, to create a better
learning climate in the schools by raising the quality of teaching, and to make the teacher education
program more cost-effective. Component D: Strengthening of Staff and Management aimed to
strengthen both academic and administrative staff capabilities. Component E: Strengthening and
Upgrading of Teacher Training Institutions aimed to rationalize the number and location of teacher
education institutions to improve regional equity and to meet the projected needs for initial and continuing
education; and also improve the quality of facilities and equipment. Component F: Strengthening
Management of Teacher Training Institutions aimed to give teacher education institutions the
opportunities and training for self-management, including management of their budgets. Component G:
Studies and Monitoring supported studies for monitoring the progress and impact of policy initiatives and
associated strategies central to project implementation. Component H: A Project Coordination Unit was



                                                              - 3 -

established to coordinate the implementation and monitoring of the project.

Notwithstanding the above rating, there were nevertheless three design shortcomings: (i) the design of the
project could have been simplified by organizing the components under three main themes matching the
three project objectives to improve the quality, cost-effectiveness, and coverage of education; (ii) the initial
five year time frame to implement substantial policy reforms was too ambitious for the complexity of these
reforms; and (iii) TETD and GEP2 were linked both as part of the broader national education reforms, as
well as through the specific provision of support for quality inputs (GEP2), subject to satisfactory
performance on teacher employment and deployment (TETD). Initially, there was a strong incentive for the
provinces to set and pursue targets. However, as the funding for quality inputs was on a sliding scale and,
in fact, cut out prior to project completion (to be replaced by Government funds), the incentive was no
longer effective. Making the provision of support for quality inputs in GEP2 conditional upon TETD's
satisfactory teacher employment and deployment complicated project implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
When the project was first designed in 1996, all parts of the country were included as beneficiaries.
However, with the increase in civil conflict from 1997-2001, implementation was adversely affected,
especially in the North East Province where the greatest impact of the conflict was experienced. After an
extension of the Closing Date from December 2001 to December 2002 to accommodate this slow
implementation, the project underwent a restructuring in December 2002, and an additional two year
extension was made to December 2004. New components were developed because: (i) with the cessation of
the civil conflict in 2002, opportunities opened up again to undertake activities in the conflict-affected
areas; (ii) Government's new priorities also included encouraging greater social unity and stronger work
force development across the country which lead to the promotion of English and IT education; and (ii)
considerable savings were made from the slow implementation period in the initial years. These savings
increased further with the depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee. No new funding was required for the new
components. The original objectives remained unchanged. A further 10 month extension to October 2005
was made to complete implementation of the three new components.

The new components were: (i) Reconstruction for Conflict-affected Areas (estimated at US$4.55
million). This component was introduced to support efforts to enhance education quality in the
conflict-affected areas, primarily in the North East Province. The component consisted largely of civil
works projects for teacher education institutions and teacher centers; (ii) English Language Competence
(estimated at US$4.2 million).      This component aimed to train English teachers and teacher educators,
and to strengthen teacher education programs, and (iii) Information Technology (IT) Based Education
(estimated at US$2.38 million). This component aimed to improve the IT competencies of teacher
educators, provincial and zonal officers and teachers; and to equip eight provincial IT Centers. The quality
of design for the new components is rated satisfactory as the components accurately reflected the
Borrower's priorities and capacities. Also, while not a component of the Project, US$1.01 million was
transferred to the Tsunami Emergency Recovery Program in 2005.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This is rated satisfactory. Even though no formal Quality at Entry criteria were available at project
preparation, the project followed standards consistent with quality assurance practices. The project was
aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy, and was prepared by a national committee under the
leadership of the Ministry of Education (MOE) with a broader consultative process to ensure the
Borrower's ownership, commitment, participation and readiness for implementation. Consistency with
national and regional priorities in education reform strategies was ensured during the preparation of the
project by linking with the priorities of the National Education Commission framework. Implementation



                                                      - 4 -

strategies also drew upon the recommendations of the Education and Training Strategy Review (June
1994) and the report on Policies and Strategies for Teacher Education and Teacher Development (1995).

During project preparation, a range of risks ­ design, implementation, financial and political -- were
identified and analyzed, and it was deemed that ignoring or avoiding the issues in teacher education would
be more risky than attempting the changes proposed. Comparative analyses were made of various
scenarios of modifying student-teacher ratios and salary costs, as well as various ways of providing
cost-effective teacher education and training. The design chosen, while very ambitious, was deemed both
feasible and cost-effective.

Despite the overall appropriateness of the project's focus and the targeting of specific issues, impediments
to ensuring complete implementation readiness included: (i) absence of Project Coordination Unit personnel
with sufficient experience in handling financial management and procurement activities of Bank-funded
Projects; (ii) lack of an effective mechanism to systematically collect and evaluate monitoring data; (iii) too
many output performance indicators, with insufficient focus on outcomes.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This is rated satisfactory, in the absence of a `moderately satisfactory' rating option. The satisfactory
rating is justified on the grounds of the substantial achievements of the original quantitative targets and
qualitative objectives, despite political instability during the earlier years of project implementation.
Nevertheless, while the achievements were substantial, they were also uneven. It should also be noted that
certain aspects of some components were rated as unsatisfactory because of shortfalls against the original
objectives in some outputs. These were due largely to policy shifts by changing governments over the
nine-year project period. These output shortfalls masked achievements in other aspects of the components.

The project substantially achieved its objective of improving education quality through:

(i) increasing educational attainment and equity with a much larger stock of well trained teachers across the
country, as evidenced by the decline in the average repetition rate for Grades 6-10 from 3.2% in 1996 to
0.8% in 2002 (thus reducing education cycle cost) and in the average drop out rate for Grades 1-10 from
3.2% in 1996 to 2.2% in 2002. While performance in learning outcomes for Grade 5 in 1994 and 1999
have remained constant in terms of literacy (average rate of 61%), it has improved in numeracy from 45%
in 1994 to 50% in 1999. Grade 4 data in 2004 showed that 57.2% of students scored above 61% in their
first language, and 56.8% scored above 61% in mathematics. Moreover, the primary cycle completion rate
increased from 78.3% in 1996 to 95.7% in 2004;

(ii) improving the quality of teacher education by: (a) establishing a National Teacher Educator Service to
strengthen teacher educator qualifications, with emphasis on content knowledge and pedagogical skills; and
(b) upgrading teacher training programs by developing, with support from the National Education Institute,
24 courses for preservice and 20 core courses for inservice, to respond to the revised curriculum;

(iii) improving teaching practice with the adoption of child-friendly and interactive learning approaches,
and the application of teaching techniques learned in training to teach the revised curriculum;

(iv) contributing to intensive training of untrained teachers, with the result that by project-end, 98% of
teachers in service were trained;




                                                       - 5 -

(v) training teachers, in accordance with Government's new priorities, in teaching/learning of the English
language and information technology-based education; and

(vi) supporting the newly established, independent National Education Research and Evaluation Center
(NEREC) at the University of Colombo in carrying out educational research and evaluation studies.

Substantial progress was also made in regard to the objective of improving education coverage. Access to
teacher education widened considerably, especially for the primary program, with the country-wide
establishment and upgrading of teacher training institutions, i.e. 100 Teacher Centers for inservice training;
and 17 National Colleges of Education for preservice and inservice training. The equity in coverage led to
an improved learning environment for teachers, with the provision of physical infrastructure across the
country, together with the needed equipment, materials and furniture, including for educating teachers in
the government priorities of English language and IT-based education proficiency. Further, provision of
infrastructure in conflicted areas, which included National Colleges of Education (NCOEs) in Jaffna and
Batticaloa and Teacher Centers greatly improved access to preservice and inservice, especially for
Tamil-medium teachers. This is important to address the continuing teacher shortages in Tamil medium.

However, much less progress was made in achieving the objective of improving cost-effectiveness in
education,especially in rationalizing teacher recruitment and deployment, teacher education institutions and
educational expenditures. Employment of excess teachers increased rather than decreased salary costs, and
failure to rationalize the varied assortment of teacher education institutions added to the cost of operating
and maintaining the system. However, Government did increase the education budget, by 33% in 2006, for
both capital and recurrent expenditures to meet this increased expenditure. It is also commendable that
there was no reduction in Government's contribution for quality inputs.

Despite these shortcomings, reasonable progress in improving cost-effectiveness was made in the following
areas:

(i) the upgrading of skills of teacher educators substantially improved the management capacity and quality
of the teacher education system, with many teacher educators having completed degrees mostly as targeted:
0.2% PhDs (target - 10%); 59% Master's (target ­ 45%); 89% Post Graduate Diploma in Education
(target ­ 35-40%); and 89% with first degrees (target -10-15% with first degree only). Moreover, 72% of
long-term fellowships were completed (168 Masters and 12 Doctorates);

(ii) the student teacher ratio improved by project-end in NCOEs to 13.4:1 (89% of target), as opposed to
9:1 in Teacher Training Colleges and 13:1 in Colleges of Education in 1994; and

(iii) the implementation of national training policies helped rationalize training expenditures, especially
through improved needs assessments geared towards the revised curriculum. In addition, it is to be noted
that until 2004, the goal of rationalizing teacher recruitment and deployment was within reach by applying
a comprehensive set of guidelines on teaching staff requirements using a formula, generally referred to as
the Ready Reckoner, to achieve the agreed Student/Teacher ratio of 25.4:1 for primary education and 21:1
for secondary; however, this was vitiated by the recruitment of 17,000 new graduates in 2005, without
regard to the agreed policy and targets, and the Ready Reckoner formula.

In addition to the above achievements under TETD, the MOE over the last decade, has also successfully
overcome enormous education challenges, encompassing system-wide reforms in curriculum and textbook
development, (including a revised curriculum policy framework, and an updated national book policy which
has introduced competitive processes with the private sector); a rationalized school structure reorganized


                                                      - 6 -

into Junior (grades 1-9) and Senior (grades 10-13), and increased efficiency, equity and transparency in the
distribution of educational financial resources, including for school managed quality inputs. These have
been accomplished as part of the Second General Education Project, which began implementation a year
after TETD. Both projects continued implementation concurrently.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The following is a summary of the outputs by component (see Annex 1 for details).

Component A: Rationalization of Teacher Deployment. This component is rated unsatisfactory
because changes in Government policy in the last extended year of the project to employ an additional
17,000 graduates effectively undermined the original objective, even though satisfactory progress was made
to contain teacher employment by 2004. This rating should be balanced against the positive achievements
reached earlier in more equitable deployment of teachers between and within most provinces, which were
facilitated by Transfer Boards established in all provinces. Also, by 2004, the target for student teacher
ratios was met for Secondary schools (22:1), and virtually met for primary schools (actual 25.4:1 versus
the target 26:1). While the final student teacher ratios were difficult to firmly establish at the time of project
closure in 2005 since the appointments of the additional 17,000 graduates were still in progress, it was
estimated that the national ratios were more likely to be around 19:1 with the range across districts from
17-26:1. Attempts to institute an incentives scheme for staffing remote schools by the end of project closure
were less than successful due largely to shortage of funds. The target to have all teachers fully trained
before entering the teaching service was mostly achieved, with only 2% of teachers remaining untrained at
project closure. However, this does not account for the new 17,000 graduates to be employed, most of
which have no teaching credentials. Government was preparing an intense three month teacher training
induction for these graduates.

Component B: Rationalization of Structure and Organization. This component is rated as
unsatisfactory because the objectives were largely not met at end of project. The reasons are as follows: (i)
The National Authority on Teacher Education (NATE), established in 1998, proved to be only partially
effective, due largely to limited leadership status and experience, together with claims of duplication with
other agencies. The abolition of NATE in 2002 created a void in the national governance structure of
teacher education because without a main coordinating and leadership authority, key functions of policy
development, planning and monitoring (including accreditation of programs) remained fragmented and
without adequate leadership. Action to establish an alternative structure was slow and, at project closure,
incomplete. (ii) During the project, a number of activities were undertaken to strengthen the Office of the
Chief Commissioner for Teacher Education, but there is little evidence of its effectiveness because of
frequent changes of incumbents. However, since project closure, Government has made new and expanded
appointments of senior and educationally experienced staff to this office. (iii) There was no realization of
the project's intention to organize teacher training institutions into a national integrated system, although
since project closure, attempts to address the structural issues have progressed, including the drafting of a
new Teacher Development Act to replace the former NATE and College of Education Acts. Action has
also been taken to establish an Accreditation Council with external representation, with a view to
institutionalize accreditation, including for academic programs. These issues have been taken up in the new
Education Development Sector Framework and Program (EDSFP) (2006-2010).

Component C: Upgrading of Teacher Education Programs. This component is rated satisfactory as
the key objectives to improve both inservice and preservice teacher education programs have been met: 24
courses, 19 original and 5 new ones were revised and developed respectively by teams working under the
supervision of the National Institute of Education. By late 2001, all upgraded curriculum materials had
been delivered to the NCOEs. Initial syllabus implementation problems were identified and appropriate


                                                      - 7 -

evaluation procedures developed. Under the supervision of National Institute for Education, 20 core
inservice courses were developed for use in the 100 Teacher Centers, and, following needs analyses,
additional courses were developed to cater to the ongoing professional and academic needs of teachers and
principals. During the last year of the project, there was an increase in the utilization of the Teacher
Centers, and they had begun to extend their role to include school-based training. Annual training is now
provided to 18% of teachers (target was 20%).

Component D: Strengthening of Staff and Management. This component is rated satisfactory as the
objective of improving staff capability and managerial skills has been achieved. The target was to maintain
a Teacher Educator Service comprising about 10 percent of staff with PhDs, 45 percent with Masters
degrees, 35/40 percent with advanced diplomas and 10/15 percent with only a first degree. By project
closure, 0.2 percent had PhDs, 58 percent Masters degrees, 84 percent a PGDip.Ed and 85 percent a first
degree. Against a scheduled total of 250 long-term fellowships, 180 were taken up (168 Masters and 12
Doctorates). Teacher educators (332) were selected to undertake up to three month visits to OECD
countries to gain experience of modern teacher education methods, and 531 teachers were selected to visit
regional countries for about four to six weeks. English language bridging courses were instituted to prepare
several candidates with poor English proficiency for overseas visits.

Component E: Strengthening and Upgrading of the Teacher Training Institutions. This component is
rated unsatisfactory because of its failure to rationalize the number of institutions as part of the agreed
project objectives, notwithstanding the fact that considerable progress had been made in providing physical
facilities and in upgrading the teacher education network country-wide. At project closure, there were four
universities offering teacher education, a National Institute of Education (NIE), 17 NCOEs, 10 Teacher
Training Colleges and 100 Teacher Centers. The original objective was to reduce the number of institutions
from 31 to 19 to use more efficiently the facilities for preservice and inservice education. Instead, at
project close, there were 32 institutions, ostensibly to meet increased training needs, but it is unclear
whether increased efficiency in facilities utilization has been achieved. In terms of sustainability, there is a
significant cost in operating and maintaining those institutions in excess of the plan developed under the
project. Despite these under-achievements in cost-effectiveness in this component and also Component A,
Government has honored its commitment to not reduce its financial contribution for quality inputs.

Component F: Strengthening Management and Administration of Teacher Education Institutions.
This is rated moderately satisfactory, because it had only partially achieved improved governance and
self-management for NCOEs. The study on Unit Cost Resource Allocation Mechanism and Budgetary
Authority for Teacher Education Institutes was completed in March 2003. As well as formulating a unit
cost mechanism, the report drew attention to the legal impediments to extending a measure of financial
autonomy to the institutions and offered a number of options to address the problem. Introduction of the
new funding mechanism had been scheduled for 2005, but is not likely to happen until 2006, at the earliest,
as implementation will be dependent on the revision of the Teacher Development Act referred to in
Component B. Despite this slow implementation, there were some encouraging initiatives by the Office of
the Chief Commissioner for Teacher Education in the last months of the project, including: (i) the conduct
of a number of short courses, designed to empower senior management to accept greater responsibility; (ii)
action to revise the NCOE operations manual; (iii) the introduction of a college-based self evaluation
regime; and (iv) an action research initiative in some colleges.

 Component G: Studies and Monitoring. This component is rated satisfactory, as the objectives for
 monitoring the progress and impact of policy initiatives were largely achieved. Six studies (100% of
 target) were completed which covered issues ranging from teacher deployment in difficult schools,



                                                       - 8 -

 developing a cost mechanism for funding teacher education institutions, evaluating the effectiveness of
 some training and assessment programs, and undertaking national assessments of learning outcomes.
 These studies provided a vital link between the TETD and GEP2 projects and the future education sector
 program (see Annex 1 for further details).

Component H: Project Coordination Unit. The achievements of the Project Coordination Unit to
coordinate project funds as well as the monitoring and reporting of project activities are rated satisfactory
as these functions were largely met. Short-term training took place as planned. Despite many challenges
including difficulties to recruit and retain trained procurement and financial management staff, the Project
Coordination Unit did provide the needed link between the central agencies and Provincial Education
Authorities to assist with the required implementation and monitoring of the project activities.

Output by Revised Components

Education Reconstruction in the Conflict-affected Areas.
This component is rated satisfactory. The specific expenditures focused on the two NCOEs in Jaffna and
Battacaloa, the construction of six teacher centers in the North East Province and refurbishment of an
additional 23 teacher centers in the conflict-affected areas. Implementation progress on all these
components was satisfactory, despite the lack of building materials, difficulties in finding appropriate
contractors, and cash flow limitations with contractors. At Credit closing, there was problem of inadequate
budget allocation for facilities maintenance. However Government increased their budget in 2006 (33%) to
meet the accumulated sector needs of infrastructure, maintenance and quality inputs.

Promotion of English Language Teaching and Learning.
This component is rated satisfactory. Key achievements include: (i) 178 NCOE lecturers and 298 student
teachers were trained in English at certificate/diploma level; (ii) 1,368 Specialist teachers (nearly 137% of
the 1,000 target) completed their Diploma training; (iii) 3,080 English-medium teachers completed their
certificate/diploma training; and (iv) 1,831 (183% of the 1,000 target) of Grade 1 and 2 primary school
teachers completed their diploma training. An additional program to train 25,000 teachers for better
English proficiency was underway at project closure. With regard to the broader objective of supporting
peace-building and social cohesion through investments in curriculum revision, English-medium instruction
and educational materials including English media cassettes, and the emphasis on promoting the English
language has reportedly fostered equity, tolerance and understanding among Sinhalese and Tamil-speaking
students. While the training events were successfully completed, anecdotal evidence suggests that further
reinforcement for English proficiency is needed.

Information Technology-Based Education.
This component is rated satisfactory since all the targeted outputs were fully attained: (i) managers and
lecturers for the eight provincial IT centers were identified and trained to operate the centers; (ii) 1,000
teachers (100% of target) completed certificate level training in universities in the use of IT in education;
(iii) 300 non-graduate teachers (100% of target) have undertaken diploma level courses in IT-based
education; and (iv) 11 teachers (100% of target) completed an M.Sc. in IT. In addition, an unexpected
benefit of the IT-based education program was that it enabled the Government to introduce a new
technology stream into the GCE A-Level curriculum from 2006. While it is too early to assess the impact
of the objective of enhancing employment and labor market opportunities for school completers, anecdotal
evidence from some schools with IT centers suggests that students' employment prospects improved, with
possibilities of not only obtaining jobs faster, but also better quality ones. While the above training events
have been successful, anecdotal evidence suggests that further reinforcement for IT proficiency is needed in
some locations.


                                                       - 9 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A pre-project analysis demonstrated that investment in TETD was efficient in the objectives it had set out
for itself. While detailed rate of return estimates were not made at the time of appraisal, component-wise
calculations of expected direct and indirect costs and benefits demonstrated the potential overall cost
savings from some of these activities.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact is substantial. First, it is evident that many new graduate teachers are using more updated
content and active teaching/learning methodologies in classrooms. This is the result of teacher educator
capacities having been built up to: (i) utilize new teaching/learning methodologies in teacher training
courses; (ii) undertake action research; and (iii) develop and produce improved curricula and teaching
materials, particularly at the National Institute for Education (NIE), the lead curriculum agency. Staff
from the provincial NCOEs have also played a significant role in the development of such materials and
delivery of new programs with the NIE. There was also nation-wide enhancement of English language skills
and the development of IT-based education as a result of the establishment of successful teacher education
programs and the upgrading of teacher and teacher educator skills. Second, upgrading the physical
facilities, including laboratories, IT centers and Teacher Centers, including those in the conflict-affected
areas, has increased access to both initial and ongoing teacher education programs. The developments in
the physical infrastructure of the teacher training network and in the upgrading of the qualifications of
teaching staff are likely to have significant downstream benefits for future cohorts.

Third, the capacity to plan and project teacher demand and supply and to regulate teacher deployment with
the aid of a planning formula i.e. the Ready Reckoner, was strengthened. The fact that political decisions
were made without necessarily considering these projections and plans was beyond the control of the
educational planners. Fourth, as a result of the project, greater attention is now being placed on addressing
some of the inequities of the past, including the more strategic planning, training and placement of trained
teachers in the relevant medium-of-instruction and subject areas. While funds available for implementation
were a constraint, this planning included the provinces preparing incentive schemes to deploy teachers in
difficult areas, and Provincial Transfer Boards contributing to improved deployment in several provinces.
Fifth, in efforts to develop great social cohesion across the country, themes of respect for diversity,
inter-cultural understanding and national unity were incorporated into education policy documents,
curricula revision and training programs. Opportunities were provided to break down language-based
segregation in schools, develop peace-building training modules for teachers and principals, and promote
social cohesion awareness and knowledge exchange through research.

However, institutional development for management capacity of teacher education institutions remains
modest. Some of the actions undertaken include: (i) provision of a number of short courses designed to
empower senior management to accept great responsibility; (ii) steps taken towards revising the NCOE
operations manual; (iii) introduction of a college-based self-evaluation regime; and (iv) an action research
initiative undertaken in some colleges. Nevertheless, there is still no comprehensive strategy for
progressively according greater autonomy to NCOEs, and there is still no coordinating, leadership authority
for teacher education i.e. replacement to NATE. These are now being taken up by the new ESDFP
(2006-2010).




                                                      - 10 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The civil conflict had an adverse impact on project implementation during the period 1997-2001 since it
prevented the implementation of project activities in and around the North East Province including
construction of the Jaffna NCOE and Teacher Centers. However, significant progress was made in the last
three years of implementation when tensions diminished.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors which had a positive effect on the project included: (i) the leadership and guidance provided by the
President's Task Force on Education from 1996-1998, and (ii) the strong commitment to have greater
involvement of provincial officials in teacher deployment planning and the provision of teacher training
programs.

Factors which were largely under the control of the Government that adversely affected the project
included: (i) too frequent changes in the position of Secretary of MOE (six secretaries between 1996 and
2005); and (ii) overturning of teacher recruitment policies in 1998 and 2004/05 contrary to planning
agreements. However, despite decisions that appeared to disregard ongoing cost-effectiveness
sustainability, Government did honor the agreements that non-teacher schooling/quality inputs to the
education system would not be curtailed as a result of increased expenditure for additional teacher salaries.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors that positively impacted the project included: (i) MOE holding periodic meetings with implementing
units to assess progress against agreed next steps after IDA implementation review missions; and (ii)
having provincial education authorities participate in wrap-up meetings with missions. Factors that
impeded implementation included: (i) not ensuring that adequate senior staffing was made for the Office of
the Chief Commissioner for Teacher Education, which hindered the leadership in championing
teacher-related issues; (ii) the inability to recruit, on time, key staff such as procurement and financial
management officers in the Project Coordinating Unit. This was exacerbated by high turn-over of
procurement and engineering staff within the Unit; (iii) delays in procurement processing noted throughout
the project period, particularly in the preparation of bidding documents; (iv) difficulty in monitoring the
implementation of civil works and regularly updating procurement plans; and (v) an ad hoc approach to
staff development over the project period diffused its impact, which would have been enhanced with a
strategic Human Resource Development (HRD) Plan. The HRD approach is now being taken up under the
new ESDFP (2006-2010).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$ 79.3 million equivalent. The Government
contribution to the project was envisaged to be about 10% (US$ 7.9 million), the ADB committed itself to
cover 6.2 % (US$ 4.9 million) while SIDA had committed itself to cover 3% (US$2.4 million) and the
remaining 80.8% was IDA's contribution amounting to US$64.1 million equivalent. However, although
ADB and SIDA had discussed and agreed at appraisal to co-finance the project, they did not do so. At
project closure, the total project cost was US$ 68.3 million made up of US$61.9 million equivalent from
the IDA Credit (plus US$1.01 million transferred to the Tsunami credit bringing the total to US$ 62.9
million) and US$6.4 million equivalent from the Government contribution. At project closure, the project
achieved 97% disbursement of the IDA Credit.

The project expenditure, by category of the IDA Credit was as follows (appraisal estimates in parenthesis,
for comparison): (a) US$32.9 million in civil works (US$34.7 million); (b) US$7.4 million for furniture,


                                                        - 11 -

equipment and vehicles (US$8.2 million); (c) US$2.1 million for books, educational materials and printing
contracts (US$4.0 million); (d) US$5.5 in technical assistance and technical studies (US$8.1 million); (e)
US$13.6 million for training, fellowships and studies (US$8.9 million); and (f) US$0.4 million for project
management and recurrent costs (US$0.2 million). Savings of expenditures resulted mainly from the
exchange rate depreciation. The savings were applied towards the three new priority components. US$1.01
million was transferred to the Tsunami Emergency Recovery Program.

Overall, financial management performance has been rated satisfactory with proper accounting of project
funds expended on designated components. For periods in 2003 and early 2004, when the post for a senior
finance manager was vacant in the Project Coordination Unit, there was a serious lack of capacity for the
government to prepare withdrawal applications and to handle the special account correctly. After this
vacancy was filled, the project began to perform satisfactorily again.

Project financial reports and audited financial statements have generally been of acceptable quality
although some have experienced delays. The key outstanding issue faced by the implementing agency at
the close of the project was effective asset management. Positive developments included compilation of a
new fixed assets register which listed each asset by group, location, and serial number to improve physical
verification, tracking, and control. Two areas that still need improvement based on the audit findings are:
(i) careful management of plant and equipment assets while under warranty; and (ii) adequate budgetary
allocation for the maintenance of fixed assets.

Project disbursement was slow in the initial project years due to a slower than planned pace of
procurement. However, once the pace of procurement increased, disbursements also increased. Much of the
civil works costs were based on designs for the country as a whole and did not take into account local
conditions in the conflict-affected areas. This pushed costs up further than initially expected, particularly in
the conflict-affected areas. For example, the shortage of sand and skilled contractors in the conflict-affected
areas led to significantly higher than expected costs. Notwithstanding this, for a project that was somewhat
weighed towards civil works through the construction of new facilities and the refurbishment of old ones,
cost over-runs were minimal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability is rated as likely. The most important factor is Government's commitment, and the
high priority it has assigned to implementing its new ESDFP (2006-2010) which commenced in January
2006. This program has been undertaken in part to sustain the achievements made under TETD, including
continued support for: (i) the establishment of a more coordinated system of teacher education providers in
order to increase responsiveness to teacher needs, and to reduce duplication; (ii) provide teachers in
locations where they are most needed, and (iii) expedite the professional training of newly appointed
graduates. The Government of Sri Lanka is fully cognizant of the challenges, and considers continued
investment in people as an overarching objective in reducing poverty. The human capital built under
TETD with all the training and institutional support will likely remain within the sector, contributing to
ongoing institutional stability. The capacity building component of the new ESDFP will also focus on
further strengthening governance, management and decentralization in the sector.

Sustainability is further supported by two other key factors: (i) project implementation was carried out by
the MOE's established administrative units that were involved in project preparation; and (ii) local
ownership of the project through more decentralized functions to the provincial and zonal education offices
was emphasized. The administrative capacity built up under TETD would help ensure effective



                                                     - 12 -

post-completion management of the investments made under the project

However, there are two concerns regarding fiscal sustainability. First, more than half of the TETD
investments were spent on the construction and rehabilitation of 17 National Colleges of Education and 100
Teacher Centers, together with some university infrastructure. The sustainability of these civil works
depends on providing a sufficient recurrent budget for operation and maintenance expenditure. During the
first two years, physical infrastructure maintenance should be minimal on the assumption that the civil
works and related facilities were properly executed. On this basis, it is not unreasonable to allocate a
relatively low maintenance budget in the first two years of operating the facilities, provided the allocation is
progressively increased thereafter to the prescribed budgetary level. However, in 2005, operations and
maintenance allocations for the teacher training institutions were less than one-third of what was needed.
The revised education budget for 2006 included a significant increase (33%) from 2005 in both recurrent
and capital expenditure reflecting the Government's commitment to meet the accumulated sector needs of
infrastructure, maintenance and quality inputs. Government projections also show that the budget is
expected to increase further by 12 percent in 2007 and 2008. The new budget would provide more
resources for operations, maintenance and quality inputs, and would increase the chances of sustainability
of the teacher training institutions at an adequate level. Second, Government's continued teacher
recruitment beyond the planned limits, does add significantly to the costs to the recurrent budget. However,
Government has, to date, honored its commitment to increase its education budget to be able to cover
increased teacher salary costs as well as the other needed quality elements for the education system.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The closure of TETD in October 2005 enabled a smooth transition to the implementation of Government's
new ESDFP which became effective in January 2006. Most of TETD's activities were already integrated
into the regular operations of the MOE, which has minimized the need for special transition arrangements.
The same units/agencies involved in TETD, also implement ESDFP, under the guidance of a Steering
Committee chaired by the Secretary, MOE. This is with the help of a Consultative Group with broad
representation from the central government and provincial councils, education academics, stakeholders such
as parents, principals, teachers, and development partners. In addition, ESDFP places a strong focus on
monitoring and evaluation mainly by government education agencies. Support for enhanced provincial and
zonal responsibilities would continue from the central agencies such as the Office of the Chief
Commissioner for Teacher Education, the National Institute for Education, the Educational Publications
Department, the Examinations Department and the Finance Commission.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank had close, supportive dialogue with the Borrower from preparation through to the
closure of the project. The experienced Bank team displayed good analysis and knowledge of the sector
issues facing the country. The project design, while ambitious, was closely aligned to the needs of the
country as well as the Country Assistance Strategy, and sought to accommodate identified political risks.
Extensive consultations were held with a wide range of stakeholders prior to the design of TETD. These
included civil society, teachers' unions, government and school principals and teachers. Information
gathered from this consultation process was fed back into project preparation.

However, preparation would have been enhanced with attention to the following two areas. First, staff who
were knowledgeable in procurement and financial management, should have been established in the Project
Coordination Unit at the start of the project with some sustained training in related World Bank procedures.
Second, a stronger focus should have been placed during project preparation on establishing the needed


                                                      - 13 -

monitoring system for data collection and evaluation, including how to direct this information back into the
education system for required actions.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision was supportive, diligent, and focused with the aim to provide needed
implementation assistance to the Government. The supervision efforts did include regular and consistent
support from staff based locally and at headquarters, and regular visits of missions to Sri Lanka. The
mission teams consisted of staff and consultants with key areas of expertise to ensure effective technical
assistance to the project. Extensive dialogue and discussions between the Bank and Government continued
on issues, constraints and other implementation issues of this demanding project, at both the central and
provincial levels and with other stakeholders at the local level including teachers, and teacher educators.
Field visits to project sites to gain first-hand experience and to collect feedback were an essential part of the
Bank's supervision. The project was proactively supervised, with the task team identifying problems and
acting to correct them. Another positive aspect of Bank performance was its flexibility in the three
extensions of the project, including the project re-structuring in 2002, which was responsive to the changing
Government priorities.

Two areas needing greater attention were the following. First, while monitoring indicators were identified
during project preparation, various documents, including the Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) in
October 2004 highlighted difficulties in establishing an effective system to collect related data on the key
performance indicators. Because this was not pursued more diligently before the midterm review, it
exacerbated efforts to update the indicator data in the later years of the project. However, each supervision
mission provided a well-documented aide-memoire, including current status of implementation, issues to be
addressed and recommendations. Second, there were at times lengthy delays in procurement clearances,
which were further exacerbated by the recurrent difficulty experienced by the implementing agency in
accurately preparing procurement and other documentation, resulting in the necessary but time-consuming
corrective work. The Bank did strengthen operational support from the Colombo Office, especially in
procurement issues, in the later years of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. The primary factors for this rating are: (i) the project design was closely aligned to country
needs and built on lessons learned from other projects; (ii) comprehensive teams fielded with several
members were maintained throughout the project period; (iii) effective, supportive supervision was
maintained including extensive field visits, meetings and consultations with stakeholders and beneficiaries,
which assisted in understanding issues and jointly resolving implementation blockages; (iv) there was
flexibility in addressing Government's priorities; and (v) an excellent ongoing rapport with Government
maintained the momentum of the required activities and ongoing dialogue.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The high level of Government commitment facilitated project identification and preparation.
There was close Government-Bank cooperation in the project design, and intensive level of discussions with
all key stakeholders were held during the whole preparation process. This helped ensure that the project
was in accordance with the needs of Sri Lanka and fitted the priorities of the education sector. Since it
followed closely after GEP I, a number of lessons learned in the implementation of that project were
transferred to the design and implementation of TETD.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Moderately Satisfactory. Rapid staff turn-over at the Secretary level meant that during the early years of



                                                       - 14 -

implementation, there was a growing uncertainty about Government commitment to implementing the
agreed reforms. The lack of leadership due to at least five changes of incumbents in the last six years of
project implementation in the position of Chief Commissioner for Teacher Education was a major factor in
the uneven performance of some of the project components, including Component B: Rationalization of
Structure and Organization, Component E (Strengthening and Upgrading of Teacher Training
Institutions), and Component F (Strengthening Management and Administration of Teacher Education
Institutions). Also, Government decisions beyond the control of the MOE not to adhere to the agreed
policies on teacher recruitment and institution rationalization undermined efforts to achieve the
cost-effectiveness development objectives. However, despite these shortcomings, education officials took
proactive steps to try to keep on track many of the other project activities, especially those dealing with the
new priority components. Government has also honored the agreement that quality inputs to the education
system would not be curtailed as a result of increased expenditure for additional salaries and additional
costs of operating all teacher education institutions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The various MOE units, the Provincial Education Authorities, and the Finance Commission,
tasked with implementing the project, carried out their respective responsibilities satisfactorily.
Implementation was facilitated by the Project Coordination Unit whose responsibility was to coordinate and
monitor project activities. Regular meetings, particularly during the later part of the project, between the
Project Coordination Unit, and the various line units under the leadership and coordination of the
Additional Secretary for Policy, Planning and Monitoring, kept project activities on track.

MOE, via the Project Coordination Unit, prepared and delivered to the Bank regular project implementation
progress reports, and close dialogue was maintained to deal with implementation problems, especially those
concerning procurement. Major concerns that were noted throughout the project period were regarding the
high turn-over of procurement staff within the Project Coordination Unit; poor monitoring of procurement
activities and little attention to updating the procurement plans; delays in procurement processing,
particularly in the preparation of bidding documents including technical specifications, and in the bid
evaluation process. While there were no serious findings from a Fiduciary Review of Accounts carried out
in 2003 under the guidance of INT, shortcomings in maintenance of supporting documentation were noted.
It was only in the final year of implementation that some efforts to expedite implementation, update the
plans and keep track of expenditures on contracts were observed.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The MOE demonstrated commitment to the project overall, and a consistent willingness to
work towards the achievement of its targets.

8. Lessons Learned

 Project Preparation

(i)      Successful project implementation depends crucially on ensuring that adequate trained staff in
project and financial management, and procurement are in place prior to commencing implementation,
preferably staff selected from within the established MOE systems. If capacity does not exist prior to
implementation, this should be built through technical assistance (para. 3 of Section 3.5, Section 5.3, para.
2 of Sections 7.1 and 7.2).

(ii)     To ensure successful implementation of policy reforms which depend upon completion of prior
inputs, broad stakeholder consultations are needed as well as sufficient time provided for sequencing



                                                      - 15 -

critical implementation activities and, such as in the present case, linking teacher employment and
deployment to teacher supply-demand, provision of physical facilities, and strengthening management
capacity (para. 3, Sections 3.1 and 3.3; para 1 of Section 3.5).

(iii)     Successful project implementation requires the establishment, at project start, of an effective
monitoring and evaluation system with a clear delineation of responsibilities for collecting, processing and
dissemination of data on the key performance indicators at specified periods, with special attention to
project outputs and outcomes. This lesson is drawn from the project being deprived of such strategic
support because no working monitoring and evaluation system was in place for the greater part of its
implementation (para. 3, Section 3.5; para. 2 of Sections 7.1, 7.2 and 7.6).

Project Implementation

(i)       In certain political settings, where government commitment to implementation of policy reforms
depends upon political stability, contingency plans should be part of project design, based on risk
assessment at appraisal, to respond to any policy change so as to minimize disruption to project
implementation and compromizing of project objectives. This lesson is derived from the project experience
of policy commitments being changed or abrogated as a result of changes in political leadership (para. 2,
Sections 3.3 and 5.2, and para. 1, Section 4.2).

(ii)      Effective project planning and implementation depends upon keeping key staff (including
decision-makers and administrative staff, especially experienced procurement and financial management
personnel) at their posts for as long as possible to ensure strong and consistent leadership and effective
project implementation. This lesson is taken from the project's experience of too many changes in key staff
reducing the impact of development activities through disruption of the project's vision, priorities, and
implementation (para. 2 of Sections 4.2, 5.2 and 7.6; Section 5.3; para. 3 of Section 5.4; Section 7.5).

(iii)     Before a functioning strategic entity is dismantled, a replacement institutional structure should be
established to ensure continuity of sector or project policy, planning, coordination and implementation.
This lesson is derived from the project experience of the untimely abolition of NATE which had no
replacement during the life of the project, despite the Government's declared intention (para. 2 of Section
4.2, para. 1 of Section 6.2).

(iv)      Long-term sustainability of investment projects is likely when existing government structures are
mobilized for project implementation, reinforced by commitment and ownership at zonal, provincial and
central levels secured through participatory project preparation and appraisal (para. 2, Sections 6.1 and
6.2, and para. 1, Section 7.6).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MOE has informed IDA on June 15, 2006 that it has reviewed the Draft Implementation Completion
Report, and agreed with its content. Below are MOE's comments and a brief summary of its contribution
to the ICR (a full assessment is in Annex 8).

The Ministry of Education is satisfied and agreeable about the comments written in the IDA-prepared ICR
on TETD. Teacher education in Sri Lanka was at a critical juncture in 1997, with the recruitment of about
50,000 untrained teachers. The project's objectives were largely achieved, with key results as follows: (i)
the reduction in the percentage of untrained teachers to 2%; (ii) pre-service education for almost all



                                                      - 16 -

teachers; establishment and maintenance of a highly qualified teacher educators service; (iii) development
of physical infrastructure, and provision of adequate equipment and materials; (iv) establishment and
maintenance of 17 full-fledged National Colleges of Education for pre-service and continuing education,
and 100 Teacher Centres for Continuing Teacher Education; and (v) the establishment of a National
Education Research and Evaluation Centre at the University of Colombo. The implementation of the
teacher deployment scheme has resulted in a significant decrease in the excess of Sinhalese-medium
teachers in Provincial and National schools. However, the Ministry had to honor the decision taken by the
Government in 2005 to appoint 15,000 graduate teachers. Project performance was hampered by the
abolition of the National Academy for Teacher Education, staff transfers in the PCU, and civil disturbances
in the North East. The project was fully disbursed, with 100% disbursement against the IDA Credit.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not Applicable.




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

        Outcome/Impact Indicators
                     Indicator                     Projected SAR Targets                         Actual/Latest Estimate
        Student achievement scores, Grade       Not set, but increase expected.    Performance in learning outcomes from Grade 5 in
        5                                                                          1994 and 1999 remained constant in terms of
                                                                                   literacy (average rate 61%), but numeracy
                                                                                   increased from 45% in 1994 to 50% in 1999.

                                                                                   Grade 4 data in 2004 showed that 57.2 % of
                                                                                   students scored above 61% in their first language,
                                                                                   and 56.8% scored above 61% in mathematics.

        Primary Cycle completion rates          Not set, but increase expected.    Increased from 78.3% in 1996 to 95.7% in
                                                                                   2004.
        Average drop out rate for grades 1-
        10                                      Not set, but decreases expected.   3.2% in 1996 to 2.2% in 2002

        Decline in average repetition rate      Not set, but decreases expected.   3.2 % in 1996 to 0.8 % in 2002
        for Grades 6-10 (thus reducing
        education cycle cost)


The presentation of indicators in this ICR delineates between outcomes and outputs. It should be noted that no
outcome indicators were especially established in the SAR at the time of preparation. For the purposes of this ICR,
outcome data have been distilled from information available. Also, the output indicator table below is a summary
of key performance indicators with their actual/latest estimates. The full set of indicators and their updates are
available in the project files.

        Output Indicators
                  Indicator                 Projected SAR Targets                       Actual/Latest Estimate
          Component A. Rationalization of Teacher Deployment
           A.1 Annual number of          Teacher recruitment controlled     By 2004, teacher recruitment was controlled
          recruited teachers             by matching intake and output      according to revised planning estimates.
                                         of NCOEs designed to reach         However, changes in Government policy by
                                         about 1,600 teachers by 2001,      2005 to employ 17,000 more graduates
                                         and 750 teachers from              negated gains made in earlier years.
                                         university graduate annually.

          A.2 Student-Teacher            By 2001: Primary STR: 26:1         Primary STR was 25.4:1 in 2004 (24:1,
          Ratios (STRs) increased        and Secondary STR: 22:1            Sinhala medium; 31:1 Tamil medium) and
          annually to reach targets      (including collegiate).            Secondary STR was 22:1 in 2004 (20:3
          by 2001                                                           Sinhala medium; 26.8:1 Tamil medium).

          A.3 Level of under and         All provinces; schools to attain   RR utilized, with some deviations. Provincial
          over-staffing in               approved cadre entitlement by      Transfer Boards contributed to improved
          provinces/schools              2001 through a consistent          deployment in most provinces, but target not
                                         application of the Ready           fully achieved.
                                         Reckoner (RR).

          A.4. Number of qualified       By 1998, all teachers entering     An intake of fully trained teachers was mostly
          teachers entering the          the service would be pre-          achieved. By the end of the project only about
          service                        qualified and pre-trained (at      2 % of teachers remained untrained, down
                                         min. 3 months for graduates).      from an estimated 30% at the beginning of the
                                                                            project.




                                                              - 18 -

          Indicator                         SAR/MTR Targets                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Component B. Rationalization of Structure and Organization
B.1 NATE established and        NATE to be fully established and           NATE was established in 1999 and
discharging all functions       operational by 1996.                       then abolished in 2002. A paper on an
                                                                           alternative to NATE was submitted to
                                                                           Cabinet before project closure.

B.2 NCOEs (including TCs)       Integrated national system to be           With the closing down of NATE, the
NIE, and other teacher          formulated in 1996 and be fully            integrated national system did not
education                       operational in 1998 when new NCOEs         eventuate. However, the issue is being
institutions/universities to    have been completed.                       taken up again under the new
comprise national teacher                                                  education sector program (is related to
education system                                                           the paper on an alternative to NATE).

Component C: Upgrading of Teacher Education Programs
C.1 Initial training            - Revisions to be completed by 1997;       - 24 programs (19 original revised with
programs                        - About 8000 initial training places to be 5 new preservice programs
of NCOEs revised and            provided in NCOEs (Yr.1 & Yr.2);           introduced);
accredited by NATE; and         - A full-degreed graduate teacher input     -5,281 initial training places provided
number of final year places     by 2003.                                   in NCOEs (Yr.1 & Yr.2)
for students in initial                                                    -While not all teachers have B.Ed.,
training, as a percentage of                                               98% are now trained.
projected annual demand

C.2 Development of Plan         Plan to be completed by 1996; training to  Continuing inservice courses offered
for continuing teacher          be determined on survey and actual         within cycle of 5 years. It is estimated
education; Courses available    needs; 20% of teachers trained annually.   that 18% of teachers have been trained
as percentage of planned                                                   annually against the 20% target. 20
courses; annual participation                                              core inservice courses were developed.
of teachers in courses
Component D: Strengthening of Staff and Management
D.1 (i) No. of staff            (i) 250 fellowships during project;        (i) 180 long-term fellowships taken up
completing long term            (ii)10-15% first degree only,              during the project (168 masters and 12
internships/study visits; (ii)  35-40% PG Diploma, 45% Masters             doctorates)
percentage of staff with first  10% PhDs.                                  (ii) 89%first degree
degrees, PG Diplomas,                                                      89% PG Diploma
Masters, PhDs                                                              59% Masters
                                                                           0.2% PhD;
                                                                           (iii) 332 teacher educators undertook
                                                                           short term training up to 3 months
                                                                           duration; and
                                                                           (iv) 531 teachers were selected to visit
                                                                           regional countries for 4-6 weeks.
Component E: Strengthening and Upgrading of Teacher Institutions
E.1 Total number of             -NCOEs: 14 (5 new)                         -NCOEs: 17 (11 COEs upgraded to
institutions involved in        -Universities: 4                           NCOEs, 6 new)
teacher education and           -NIE retained                              -Universities: 4
location of these in relation   -Phase out 15 Teacher Training Colleges    -NIE retained
to demographic and              (TTCs)                                     -10 TTCs not yet phased out
enrollment needs                -Establish 84 Teacher Centers and reduce   -100 Teacher Centers established
                                the number of centers run by NIE and       according to demographic needs, but
                                Universities e.g. field centers, etc.      other centers, such as, field centers not
                                                                           reduced.




                                                          - 19 -

Component F: Strengthen Management and Administration of Teacher Education Institutions.
F.1 NCOEs receive direct        Details determined by January 1997 as     Unit cost mechanism formulated through
budget allocation; schedule     part of budget analysis, and piloted in   a study completed in March 2003, but not
of financial delegation to      1997 and fully operational by 1998.       implemented by project closure.
NCOEs operational

F.2 Define quality inputs       Define quality targets for subject,       Targets were not met as specified, but
and set standards and lists of  student, classroom and teacher by         completed in March 2003. Unit cost
essential and operational       January 1998 and implement unit cost      allocations yet to be implemented as
inputs by level and subject to  allocation for the institutions by        stated above.
arrive at unit cost allocations January 1999.
Component G: Studies and Monitoring
To provide feedback to          Six studies were proposed over the         - NEREC completed four studies on: (i)
policy-makers,                  course of the project, but were            Teacher Deployment in Difficult
administrators and IDA on       understood to be flexible as needs         Schools in Non-Preferred Areas, (ii)
project progress, outputs and   arose. Five would relate directly to       Effects and Effectiveness of Training
impacts                         monitoring the progress and impact of      Provided for School Principals; (iii) An
                                policy initiatives. The sixth (which       Investigation of the Effectiveness of
                                would comprise a number of smaller         Implementation of Reforms at Key
                                studies) would focus on areas relevant     Stage 1 of the Primary Cycle in Sri
                                to the planning of a future project.       Lanka; and (iv) An Evaluation of the
                                                                           Implementation of School Based
                                                                           Assessment in Post-Primary Classes.
                                                                           - The fifth study to develop a unit cost
                                                                           mechanism for the funding of Teacher
                                                                           Education Institutions was also
                                                                           completed.
                                                                           - Other main studies by NEREC for
                                                                           future planning were: (i) The national
                                                                           assessment of learning outcomes in
                                                                           Grade 4 in Sinhalese, Tamil, English
                                                                           and Mathematics; (ii) The data
                                                                           collection of the national assessment of
                                                                           learning outcomes in Grade 8 and 10 in
                                                                           Sinhalese, Tamil, Science and
                                                                           Mathematics; and (iii) The studies of
                                                                           Grade 4, 8 and 10 learning outcomes
                                                                           provided the baseline information for
                                                                           the future GOSL ESDFP. This provided
                                                                           a vital link between the GEP2 and
                                                                           TETD projects and the future GOSL
                                                                           education program.
Component H: Project Coordination Unit
Support for rehabilitation,     -Maintain a PCU during the whole        - PCU maintained (provision of office,
funding, equipping of PCU        project implementation period.            equipment and facilities)
office, monitoring, and         -Provide training to staff.             - All staff provided training
short-term training of staff.                                           - There were difficulties to find and retain
                                                                           qualified procurement and financial
                                                                           officers.




                                                         - 20 -

New Components: Reconstruction in Conflict-affected Areas
New construction and         - Construct Jaffna COE (stages 2 and 3)      All completed,.resulting in greater
refurbishment completed      - Refurbish Battacaloa NCOE (stage 2).       access to quality teacher education
                             - Provide additional works to 23 Teacher     facilities in the conflict-affected areas.
                             Centers, including construction of 3 new
                             ones in Killinochchi and Mulathiev
                             Districts.
New Components: Promotion of English Language Training and Learning: Training of teacher educators and
teachers
Trained teachers and teacher Trained annually as per comprehensive        Nos. trained (Dec.2005):
educators in English         plan based on survey results and actual
                             needs
                             - 250 Lecturers                              178 Lecturers
                             - 750 Student teachers                       297 Student teachers
                             - 5,000 Specialist teachers                  5,062 Specialist teachers
                             - 2,000 English medium teachers              4,667 English med. teachers
                             - 5,000 Primary teachers ­ABOE               17,500 Primary teachers - ABOE
New Components: IT-based Education
Trained teacher educators    - Managers and lecturers for the eight       Completed as per targets.
and teachers                 provincial IT centers identified and
                             trained to operate the centers;              In addition, an unexpected benefit of
                             - 1,000 teachers to complete certificate     the IT-based education program under
                             level training in universities in the use of the project was that it has enabled the
                             IT in education;                             Government to introduce a new
                             - 300 non-graduate teachers to undertake     technology stream into the GCE A-
                             Diploma level courses in IT-based educ.      Level curriculum from 2006.
                             - 11 teachers to get M.Sc. in IT.s




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component in US$ million Equivalent

                                                      Appraisal          Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                    Component                         Estimate              Estimate           Appraisal
                                                     US$ million           US$ million             %
 A. Rationalization of Teacher Deployment                        0.2                   0.2             100
 B. Rationalization of Structure & Organization                  0.9                   0.6              67
 C. Upgrading of Teacher Education Programs                      3.7                   4.4             119
 D. Strengthening of Staff and Management                       11.8                 11.1               94
 E. Strengthening & Upgrading of Teacher Inst.                  49.4                 50.2              101
 F. Studies and Monitoring                                       0.3                   0.4             133
 G. Project Coordination                                         1.4                   1.4             100
 Total Baseline Costs                                           67.7                 68.3              101
 Physical Contingencies                                          5.3
 Price Contingencies                                             6.3
 TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                            79.3
 New Components
          *Reconstruction in the CAA                            4.55                   4.0
          *English Language Training                            4.20                   3.6
          *IT-based Training                                    2.38                   2.0
* These new components, which were created in December 2002, were funded from project savings under the
original components. Therefore, the indicative costs above for these three components are already subsumed in
the costs of the original components.

Project Costs by Procurement arrangements in US$million equivalent - Appraisal Estimate
 Expenditure             ICB        NCB        Other        Consulting      N.B.F.      Total Cost
 Category                                                   Services
 1. Civil Works          33.2       7.4        0.00         0.00            2.6         43.2
                         (28.4)     (6.3)      (0.00)       (0.00)                      (34.7)
 2. Furniture,           4.6        3.3        0.8          0.00            0.9         9.6
 Equipment, Vehicles (4.6)          (2.9       (0.7)        (0.00)                      (8.2)
 3. Books,               0.00       0.00       4.0          0.00            0.0         4.0
 Educational             (0.00)     (0.00)     (4.0)        (0.00)                      (4.0)
 Materials , Printing
 4. Technical            0.00       0.00       0.3          7.8             1.5         9.6
 Assistance, and         (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.3)        (7.8)                       (8.1)
 studies
 5. Training             0.00       0.00       11.3         0.00            0.00        11.3
                         (0.00)     (0.00)     (8.9)        (0.00)          (0.00)      (8.9)
 6. Project              0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00            0.9         0.9
 Coordination Unit       (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)                      (0.0)
 7. Recurrent Costs      0.00       0.00       0.2          0.00            0.5         0.7
                         (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.2)        (0.00)                      (0.2)
 TOTAL                   37.8       10.7       16.6         7.8             6.4         79.3
                         (33.0)     (9.2)      (14.1)       (7.8)                       (64.1)
 Note: Figures in Parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.




                                                      - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)*
Expenditure Category                   ICB            NCB            Other             Consulting         N.B.F.            Total
                                                                                       Services                             Cost
1. Civil Works                         27.2           1.4            8.9               0.00               0.00              37.5
                                       (24.7)         (1.1)          (7.1)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (32.9)
2. Furniture, Equipment,               3.7            0.2            4.2               0.00               0.00              8.1
Vehicles                               (3.7)          (0.2)          (3.5)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.4)
3. Books, Educational                  0.00           0.00           2.2               0.00               0.00              2.2
Materials , Printing                   (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.1)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.1)
4. Technical Assistance, and           0.00           0.00           0.00              5.5                0.00              5.5
studies                                (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)            (5.5)              (0.00)            (5.5)
5. Training                            0.00           0.00           13.6              0.00               0.00              13.6
                                       (0.00)         (0.00)         (13.6)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (13.6)
8. **Project Coordination              0.00           0.00           1.4               0.00               0.00              1.4
Unit                                   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.4)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.4)
9. Recurrent Costs                     0.00           0.00           0.00              0.00               0.00
                                       (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
TOTAL                                  30.9           1.6            30.3              5.5                0.00              68.3
                                       (28.4)         (1.3)          (26.7)            (5.5)              (0.00)            (61.9)
Note: (i) *Information is only approximate since only partial data were available.(ii) Figures in Parenthesis are the respective amounts financed
by IDA. * * Includes recurrent costs.



Project Financing by Component (in US$million equivalent)
                                           Appraisal Estimate                               Actual/Latest                 Percentage of Appraisal
                                  IDA       GoSL      ADB       SIDA     Total     IDA     GoSL      Other      Total      IDA     GoSL       Other
  A. Rationalization of              0.2          -         -        -     0.2       0.2         -        -        0.2       100          -        -
  Teacher Deployment
  B. Rationalization of              1.0       .03          -        -     1.0       0.6         -        -        0.6        60          -        -
  Structure & Organization                                                                                                                -
  C. Upgrading Teacher               3.1          -      1.2         -     4.3       4.3      0.1         -        4.4       139     79.7          -
  Education Program                                                                                       -                                        -
  D. Strengthening or Staff &       11.3          -         -      2.4   13.7      11.0       0.1                11.1         97     71.4          -
  Management.                                                                                             -
  E. Strrengthening &               48.1       6.4       3.7         -   58.2      45.1       5.1                50.2         94                   -
  Upgrading T. Institutions                                                                               -
  F. Studies and Monitoring          0.3          -         -        -     0.3       0.3      0.1         -        0.4       100
  G. Project Coordination            0.1       1.4          -        -     1.5       0.4      1.0                  1.4       400


  TOTAL COST                        64.1       7.9       4.9       2.4   79.3      61.9       6.4                68.3       96.6     81.0
                                                                                                                                                   -
  Revised Components                                                                                                                               -
  -Reconstruction in CAA             4.6          -         -        -     4.6       4.0         -                   4        88          -        -
  -English Language Teaching         4.2          -         -        -     4.2       3.6         -                 3.6        86          -
  - Information Technology           2.4          -         -        -     2.4       2.0         -                 2.0        84          -        -

                      Note: - Component costs above includes physical and price contingency allocations.




                                                                   - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

I         Rate of Return Calculations

The SAR projects a detailed analysis of costs, and a less detailed analysis of benefits to justify the project
at entry and prior to the implementation. Furthermore, the SAR presents in Annex 8, the cost-effectiveness
of this proposed program ex ante. Although, estimates of the Internal Rate of Return are not specified in
the document prior to the start of the project, based on more recent data, compulsory education is still
clearly a profitable investment with both high social and private rate of returns, and thus implying that
there is a strong rationale for Government investments in education. The Table below is based on data from
a 2002 Labor Force Survey (LFS) and illustrates that benefits of education are highest at the Compulsory
and Secondary School level. While the emphasis on these rates of return is on educational attainment,
other studies have illustrated that when information on achievement is available (and education quality
information is directly incorporated into the regression equations), these figures also contain the rates of
return to a good quality education. Although such data was not contained in the LFS from which the below
estimates were produced, it is not difficult to imagine the import of both attainments and achievements.
The latter provides a direct link with one of the key project development objectives of TETD ­ quality
improvements.

                                Table 3.1.1 Social and Private Rates of Return to Education
                                                          Social Rates of   Private Rates of
                                                             Return         Return
                                                              Men           WomenMenWomen
                             Compulsory Education                      15                      20
                             Senior Secondary                          20                      18
                             University                                11                   1019
                                                                                               25
                                                                                            2625
                                                                                               22
                                                                                                24
                           Source: World Bank Estimates (World Bank 2005)



Among men, social rates are highest at the Senior Secondary level and for women it is at the Compulsory
level. The policy implications that stem from the above is that scarce Government resources are best spent
on investments at the Compulsory and Senior Secondary levels, leaving University education to private
investment. The fact that social rates are high even after an intervention such as TETD does not reflect
directly on the success or failure of the project, but merely highlights the need for further investments in
this critical sector. Furthermore, given the higher rates of return for women in Compulsory schooling, this
suggests that investments in girls education is even more warranted. A key weakness of this method of
course is that the IRR calculations are based on past relationships between the costs and benefits of
programs, and need not reflect future trends. Secondly, in countries such as Sri Lanka, the public sector
accounts for a sizeable part of the `labor market' and hence the basis of using rates of return for
investments in education do tend to be indicative in nature. While have access to rates of return based on
pre-project data is not avialable, it is reasonable to assume that the patterns evident in the 2002 data might
be similar to earlier rounds.




                                                       - 24 -

II        Effectiveness

The key difficulty with a cost-benefit analysis lies in the ability to estimate ex ante project costs and in
assigning dollar values to the numerous, difficult to quantify, benefits of education. Given these difficulties
it may be more appropriate to attempt to analyze the cost-effectiveness with which the project achieves its
stated educational objectives. These objectives in TETD correspond to the various Components of the
project and described in the main text. While trying to assess whether the project was effective in reaching
the Project Development Objectives would be an important way to begin, as described in the Annex, this is
extremely difficult given that assumptions would have to be made that are too rigid and cannot be justified.
The key difficulty in analyzing the project effectiveness lies in the inability to attribute strictly the
relationship between outcomes and project interventions, given that there may be many external factors
influencing the results and not necessarily project inputs. The closeness in the objectives of TETD and
GEP 2 further mire the evaluation landscape in trying to determine the specific effectiveness of these
components.

Component A: Rationalization of Teacher Deployment. This component was intended to support the
MOEs policies on recruitment and deployment of teachers in an effort to respond to the demand for
teachers, while simultaneously meeting the equity considerations, cost-effectiveness issues, and education
quality. The initial target in terms of teacher excess and deficits combined was 24,000 persons to be
addressed. At the end of the project, there still remained excess and deficits of 12,583. Therefore the
project spent $200,000 to rationalize 11,417 persons.

Component B: Rationalization of Structure and Organization of Teacher Education. Measuring the
cost effectiveness of this component is not possible since this focused on the creation of an institutional
structure. The institution was created in 1998 and then abolished in 2002 on the grounds that the functions
performed by this institution were duplicated by other existing institutions. The expense incurred as a
process of this must be seen as a sunk cost.

Component C: Updating Teacher Education Programs. The key indicators for this component are the
number of NCOE programs that have been revised, the number of teachers who were untrained at the start
of the project and who have been trained since then and the number of teachers that were to be trained
annually. Once again the SAR does not distinguish between the costs of revising training curriculum,
initial teacher education, and continuing ducation programs. Assuming that the costs for revising
curriculum is $0.2 million, training of untrained teachers is $1 million and continuing education training is
$2.5 million given the number of teachers needing to be trained, we find that 100 percent of the course
curriculum was revised at a unit cost of $8300 per course.

Component D: Strengthening of Staff and Management. Based on the projected number of intakes into
existing and new NCOEs by 2005, and a prescribed STR of 15:1, the per pupil average cost of
teacher-trainer upgradation through local and foreign training comes to about $1700 per person. This
seems particularly cost effective. However, the per student expenses for foreign training was very high
averaging about $30,000 per person based on an evaluation of the various letters of interest from overseas
universities. This is inclusive of boarding and lodging and not merely tuition fees. Given the vast
differences in costs in local and foreign training, it may be more cost-effective to consider local training
with foreign experts as was carried out under the restructured phase of this project.

Component E: Strengthening and Upgrading of Teacher Training Institutions. This is the single
largest component of this project. While the utilization rate under this component was about 88% of total



                                                       - 25 -

outlay at the start of the project, the project failed to achieve its objective of institutional and structural
rationalization. This makes it difficult to assess the cost-effectiveness of this component.




                                                        - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              4/24/1995                 3    Sr. Education Planner (1);
                                             Economist (1); Consultant (1)
              07/09/1995                3    Sr. Education Planner (1); Educ.
                                             Spec. (1); Architect (1)
              04/04/1996                4    Sr. Education Planner (1);
                                             Economist (1); Consultants (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/01/1995                7    Sr. Education Planner (1);
                                             Economist (2); Operations
                                             Officer (1); Consultants (3)
              04/23/1996                7    Sr. Education Planner (1); Legal
                                             Counsel (1); Disbursement
                                             Officer (1); Economist (1);
                                             Operations Officer (1); Resident
                                             Rep.(1); Consultant (1)

 Supervision

              11/27/1996                2    Sr. Education Planner (1);              S               S
                                             Economist (1)
              04/09/1997                1    Task Manager (1)                        S               S
              07/23/1997                2    Administrative Assist. (1); Task        S               S
                                             Manager (1)
              02/02/1998                4    Sr. Edu. Spec. (1); HR Economist        S               S
                                             (1); Admin Assistant (1); Sr.
                                             Education Planner (1)
              09/15/1998                9    Mission Leader (1); Economist           S               S
                                             (1); Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Consultants (4); Prin. Oper.
                                             Officer (1); DFID Consultant (1)
              01/07/1999                9    Ed. Spec./ TTL (1); Team Leader         U               U
                                             (1); Economist (1); Operations
                                             Analyst (1); Procurement Spec.
                                             (1); Team Assistant (1);
                                             Financial Mgt. (1); Education
                                             Spec. (1); Assessment & Eval.
                                             (1); Teacher Training Insts. (1)
              05/14/1999                7    Team Leader (1); Economist (1);         U               U
                                             Consultants (4); Sr. Impl. Spec.
                                             (1)
              11/30/1999                9    Team Leader (1); Economist (1);         U               U
                                             Consultants (3); Procurement
                                             Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1); Sr.
                                             Eduic. Spec. (1)




                                              - 27 -

08/02/2000    8  Sr. Education Spec. & Team          S    S
                 Leader (1); Economist (1); Oper.
                 Analyst (1); Procurement Spec.
                 (1); Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1); Educ.
                 Spec. (1); Assessment & Eval.
                 Spec. (1); Teacher Training
                 Spec. (1)
04/17/2001    9  Sr. Educ. Spec. & Team Leader       S    S
                 (1); Economist (1); Operations
                 Analyst (1); Consultants (4);
                 Proc. Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt. Spec.
                 (1)
06/30/2001    6  Sr. Ed. Spec. & Team Leader (1);    S    S
                 Sr. Econmist (1); Eval. & Exams
                 Spec. (1); Education Spec. (1);
                 Operations Analyst (1); Imple.
                 Spec. (1)
02/12/2002    13 Lead Impl. Spec. (1); Lead          S    S
                 Health Spec. (1); Sr. Economist
                 (1); Sr. Educ. Spec. (1); Oper.
                 Analyst (1); Impl. Spec. (1);
                 Educa. Spec. (1); Team Assistant
                 (1); Educ./Eval. (Cons.) (1);
                 Educ. Planner (Cons.) (1); GIS
                 Sspec. (Cons) (1); Mon/Eval.
                 Cons. (1); DFID Regional Mgt.
                 (1)
06/13/2003    7  Sr. Ed. Spec. & Team Leader (1);    S    S
                 Sr. Econmist (1); Sr. Educ. Mgt.
                 Spec. (1); Educ. Spec. (1);
                 Operations Analyst (1); FM
                 Spec. (1); Sr. Impl. Spec. (1)
12/13/2004    7  Sr. Ed. Spec. & Team Leader (1);    S    S
                 Sr. Econmist (1); Sr. Educ. Mgt.
                 Spec. (1); Sr. Constr. Mgt.
                 Consultant (1); Proc. Spec. (1);
                 FM Spec. (1); Operations Officer
                 (1)
06/13/2004    6  Sr. Ed. Spec. (1); Sr. Economist    S    S
                 (1); Sr. Ed. Mgt. Cons. (1); Sr.
                 Constr. Mgt. Consultant (1);
                 Procurement Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt.
                 Spec. (1)
12/14/2004    7  Sr. Ed. Spec. (1); Sr. Economist    S    S
                 (1); Sr. Ed. Mgt. Consultant (1);
                 Sr. Constr. Mgt. Consultant (1);
                 Procurement Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt.
                 Spec. (1); Operations Officer (1)




                 - 28 -

 ICR
               10/03/2005                      10    Sr. Educ. Spec. (1); Sr. Mgt.           S                S
                                                     Spec. (1); Sr. Econ. (1);
                                                     Oper. Off. (2); Economist
                                                     (1); Sr. Constr. Spec. (1);
                                                     Proc. Spec. (2); Fin. Mgt.
                                                     Spec. (1)

Note: Since the 4 point system does not allow for MS, ratings for PDO and IP are shown as S when infact the ICR
mission has rated them as MS.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        70                         190,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                             25                          95,000
  Supervision                                     317                          950,000
  ICR                                               12                          30,000
  Total                                           424                        1,265,000
* Lending costs have been estimated based on duration of preparation, composition of missions and prevailing
staffweek costs conversion to US$.




                                                     - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Note: ICR assessment of Government performance: Moderately Satisfactory.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Sri Lanka: Mid-Term Review Second General Education Project (GEP2)(Credit
3014-CE). Ministry of Education, January 19, 2001.

Government of Sri Lanka, Evaluation of Continuing Teacher Education Programmes conducted in
Teacher Centres, Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project:, 25 May 2001.

Government of Sri Lanka, ICR, Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project, January 2006.

National Education Research and Evaluation Centre, A Study to Investigate the Effectiveness of
Implementation of Reforms at Key Stage I of Primary Cycle in Sri Lanka, University of Colombo,
December 2002.

National Education Research and Evaluation Centre, National Assessment of Achievement of Grade 4
Pupils in Sri Lanka: Achievement After Four Years of Schooling.        National Report, University of
Colombo, 2004.

National Institute of Education. What Children Have Learnt After Five Years of Schooling. Evaluation
Department, 1995.

Perera, W.S., and D. Gunaratne, Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project ­ Mid-Term
Review Report. Colombo. 1999.

Perera, D.A., D. Gunaratne, and G.E. Wijesuriya, Audit of Teacher Deployment in a Sample of Provincial
and National Schools. Final Report. Colombo. 2001.

Various correspondence during the project implementation between the World Bank, MEHE and MOE,
1995-2002, and various Minsitry of Education EMIS documents and reports (school census), 1998-2002

World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Sri Lanka, Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project,
Report No. 15282-CE, May 10, 1996.

World Bank, Statement of Mission Objectives, Aides-Memoire, Back-to-Office Reports, Management
Letters, Project Status Reports, Implementation Status Reports of all the Supervision Missions, April
1998-November 2005.

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy, Sri Lanka, 1997.

World Bank, ICR, General Education Project I, Report No.16654. June 9, 1997.

World Bank. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) Summary Assessment Sheet, October 2004.

World Bank, Treasures of the Education System in Sri Lanka: Restoring Performance, Expanding
Opportunities and Enhancing Prospects, February 2005.

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Education Sector Development Project, Report No. 33481-LK.
November 15, 2005.




                                                 - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report

1.       Project Design and Quality of Teacher Education at Entry

(1) Project design

The Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project was designed to implement the Government's
policies and strategies for teacher education and teacher deployment, identified by the National Education
Commission (NEC) in their first report in 1992. In August 1995, the NEC formulated a National
Education Strategy and a Teacher Education Strategy, which identified number of priorities in the field.
The Project had two areas: the first to involve in the rationalization of teacher numbers and their
deployment, and the second included the strengthening and rationalization of teacher education programs,
institutions, staff and management to meet the demand and supply of teachers while improving quality and
cost-effectiveness of teacher education. The project was carefully designed with a view to successfully
addressing these issues.

(2) Quality of Teacher Education at Entry

Teacher education in Sri Lanka was in a critical situation at the time of the implementation of the project.
Recruitment of 50,000 untrained, less qualified (mostly OIL qualified) teachers during 1989 and 1993 had
resulted in bringing the total number of teachers in the system to nearly 190,000. Massive recruitment drive
created a large influx of teachers in urban and semi urban areas and an acute shortage in disadvantaged
rural area schools thus affected the quality of teaching and learning processes.

From the total recurrent budget of the PEAs about 76% was incurred on teachers' salaries leaving only less
than 24% for other items like office consumables, welfare bursaries, school uniforms, travel,
communication expenses etc.

The capacity of teacher education institutions to train the teachers in classroom teaching and curricular
methods was inadequate and not demand driven.

Briefly, (1) high teacher salary budget; (ii) inconsistency within the province and between provinces; (iii)
inadequate distribution of resources on teacher education; (iv) problems of deploying teachers to difficult
area schools; (v) low teacher productivity; (vi) lack of a teacher incentive system to motivate them; (vii)
lack of a sound training system for teacher educators, were the main problems that the teacher education
system in the country had been facing at the implementation of TETD.

2.       The Project

The range of TETD project objectives proved to be very extensive and ambitious, with the setting of
difficult timeline to achieve within a highly politicized, decentralized and an uncoordinated atmosphere,
with a heavy bureaucratic system of administration. However, the project objectives were achieved to a
large extent during the project period, of which the results will be extensively used by the Sri Lankan
policy-makers to benefit the total system. Human and physical resources developed by the project will
benefit the present generation as well as future generations.




                                                      - 33 -

Component-wise Achievements

3        Component A ­ Rationalization of Teacher Deployment

(1) Context of Rationalization

        l    The improvement of teacher deployment policies and mechanism through introducing an
             improved Ready Reckoner formula was a central Goal of this multifaceted component, which
             was central to most other objectives and activities of the TETD project. Improving the quality
             and equity of education by strictly implementing a new RR formula and linking the funds
             saved from teacher salaries, as a result of decreasing teacher demand, to be spent on quality
             inputs in developing disadvantaged rural area schools was the intention of the component.

(2) Encouraging Results Achieved

By 1996 there had been a teacher surplus of 14,153 (9% of available) Sinhala medium teachers and a
deficit of 9485 (27% of available) teachers in Tamil medium. In collaboration with the PEAs, MOE the
excess numbers in Sinhala medium teachers, and shortage of Tamil medium teachers were brought down.
As a result the number of teachers declined from 180,500 in 1996 to 127,000 in 1997, by 2500. IDA, was
pleased over the progress and observed that: "Overall progress on teacher deployment within provinces has
been satisfactory". Some provinces have made greater progress than others (Supervision Mission, June 10
to July 4th 2000).

Table 1- Student Teacher Ratio by Cycle and Provinces, 1997 and 1998

             Province            STR in Primary level        STR in Secondary Level
                                 1997         1998           1997          1998
             Western             31.4         30.5           232           21.3
             Central             27.4         28.4           21.7          19.3
             Southern            26.7         25.6           20.4          19.0
             Northern            46.7         33.4           29.3          29.3
             Eastern             35.4         34.0           27.9          24.6
             NWP                 25.7         29.9           20.2          18.8
             NCP                 26.9         27.1           22.5          20.4
             UWA                 27.0         29.2           20.0          19.9
             Sabaragamuwa        27.1         27.2           21.5          19.3
             Total               29.2         28.8           22.3          20.5



The reason for the reduction of STR in the secondary cycle in 1997-1998 has to be attributed to the
increase of teachers in a relatively large number, while the increase of the student population was only 0.74
during the same period. The haphazard recruitment of teachers without taking in to consideration the
prevailing needs of the school system severely affected the fluctuation of STR across provinces. However,
MOE was able to maintain the STR of 26:1 in the primary and 22:1 in the secondary levels except in the
conflict areas of North and East during the period 2000 to 2002, but there had been a significant change in
the STR afterwards.




                                                     - 34 -

Table 2 - Student Teacher Ratio by Cycle and Provinces, 2000 and 2004
                         Province         Primary level     Secondary Level
                                          2003    2004       2003       2004
                         Western           22      22         23         23
                         Central           18      17         20         20
                         Southern          21      20         20         20
                         Northern          24      22         27         26
                         Eastern           22      20         25         24
                         NWP               17      17         23         22
                         NCP               15      15         24         24
                         Uva               16      15         22         21
                         Sabara:           18      18         21         21
                         National          19      19         22         22



By June 2002, some provinces have made considerable amount of progress over the issue of teacher
deployment. NWP, for example, did go to the extent of passing legislation for greater control over
deployment, which included applying a ranking system for teachers who could be sent to difficult and very
difficult schools. NWP also took steps to set up three member Medical Board to assess claims of teachers
who were supposed to evade the transfer on medical grounds.

(3) Vigilance of IDA in maintaining RR Formula

Donor agency not only kept a close tab on monitoring the implementation of RR formula, but also, very
vigilant in curbing the attempts made by MOE and PEAs to vary the agreed policy on teacher employment
and deployment.

4.       Component B ­ Rationalization of Structure and Organization.

(1) Establishment of NATE

The undertaking given by the MOE to establish NATE to plan, coordinate and appraise all teacher
education programs in the country, by November 1996 was honored only in March 1998 through an Act of
Parliament in December 1997. The delay caused due to the reasons such as, (i) delay occurred in
implementing the Teachers Service Minute, (ii) the staffing of NCOEs and TCs and (iii) the short supply of
staff to run the NATE. This delay in its professed operation, adversely affected on the effectiveness of the
NATE, as well as the policy operations of the TETD.

(2) NATE Performances

The NATE which was established as a semi autonomous body responsible to the Minister of Education, to
provide professional leadership and inspiration to national system of teacher education, was assigned with
the functions (SAR, Annex 16) of: (i) coordination of teacher education, (ii) Planning of teacher education
at national level, (iii) facilitating the implementation of national teacher education system, (iv) monitoring
and research and (v) public information on teacher education. With the establishment, the NATE started its
forward march having meetings, conferences, developing software packages for the establishment of an
integrated national planning system and preparing required manuals, educating the provincial authorities,



                                                       - 35 -

conducting training programs, preparing guidelines for staff evaluation and appraisal etc.

(3) Formulation of a National Teacher Education Policy

The successful formulation of a National Teacher Education Policy (September 2001), which was
mandatory on all teachers in the island, is considered a valued contribution by the NATE. This policy
document focuses on number of long standing issues such as: (i) teacher recruitment and placement, (ii)
structure and governance of teacher education, (iii) teacher education programs, (iv) continuing education,
(v) staffing and staff development, (vi) facilities and equipment, and cost and financing. These policies, if
implemented effectively, will invariably have a direct impact on achieving the quality, equity and
cost-effectiveness of teacher education in the country, forecast by the TETD.

(4) Demise of NATE

NATE was abolished in 2002. The validity of the explanation given, by the MOE to justify the action,
saying that the other agencies like NEC, NIE, CCTE and UGC are already covering the NATE functions
was partially accepted by IDA . However, the failure of NATE in playing its role effectively and efficiently
was an allegation that had been leveled against it at the beginning of 2002. While registering its
displeasure, IDA complained that the abolition of NATE was a policy decision taken only by the
Government of Sri Lanka.

5.       Component C ­ Upgrading Teacher Education Programs

(1) Component Objectives

This component was designed to create a better learning climate in the schools, by raising the quality of
teaching, and making the teacher education more cost effective. The objective of the component was two
fold: (i) to prepare all teachers prior to their entry through initial (pre-service) teacher education and, (ii) to
improve the quality of trained teachers in the teaching service through continuing (in-service) teacher
education programs. Under this component both initial and continuing teacher education programs were to
be improved, to create a better learning climate in schools, by raising the quality of teaching.

(2) Initial (pre- service) Training

Prior to the appointment as a teacher, completion of a pre-service program provided by Universities/ NIE/
NCOE, was made a pre-requisite to all selected candidates. The intake to NCOEs every year was based on
the projected teacher cadre requirement. For instance, 2005 intake was gazetted based on teacher cadre
projections for 2009 (Government Gazette, 03.06.2005). The target of the project, to have a teacher force
in the country with degree qualification, mainly by upgrading the NCOE courses to the level of Bachelor of
Education, is yet to be implemented.

(3) Continuing Education

This policy to improve the quality of all teachers serving in the system, within a cycle of 5 year period
through continuing education, was successfully implemented through out the project period. The project
intention was to make available the continuing education to about 170,000 teachers over the period of five
year project cycle, through direct contact mode or distance training mode. Large number of teachers did
under go training at TCs and NCOEs and in distance training mode.




                                                        - 36 -

(4) Massive Training Program to Clear backlog of untrained Teachers.

The objectives of this restructuring process: (1) coordination of all teacher education programs in the
country, (2) meeting the national needs for adequate number of trainees, were achieved to a great extent
during the lifetime of the project. However, a setting up of a main body responsible for planning,
implementation and appraisal of teacher education programs is yet to be established. The program launched
to train 23024 (in 1997) untrained teachers was successful, to a great extent, reducing the number of
untrained teachers in the system to 2.492% (School Censes, 1997 and 2004), inclusive of new recruits.
Successful completion of training of a backlog of 35,000 untrained teachers by the SIDA funded 'Distance
Education Training Program (1994-1998) by the NIE, is the massive training program ever implemented in
the country. With the establishment of 100 teacher centers representing almost all 92 zones in the country,
the opportunities are now available to all teachers to improve their professionalism through such TCs. This
is one of the groundbreaking achievements of the TETD.

(5) School- based (in-service) Teacher Development Training

This is a program designed jointly by NCOEs and TCs to implement in all the schools in zonal level. A
group of 35/40 teachers from a school was selected to be trained jointly by TCs and NCOE. Generally, 3
NIE trained resource persons visited the selected school to impart training. If the trainee number was less
than 35 in a school, then the number of teachers from close by schools were selected and organized as a
"Family" for training. This 2 day practical training program involved all school management procedures
from morning assembly till the end of the school session for the day. After the school is closed for the day,
they all gathered and held a post training discussion session to evaluate the pros and cons of their practical
training and other related matters. Occasionally, Zonal Director also took part as an observer and
evaluator. This was considered a very effective program which should continue even after the project is
over.

A 5 day training program designed by the NIE and Universities conducted during the week ends, vacation
or on weekdays by the NCOEs with the approval of the College Academic Board has been proved
successful one in the context of school improvement. This school-based development training program
conducted for 9 hours a day with 1 1/2 hours each spent on physical fitness and aesthetic activities, was a
massive training program implemented in NCOEs, TTCs, TCs , NIE and zonal level. It was planned to
train 97,920 teachers island-wide.

(6) Provincial Level Service Providers' Directory for Teacher Education

On the initiative of the TETD/IDA, the office of the Chief Commissioner for Teacher Education has
recently (September, 2005) developed provincial level directories of Resource Persons (except Southern
province) for the use of provincial trainers. The analysis being done by the CCTE to assess the capacity at
zonal level to support school teacher development programs would no doubt yield good results, provided it
is followed by a comprehensive action plan. A pilot project has already been launched in three zones
namely, Elpitiya in the Galle District, Homagama in the Colombo District and Dehiovita in the Kegalle
District.

(7) Teacher Education Curriculum Development (TECD)

Curricular and related materials for the use of NCOEs have been developed for all the subjects by the NIE.
Such materials prepared by the local and international consultants are now being used by NCOEs in their
teaching-learning processes. This is one of the very successful achievements gained by TETD. The process


                                                     - 37 -

of translating those syllabi into Tamil language was also successfully concluded.

6.       Component D ­ Staffing and staff Development for Teacher Education.

(1) Component Objectives

This component was introduced for the rationalization of the staff of teacher education institutions and the
upgrading of staff qualifications. The objectives of the component were (i) to rationalize the teacher
education staff to give more equitable resources and lower the unit cost, and (ii) to implement a staff
development plan to provide opportunities for staff to improve their teacher education qualification and
experience. It was further intended to (i) streamline the staffing structure within a period of 2 years of the
commencement of the project and, (ii) to make the adjustments by using the available (excess) cadres at
COEs, TTCs and Study Centers. Staff in NCOEs and TCc needed the teacher educators to fill the
requirement.

(2) The Overseas Training Program

Towards achieving the above objective, number of foreign and local trainings was proposed and
implemented satisfactorily with TETD funds. Instead of 160 teachers proposed (SAR) 163 officers got
opportunities to follow 3 months short term courses in foreign countries. 12 Doctorates were awarded to 5
university and 2 NCOE lecturers, and 5 NIE project officers. 168 Master Degrees were awarded to 125
NCOE, 6 TEls, 15 TC and TTC and 4 University lecturers and16 NIE Project Officers and 2 MOE
officers. Furthermore, 3 weeks study visits were offered to 531 young school teachers selected from all
parts of the country.

7.       Component E ­ Strengthening of Staff and Management - Physical Facilities for Rationalized
Teacher Education

(1) Component Objectives

The component was introduced with the intention of rationalization of teacher training institutions to
improve the cost effectiveness of teacher education by reducing the number of such institutions. The
component objectives were to: (i) rationalize the number and location of teacher education institutions to
meet the projected needs for initial and continuing teacher education and, (ii) to improve the quality and
facilities in such institutions.

(2) Rationalization of Teacher Training Institutions

The proposed rationalization of existing training institutions by upgrading 9 NCOEs to the status of
NCOEs and establishing another 4 new NCOEs, upgrading of 4 universities and the NIE, to make the total
number of institutions to 19 in place of 31 institutions, could not have been implemented as projected. With
the concurrence of IDA, MOE established another 3 new NCOEs.

Through the proposed rationalization, the intention was to reduce the unit cost operation, improve access
and reduce the proportion of residential facilities allocated for initial training. Reacting to this new
development IDA was of the opinion that some TTCs may be required for a short term to train the existing
untrained teachers; but their retention beyond that is inconsistent with the arrangement of developing
NCOEs and TCs. Island wide. But finally the end result of the proposed rationalization was to have 32
such institutions with 1 added to the original 31 centers. The objective of proposed reallocation of the


                                                      - 38 -

institutions to increase the number of day students was only partially achieved. The 3 TEls proposed to run
as residential institution with an intention of catering for both day and residential students to conduct
sessions in contact and distance mode, was also dropped with the failure to rationalize the TTCs. All 17
NCOEs are committed to implement continuing teacher development programs. However, to realize the
project intention to develop them as provincial centers for academic leadership to the province, both parties
should get together and evolve a sound mechanism.

(3) Functioning of 100 Tcs

All 100 TCC are now implementing continuing teacher development programs in a useful manner. TCs
have now become useful resource centers for teachers in the area. This is a remarkable progress that the
project was able to achieve.

8.       Component F- Strengthening Management and Administration of Teacher Education
institutions.

(1) The Objective of the Component

The objective of this component was to rationalize the number and location of teacher training institutions
through a range of activities that are incorporated into various project components. To improve regional
equity, meet needs for initial and continuing education, and to improve the quality of facilities and
equipment, could be considered as sub objectives of the component.

(2) NCOE Contribution to in-service Training:

Some NCOEs are offering in-service education courses on campus. But very little information is available
about the NCOE facilities that had been used for in-service training. With the diminishing population trend
and with a lesser number of students enrolling, the NCOEs may in future be able to provide in-service
education training.

9.       Component G: Studies and Monitoring

NEREC

The National Education Research and Evaluation Center, which was set up in 1999 at the University of
Colombo with the consent of the then Minister and in accordance with the by-laws of the university is
progressing well. The institute completed six studies (at national level).

10.      Components under Re-Structuring of the Project

(1) Components

Amid some implementation difficulties, TETD were able to achieve some satisfactory results at the end of
the proposed period (by June 2002). There were some sizable savings through competitive bidding,
implementation delays and depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee. IDA/MOE decided to restructure the
project by utilizing those saved funds, which provided an opportunity to address three emerging priorities
fully consistent with project objectives (Dec. 2002).

The three priority areas identified by the government are:


                                                      - 39 -

    l Education in conflict affected areas.
    l Promotion of English language teaching and learning.
    l Support for IT in the education system.


(2) Education Development in Conflict Affected Areas.

The objective of this new component was to provide classroom spaces, basic education facilities and
libraries in conflict affected area, jointly by GEP 2 and TETD projects. The main component of the
restructured TETD project was to provide Infrastructure to Jaffna NCOE and the NCOE, Aluthgama. It
was planned to provide new buildings and refurbish existing buildings. By the end of September, 2005,
TETD with the help of the construction consultancy firms, completed the civil works in Jaffna (with a cost
of Rs. 284 m) Batticlloa and Aluthgama (with a cost of Rs. 25.6 m) NCOEs satisfactorily. Construction of
16 TCs island-wide, additional works at TCs in conflict affected areas and construction of new TCs were
satisfactorily completed.

(3) Promotion of English language teaching and learning

(1) Introduction

Under the restructuring program, the improvement of English Education, which was seen as a social link to
help bridge the ethnic differences and as a capital to gain employment, was considered a national priority
and TETD funds were made available mainly to train personnel on English Education.

(2) Progress in Activity Based Oral English (ABOE) Training Program

It has been reported that 1831 teachers were trained up to June, 2005 and another program launched to
train 25,000 teachers is being in progress. This progress is as at 30th August 2005. 10,000 cassette pieces
produced by the NIE have also been distributed to provinces.

(3) Training of English Teachers in Language and Methods

NIE has undertaken to train primary teachers, Key stage 2 and 3, with an allocation of Rs. 4.5 m. In a
Diagnostic Placement Test administered by the Open University teachers were categorized into 3 batches:
(1) high scorers (2) medium scorers and (3) low scorers. High scorers were given a university diploma
program. Training program for low scorers originally planned to be implemented by the private sector was
carried out by the provinces. Progress is satisfactory. The medium scorers were given a ten day Continuing
Teacher Education training at Peradeniya English Teachers' College by the NIE and 1200 teachers were
thus trained.

(4) Training of Subject Teachers in A/L

This activity was done with moderate success by training of 1744 teachers in 6 provinces with a cost of Rs.
3,046,207.

(5) Quality Assessment of English Education Programs

A mixed group of beneficiaries who have undergone different kinds of English training programs was
interviewed by the officers of the TETD and the Department of English (MOE) for the purpose of


                                                     - 40 -

estimating the benefit they have accrued as a result of their training. The group consisted of beneficiaries
of: English medium training, Provincial training, General English training, Continuing teacher education
and DETE. Their responses were summarized below:

Responding to a questionnaire administered to them on the effects of above programs, more than 90% of
teachers were of the opinion that they were immensely benefited. A group of teachers appraising the
benefits, they accrued from the DETE program, stated the following:

    l Gained confidence in using the language effectively.
    l Helped to enhance the integrated language skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing.
    l Was very helpful to create a better teaching/learning environment in the classroom.
    l The quality of the package was commendable.
    l Techniques learned are being effectively used in classroom teaching and learning process.
    l Gained confidence to solve the problems, which arises during pair work and group work promptly.
    l The planning and organization of classroom activities were made easier.


Time allocation on literature slots was not adequate.
Programs in future should be enriched with modern technology such as ICT,CAL etc.

A group of teachers who were benefited as a result of participating in the Activity Based Oral English
(ABOE) training program had the following comments:

    l ABOE program was very helpful for primary teachers to do the Environmental Related Activities
         (ERA) lessons with fun and joy.
    l Confidence in how to use the classroom language with grades 1 and 2 students was developed.
    l Students not only improved their vocabulary, but their learning and listening techniques were also
         developed.
    l Students were able to try to speak simple English words.
    l The duration of the programs was not sufficient.
    l Provision of audio and video cassettes was very much in need.


(4)      IT Based Education

Being a top priority program of the Sri Lankan Government IT education was given a special emphasis
under the restructuring of TETD. The objective of the program was to enhance learning achievement and
human capital, through the introduction of IT and utilization of IT as a tool for learning-teaching process
and to improve employment and labor market opportunities for school completers. One million US$ from
TETD was set apart under the TETD restructured program to support IT education.

(1) Progress

Establishment of IT Centers in 80 schools, at the rate of 10 per province, has been successfully completed.
At an evaluation session, it had been rated as one of the successful programs highly popular and heavily
utilized. But the problem of shortage of competent and full time teachers has to be solved immediately for
accruing the maximum benefit of the program. However, IT trained teachers, attached to these centers, are
performing in an exemplary manner.




                                                    - 41 -

11.      Sustainability of the Project

The sustainability of project activities will largely depend on future commitments of the Sri Lankan
Government to support the sector in terms of investment and financing recurrent and capital costs. It will
also depend on the interest and commitment of individuals, policy makers, government officers, principals,
teachers and parents. In mid 2002, the issue of sustainability was addressed and since then different efforts
were made to make it a reality. At a workshop held at Hotel Blue Waters, Wadduwa from 5th to 7th April
2002, a plan for ensuring the sustainable development of the quality of education, bringing about
system-wide efficiency and cost effectiveness etc. was prepared. All workshop participants were unanimous
in agreeing that the TETD did its best to provide useful inputs of physical material and technical support to
improve the quality and efficiency of teacher education. The common agreement was that the inputs for
human resource development were hardly sufficient to guarantee the project sustainability.

12.      Lessons Learned

   l Adequate and trained staff specially selected from among the established MOE staff would ensure
         successful implementation of a project.
   l Continuation of the same senior staff (decision making and administrative level) would support and
         ensure strong and consistence leadership and effective project implementation.
   l Long-term sustainability of investment projects is likely when existing government structures are
         mobilized for project implementation, reinforced by commitment and ownership at Zonal,
         Provincial and Central levels secured through participatory project preparation and appraisal.

13.      IDA Performance

During the period of implementation of the TETD project, IDA was very cooperative and their support was
satisfactory.




                                                      - 42 -

- 43 -

