Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2881 CE
                    Development Credit Agreement
         (Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project)
                             between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                               and
              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated July 3, 1996
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2881 CE
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1996, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated April 24,
1996 from the Borrower on the Teacher Education Policy Statement,
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed for
the further development of its education sector (hereinafter called
the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (C)   by agreement dated September 23, 1993 (the ADB Loan
Agreement), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has agreed to make a loan
(the ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $4,900,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
the ADB Loan Agreement (ADB Loan No. 1247-SRI); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                  ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
            wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country which
            is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
            services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
            purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for
            any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
            knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision
            of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MEHE" means the Ministry of Education and Higher
Education of the Borrower;
      (b)   "Ready Reckoner Formula" means a mechanism agreed with the
Association and used by the Borrower to allocate teachers to provinces
and schools, which takes into account the actual needs for teachers at
each school, based on student enrollments, programs offered and teacher'
cadre;
      (c)   "Cadre Committee" means a central authority of the Borrower
with representatives from several ministries or entities of the
Borrower, which is responsible for the review of the annual provincial
authorities proposals for teacher allocation and for ensuring the most
equitable and cost effective application of the Ready Reckoner Formula;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing
January 1 and ending December 31;
      (f)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established
within MEHE for the purpose of implementation of the Project;
      (g)   "NATE" means the National Authority on Teacher Education; and
      (h)   "NCOEs" means National Colleges of Education.
                              ARTICLE II
                              The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-
four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 44,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Page  3
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing November
15, 2006 and ending May 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that,
in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
Page  4
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and education practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the
Project the PCU with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
which shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with benchmarks
and indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, by July 31, 1998 (i) a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following
such date; and (ii) a specific report detailing the application by
the Borrower of (A) the Ready Reckoner Formula in the recruitment of
teachers in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and  (B) other implementation benchmarks agreed with the
Association including, inter alia, whether the Cadre Committee is
operating in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and the
teacher transfer policy established in 1995 is being implemented, and
whether the allocation of funds in each province for quality inputs
and school maintenance has reached the targets specified in paragraph
2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   review with the Association, by September 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said reports and the Association's views on
the matter.
      Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
                              ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                  this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
                  cedures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                   ARTICLE V
Page  6
                           Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                      proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                      Borrower for the financing of the Project
                      shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                      terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                      to the terms of the agreement providing
                      therefor, or (B) any such loan shall have
                      become due and payable prior to the agreed
                      maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
                  if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
                  the Association that:
                  (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                      prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                      the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                      under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                      for the Project are available to the Borrower
                      from other sources on terms and conditions
                      consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                      under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii)
of that Section.
                               ARTICLE VI
                               Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Director General, External
Resources Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Planning
            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
            Colombo, Sri Lanka
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  SECMINFIN                FINMIN 21409
                  Colombo                  FORAID 21232
      For the Association:
Page  7
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                  By /s/ Jayantha Dhanapala
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                         South Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of
the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works              21,900,000         100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  80% of local
                                                  expenditures
(2)   Equipment,                5,350,000         100% of foreign
      furniture and                               expenditures,
      vehicles                                    100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 85%
                                                  of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(3)   Books, educational       2,610,000          100% of foreign
      materials and local                         expenditures and
      printing expenditures                       90% of local
Page  8
                                                  expenditures
(4)   Consultants'            5,290,000           100%
      services (including
      architectural services
      and studies)
(5)   Fellowships and         5,830,000           100%
      training
(6)   Project management         70,000           90% in FY96 and
                                                  FY97, 60% in FY98
                                                  and FY99, and 30%
                                                  thereafter
(7)   Unallocated             2,950,000
                             __________
            TOTAL            44,000,000
                             ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "Project management" means expenditures in
respect of the Project incurred by PCU and NATE.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 550,000,
may be made in respect of Categories 1 through 6 on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after December
1, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure under
contracts for:
      (a)   goods not exceeding $50,000 equivalent;
      (b)   works not exceeding $300,000 equivalent;
      (c)   consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and
      (d)   individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and
coverage of education in the Borrower's territory.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A
      Rationalizing teacher deployment policies through: (i) adjust-
ment of the Ready Reckoner Formula for staff allocations; (ii)
Page  9
establishment of annual monitoring of teacher allocations through the
Cadre Committee; and (iii) implementation of work standards and
incentive mechanisms to facilitate teacher assignment in less
favorable areas, through the provision of technical assistance,
educational materials and equipment therefor.
Part B
      Improving the coordination and quality of teacher education
programs by establishing NATE and strengthening the office of the
Chief Commissioner for Teacher Education through the provision of
staff, equipment and vehicles for these institutions.
Part C
      Improving effectiveness of teacher training by restructuring
programs, reducing duplication, revising curricula, updating teacher
materials, and adjusting initial and continuing teacher education
programs through provision of technical assistance, educational
materials and equipment therefor.
Part D
      Strengthening staff development and management capacity at
teacher education institutions through the provision of staff,
technical assistance and pre-service and in-service training of
teachers and upgrading of teacher educators and managers.
Part E
      Rationalizing and consolidating the teacher training system
to consist of the National Institute of Education (NIE), four
universities (Colombo, Jaffna, Open University and Peradeniya), 14
NCOEs, including 5 new NCOEs to be constructed, and about 80 Teacher
Centers (TCs) through the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
facilities and provision of furniture, educational materials,
equipment and vehicles.
Part F
      Strengthening teacher education management through the
provision of technical assistance for monitoring and evaluation
activities.
Part G
      Carrying out of studies for monitoring the impact of the
Project and for the preparation of future projects in the
education sector.
                    *          *          *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995,
and revised in January l996 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
Page  10
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5
of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Prequalification
      Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with
      the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and
      domestic contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic
contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (i)  Civil works for the rehabilitation of about 80 Teacher
Centers and NCOEs and renovation of the Faculties of Education at
the University of Colombo and Jaffna estimated to cost $300,000
equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent; (ii) vehicles estimated to cost
$100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $700,000 equivalent; and (iii) furniture estimated to
cost the equivalent of not more than $3,100,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    International Shopping
      Computers and other items of equipment estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
3.    Direct Contracting
      Reference and library books and educational materials which
are obtainable only from one source may be procured directly from
the publishers of such books or materials. In cases where two or
more similar items exist, such items may be procured on the basis
of comparative bids from at least two suppliers.
4.    Procurement of Printing Contracts
      Printing for the curriculum materials up to an amount not to
exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic
printers in response to a written invitation.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provi-
sions of said paragraph 1.
Page  11
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and for each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments,
such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports
and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employ-
ment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                    Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall gradually increase the overall student:
teacher ratio so as to ensure that by January 1, 2001 said ratio
has reached 26:1 for primary schools and 22:1 for secondary schools.
2.    The Borrower undertakes to earmark, on or about January 1,
1997: (i) 3 percent of the annual recurrent block grant budget
allocation in each province for education for quality inputs
(such as textbooks, audiovisual equipment, and educational
materials), and thereafter increase such percentage at the rate of
1 percent per annum so as to reach a minimum of 6 percent for each
province by January 1, 2001; and (ii) 1 percent of the education
capital budget allocation to each province for maintenance of
schools. The Borrower shall evaluate this percentage during FY97
and FY98 to: (a) determine, in consultation with the Association,
actual maintenance needs, and (b) prepare, based on such evaluation,
a long-term maintenance plan for educational facilities, satis-
factory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   establish, by November 1, 1996 or such later date as
the Association shall agree (i) the Teacher Cadre Committee, and
(ii) NATE, both with membership, powers and responsibilities
Page  12
satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   thereafter maintain and operate the Cadre Committee
and NATE.
4.    The Borrower undertakes that, commencing in January 1, 1997:
      (a)   it will recruit and assign teachers only in accordance
with the Ready Reckoner Formula and the Cadre Committee allocations
directly linked to the annual budget, and that special or emergency
appointments of teachers will follow only the application of said
formula; and
      (b)   the application of the Ready Reckoner Formula will be
monitored annually by the Borrower and any deviation therefrom
promptly corrected and notice thereof given to the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall not later than January 1, 1998, commence
the application of a teacher support and incentive system satis-
factory to the Association to facilitate teacher assignments in
less favorable areas through the Teacher Transfer Boards.
6.    The Borrower shall carry out, until the completion of the
Project, a staff development plan for teacher educators satisfactory
to the Association, in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Association for selection of participants, bonding and assignment
and reassignment of trainees.
7.    The Borrower shall carry out the technical assistance and
training program under Parts D and E of the Project in accordance
with terms of reference and time schedules satisfactory to the
Association.
8.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by January 1, 1998 formulate and furnish to the Associa-
tion for its concurrence, a system of unit cost budgetary allocation
for teacher training institutions; and
      (b)   by January 1, 1999 commence the implementation of such
system.
9.    The Borrower shall by January 31, 1997 and every six months
thereafter, throughout the Project execution period, update and
furnish to the Association for its review and approval the
implementation plan and the key indicators for the Project.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 6 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited
to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount
of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
Page  13
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 15,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                  for deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                  been shown by said documents and other evidence
                  to have been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
Page  14
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit
in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
