Report No. PID6765
Project Name                     Uganda-El Nino Emergency Road (+)
Repair Project
Project ID                       UGPE57007
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Transport
Borrower                         Republic of Uganda
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Works, Transport, and
Communications (MOWTC)
Entebbe, Uganda
Date the PID Prepared            February 27, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         March 30, 1998
Projected Board Date             May 14, 1998
Background
The proposed project would provide emergency recovery assistance to the
Government of Uganda for the restoration and rehabilitation of key road and
bridge facilities severely damaged by the flooding, associated with the "El
Nino" weather pattern. Besides, it will help restore / rehabilitate Atiak -
Moyo road located in one of the more remote and poverty stricken parts of the
country.
Project Objectives
The project aims at: (i) reducing infrastructure-related market and
distribution costs countrywide, by reducing road transport costs to their pre-
emergency levels; (ii) securing the timely delivery of social services to the
affected populations, by restoring accessibility to its pre-emergency level;
(iii) facilitating the productive re-settlement of war refugees in Northern
Uganda, by restoring and rehabilitating the key Atiak-Moyo road connection
from Uganda to neighboring Sudan; and (iv) stabilizing the eco-system near the
affected roads by arresting further deterioration of environmental conditions.
Project Description
The project would consist of the following components:
(i)     Repair of Damaged Road Sections - The project would provide financing for
repairs to be carried out on 96 identified sections of road countrywide,
amounting to about 350 km. The works are aimed at restoring to the original
condition road sections critically damaged as a result of flooding and the
action of traffic loads on the already weakened sections.
(ii)    Rehabilitation and Regravelling of Atiak-Moyo Road - The works will
comprise rehabilitation/regravelling of 92 km of gravel road as well as
repairs of five bridges and two ferry crossings. Rehabilitation of this road



was initially envisaged under the IDA-financed Northern Uganda Rehabilitation
Project (NURP), Credit No. 2362-UG, but it could not be completed as a result
of the difficult security situation prevailing in that part of the country.
In the meantime, the Credit reached its closing date. Whereas according to
the Government, the security situation in Northern Uganda has since then
improved, road condition has experienced accelerated deterioration
attributable to the heavy rainfall.
(iii)   Repair and Replacement of Culverts and Bridges - The project would
provide financing for the replacement of culverts and bridges which were
completely washed out due to excessive water discharges over prolonged periods
of time; and repairs of damaged structures including the protection of bridge
abutments, pier foundations, slopes, and culvert/wing walls which were
severely affected by the rainfall and putting at risk the structural stability
of some 120 bridges.
(iv)    Engineering Studies and Construction Supervision - Consultant
services would be provided under the project for the preparation of
feasibility and engineering studies and tender documents, as well for the
supervision of the civil works
Environmental Aspects
Environmental Impact Classification B. The proposed works will be restricted
to the restoration of existing facilities to their standard prior to the
flooding. The project would also provide the opportunity of repairing
environmental damage, resulting from the floods. The designed improvements
are not such that would involve new environmental challenges. In any case, an
environmental/resettlement assessment will be prepared for the Atiak-Moyo Road
by June 1998
Project Implementation
The Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications (MOWTC) would have overall
responsibility for the implementation of the proposed Project. As an interim
measure, Government established a Disaster Management Task Force Unit (DMTFU)
under the MOWTC to be responsible for the emergency operations until the RAFU
to be established under the IDA-financed Road Sector Institutional Support and
Technical Assistance Project, RSISTAP(recently approved by the Board, Report
No. P-7116-UG) is operational. After which, project implementation of the
emergency project would be transferred to RAFU. The key staff of RAFU will
be assigned to three Divisions: (i) the Operations Division, responsible for
planning and programming, studies and supervision, and works and supplies will
be primarily entrusted with the implementation aspects of the proposed
project; (ii) Monitoring and Management Information Systems (MISD); and (iii)
Administration which will provide services support to the Operations Division
in the monitoring, management information, finance and legal aspects of
project implementation.
Project Costs and Financing
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$30.0 million equivalent, with
-2 -



foreign exchange cost requirements totaling about 65t of total costs. The IDA
credit of US$27.6 million represents 92t of total project costs, net of taxes
and duties.  The Government would contribute about US$2.4 million or about 8;
of total project costs.   The IDA credit would finance 100l of consultant
services, goods and equipment and 90- of the civil works.
Project Sustainability
No major sustainability issues are anticipated for the proposed project in
view of its emergency nature. As to the possible recurrence of emergency
situations, the provision of bridges and other construction materials under
the proposed project will increase MOWTC's capabilities for crisis mitigation.
The emergency actions are also being undertaken in coordination with measures
being implemented in the context of the Road Sector Development Program (RSDP)
to strengthen institutional capacity. Sector-wide sustainability issues, are
also being addressed under the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP)
and RSISTAP. To address medium-run emergency concerns, an engineering audit
will be carried out for the more affected road stretches by the Road Agency
Formation Unit (RAFU).
Poverty Category
Not applicable
Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement
Experience from past projects in Uganda indicates that the main risk has been
limited capacity of the implementation agency, in particular, the ability of
the agency to efficiently address problems related to contract management,
contract administration, and financial and technical monitoring. There are
substantial delays in the processing and awarding of the contracts, thus
incurring substantially higher costs at the initial stages of commencement,
delayed completion and consequently loss of investment. The lessons from the
modest success of technical assistance provided to develop the implementation
and planning capacity of MOWTC is that major policy changes need full
commitment by Government to ensure success. The success of any effort to
improve public agency performance depends on Government willingness to grant
it financial and managerial autonomy and that, in the absence of such a
commitment, assistance to strengthen such agency is likely to accomplish
little. The structure of road administration has been subject to frequent
changes during implementation of projects. The result of these changes was
confusion, poorly organized planning administration and ineffective long term
institutional and staff development. Therefore, main institutional and policy
changes, including reorganization and institutional strengthening of road
administration, as well as changes in the decision-making process, should be
undertaken prior to any major increase in the volume of the road program.
Other lessons are that re-evaluation of the engineering design of roads
before commencement of the projects, inadequate engineering designs and weak
documentation related to substantial changes in the field, delays in the
implementation, and cost overruns made major negative impacts on road
development to date. The need to develop appropriate monitoring indicators to
be used as part of Project implementation has also emerged as an important
- 3 -



lesson in fostering policy and strategic reforms.
Project Benefits
Most of the quantifiable project benefits would ultimately accrue to producers
and consumers countrywide with a reduction of transport costs to their pre-
emergency levels. This reduction would result from vehicle operating costs
savings and the elimination of congestion bottlenecks in the affected sections
of Uganda's road network. Further quantifiable savings would accrue to the
Government, as a result of deferral of major investments arising from
premature deterioration of road condition. Other important benefits, albeit
more difficult to quantify, would accrue to the population in the affected
areas through the restoration of accessibility to its pre-emergency levels, as
well as improve access and facilitate productive activities of war refugees in
poverty-stricken Northern Uganda.
Project Risks
The main project risks would be inadequate implementation capacity of MOWTC,
delays in the recruitment of key staff to RAFU and inadequate capacity of
local contractors to complete the works on time and effectively. The overall
risk is moderate, only in view of the high risk attached to the possible
deterioration of the security situation in Northern Uganda where the Atiak-
Moyo road is situated. These potential risks have been considered during the
inception and design of the project. The appointment of key staff to RAFU is
a condition of effectiveness of the IDA-financed Road Sector Institutional
Support Technical Assistance Project (RSISTAP). In addition, packaging for
procurement of civil works would be matched to the local contractors
capabilities. International competitive bidding procedures would be used for
more complex works.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 21, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



