Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17400-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
EL NINO EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
April 7, 1998
Transport 1
Country Department 4
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit           Uganda Shilling (U Sh)
US$ 1.00                U ShI 100 (As of January 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
DMTFU             Disaster Management Task Force Unit
EIRR              Economic Internal Rate of Return
EU                European Union
GOU               Government of Uganda
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               InteTnational Development Association
MMIS              Monitoring and Management Information Systems
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MOPED             Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
MOWTC             Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications
NURP              Northern Uganda Rehabilitation Project
NPV               Net Present Value
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
RAFU              Road Agency Formation Unit
RSDP              Road Sector Development Program
RSISTAP           Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
TRP               Transport Rehabilitation Project
TSIREP            Transport Sector Investment and Recurrent Expenditure Programme (1997 - 2000)
URC               Uganda Railways Corporation
Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: James W. Adams
Technical Manager: Yusupha B. Crookes
Team Leader: Yitzhak Kamhi



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
EL NINO EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. ProjectRationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Technical
3. Institutional
4. Environmental assessment
5. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2       Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7.      Implementation Schedule
Annex 8.      Outline of Project Implementation Plan
Annex 8.      Documents in the Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.     Uganda at a Glance
Map
IBRD No. 29450



Uganda
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC04
Date: April 7, 1998                                   Team Leader: Yitzhak Kamhi
Country Director: James W. Adams                      Sector Manager: Yusupha B. Crookes
Project ID: 57007       Sector: Transportation        Program Objective Category: EA
Lending Instrument: SIL                               Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                 [] Loan       [X] Credit       [  Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$27.6 m/SDR 20.5 m
Proposed terns:                          [    Multicurrency     [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          []   Standard Variable   [   Fixed           []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                               Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                   2.4                 0                2.4
Cofmanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                          8.0                 19.6             27.6
Other (specify)
Total        10.4                19.6             30.0
Borrower: Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications (MOWTC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      1998       1999        2000      2001
Annual    2.5         12.0        10.6      2.5
Cumulative    2.5         14.5       25.1      27.6
For Guarantees:                                  [    Partial credit    [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:              [    Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 36 months Expected effectiveness date: 06.15.98    Expected closing date: 7.31.2001



A: Project Development Objective
The proposed project would provide emergency recovery assistance to the Government of Uganda for the
restoration / rehabilitation of key road and bridge facilities severely damaged by the flooding, associated with
the "El Nino" weather pattern. The project would contribute to: (i) decreasing infrastructure-related market
and distribution costs countrywide, by reducing road transport costs to their pre-emergency levels; (ii)
securing the timely delivery of social services to the affected populations, by restoring accessibility t.o its pre-
emergency level; (iii) facilitating the productive settlement of war refugees in Northern Uganda, by restoring
and rehabilitating the key Atiak - Moyo road connection from Uganda to neighboring Sudan; and (iv)
stabilizing the eco-system near the affected roads by arresting further deterioration of environmental
conditions.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS document number: 16540-UG          Date of latest CAS discussion: May 20, 1997
A primary objective of IDA's assistance strategy to Uganda is to reduce poverty, through a medium-term
strategy focused on private investment-led growth and export diversification. Lowering transport costs, and
improving reliability of access to infrastructure, is assumed in the CAS as a key element to facilitate business
development and to support poverty alleviation. Regionally targeted public investment, mainly in the North, is
also considered as a key element in IDA's strategy.
The proposed emergency project fits well into IDA's strategy for Uganda for two main reasons. First, by
targeting investment at the restoration of key road and bridge infrastructure facilities severely damaged by
floods associated with the "El Nino" weather pattern, it would contribute to reestablishing a more effective
flow of goods and services countrywide. And second, with more than 30% of the funds under the proposed
Credit allocated to the Atiak - Moyo road in Northern Uganda, the proposed project would have a considerable
impact in improving accessibility to one of the more remote and poverty-stricken regions of the country.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The last Transport Sector Memorandum was prepared by the Bank in February 1991 (Report No. 9346-UG).
The main conclusions and actions recommended were: (i) strengthen investment planning and program
prioritization across the various transport modes; (ii) maximum role for the private sector; (iii) balanced
program of road rehabilitation and maintenance; (iv) preparation of a strategy for air transport development;
and (v) commercial strategy for the Uganda Railways Corporation (URC). Many of these recommendations
have been followed under the subsequent IDA-financed Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP). During
implementation of this Project several positive developments have taken place, including: (i) selectiorn and
prioritization of transport sector investments and recurrent expenditures within the framework of the
Government's rolling three-year Transport Sector Investment and Recurrent Expenditure Programme
(TSIREP); (ii) contracting out of road construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance works; (iii) development
of a road maintenance program, with Government contributions rising to US$42 million in FY97 from US$25
million in FY95; (iii) establishment of a Civil Aviation Authority carrying the responsibility for the aviation
sector; and (iv) signing of a Performance Contract between URC and the Government, which explicitly
recognizes URC as a strategic but commercially oriented entity, and establishes Government's obligation to
compensate the company for non-remunerative services that it is required to provide. Overall, the Goverrfnment
has made progress in addressing the major issues identified in past consultation with IDA. The areas where
progress has been slower include: (i) financial restructuring of URC and elimination of arrears from the
Government in compensation for the unremunerative services rendered; (ii) definition of a policy for the



restructuring and/or privatization of the flag airline (Uganda Airlines Corporation); (iii) establishment of an
autonomous, and user financed, Road Agency; and (iv) program management and project implementation
capabilities, particularly in the road sector. More recently, the Government has initiated concerted action to
address these issues, as detailed in its Letter of Transport Sector Policy of July 1997 prepared under the IDA-
financed Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project, RSISTAP (recently approved by the
Board, Report No. P-71 16-UG). Specifically, URC and Uganda Airlines Corporation are currently being
considered for privatization, under a utility reform program supported by IDA. A major restructuring effort
has also been initiated in the road sector under RSISTAP, leading to the creation of a Road Agency Formation
Unit (RAFU), as an intermediate step towards the establishment of a fully-autonomous and commercially-
oriented Road Agency by 2001. RAFU's creation is expected to improve substantially project management
capabilities, thus creating the conditions for the effective implementation of the Government's 10-year Road
Sector Development Program (RSDP). Reflecting this effort, the RSDP (US$1.5 billion over a 10 year period)
has recently been endorsed by the Donor Community.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Since the proposed project is an emergency recovery operation no sector issue will be specifically addressed.
The major strategic choice involved was the consideration of the project as a stand-alone operation, i.e. with
no institutional linkages, vs. its consideration in the context of the ongoing sector restructuring process. At
stake was the trade-off between the required speed of project preparation and implementation and the integrity
of the reforms. In the end, a compromise strategy was adopted. Project preparation and supervision will be
initially under the Disaster Management Task Force Unit (DMTFU) of the MOWTC. This allows for the
immediate response dictated by the emergency situation. Upon the creation of the Road Agency Formation
Unit (RAFU), overall project implementation responsibility for the emergency project will be transferred to
this Unit.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3for a detailed description and Annex 4for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component               Category      Cost Incl.   % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   financing
Repair of damaged road sections and   Physical        9.4      31         8.5       90
pipe culverts
Atiak - Moyo Road                Physical            10.0      33         9.0       90
rehabilitation/Regravelling
Repair/replacement of box culverts   Physical         5.0      17         4.5       90
and bridges
Procurement of Pipe culverts and  Physical            3.7      12         3.7       100
Bailey Bridge Sections                                                           .    -
Engineering, Studies and         Consultant           1.9       7         1.9      100
Construction Supervision         Services
Total                                  30.0      100       27.6        92
2. Key policy and institutional refornu supported by the project:
N/A



3. Benefits and target population: The benefits from the Project will be:
(i) A reduction of transport costs as a result of the elimination of congestion bottlenecks in the affected sections of
road network and improved road conditions.
(ii) Savings accruing to the Government as a result of deferral of major investments arising from premature
deterioration of road conditions.
The target population of the Project are:
(i) The project will benefit producers and consumers countrywide: lower transport costs.
(ii) The population affected by the El Nino: restoration of accessibility to its pre-emergency levels as well as
facilitate the settlement and productive activities of war refugees in poverty stricken Northern Uganda.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
1. Administrative. The Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications (MOWTC) would have overall
responsibility for the implementation of the proposed Project. As an interim measure, Government established
DMTFU under the MOWTC to be responsible for the emergency operations until the RAFU to be established under
the IDA-financed RSISTAP is operational. After which, project implementation of the emergency project would
be transferred to RAFU. The key staff of RAFU will be assigned to three Divisions: (i) the Operations Division,
responsible for planning and programming, studies and supervision, and works and supplies will be primarily
entrusted with the implementation aspects of the proposed project; (ii) Monitoring and Management Information
Systems (MISD); and (iii) Administration which will provide services support to the Operations Division in the
monitoring, management information, finance and legal aspects of project implementation.
2. Implementation Period. 3 years (July 1998-July 2001). To minimize delays in project start-up it is envisaged
that pre-contract activities would be substantially completed by the time of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
The pre-contract activities will be carried out by the DMTFU with the assistance of consultants.
3. Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing. The MOWTC will maintain accounts and records in accordance
with Ugandan and International Accounting Standards. (i) Separate financial accounts will be kept for the Project,
using accounting procedures and systems acceptable to IDA; (ii) Project accounts will be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (iii) Special accounts and all disbursements under SOEs will be audited
semi-annually; and (iv) The annual audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year and the semi-annual audit report within three months of each period.
4. Monitoring and Evaluation. (i) A monitoring and evaluation system have been developed under the project; (ii)
Semi-annual progress reports will be prepared on the basis of the project implementation plan; (iii) A completion
report will be submitted by the Government to IDA within six months of Credit closing. A Mid-term review will
be carried out no later than February 28, 1999.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternatives considered basically related to the scope of the proposed project and to IDA-financing
Regarding project scope, the consideration of major road geometric road realignments which could prevent the
recurrence of same-intensity flooding was disregarded, since: (i) the likelihood of recurrence of such high levels of
rainfall in the short-run was considered low; and (ii) even if deemed required, after a more detailed engineering
assessment, geometric realignments can always be included in the 10-year RSDP. Furthermore, the consideration of
the rehabilitation of the 15 km long Nakivubo Channel was disregarded since: (i) it was assessed as a medium-term
emergency concern; and (ii) financing would likely be made available by the European Union (EU) who is already
financing the ongoing feasibility study.



As to IDA-financing alternatives, the possibility of reallocation of funds under existing IDA Transport Credits was
rejected since: (i) available, and uncommitted, funds in TRP's Credit account are insufficient to meet emergency
fmancing requirements; and (ii) the recently Board-approved RSISTAP is not yet effective and contains no
provisions for the financing of civil works.
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                        Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Road rehabilitation, maintenance      Fourth Highway Project                S                 S
contracting                           Transport Rehabilitation Project      U                 S
Institutional Capacity                Road Sector Inst. Support             n.a.             n.a.
Assistance Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience from past projects in Uganda indicates that the main risk has been limited capacity of the
implementation agency, in particular, the ability of the agency to efficiently address problems related to contract
management, contract administration, and financial and technical monitoring. There are substantial delays in the
processing and awarding of the contracts, thus incurring substantially higher costs at the initial stages of
commencement, delayed completion and consequently loss of investment. The lessons from the modest success of
technical assistance provided to develop the implementation and planning capacity of MOWTC is that major policy
changes need full commitment by Government to ensure success. The success of any effort to improve public
agency performance depends on Government willingness to grant it financial and managerial autonomy and that, in
the absence of such a commitment, assistance to strengthen such agency is likely to accomplish little. The structure
of road administration has been subject to frequent changes during implementation of projects. The result of these
changes was confusion, poorly organized planning administration and ineffective long term institutional and staff
development. Therefore, main institutional and policy changes, including reorganization and institutional
strengthening of road administration, as well as changes in the decision-making process, should be undertaken prior
to any major increase in the volume of the road program. This is the focus of the recently approved RSISTAP.
Other lessons are that inadequate engineering designs and weak documentation resulted in implementation delays
and cost overruns.
The need to develop appropriate monitoring indicators to be used as part of Project implementation has emerged as
an important lesson in fostering policy and strategic reforms, which is also a focus of RSISTAP.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Three main factors are indicative of borrower's commitment to the Project. First, and at the highest level, the
President of Uganda and his Government consider the availability of basic road infrastructure as a key strategic
element in the implementation of Uganda's economic program. Second, the Ministry of Finance has consistently
allocated the agreed resources for road maintenance since FY95, hence showing commitment to the sustainability of
the proposed investments. And third, the Government decision to initiate a major sector restructuring including the



road sector institutions. Government has also already established a Disaster Management Task Force Unit
(DMTFU) under the MOWTC to be responsible for the emergency operations. The Unit has begun pre-contract
activities and engineering studies, and has started some urgent repairs to provide essential access on critical sections
of the road network.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
From a client's perspective, the value added of Bank support was the quick-response provided, even if no funds for
emergency restoration could be re-allocated from existing Credits. Following the Government's declaration of the
emergency situation, by December 19, 1997, the Bank was able to quickly launch a preparation / appraisal mission.
The source of this value added was the Bank's comparative advantage in the Uganda road sector, gained through its
comprehensive assistance to the ongoing reform process and its deep physical knowledge of the country's road
network.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR=50% (weighted by investment, covering 78% of total project base costs)
[] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other (Specify)
A simplified economic analysis, commensurate with the emergency characteristics of the proposed road works, was
carried out for the road section repairs component, for the rehabilitation/regravelling of the Atiak - Moyo road, and
for the drainage replacement component, accounting for some 78% of total project base costs. User benefits were
essentially estimated on the basis of vehicle operating costs and time savings, resulting from the restoration of road
conditions to pre-emergency service levels, quality-wise. These levels of service reflect infrastructure standards
which are in line with the ones adopted under the RSDP, as simulated for the Uganda road network through the
Bank-developed Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III). Whenever applicable, benefits directly
accruing to the highway agency were estimated on the basis of avoidable infrastructure costs which would have to
be incurred in the absence of the proposed emergency investments. For the remaining components, their cost-
effectiveness was assessed based on engineering judgment.
Overall, investments in road restoration/rehabilitation and in culvert repair/replacement under the proposed project
would conservatively yield a combined ERR (weighted by investment) estimated at 50%, thus well above the 12%
value for the opportunity cost of capital assumed in the RSDP. In view of the emergency characteristics of the
investments under the proposed project, the analysis was conducted on the conservative side. For the road section
repairs component, time savings were prudently assumed well below the registered peak-congestion delays, which
were reported to reach 12 hours in more heavily trafficked road stretches. In addition, potential savings arising
from vehicle use of more costly road alternatives and/or from removal of restrictions on weight limits on bridges
were not factored into the analysis. As to the Atiak - Moyo road, the base cost estimate prudently incorporates a
contingency element beyond and above the 20% physical contingencies assumed for all project components.
Moreover vehicle operating costs savings arising from improved road condition were disregarded. Basic
assumptions for, and the details of, the economic analysis for the various components of the proposed project are
presented in Annex 4, and further detailed in the Project File.
2. Technical:
Technical-Emergency restoration/rehabilitation of the Atiak - Moyo Road.
This road was part of 400 km of gravel roads under rehabilitation through the IDA-funded Northern Uganda
Reconstruction Project (NURP).
The project was tendered on 29'h June 1994 and awarded on 17'" May 1994. The contractor started work in June
1995. However, because of continuous insecurity within the Project Area, the contractor invoked Clause 65 of the



conditions of contract and suspended the works on 24th February 1996. By the time of suspension, the contracted
works were at various stages of completion but no section was substantially completed. Overall completion
achieved was in the magnitude of 28%. Subsequently, and due primarily to continuous insecurity within the project
region, the contractor did not lift the suspension but proceeded instead finally to unilaterally terminate the contract
by invoking Clause 69 of the Conditions of Contract in November 1997. This termination was followed by the
contractor's withdrawal of his plant and equipment from the site. By the time of termination, there was an amount
of 4.982 million USD for outstanding certificates and claims, as per Consultant's Report dated January 15, 1998.
Since the February 1996 suspension of the works, the site has been without any form of maintenance. The road has
greatly deteriorated to the pre-Implementation status, and its condition has further been exacerbated by the ongoing
'El Nino' floods, especially in the hilly Laropi - Moyo section.
Under the proposed project a consultant is to be engaged to carry out field surveys, redesign the road and prepare
bidding documents. Similarly, a consultant will be engaged for supervision of the works. The works are estimated
at UShs 8.32 bn/= (US$ 8.0) excluding contingencies.
It is recognized that in order to implement this component efficiently, insecurity within the project area has to be
addressed to enable the contractor and consultant to effectively perform their duties without undue distractions.
However, in the last six months, improvement of the security situation has been reported, partly as a result of the
constant movement of refugees and enormous operations of relief agencies active in the area. We are confident that
there is a basis for completing the technical work and have ensured appropriate condition for timely implementation
of this component.
3. Institutional:
MOWTC has traditionally had limited capacity to quickly prepare and manage road works. The proposed project
will require an effective capacity for the procurement and supervision of works and consultants services within the
time frame required by the emergency situation. The recently created Disaster Management Task Force Unit,
composed of 5 regional engineers and under the direct supervision of the Permanent Secretary and the Engineer-in-
Chief, will be critical for the start up operations including immediate restoration works and feasibility, design
studies. Retroactive financing, as requested by Government, will provide the necessary resources for the immediate
activities.
4. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category [ I A    IXI B    Il C
The proposed works will be restricted to the restoration of existing facilities to their standard prior to the flooding.
The project would also provide the opportunity of repairing environmental damage, resulting from the floods. The
designed improvements are not such that would involve new environmental challenges. In any case, an
environmentallresettlement assessment will be prepared for the Atiak - Moyo Road by June 1998.
5. Participatory approach
During preparation of the project, contacts with the affected populations country wide were carried out through the
special task force surveying and monitoring the affected areas. There were also consultation with the Donor
Community and their views were incorporated into the project design. Despite the emergency characteristics of the
proposed project, its coordination with the institutional set up envisaged for the road sector will provide for the
required consultations with stakeholders represented in Road Agency Formation Unit's (RAFU) Board. RAFU's
Directorate will further have a full time public affairs officer who is expected to play a pro-active role in interacting
directly with law makers and users associations, as well as public opinion through the media. The Ministry will
collaborate with the communities affected by the disaster during project implementation.



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
No major sustainability issues are anticipated for the proposed project in view of its emergency nature. As to the
possible recurrence of emergency situations, the provision of bridges and other construction materials under the
proposed project will increase MOWTC's capabilities for crisis mitigation. The emergency actions are also being
undertaken in coordination with measures being implemented in the context of the RSDP to strengthen institutional
capacity. Sector-wide sustainability issues, are also being addressed under the ongoing TRP and the recently Board-
approved RSISTAP. To address medium-run emergency concerns, an engineering audit will be carried out for the
more affected road stretches by RAFU. Should the need arise, investments would then be financed by IDA under
the proposed First Road Sector Project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development objectives
(i) Inadequate MOWTC implementation capacity       M         Adequate staffing of the Disaster
Management Task Force Unit
(ii) Delays in recruitment of RAFU's Director and   N        Appointment of RAFU's Director and
key staff                                                    selection of key staff is a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA-financed
RSISTAP
Project Components to Outputs
(i) Inadequate capacity of contractors to complete  N        Appropriate packaging for procurement
the works on time and effectively                        of civil works to match local
capabilities. Intemational competitive
bidding will used for more complex
works.
(ii) Security situation in Northern Uganda will    H         Government will ensure the provision
worsen                                                   of required, and appropriate, level of
protection during the execution of
works.
Overall Risk Rating
The overall risk rating is medium, largely in view of  M
the high risk attached to the possible deterioration of
the security situation in Northern Uganda where the
Atiak - Moyo road is situated.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project itself contains no controversial aspects but must be viewed in relation to the overall World Bank
dialogue with GOU and the lending program
G: Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions: None
Condition of Disbursement: No withdrawals shall be made in respect of the Atiak-Moyo Road component until (i)
the Borrower has paid to the Contractor any advance payment required to be made in the Atiak-Moyo contract; and
(ii) works valued at not less 5% of the Atiak-Moyo contract, less any advance payment payable thereunder, have
been completed not later than August 31, 1999.



H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with all other
applicable Bank policies.]
[signature]
Team Leader: Yitzhak Kamhi
[signature]
Sector Manager: Yusupha B. Crookes
[signature]
Country Director: James W. Adams






Annex 1
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicatorsl        Monitoring and Supervision           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal                                                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Public Investment in Infrastructure    Road Agency Formation Unit   To be monitored and supervised    Recruitment of RAFU's Director and
(RAFU) operational by July 1, 1998   under the recently Board-approved    key staff experiencing delays
RSISTAP (Report No. P-7116-UG)
Creation of an autonomous Road    Same above                        Implementation of a performance-
Agency by June 1, 2000                                              based staff remuneration system in
the Agency may face difficulties in
view of the need to ensure resource
flows for its operation
Project Development                                                                                         (Objective to Goal)
Objectives
Reduce infrastructure-related market Elimination of flood-related  Engineering survey of riding       Effective completion of works and
and distribution costs county-wide    congestion delays in restored  conditions upon completion of works  non-recurrence within 10 years of
facilities                                                          rainfall with the same level and
intensity
Secure the timely delivery of social   Same above                   Socio economic survey to be carried   Same above
services to the affected populations                               out by RAFU during project
implementation
Facilitate the productive settlement  Increased accessibility through the    Same above               Same above
of war refugees in Northern Uganda  restoration/improvement of riding
conditions in the Atiak - Moyo Road
Stabilize the eco-system in the  Re-establishment of drainage      RAFU to undertake "ex-post"        Same above
affected areas                   conditions to "pre-flooding" levels   environmental audit
Project Outputs                                                                                           (Outputs to Objectives)
Restoration of infrastructure in  Technical standards in line with  Supervision and monitoring by     Timely completion of the emergency
affected areas to standards prior to    MOWTC's road specifications  MOWTC technical staff and IDA    works
the occurrence of the emergency                                     supervision missions
Security situation in Northern
Uganda will not worsen
I Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at midterm, end of project and full impact.



Annex 1 page 2 of 2
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance IndicatorsI    Monitoring and Supervision        Critical Assumptions
Project Components                                                                               (Components to Outputs)
Repair/improvements of damaged   about 350 km of road section repair  Preparation of the procurement   Capacity of local domestic and
96 roads sections                                                packages, award of contracts,    international contractors to
execution of works, and detailed  timely and effectively complete
supervision thereof           the works
Atiak - Moyo road               about 90 kn of road repairs      Quarterly progress reports
rehabilitation/regravelling     5 bridges and 2 ferry landings   Supervision mission reports
Repair and replacement of culverts  innumerous culverts and about 120   Disbursement
and bridges                     bridges                          Annex 7 with details of
Procurement of Pipe Culverts and   about 500 Im of bridges and culverts  implementation schedule
Bailey Bridge Sections          about 8,000 Im of culverts
Engineering Studies and         Same as above                    Same as above                 Appropriate selection of
Construction Supervision                                                                       consultants
I Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at midterm, end of project and full
impact.



Annex 2
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Detailed Project Description
(A) Repair of Damaged Road Sections (US$9.4 million)
Under this component, repairs and replacement of pipe culverts will be carried out on 96 identified sections of
road countrywide, aggregating to about 350 km. The works are aimed at restoring to the original or better
condition road sections critically damaged as a result of flooding and the action of traffic loads on the already
weakened sections.
(B) Rehabilitation and Regravelling of Atiak - Moyo Road (US$10.0 million)
The works will comprise rehabilitation/regravelling of 90 km of gravel road as well as repairs of five bridges
and two ferry landings. Rehabilitation of this road was initially envisaged under the IDA-financed Northern
Uganda Rehabilitation Project (NURP), Credit No. 2362-UG, but it could not be completed as a result of the
difficult security situation prevailing in that part of the country. In the meantime, the Credit reached its closing
date. Whereas according to Government, the security situation in Northern Uganda has since then improved,
road condition has experienced accelerated deterioration attributable to the heavy rainfall.
(C) Repair or Replacement of Box Culverts and about 120 Bridges (US$5.0 million)
This component will include (i) the replacement of box culverts and bridges which were completely washed
out due to excessive water discharges over prolonged periods of time; and (ii) repairs of damaged structures
including the protection of bridge abutments, pier foundations, slopes, and wing walls which were severely
affected by the rainfall and putting at risk the structural stability.
(D) Procurement of Pipe Culverts and Bailey Bridge Sections (US$3.7 million)
Under this component, Bailey bridge sections amounting to an extension of some 500 linear meters (1m), and
about 8,000 Im of culverts, and gabions would be procured towards ensuring a capacity for rapid response to
emergency needs, should the need arise.
(E) Engineering Studies and Construction Supervision (US$1.9 million)
Consultant services would be provided under this component for the preparation of engineering studies and
tender documents, as well for the supervision of the civil works



Annex 3
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                          Local           Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
3.5            4.0            7.5
Repair of Damaged Road Sections
3.2            4.8            8.0
Atiak - Moyo Road Rehabilitation and Regravelling
Repair and Replacement of Box Culverts and Bridges              1.6            2.4            4.0
Procurement of Pipe Culverts and Bailey Bridge Sections         0.0            3.0            3.0
Engineering Studies and Construction Supervision                0.0             1.5           1.5
Total Baseline Cost                                             8.3           15.7           24.0
Physical Contingencies                                       1.7             3.1           4.8
Price Contingencies                                          0.5             0.7           1.2
Total Project Cost                                             10.5           19.5          30.0



Annex 4
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Cost Beneflt Analysis Summary
Component                           Cost 1/               EIRR
(in US$ million)            (in %)
Repair of Damaged
Road Sections                       8.5                   80
Atiak - Moyo Road                   9.0                   12
rehabilitation/
regravelling
Repair/replacement                  2.3                   85
of culverts
Total                               19.8                  50 2/
1/ Financial cost, net of taxes and other transfer payments, and including allowance for physical
contingencies (20%) and for supervision costs (7%).
2/ Weighted by investment
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefits:     Reduction in vehicle operating costs and congestion delays
Savings in reconstruction costs
Costs:        Road restoration/rehabilitation works
Design and supervision
Main Assumptions:
See below






SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Results of the Economic Analysis
Overall Economic Assessment:
A simplified economic analysis, commensurate with the emergency characteristics of the proposed
road works, was carried out for most of the investments under the proposed project. The analysis was
carried out by MOWTC consultants following a methodology agreed with IDA and revised by the
Mission during the appraisal stage. The analysis was conducted separately for the road section
repairs component, for the rehabilitation/regravelling of the Atiak - Moyo road, and for the drainage
replacement component. Project costs used in the economic analysis, are based on base costs, net of
taxes and other transfer payments, and include 20% allowance for physical contingencies and 7% for
supervision costs. Economic Road user cost savings were estimated using the vehicle operating
costs submodel of the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III).
Road section repairs component (33% of total project base costs). Quantified project benefits for
this component would mostly arise from savings in truck crew time and in vehicle fuel consumption
as a result of the restoration of road condition. Existing traffic counts for the targeted roads,
disagreggated by vehicle type, were taken as the basis for traffic projections which further reflect
future prospects for GDP and population growth. The estimated benefits are only expected to
materialize during the rainy season (about six months per year), since during the dry season the
affected roads would ensure an acceptable level of service even without the proposed emergency
works. As a result, estimated Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRR) for the proposed
investments in the restoration of the 96 affected road sections (weighted by investment) would range
from an estimated 1 10% for the Central Region to 14% for the North Region, with estimated values
of 97% and 67% obtained for the West and East Regions, respectively. This spatial pattern is
closely related to the extent of the damage imposed by the flooding and to traffic levels and
composition.
Atiak - Moyo road rehabilitation / regravelling (36% of total base project costs). Benefits associated
with investments under this component would materialize from savings in vehicle operating costs
arising from iimproved road condition, including time savings from reduced congestion. The pace at
which .these benefits would grow through time would be a function of expected growth in
agricultural output in the region, which, in turn, would depend on increases in infrastructure
investment and operating inputs. Forecasting growth in agricultural output in this region is a highly
uncertain exercise, partly as a result of the security situation which prevailed over the past years. As
a result, a switch-off values type of analysis was carried-out for this road. Results of this analysis
indicate that a minimurn 7.5% annual growth rate for traffic would be required if the proposed
investments are to yield an estimated EIRR of 12%. This seems a plausible scenario, since (i)
national agricultural production has been growing at an annual average of 6.5%; (ii) the region's
population has recently doubled as a result of the settlement of some 70,000 refugees from Sudan;
and (iii) planned investments in access/feeder roads being carried out independently in the region,
should lead to a substantial reduction in transport costs to the coastal areas thus further inducing an
increase in agricultural output.



Repair/replacement of box culverts and bridges (I 8% of total project base costs). Investments under
the repair/replacement of culverts subcomponent (9% of total project base costs) would yield
estimated average EIRR well above 85%. The obtained range reflects varying drainage
requirements and pavement characteristics which were estimated for some three typical cases
considered representative of the investments to be undertaken. The basic assumption of the analysis
is that, in the absence of restoration of drainage facilities, premiiature and accelerated road
deterioration would lead to the need for a full reconstruction. As to the repair/replacement of bridges
subcomponent (9 % of total project base costs) no economic assessment was carried out, in view of
the difficulty of technically assessing the likelihood of structural failure in the absence of the
proposed protection works.
Procurement of Pipe Culverts and Bailey Bridge Sections (13% of total project base costs). For this
component, only an emergency safety assessment was carried out for the bridge elements, envisaged
as a future disaster mitigation measure. As a result, it was assessed that the total length of bridges to
be purchased under the project amounts to some 12% of the total length of road bridges/major
culverts in Uganda, and that this ratio is acceptable in view of past experience in bridge replacement
emergencies in Uganda.
Most of the quantifiable project benefits would ultimately accrue to producers and consumers
countrywide, under the form of a reduction of transport costs to their pre-emergency levels. This
reduction would result from the elimination of congestion bottlenecks and other vehicle operating
costs savings in the affected sections of Uganda's road network. Further quantifiable savings would
accrue to the Government, as a result of deferral of major investments arising from premature
deterioration of road condition. Other important benefits, albeit more difficult to quantify, would
accrue to the population in the affected areas through the restoration of accessibility to its pre-
emergency levels, as well as through the facilitation of the productive settlement of war refugees in
poverty-stricken Northern Uganda.



Annex 5
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Table A summarizes the estimated costs and the procurement methods of the works, goods
and services to be financed under the project. For the procurement of civil works International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be used. For the
procurement of goods, International Shopping would be used. Procurement would be done in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines, January 1995 (Revised September 1997). Bidding
documents will be prepared using the Bank's standard bidding documents for procurement of works,
smaller contracts (January 1995).
Civil Works. Civil works contracts for repair and improvement of damaged road sections
and pipe culverts valued at a total of US$9.4 million would be divided into five lots and contracts
procured through NCB. Civil works contracts for rehabilitation and regravelling of Atiak - Moyo
Road valued at a total of US$10.0 million would be procured through ICB. Civil works for
replacement of box culverts and bridges valued at a total of US$5.0 million would be divided into
four lots and contracts procured through NCB.
Goods. Procurement of pipe culverts and Bailey bridges valued at a total of US$3.7 million
would be procured through International Shopping by obtaining price quotation from a number of
suppliers from various countries.
Consulting Services. Consulting Services for engineering studies and construction
supervision are estimated to cost a total of US$ 1.9 million. Consultants would be recruited in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, January 1997 (Revised
September 1997). For the component related to the repair of road sections and replacement of
culverts, a consultant will be appointed on a single-source basis. For Atiak - Moyo component, a
consultant will be appointed based on Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS).
Contract Reviews. Procurement documentation for IDA financed civil works contracts
above a threshold of US$300,000 would be subject to prior review by IDA, as well as all consulting
contracts in excess of US$100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals. For goods contracts above
US$100,000 prior review by IDA would be required. Post review of contracts awarded below the
above threshold levels would be carried out selectively by IDA by supervision missions and / or an
independent auditor. ,
Prior review thresholds (Table B)



Disbursement
The IDA Credit would be disbursed against the categories and on the basis of the estimated
disbursement schedule given in Table C and subject to condition of disbursement as stated in
Schedule 1, para. 3 of the Development Credit Agreement. Disbursements for procurement of works
estimated to cost up to U$300,000 and goods estimated to cost up to US$100,000 would be made
against statements of expenditures (SOE). Other disbursements would be made against standard
documentation. To facilitate payments from the Credit, a Special Account would be established and
would be operated and maintained on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The account would
have an initial authorized allocation of US$750,000, approximately equal to three months of
expenditures under the project. The Special Account would be replenished following application for
reimbursement by MOWTC together with appropriate supporting documentation. The amount of
IDA replenishment would not exceed the authorized allocation. The Credit closing date would be
July 31, 2001 with physical completion of works expected by January 31, 2001.
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) - Disbursements for contracts of works and goods
estimated to cost up to US$300,000 equivalent and US$100,000 equivalent respectively, and
consulting contracts with firms costing up to US$100,000 equivalent and up to US$50,000
equivalent with individuals would be made against statement of expenditures.
Retroactive Financing
To enable the Government to undertake emergency works and procurement of related
consultant services in a timely manner, the proposed emergency operation will financed retroactively
up to US$2.0 million in expenditures incurred before loan signing, but after March 1, 1998.



Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Components                             Procurement Method                        Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB        International    Other
Shopping
1. Repair of Damaged Road Sections                 9.4                                          9.4
(8.5)                                       (8.5)
2. Rehabilitation and Regravelling of  10.0                                                    10.0
Atiak - Moyo Road                     (9.0)                                                    (9.0)
3. Repair and Replacement of Box                   5.0                                          5.0
Culverts and Bridges                               (4.5)                                        (4.5)
4. Procurement of Pipe Culverts and                               3.7                           3.7
Bailey Bridge Sections                                           (3.7)                         (3.7)
5. Engineering Studies and                                                       1.9            1.9
Construction Supervision                                                        (1.9)          (1.9)
Total                              10.0         14.4           3.7            1.9           30.0
_   (9.0)       (13.0)         (3.7)          (1.9)         (27.6)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit



Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Expenditure           Contract Value           Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method               Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
US $ million                                   US $ million
1. Works
1.8       NCB                                14.4
10.0       ICB                                 10.0
2. Goods
1.0       International Shopping              3.7
3. Services
0.1       Bank Guidelines for the              1.9
Use of Consultants
(prior review)
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$30 million
1 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in      Financing Percentage
US$million
1.    Civil Works                                                  90%
(a) under Part B of the Project              7.2
(b) under Part A and C of the Project       11.6
2.    Consultant Services                          1.7            100%
3.    Goods                                        3.3         100 of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
Unallocated                                  3.8
Total                                       27.6



Annex 6
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
60,000
B. Project Schedule                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           2                     2
First Bank mission (identification/appraisal)      1/28/98               1/28/98
Negotiations                                       4/1/98                4/1/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      6/15/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Yitzhak Kamhi                              Transport Engineer
Pedro Geraldes                             Transport Economist
John Riverson                              Highway Engineer
Rowena Martinez                            Operations Analyst
. Jonathan Brown                            Quality Assurance
Kenneth Gwilliam                           Quality Assurance



ANNEX 7
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Implementation Schedule
Component                               1998                               1999                     2000
5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  1 2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  1-12
1. Repair / improvement of
damaged road sections
Selection of consultants    -
Engineering Studies         - _
Contractors Selection          -  -  -  -
Commencement / Completion                       _
of Works
2.  Repair and Replacement of
culverts and bridges
Selection of consultants       _
Engineering Studies         -  -  -
Contractors Selection       _        _               _  _
Commencement / Completion                                      -
of Works
3. Atiak - Moyo Road
Rehabilitation I Regravelling
Selection of consultants          _ _
Engineering Studies         _  _  _
Contractors Selection      _  _  _ _                           _  _
Commencement / Completion
of Works
4.  Procurement of Pipe Culverts
and Temporary Bridge
Sections






Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Outline of Project Implementation Plan
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCT O
1.1  THE DRAINAGE PATTERN VIS-A-VIS THE ROAD NETWORK .
1.2  THE 'EL NINO' RAINS AND THE ASSESSMENT OF THE DAMAGE ON THE CLASSIFIED ROAD NETWORK FROM THE
RESULTING FLOODS..........................................................................................................................................................................
1.3 FLOOD DAMAGES ON THE CLASSIFIED ROAD NETWORK.
1.4 ROADS & BRIEDGES AFFECTED BY THE FLOODS.
1.4.1      ROADS ...................................................................................................................................................................................
1.4.2      BRIDGES ...............................................................................................................................................................................
1.5  IMPACT OF THE EL-NINO DAMAGES ON THE ROAD NETWORK
1.6  MINISTRY RESPONSE AND ACTION TO THE NETWORK DISASTER.
1.6.1      IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY................................................................................................................................................
1.7 STRATEGY FOR LONG TERM RECOVERY .
1.7.1      PHASE I - RESTORATION  OF DAMAGED  FACILITIES .................................................................................................
1.7.2   PHASE 11- LONG TERM NETWORK OVERHAUL ............................................;
1.8 SUMMARY OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT OBJECTIVES.
1.9 SUMMARY OF PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS.
1.9.1      CIVIL WORKS ......................................................................................................................................................................
1.9.2      PROCUREMNENT OF GOODS ..............................................................................................................................................
1.9.3   CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR ENGINEERING STUDIES AND CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION.........................
2.         LEGAL AGREEMENTS .....................................................................................................................................................................................
2.1       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT (COVER PAGE)..............................................................................................................
2.1.1       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT ..........................................................................................................................
3.     DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION..............................................................................................................................................................
3.1  PROJECT COMPONENTS ANDBBUDGET.
3.1.1   CIVIL WORK S
3.1.1.1   COMPONENT GROUP I - REPAIR / IMPROVEMENT OF DAMAGED ROAD SECTIONS 
3.1. 1.1.1  COMPONENT C - EMERGENCY SPOT REPAIRS I RECONSTRUCTION OF ROAD
PAVEMENT FAILURES ...............................................................................................................
3.1.1.2  COMPONENT GROUP II - REPAIR/ REPLACEMENT OF CULVERTS AND BRIDGES.
3.1.1.2.1 COMPONENT A - EMERGENCY REPAIRS / REPLACEMENT OF WASHED OUT
DRAINAGE STRUCTURES..........................................................................................................
3.1.1.2.2 COMPONENT B - EMERGENCY PROTECTION WORKS TO BRIDGE ABUTMENTS & PIER
FOUNDATIONS, SLOPE FACES, TOES AND CULVERT HEADIWING WALLS ..................
3.1.1.3  COMPONENT GROUP III - REHABILITATION I REGRAVELLING OF ATIAK - MOYO.
3.1.1.3.1  COMPONENT D - EMERGENCY REPAIRS ! RECONSTRUCTION OF ATLAK - MOYO
ROAD (92 KM), INCLUDING PAVEMENT AND DRAINAGE STRUCTURES, BRIDGES,
CULVERTS, FERRY LANDINGS AND CONCRETE PAVEMENT ..........................................
3.1.2  PROCUREMENT OF GOODS.
3.1.2.1        COMPONENT GROUP IV - PROCUREMENT OF GOODS ...........................................................................
3.1.2.1.1  COMPONENT E - PROCUREMENT OF BAILEY BRIDGES, CULVERTS AND GABIONS..
3.1.3  CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR ENGINEERING STUDIES AND CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION.
3.13.1   COMPONENT GROUP VI - CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR ENGINEERING STUDIES AND
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION.
3.1.3.1.1 COMPONENT F - CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR REPAIR/ IMPROVEMENT OF
DAMAGED ROAD SECTIONS AND REPAIR / REPLACEMENT OF CULVERTS AND
BRIDGES.
3.1.3.1.2  COMPONENT G - CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR ATIAK - MOYO ROAD .
3.2     PROJECT FINANCING PLAN .................................................................................................................................................................
4.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  STRUCTURE.................................................................................................................................................
4.1       ORGANIZATION  STRUCTURE..........................................................................................................................................................
4.2       PROJECT MANAGEMENT..................................................................................................................................................................
4.3       ROLES, OBJECTIVES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF MOWTC.......................................................................................................
4.3.1 PROGRAMME TIME TABLE.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Outline of Project Implementation Plan
TABLE OF CONTENTS
5.   PROJECT  PLANNING  AND  IMPLEMENTATION..........................................................................................................................................
5.1  CONSOLIDATED PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE SUMMARY.
5.2 IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR EACH COMPONENT.
5.2.1 IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR CIVIL WORKS .
5.2.2 IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR GOODS PROCUREMENT.
5.2.3  IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR CONSULTING SERVICES FOR ENGINEERING STUDIES AND CONSTRUCTION
SUPERVISION.
5.3 IMPLEMENTATION, SUPERVISION AND QUALITY CONTROL.
6. PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES AND ARRANGEMENTS.
6.1   GENERAL OVERVIEW.
6.2  IDA PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES.
6.3   GOU PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES.
6.4   PROCUREMENT PROCESS, PROCUREMENT CYCLE AND EXPECTED LAPSED TIME.
6.4.1 PROCUREMENT OF PROJECT COMPONENTS .
6.4.1.1  DETAILED  PROCUREMENT PLAN  FOR CIVIL WORKS ............................................................................
6.4.1.2   DETAILED PROCUREMENT PLAN FOR PROCUREMENT OF GOODS .
6.4.1.3   DETAILED PROCUREMENT PLAN FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR ENGINEERING STUDIES
AND CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION.
7.  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT.
7.1   INTRODUCTION.
7.1.1. CIVIL WORKS.
7.1.2  PROCUREMENT OF GOODS
7.1.3   CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR ENGINEERING STUDIES AND CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION.
7.2 FUNDS ALLOCATION AND PROCEDURES .
7.3   DISBURSEMENT ACCOUNTS.
7.3.1   TYPES OF ACCOUNTS.
7.3.1.1  IDA FUNDS.
7.3.1.1.1   IDA   CREDIT  ACCOUNT  .............................................................................................................
7.3.1.1.2 IDA SPECIAL ACCOUNT.
7.3.1.2 GOU FUNDS.
7.3.1.2.1   PROJECT  ACCOUNT  ....................................................................................................................
73.3.2  FUNDS FLOW CHART
7.4 SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT FOR EACH COMPONENT.
7.4.1   CIVIL WORKS
7.4.2  PROCUREMENT OF GOODS ...............................
7.43   CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR ENGINEERING STUDIES AND CONSULTANTS SUPERVISION.
7.5 WORK CERTIFICATE AND PAYMENT PROCEDURES .
7.5.1 SAMPLE WORK CERTIFICATE.
7.5.2 SAMPLE PAYMENT VOUCHER.
7.6   FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDIT.
8.  MONITORING AND PROGRESS REPORTING (PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY) .
8.1   KEY IMPACT INDICATORS FOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT OBJECTIVES .
8.2   KEY PHYSICAL INDICATORS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT .
8.3 MONITORING AND EVALUATION.
8.4  REPORTING ROUTINES.
8.4.1   AUDIT REPORTS.
8.4.2  PROGRESS REPORTS
8.5  FORMAT OF CONSOLIDATED PROJECT PROGRESS SUMMARY REPORT.
8.6 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW.
9. CATALOG OF ANNEXES - PROJECT DOCUMENTS.
9.1 TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ALL THE STUDIES .



Annex 9
El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
(i) First Project for Emergency Repairs of Roads and Bridges, Volume I, Technical Reports, maps
and photographs
(ii) First Project for Emergency Repairs of Roads and Bridges, Volume II, Economic Analysis
B. Bank Staff Assessments
(i) Aide Memoire, Preparation/Appraisal Mission, signed on February 9, 1998 with draft Project
Concept Document (PCD)
(ii) Note on the Economic Analysis of the Atiak - Moyo Road and of the road sections repair
component
(iii) Costs Estimates of the Project
C. Other
(i) Minutes of Decision Meeting, Country Team and Country Director, upgrading the mission to an
Appraisal Mission
(ii) Peers reviews and Country Team reviews






Annex 10
Statement of Loans and Credits                          Pa1eof2
Uganda
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Dec-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1983                  Uganda Sugar           7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/92               DFCU                   0.00     .98    0.00    0.00    0.00    .98    0.00    0.00
1992                  AEF Clovergem           .73    0.00    0.00    0.00    .73    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF Nile Rose           .18    0.00    0.00    0.00     . 18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF Rwenzori            .69     .19    0.00    0.00    .69    .19    0.00    0.00
1993                  Jubilee                0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0.00    .10    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Polypack            .60    0.00    0.00    0.00    .60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Skyblue             .51    0.00    0.00    0.00    S51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  Celtel                 3.01     .64     .80    0.00    3.01    .64    .80    0.00
1995                  AEF Rainbow             .79    0.00    0.00    0.00    .79    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96               Uganda Leasing         2.00     .33    0.00    0.00    .70    .33    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Agro Mgimt          .60     .40    0.00    0.00    .45    .40    0.00    0.00
1996                  EAGW                   6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Kasese Cobalt         16.00    3.60    0.00    0.00    2.14    2.36.   0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Afritours           .37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Conrad Plaza       !.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997         .        AEF Metro Hotel         .42    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/ 0               AEF Kiwa Indust         .25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portolio:                   41.62    6.24     .80    0.00   18.27    5.00    .80    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Euity  Quasi  Parnic
1998                  AEF KAM FLOWERS         .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  AEF RAM OIL             1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  KASESE COBALT          0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
Total Pending Commitment           1.50    0.00  - 0.00    5.00



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Statement of Loans and Credits
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of December3 1, 1997
(USS millions)
(Less Cancellations)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                   Undis-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower   Purpose                          Bank      IDA        bursed
Nine (9) Loans and fifty one (51) Credits closed,                42.92      1450.28     0.86
of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans/Credits:                          (851.13)
Cr.21240      1990    Uganda  Water Supply ll                                60.00      8.10
Cr.21760      1991    Uganda  Livestock                                      21.00      7.97
Cr22060        1991    Uganda  Urban 1                                       28.70      4.62
Cr22680       1991    Uganda  Power III                                     125.00     59.13
Cr23150       1992    Uganda  Enterprise Development                         41.85     14.67
Cr23620       1992    Uganda  Northem Reconstruct.                           7120       4.38
Cr.24180      1993    Uganda  Econ. & Financial Management                   29.00      2.18
Cr.24240      1993    Uganda  Agric. Extension Prog.                         15.79      2.01
Cr.24460      1993    Uganda  Agric. Res. & Trg.                             25.04      6.62
Cr24930       1993    Uganda  Primary Educ. & Teaching                       52.60     28.25
Cr.25830       1993    Uganda  Small Towns Water                             42.30     28.44
Cr25870       1994    Uganda  Transport Rehab.                               75.00     53.51
Cr.26030      1994    Uganda  Sexual Trans. Infections                       50.00     33.89
Cr 26090      1994    Uganda  Cotton Sector Development                       14.00     7.18
Cr26790       1994    Uganda  District Health                                45.00     33.47
Cr.27360      1995    Uganda  Institutional Capacity                         36.40     22.27
Cr277770       1995    Uganda  Environment Management                         11.80     8.09
Cr.27980      1996    Uganda  Private Sector Competi                         12.30      8.85
CN 0230 (S)  1997    Uganda  SAC III                                        125.00     78.98
Cr29090       1997    Uganda  Lake Victoria Env.                             12.10     11.02
Cr.29870       1978    Uganda  Road Sector/Inst. Supp                        30.00     29227
Total                                     42.92     2374.36    452.90
of which repaid                          42.92       66.13
Total held by Bank & IDA                   Q
Amount sold    25.82
of which repaid 25.82
TOTAL Undisbursed
(S) Indicates SALSECAL or Program Loan, Credit.
Not yet signed.
* Total approved repayments, and outs:.indin- balance represent both active and inactive Loans anc Credits.



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1971    138N      199S    19S6                                       _
1% dergesficpdcInflIon 1%)
Consumer prices                             ..  102.5        6.5     8.6
lmplltGDP deflatr                           ..  120.3        8.3     4.9
20
GovanmonrtfiAance                                                                 _    _     __       _
N of GM)                                                                             I            I
Cunentnrenue                                ..    9.1       10.0    10.3            0    02   03    4   N        os
Cunrnt budget balance                       ..    0.3        0.6     1.2             -     G  def.   I  c l
Overall urplusldeficit                      ..   -4.3       -7.6    .6.0
TRADE
(niibons USS1                            1975    1916      1116    1991      Export *nd import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                383      595      590
Coffee                                     *-    353       457     404
Cotton                                    ..       ..        3      13
Manufctures                                *-
Total Imports (cif)                         ..1404         1,086    1.218
Food                                                               1         o
Fueland energy                                    76        64      90
CapilJ goods                              ..5..              .     395        o-
Exportpriceindex(19873100)                  ..    103        95       76           e  01  02  03  0   a   9
Import price Index (1987=100)               ..      S0       136     151                 *Expcr    U imponP
Terms of trade (1987=100)                   ..    129        70       50
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1116      1995    1990
(mnOi USS)                                                                   Currant account basance to GDP rato (%)
Exports of goods and services             248      408       667     726      o
Impots of goods and servIes               313      484     1,383    1,601
Resource balance                           05      -76     -716    4875
Ne income                                   -4     -53      -58      -46      4 
Not cunfent transfers                      13       40       330     407
Curnt socount balance,                                                      -10
befre offcial capit transfer             -56      -89     -444    -514
FIancIng Items (net)                       56      128      590      587
Changes hI net resers                       0      -39      -146     -73    415
Atmo:
Reserves hnduding gold (iri. USS)          31       85       388     502
Convenio nr t pocahUSS)                     ..    5.1    932.5  1,012.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1935      11n    1916
(nmon USS)                                                                   Composion of total debt, 1995 (milL U5$)
Totl debt outstbnding and disbursed       209    1,232     3,584
IBRD                                      4       37         0       0                  F  G
IDA                                      40      285     1,792   1,849                  84 93
Total dbt ervnos                            17     155       137       *-          E
IBRD                                       1       3        12       0           768
IDA                                       0        4        21      21
Compoallon of ne resourme fows                                                                           1702
Offic grants                             30       47       399 
Offil caditoms                            11     140       171       ..410
Prvafe creditos                           -3       6       -10
Foreign dret hnvestnt                     2       *4       121      ..                 c
Poriol oequty                             0        0         0       *-               417
World Bank program
Commiennts                                 0      45        94      42      A - BRO                   E - Blaesa
Dlburaoments                              3       92       160     124      B-IDA    D-Othrmnufa      F-P&W
Prdncip  repyments                         1       2        20       8      C-IMF                    0-Shfsbnn
Notfows                                   2       90       140     116
Interes payments                           1       4        13      13
Nottransfem                               2       e8       126     103
Deveopment Economibs                                                                                       828197



Annex 11
Uganda at a glance                                                            6/28/97 Page 2 of 2
Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                        Saharan    Low-
Usenda    Africa  Income       Development diamond'
Populadon mrd-lO nmlI                            19.7       600    3,229
GtlP perpilt 1998 (.lSS)                            290      490      S00 Lolf expnoy
GNP99S6 jbUUS$)                                     .5.7     294    1,601
Avegearmunnua gowUi. 1990-96
W3opaionif)                                          31       27       17      GNP                            Gros
laborte (C).                                        2.7       2.6      1.7     per              >prmary
mostim t   (itpuffbbJ              sf989J )                                    capita                     enrollment
PovW. headommt Index t       r of ppulim)           655
Urban population 1X i flobppaon)                     13       31       29
Lfe expectancy at biirIh rej                         42        52     *63
iftmmorty (pY r 1,WOW  e Mfs)                        98        92      69               Acoeas to safe water
Child- malnubilofbn  liko an ader 5)                 23         -
Acomeb eafe water (% of populafen)                   42        47      53
Elteracy (1%  rt_pdew, age I.)                      3S8       43.      34               Uganda
Gia .pdmarynrollment l1%adihoo1.apopuLakn           .67        72     105
MategcW<jimf^ytlIllt                        0; 0   74       78      112               L_cf   up
Vemable   ;:        0 - 000                       759        65      98
KEY jECONOMI1C RATIOS and LONG-TERM1 TRENDS0 00
19075    1985      1998    1936
Economic ratio
GDP wo l uS$)                                ..     3.5       S.7      6.0
OWes domeic hiveantDGOP                     7.6      8.7     16.4    16.7             Openness of economy
scowaigoodsandserviceIGDP                   8.2    13.7      12.0    12.1
Gina dameeticb4alng&GDp                     S5.     7.5       7.4      6.3
Graaa national savlnglGDo              j 5.9        7.5      12.4    12.6
*CuuWnacount balanc IDP                      ..    -2.5      -7.9      8.6                                            I
Interet_pDy,nent DP                           ..    0.5       0.6       .      Savg                      Investment
Tdoal deWbtGDP                                ..   35.0      63.0
Totl debt servlcexporta                     6.6    38.0      20.0
ProerrtwaluecfdebtGIDP I-                             ..     33.0
Peseent yule 0IdebtAa bpaI5l .                        ..    273.6        .Indebtedness
197645. 198646    1S96       19S6  1997405
weugeiaIFow9~~~~~~~~~~~   .                                 -  ~~~Uganda
-6.7    11.5 9S            5.4        ____
-P perWcpta              .-                 3.4      8.6      7.2      2.7
iExpaita of oads dzrv               ..      6.2    27A       19.2      4.8
STRUCTURE ofthe ECONOMY
1976    1385      1996    1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (X)
Agrlcuue                                   72.2    52.7      49.7    45.6      4
Induaty                                     8.2     9.9      14.0    16.0      U/-
Manufacturing                             6.4      5.6       6.5     7.2      20.U
ServIce                                    19.6    37.4      36.2    38.4    1t-
PrSvat consumption                           ..    78.0      83.0    83.9      40-0    of n  2    03   94   U    9s
Geral govwrnment cosmption                   ..   14.5        9.6      9.8                   GD1      -  GOP
Impoftaofgoodsand arslcv                   10.3    15.0      21.0    22.4
197645  1966.6       1995    1936
~171)                                                                         Growth rates at exports and Imports (%)
Agrcutte                                     ..    4.1        5.9      4.2     so
Industy                                      ..    10.5      20.3    19.2
Manufting                                  ..    11.1       16.9    18.1    40
Svi                                          ..    7.6       13.1      9.6     20U
Prm conaption                                ..    6.1       13.4      7.7       . _        *       ,        ,  
General ovwment con ption                    ..     5.6       9.2      .6                    2    3            
Grou domestc keab   n                        ..     7.9      39.7    14.7    -0
Mpot of goods and svn                        ..      5.4     43.8      9.8                  EN           I
Grom naonal prduct                            ..     .8      11.9    10.3
No: 1996 da am pllmknhary estimates.
* The damonds show four keY hIdIco  in the counbrY (i bold) compared wfth bI  nromgroup averwe. If date are missing, the diamond will
be complee.



305                           rot       3r-                                      34    /                                  36-
8 X   SUDAN                    z       S                         UGANDA                          p.
Wi r  /ImEL NINO EMERGENCY
,b'-                              Mcd, Op.,              'Voj    t)ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
7SYumcu 'KIT UM    (                    r                '___  '^' p H ei/ tPRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
II/,     /;<J A t                  l*R IA  ;                                                      PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
< ewba   - tf  ....... -r -    2 (    ,4ORTlSERN    r  dw  Xf  \              UNSURFACED ROADS
DEMOCRATIC           )-                                                                                                 RILOD
REPUBLIC                                                                                         RO                  RIVERS
OF CONGO              NB4,
I >   IRAtJ~~~~~~    /    ~ ~ nn,naniX ~~~~FERRIES
no               n 4giSELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
KUMI
H0lMA4',,,'vl-             S.. ~ ~~~~~~CORDISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
l X  H  -       S        v        o        k    -  S       a              =  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOLINDARIES
< ; l S S r NokLtlwot P^dFsA Kok odi<E g TOe ~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LUWERC)   ,u                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District names coincide with DisrCtCapitals,fwth on.
-nceptin  Fart Potal is the Dirc C .ai   Kabaole District.
B DE~~~~~Ocb  7"rJe5~-   ncgc                                   LOMETERSO     50       in       150
R            Ru t                              W 00  ;0                        1 ;
TRAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
[ G5Rq}>bDENP         z    -                        TANZN "A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
ANDA   Lf  bN *M77                                                             m1e 
101DA/K 36-dm7N':    
10 ~  ~   0  i''"'        <   w; 8d:K3   .   ,             ., . .. .            ,,,,,  h    4                                        6
I 0   0.    ::  : :-:I.   



