                 Document of
              The World Bank




                                            Report No: 29653

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                 (IDA-30640)

                    ON A

                   CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                   TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                     FOR

 THE EL NINO EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT




                 July 28, 2004

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2004)

                          Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling (Ushs.)
                               1000shs. = US$ 0.5241
                                  US$ 1 = 1908 Ushs.

                               FISCAL YEAR
                             July 1 to    June 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        -Country Assistance Strategy
DCA        -Development Credit Agreement
DfID       -Department for International Development (UK)
DMTFU      -Disaster Management Task Force Unit
ENERRP     -El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project
ERR        -Economic Rate of Resturn
GOU        -Government of Uganda
HDM        -Highway Design Model III
IDA        -International Development Association
MOWHC      -Minstry of Works, Housing and Communications
NPV        -Net Present Value
NURP       -Northern Uganda Rehabilitation Project
QAG        -Quality Assurance Group
RDPP3      -Road Development Program Phase 3
RFP        -Request for Proposals
RAFU       -Road Agency Formation Unit
RSDP       -Road Sector Development Program
RSISTAP    -Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project
SOE        -Statement of Expenditure
TRP        -Transport Rehabilitation Project
TSIREP     -Transport Sector Investment and Recurrent Expenditure Program




                        Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                      Country Director:     Judy M. O'Connor
                       Sector Manager:      C.Sanjivi Rajasingham
                    Task Team Leader:       Stephen Brushett

                                           UGANDA
                   EL NINO EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P057007                                                  Project Name: UG EL NINO EMERG RD REP
Team Leader: Stephen J. Brushett                                     TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: July 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: UG EL NINO EMERG RD REP                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-30640
   Country/Department: UGANDA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (100%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Access to urban services for the
                            poor (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Export development
                            and competitiveness (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/21/1998                                     Effective: 08/13/1998                08/13/1998
     Appraisal: 01/28/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/07/1998                                      Closing: 07/31/2001                 01/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA/MOWKC;
                                           GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA/UGANDA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James Adams
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Yusupha Crookes
Team Leader at ICR:             Stephen Brushett                               Yitzhak Kamhi
ICR Primary Author:             Labite Victorio Ocaya; Ephrem
                                Asebe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



Bank and Borrower performance ratings both marginally satisfactory
Quality at Entry is also rated as marginally satisfactory

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background: In 1997 and in early 1998 Uganda experienced countrywide severe flood damage associated with
the El Nino phenomenon to some of its key road and bridge facilities. This constrained travel throughout the
country, made delivery of services difficult, increased infrastructure-related market and distribution costs, and
destabilized the ecosystem near the affected roads. The El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project (ENERRP) was
designed in response. The need to address the adverse impact of El Nino related damage was recognized at a
meeting held between the President of the Republic of Uganda and the President of the World Bank on January 21,
1998. The preparation/appraisal mission was launched on January 28, 1998. The IDA Board approved the Project
on May 7, 1998, and a Development Credit Agreement was signed on May 14, 1998. The Credit became effective
on July 13, 1998. The project cycle, from identification to credit effectiveness, took less the six months.

The Credit also included the rehabilitation/regravelling of Atiak-Moyo road which was to improve accessibility to
Northern Uganda, one of the more remote and poverty-stricken regions of the country. The rehabilitation of this
road was primarily to facilitate settlement of war refugees in the region and to alleviate poverty of the displaced
people, rather than to respond to flood related damage.

Following effectiveness, a series of unanticipated events adversely affected the timely implementation of ENERRP.
A new tax law introduced by GOU after the credit effectiveness date conflicted with the IDA procurement
requirements. It took over two years to sort out the issues and reach a solution. The Bank of Uganda closed
Greenland Bank (where the project account was located) on grounds of financial irregularities which led to the
freezing of the account for a period of time. The project suffered initially from a lack of professional staff fully
dedicated to the implementation of the emergency works. The members of the Disaster Management Task Force
Unit (DMTFU) at the Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC) had concurrent assignments
in their respective departments. This slowed implementation. However, given the availability of GOU
maintenance budget resources (and some additional donor funding) which could be re-affected to address the
emergency, the team chose to fund much of the work this way rather than through the Credit as had been
anticipated. These measures slowed IDA Credit disbursement, although they did not necessarily hold up the
realization of project development objectives on the ground.

Assessment of Development Objectives. As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the objective of
the project was to assist the Government of Uganda (GOU) in its efforts to restore and rehabilitate key roads and
bridges severely damaged by the heavy rains associated with the El Nino weather pattern, which affected Uganda
in 1997 and in early 1998.

The above measures were expected to contribute to:

l    decrease in infrastructure-related market and distribution costs countrywide, by reducing road transport costs
     to their pre-emergency levels;
l    securing of timely delivery of social services to the affected population, by restoring accessibility to its
     pre-emergency level;
l    facilitation of productive settlement of war refugees in Northern Uganda, by restoring and rehabilitating the
     Atiak-Moyo road connection from Uganda to neighboring Sudan; and,
l    stabilize the ecosystem near the affected roads by arresting further deterioration of environmental conditions.

The design of ENERRP faced major strategic choices - maintaining the integrity of sector reform and its financing,
while addressing immediate needs to raise absorptive capacity both institutional and managerial. In the event, it
was decided that project implementation would initially be under the Disaster Management Task Force Unit
(DMTFU) of MOWHC. This would allow for the immediate responses dictated by the emergency situation.
However it was anticipated that upon creation of the Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU), overall project
implementation responsibility would be transferred to the new entity. A further strategic consideration was with



                                                          - 2 -

regard to IDA financing where several options were reviewed before a new credit could be considered. Initially the
possibility of reallocation of funds under the ongoing IDA Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) was considered.
However, this proved not to be a viable option since available and uncommitted funds in TRP's credit account were
insufficient to meet the emergency financing requirements. Consideration was not given to the Road Sector
Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project (RSISTAP) already approved by the Board as this contained no
provisions for the financing of the civil works.

The objectives of the project were clear and relevant. They were accorded very high priority by GOU to meet the
emergency situation. The project objectives were also broadly in line with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Uganda presented to the Board on May 20, 1997. IDA's strategy for Uganda was to reduce poverty,
through a medium-term strategy focused on private investment-led growth and export diversification. Lowering
transport costs, and improving reliability of access to infrastructure were assumed in the CAS as key elements to
facilitate business development and to support poverty alleviation. Regionally targeted public investment, mainly
in the North, was also considered as a key element in IDA's strategy.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There were no revisions to the project objectives. However the project was reworked on July 31, 2001 following
the GOU request dated June 4, 2001. This led inter alia to dropping the component of the project that was directly
concerned with the rehabilitation of the Atiak-Moyo road to facilitate refugee movement in Northern Uganda

3.3 Original Components:

The original project components - with the IDA credit allocation in brackets - were as follows:

    Repair of Damaged Road Sections (US$8.5 million). This component was for repair of about 350 km of road
    sections including repair and replacement of pipe culverts;

     Rehabilitation and Regravelling of Atiak - Moyo Road (US$9.0 million). This component was to
     rehabilitate and regravel about 92 km of gravel road, to repair five bridges and to construct two ferry landings
     (this component had originally been appraised as part of the NURP in 1994 - contracted works had
     commenced but had had to be suspended due to security considerations).

     Repair and Replacement of Box Culverts and about 120 Bridges (US$4.5 million). The component was to
     replace box culverts and bridges; and to repair of damaged bridges including the protection of bridge
     abutments, pier foundations, slopes and wing walls;

    Procure Piped Culverts and Bridge Sections (US$3.7 million). This component was for the acquisition of
    sections of: (i) about 500 linear meters of temporary bridges, (ii) about 8000 linear meters of piped culverts,
    and (iii) gabions to enhance the borrower's capacity for rapid response in repairing roads and bridges damaged
    by similar future emergency; and

    Engineering Studies and Construction Supervision (US$1.9 million). This component was to provide
    technical advisory services for the preparations of engineering studies and tender documents, and the
    supervision of civil works under (i), (ii) and (iii) components of the Project.

The total cost of the project was estimated as US$30.0 million inclusive of price and physical contingencies. IDA
financing was US$27.6 million equivalent (SDR20.5 million). The design generally shows clear correspondence
between ends and means. The components were in line with the project objectives and the overall goals of the
country.    However, for reasons that will be explained fully under Section 5: Major Factors Affecting
Implementation and Outcome, no disbursement was made for component (i) and (ii) under the Credit.




                                                           - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

The reworked project had the following components with the revised IDA credit allocations in brackets:

     Repair of Damaged Road Sections (US$0.00 million): This component was fully financed by the GOU. The
     Government repaired the road sections damaged by the El Nino using road maintenance budget and culverts
     and gabions procured under the credit. However, the original design of the project called for IDA to finance
     90% of the cost of this component. Consequently, the IDA Credit allocation of US$ 8.5 million for this
     component was cancelled.

     Repair and Replacement of Box Culverts and Bridges (US$4.00 million). This component was modified to
     reflect priority needs of the road network at the time of restructuring in 2001. Under the IDA credit only the
     most important crossings were retained and it was decided to improve the quality of the structures at these
     points - through six major bridges and three culvert crossings. The balance of the original bridges and box
     culverts planned at appraisal have been completed under GOU funding as part of regular maintenance
     operations.

     Procure Pipe Culverts and Bridge Sections (US$2.55 million). This component was retained as appraised.
     The procurement of Bailey bridges, pipe culverts and gabions was completed at a cost of US2.55 million by the
     time of reworking and helped GOU to rapidly respond to the emergency situation; and,

     Engineering Studies and Construction Supervision (US$1.20 million). The engineering studies and
     construction supervision that were ongoing at the time of reworking remained in the reworked project at a
     reduced cost.

The table below compares the total IDA credit resources at appraisal and after the reworking of the project.
Component (i) was fully financed by GOU and component, (ii) was dropped, the IDA contribution for these two
components is shown as zero. For a more detailed cost summary see Annex 2 of the ICR.

IDA Financing by Component

                   Component                                     IDA Resources                        IDA After
                                                                  at Appraisal                        reworking
                                                                   US$ million                       US$ million
(i) Repair of Damaged Road Sections and                                8.5                               0.00
Pipe Culverts
(ii) Rehabilitation and Regravelling of                                9.0                               0.00
Atiak-Moyo Road
(iii) Repair and Replacement of Box Culverts                           4.5                               4.00
and Bridges
(iv) Procurement of Pipe Culverts and Bailey                           3.7                              2.55*
Bridge Sections
(v) Engineering Studies and Construction                               1.9                               1.20
Supervision
(vi) Contingencies                                                      **                               2.00
Amount Cancelled (as of July 31, 2001)                                                                  17.85
Total                                                                  27.6                              9.75
     *Already disbursed at the time of restructuring - ** Included in the above stated amounts

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The design of the project did not benefit from a formal review at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).




                                                         - 4 -

The quality of entry is rated as only marginally satisfactory for the reasons set out in Section 7.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Despite delays, cancellation of significant part of IDA Credit and subsequently low IDA disbursement, the
objectives related to the El Nino were substantially met as a result of the overall Government/Bank effort. The
overarching objective of the project was to restore road and bridge infrastructure damaged due to the heavy rains
associated with the El Nino phenomenon. By the completion of the project this infrastructure had been restored,
albeit with some delay in relation to original expectation. The restoration had however been achieved at a lower
aggregate cost than anticipated at appraisal. Morover there were some improvements in the quality of service of
the infrastructure at some key crossings through the project that had not been anticipated at appraisal.
Achievement of the project objectives is thus assessed overall as satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The overall project performance in meeting physical output targets is assessed as satisfactory. In particular, the
following were achieved:

A.       Repair of Damaged Road Sections (US$7.09 million equivalent). Under the circumstances, this
component is rated overall as satisfactory. The original component was for repair of about 350 km of road sections
including repair and replacement of pipe culverts. Actually, however, a total of 1,834.8 km of road sections
(1505.3 km of unpaved and 329.5 km of paved roads) received pothole patching, edge repair, shoulder works,
asphalt patching, spot regravelling and drainage works. The above result was achieved at US$7.09 million of
which the contribution from the Department for International Development of UK (DfID) was US1.27 million to
supplement GOU resources coupled with the culverts and gabions procured under the Credit to restore the
damaged road sections, including repair and replacement of pipe culverts throughout the country.

         Initial implementation progress was slow under the credit. It was in part due to lack of a dedicated team
assigned to the project. The members of the Disaster Management Task Force Unit were from various government
departments and had concurrently regular duties in their respective departments. This slowed the execution of the
repair works and the utilization of IDA Credit. For example, consultant selections, which was planned for May
1998, was only completed in December 1999; engineering studies scheduled for May/June 1999 were only
completed in November 2000; selection of contractors scheduled for June/September 1998 was completed in 2001.
Construction works scheduled for September 1998-May 1999 were completed in 2001.

B.       Rehabilitation and Regravelling of Atiak - Moyo Road (US$0.0 million). The civil works aspect of
this component was terminated due to force majeure in 1996 when the road was being regravelled under the
Northern Uganda Reconstruction Project (NURP). This ENERRP component was to rehabilitate and regravel
about 92 km of gravel roads, to repair five bridges and construct two ferry landings. For reasons to be explained in
Section 5 of this ICR, the civil works was not executed under ENERRP and the IDA resources allocated in the
Credit was cancelled. The engineering study aspect of this component faced initial delays like the above
component. Engineering studies scheduled for completion by December 1998 took from February 2000 to October
2003. At closing, the completed      engineering design, RAP and the tender documents for Atiak-Moyo Road were
ready and the construction financing was transferred to Road Development Program Phase 3.

C.       Repair and Replacement of Bridges and Culverts (US$5.40 million). This component is rated as
satisfactory. At appraisal, the component was to repair or replace 120 small bridges. Later it was found some 150
bridges and other structures actually required repairs. A total of US$2.62 million of which US$0.23 million from
DfID was expended to repair some of these structures. After reworking, the project financed the construction of 6
major bridges and the three culverts. These were in a critical condition and required urgent
replacement/reconstruction as their situation had deteriorated since the time of appraisal of the El Nino project.
Moreover, an additional structure on the Mbale-Soroti road was added through an addendum to the civil works



                                                         - 5 -

contract. The structures completed are listed below. All were inspected by the ICR review mission in February
2004 and were found to be overall satisfactory.

C.II.17 (Manafa) - New 20m span Concrete Bridge. The works at this site were substantially completed on October
21, 2003. The road was opened to public traffic a week before that.

C.II.7 (Apokor) - New 20m span Concrete Bridge on piles. All concrete works have been completed, including
installation of the relief culvert at Ch. 0+174 and the road works. Substantial completion was achieved on
December 18, 2003. The road is open to public traffic.

C.II.12 (Mutufu) - New 20m Concrete Bridge on piles. Substantial completion was achieved on December 16, 2003
and the road is open to public traffic. Minor river training and gabion protection work, that was ongoing at the
time of inspection, was completed on January 12, 2004.

C.II.33 (A) (Nabionga) - New 20m Concrete Bridge on piles. Substantial completion was achieved on December
31, 2003 and the road is open to public traffic. Minor river training and gabion protection work, guardrails, plus
removal of scaffolding were completed on January 12, 2004.

C.I.5 (Mayanja) - New 15m Bridge on piles. Substantial completion was achieved on December 17, 2003. Clearing
of the by-pass and minor river protection works at the inlet was completed on January 17, 2004. The road, though
open to public traffic, received the 2nd coat bitumen seal on January 17, 2004.

C.IV.26 (Dura) - New 15m Bridge on piles. Substantial completion was achieved on December 15, 2003. Clearing
of the by-pass and minor river protection works was completed January 17, 2004. The road is open to public traffic.

C.I.4 (Nabakazi) 2 x 1200mm cpcs at 5 locations.All works have been completed at this site. Substantial
completion was achieved on September 16, 2003 and the road is open to public traffic.

C.IV.1 (Kabobo) - 3x1800mm metal pipe culverts at one location. All works have been completed at this site.
Substantial completion was achieved on October 16, 2003 and the road is open to public traffic.

C.IV.6 (Kitagata Bridge) repair of wingwall. Repair of the damaged wing wall and associated gabion work was
substantially completed on December 22, 2003. The road is open to public transport.

C.II.32(A) Additional Structure on Mbale - Soroti Road. Concrete works were completed on January 12, 2004,
backfilling and ancillary works were substantially completed by January 18, 2004. The road was opened to public
transport at the end of January 2004.

D.        Pipe Culverts and Bridge Sections (US$2.55 million). This component was satisfactorily implemented
and relatively speaking on schedule. Procurement was scheduled for June/July 1998 and was completed between
June 1998 and March 1999. At appraisal the component was for the acquisition of sections of (i) about 500 linear
meters of temporary bridges, (ii) about 8000 linear meters of piped culverts, and (iii) gabions to enhance the
borrower's capacity for rapid response in repairing roads and bridges damaged by similar future emergency. The
Credit financed a total of 7,950 m of metal pipe culverts of various diameters (900mm, 1200mm, 1500mm,
1800mm, 2100mm, 2500mm) in two lots; 15 compact panel bridges; and gabions (1700 mattresses and 2200
boxes).

E.        Engineering studies and Construction Supervision (US$1.14 million). This component was
satisfactorily implemented. It provided technical advisory services for the preparation of engineering studies and
tender documents and the supervision of civil works under the components of the Project. Engineering studies
were financed and the studies were completed. Supervision of the original component: (i) repair of damaged road
sections and (ii) a part of the bridge repair and replacement and culvert were financed by the GOU. The
supervision of component (iii) for the repair and replacement of bridges and culverts and preparation of tender




                                                          - 6 -

documents for Atiak-Moyo road were financed under this component.

Safeguards

Environmental Protection. The works undertaken with respect to bridge repairs, drainage and gabions had
significant positive impact on the ecosystem. Soil erosion feared in the aftermath of the flood was mitigated by the
construction of appropriate drainage structures. Other environmental issues such as air, noise and water pollution
were of minor concern in the civil works undertaken by the project.

Land acquisition and resettlement. Land acquisition was anticipated mainly as an issue of the Atiak-Moyo road
rehabilitation. However the rehabilitation of this road was dropped and that part of credit cancelled. With respect
to the other components, no changes in alignment were required and no land acquisition was found necessary.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

At appraisal, it was recognized that rigorous economic analysis of the project was inappropriate given the
emergency characteristics of the project. Nevertheless, a simplified form of analysis was adopted to help identify
the real emergency works that should have priority claim on the Credit. The economic analysis was carried out in
the field in tandem with the preparation/appraisal of the project. Conservative estimates of benefits and prudent
20% allowance of physical contingencies were assumed. The appraisal team used HDM III to verify MOWHC's
initial estimates. The weighted ERR average for all planned roads and structure was estimated at 80%.

Post construction economic analysis was carried out for the bridges funded by IDA Credit as a proxy for the
investments in road network as a whole. The analysis covered only the bridges and excludes the less important
works such as construction and repair of pipe culverts. It is assumed that on the average about 15 days in a year,
the bridges would be closed, and the roads, therefore, not passable for motorized traffic. The economic life of each
bridge is assumed to be 20 years and Net Present Value (NTV) is estimated at the discount rate of 12%. The main
benefits are generated from diverted traffic, savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time savings. Traffic data
used in the analysis is from MOWHC 2003 traffic count. On the basis of the above assumptions, the overall ERR
estimate was 143.4%, and the Net Present Value, at 12% discount rate, is US$20.8 million for the 5 bridges shown
below. No estimate of ERR for Manafwa (C.11.17) bridge is included in the NPV or ERR estimates as there was
no alternative route to choose from in case of bridge damage. These NPVs and ERRs are very high benefit
indicators, although not surprising for a project of this nature.

         Bridge Structure                 NPV Estimates at 12%                           ERR
                                                     USD
Dura (C.IV.26)                                               $6,214,161                              222.4 %
Mayanja (C.1.5)                                              $11,284,752                             351.6%
Mutufu (C.11.12)                                                 $165,624                             18.9%
Naibionga (C.11.33ª)                                           $1,171,832                             53.3%
Apokor (C.11.17)                                               $1,978,807                             67.8%

Total (5 bridges)                                            $20,815,176                             143.4%
Manafwa (C.11.17)                               US$ 102,297 (estimate)                                  N.A.



4.4 Financial rate of return:

None of the investments in roads or bridges are revenue generating and therefore no financial rate of return has
been calculated. The financial evaluation focuses on the availability of sufficient counterpart funds. Under the
emergency situation the GOU self-financed a total of US$9.71 million equivalent of which DfID's contribution was
US$1.50 million - this compares to the expected GOU contribution of $2.40 million at appraisal. The GOU funds
were primarily from maintenance budget. The fiscal impact of the works on macroeconomic balance was therefore



                                                          - 7 -

modest.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

The purpose of the project did not explicitly include an institutional aspect. Nevertheless, at the design stage a
strategic choice was taken to support sectoral reform and enhance capacity by involving RAFU in the
implementation of the project. It was agreed that the Disaster Management Task Force Unit under MOWHC
would implement the project and, when RAFU start operating, the project would be transferred to RAFU for
implementation. The transfer of the project was made at the reworking. A monitoring and evaluation system was
developed within RAFU under which semi-annual progress reports were prepared on the basis of the project
implementation plan. RAFU also developed procurement and contracts management capability and successfully
implemented the restructured components of the project with no cost overruns. The Borrower has maintained
adequate records and accounts in compliance with the requirements of Section 4 of the Development Credit
Agreement, which required separate opinions to be expressed on the Special Account and Statement of
Expenditure (SOE). The independent auditors have given unqualified opinion on both the financial statement and
Special Account and SOE. The execution of the civil works by local contractors also provided some opportunity
for development of the domestic contracting industry.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Insecurity in the North. The consultant initially selected to undertake engineering studies for repair of damaged
road sections declined the offer on ground of security concerns in the project area. This led to re-tendering and
caused a delay in start up until October 1999. Detailed design also took longer than expected due to insecurity
affecting the field surveys and the related property valuation works. As a result, the design was eventually
completed only in October 2003. In light of this, the government decided by June 2000 that it would be impossible
to carry on the civil works within the then agreed implementation schedule and closing date of the Credit.
However, the civil works for the Atiak-Moyo road are now included in Road Development Program Phase 3
Project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

New tax law. At the start of the project, the GOU introduced new regulations governing the tax on fees paid for
consultant firms and their personnel. At the time, Request for Proposals (RFP) for consultants services under the
project had already been prepared and issued and proposals obtained from the firms. After evaluation of the
consultants' proposals, Government awarded contracts for engineering studies and construction supervision for
road repair works in Kampala, Central and Eastern regions, and for repair/replacement of box culverts, bridges,
etc. on the main road network. However, the consultants did not sign because the Central Tender Board had not
approved the 15% withholding tax to be paid by the Government. The same fate befell the consultancy for
Atiak-Moyo road. It was only after discussions with the country's Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development and a delay of one and a half years that a waiver was issued specifically for the ENERRP Credit not
to charge taxes on consultants and their personnel.

Closure of Greenland Bank. In order to facilitate the funding of the emergency works, a project account was
opened at Greenland Bank immediately after negotiation in April 1998 before the effective date of July 1998.
However, the Bank of Uganda, the central bank, closed the Greenland Bank on the grounds of flouting banking
regulations. This resulted in the freezing of account from April 1998 to February 2000. The total amount of funds
which remained in the account from April 1998 to April 2000 were US$40,708.09 and Ushs. 430,999 respectively.
Since then the Government has paid the balance of US$40,708.09 and adjustments were made with respect to the
GOU counterpart of Ushs. 430,999. The delay in the resolution of this issue also contributed to the overall delays
in procurement of consultancy services and payments of accounts.



                                                        - 8 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Implementation capacity. Project implementation experienced delays, especially in the early stages. The delays
were mainly due to limited number of dedicated staff assigned to project tasks. This, coupled with lack of progress
in resolution of the tax dispute and security situation in Northern Uganda caused delays in the timely execution of
the emergency project and led to subsequent extension of the credit closing date by two and a half years, until
January 31, 2004. As a result of such delays and slow Credit disbursements in project implementation, both the
development objective and the implementation performance were rated unsatisfactory for nearly 2 years, November
1999 to November 2001. After the project reworking and the transfer of implementation responsibility to RAFU,
progress was made in implementation of the project components and disbursement improved. Both the project
development objective and implementation performance ratings were subsequently upgraded to satisfactory.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$30.0 million including contingencies of US$6.0 million.
About 92% of the total or US$ 27.6 million was to be financed from IDA Credit. The total actual project cost is
estimated at US$16.18 million of which IDA funding was only US$6.47 million equivalent. The difficulties
encountered obliged the government to fund the project from its own budget the balance of US$9.71 million
equivalent of which US$1.50 million was DfID's contribution. No substantial cost overrun was observed. In fact,
the cost of goods, works and services completed were generally below the appraisal cost estimates.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

For reasons noted below, the project is likely to sustain the benefits generated in relation to its objectives over the
economic life of the project.

Establishment of institutional capacity. Since the launching of the project, changes in policies, systems,
institutional structures and capacity development have taken place among RAFU staff and those in MOWHC in the
course of project implementation. These are likely to contribute to sustainability of the benefits achieved under the
project and to improve the capacity of the road sector to adapt to any future emergency situations.

Supportive policy and financing systems. The government has shown its commitment to road maintenance,
including roads repaired under the project, through increased road maintenance expenditure to include emergency
repairs. Moreover, it has adopted a transport budgetary process in the sector. The consolidated Transport Sector
Investment Recurrent Expenditure Programme (TSIREP) provides a fundamental framework to promote cheaper,
more efficient and reliable transportation services, through enhancing resource allocation to priority activities in
the transport sector. Further improvements in road maintenance management - timely and effective planning,
budgeting and programming - are expected to be carried forward in the next stage of road sector reforms under
which responsibility for road maintenance is to be transferred to RAFU.

Enhanced capacity of contracting industry. The completed bridge contracts by local contractors testify that
there is local capacity for execution of works of this nature. This augurs well for the development of the private
sector in the contracting industry. Incentives through appropriate packaging of contacts will further enhance the
existing local capacity.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The roads repaired and the critical bridges constructed have now been handed over to MOWHC for operation. The
maintenance of these roads and bridges has been satisfactory and the traffic has increased to, or exceeded, the



                                                          - 9 -

pre-El Nino levels. Further, sustainability of the benefits of the civil works, now handled by MOWHC, will be
enhanced by the introduction of performance based road maintenance contracts and the establishment of a
maintenance unit within RAFU. The unit will have bridge maintenance engineers and technical experts. Further,
budgeting is done and expressed through the TSIREP. TSIREP reflects government priorities in the transport
sector and is updated semi-annually and reviewed by all stakeholders in the sector.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

IDA's performance in the lending phase for the project was marginally satisfactory. The project was identified as
an emergency operation by the GOU. The request for the credit was made by the President of Uganda directly to
the President of the World Bank when they met in January 1998. Preparation and appraisal were executed in less
than a month during the initial mission in February 1998. The speed with which the Bank was able to respond to
the request and mount a well resourced team with the requisite skills to carry out the appraisal is commendable.
However certain of the decisions taken in regard to the design of the project may have contributed to the slow
implementation of the project in its early stages. This includes: the apparent lack of recourse to OD 8.50 in regard
to procurement arrangements under an emergency; the addition of a component related to the refugees situation in
northern Uganda which was not a direct consequence of El Nino; the addition of a number of secondary objectives
and outcomes - concerning service levels and access to services - for the achievement of which no specific
indicators were given.

7.2 Supervision:

Overall, project supervision is assessed as marginally satisfactory. For most of the supervision phase, the task
manager has remained the same and there has been consistent technical support from the Uganda country office.
The skill mix of supervision staff was mostly appropriate as was the overall effort level over the life of the project.
While the project reworking in mid 2001 was commendable and generally effective in addressing the early
unsatisfactory performance of the project, it would in retrospect have seemed justified to take this step at an earlier
point in time, and not to wait until just before the original closing date of the credit.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall assessment of the IDA's performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The scope of project preparation was necessarily quite limited and performance is assessed as less than satisfactory.
Being an emergency project, preparation of the project was on a fast track. There was not, therefore, adequate time
for review of all proposed repair works. During implementation a major review of the priority of the proposed
work program was found necessary and was carried out. The consultant's technical proposals showed that some of
the proposed road sections, particularly the northern and western regions, were included in the other donor
financed programs and works on some of them had already been completed. Some of the works sites were also
inaccessible due to insecurity in the area. In the circumstances, there was little advance procurement planning for
the use of IDA credit resources, contributing to the low take up of the available financing.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall, implementation performance is marginally satisfactory. The GOU provided funds to undertake repair of
roads and bridges/culverts which helped somewhat to alleviate the impact of the delays in accessing IDA credit
resources. Sorting out access to the project account arising from closing of the Greenbank by the Bank of Uganda
and delays in contracting of consultants due to the 15% tax increases on consultant fees were matters that were for



                                                          - 10 -

the government to address. However, the resolution of these issues took about two years. They could have been
attended within a more reasonable time frame in view of the emergency nature of the project.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

Members of the DMTFU held concurrent responsibilities in their respective departments. DMTFU was relatively
effective in mobilizing GOU resources for the emergency, but much less so for the IDA credit. This was probably
due to the greater familiarity with government procedures - with respect to procurement, administration, planning,
project supervision and reporting - and with a lack of familiarity with, or an inadaptation of, the procurement
procedures agreed for the use of the IDA credit resources. This certainly contributed to a slower rate of
disbursement of the IDA Credit than projected and to project implementation performance and the development
objective being rated as unsatisfactory for a time between 1999 and 2001. After reworking, the project was
transferred to RAFU which had by that time better procurement management capacity and greater familiarity with
Bank procedures. Implementation then continued to progress as per plan and both ratings were upgraded to
satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the performance of the Borrower is rated as marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Realism. The design and implementation arrangements of an emergency project should demonstrate realism.
These should be simple, straight forward with strong focus on addressing the most urgent emergency concerns that
emerged as a result of the disaster. Moreover, such a project should not be designed to address issues unrelated to
the emergency situation. In this respect, the inclusion of Atiak - Moyo road, located in the north of the country
where the security condition was uncertain, could be seen as a distraction for both the Government and the Bank
project implementation teams and should not have been included in an emergency project. Also, to stress the
importance of institutional reforms ­ such as was the case of this project anticipating the eventual transfer of
functions from MOWHC to RAFU and a future road authority ­ may again be seen as a distraction from
organizing and motivating assigned staff to focus on the urgency of the task.

Procurement Arrangements. The case of this project suggests the importance of assuring that Bank procurement
guidelines ­ and how they are applied in an emergency situation ­ need to be tailored to the need for speedy
implementation. Even with fast tracking in preparation and appraisal, the response time proved to be too long for
the client. The Government was thus obliged to take repair measures using its own budget. And since the
contracting system followed by the Government team did not follow Bank procurement guidelines, the Bank's
supervision team found it difficult to identify eligible expenditures to be reimbursed out of the Credit proceeds.
The Bank, therefore, needs as part of its operations reform process to examine this constraint and provide specially
simplified procurement guidelines and procedures to be followed for eligible expenditures for IDA credit financing
in an emergency.

Emergency Institutional Arrangements.             Appropriate institutional arrangements are key to successfully
handling emergency situations. Some countries are prone to some types of disasters more than to other types. Most
developing countries, however, neither take advantages of such facts nor have institutional arrangements to make
rapid response when disaster hits. In the transport sector, lack of adequate institutional arrangements capable of
handling emergency situations can be costly both in terms of lives and loss of vital assets such as bridges and can
also undermine years of progress made towards poverty alleviation. However in the case of this particular project
some interesting developments did take place in terms of policy and institutional arrangements for emergencies,
e.g. on preventive bridge maintenance, although this aspect did not receive particularly strong attention in Bank
supervisions. The Bank should therefore as a general rule identify the risks of such disaster prone developing
countries and help the governments of these countries to have institutional arrangements capable of coping with



                                                        - 11 -

such recurrent disasters.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                        MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND COMMUNICATIONS

                                EL NINO EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIRS PROJECT

                                             ( CREDIT NO. 3064 - UG)

                                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                                     JULY 2004


PREFACE


This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the EL Nino Emergency Road Repairs Project that was in
the original amount of SDR 20.5 million (US$ 27.6 million equivalent). Following the extensive damage to the
road infrastructure due to the El Nino weather phenomena, Government approached IDA for support towards the
restoration of the damaged road infrastructure and this culminated in the signing of a credit agreement on May 14,
1998 which became effective on July 13 1998.

However, due to procurement delays experienced at the early stages of the project and in order to enable
Government to undertake the urgent emergency works, the Bank accepted to retroactively finance the emergency
operations up to US$ 2.0 million. It is also worth noting that at that time many parts of the country had been
cut-off and Government could therefore not afford to wait for the credit to become effective before undertaking the
necessary remedial action. Subsequently, Government embarked upon the restoration of accessibility to the cut-off
areas and spent a substantial amount of its maintenance budget for this purpose. Following this early government
intervention, the credit amount was reduced through re-structuring in 2001 with a revised scope of work to an
amount of SDR 6.96 million (US$ 9.75 million equivalent). The credit closure date was also extended to January
31, 2004 for which the Bank's approval was received on June 20, 2001.

This report is the borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the EL Nino
Emergency Road Repair Project. The report gives an overall view of the project achievements and failures
throughout all the project cycle. Performance and output indicators are also given under the Annexes.

A.    STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES

The original project objective was to assist the Government of Uganda (GOU) in its efforts to restore and
rehabilitate roads and bridges severely damaged by heavy rains and flooding associated with the "EL Nino"
weather pattern, which affected the country in 1997 and 1998.

It was envisaged at this stage that the project would contribute to:

a.       Decreasing infrastructure-related market and distribution costs country wide, by reducing        road
transport costs to their pre-emergency levels;
b.       Securing the timely delivery of social services to the affected populations, by restoring



                                                        - 12 -

accessibility to its pre-emergency levels;


c.        Facilitating the productive settlement of war refugees in Northern Uganda, by restoring and rehabilitating
the Atiak-Moyo road connection from Northern Uganda to neighbouring Sudan; and
d.        Stabilising the eco-system near the affected roads by arresting further deterioration of environmental
conditions.

B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES

Due to the early Government intervention and although the original credit amount was not fully exhausted, the
overall project physical objectives were met i.e. the restoration of the damaged road section to their pre-El Nino
condition. Annex 1 of this report shows the procurement and implementation schedule at appraisal and after
restructuring the credit.

However, the above not withstanding, the project experienced some delays at the initial stages of procurement and
this is attributed to the following factors:

l    A new tax law was introduced but Government delayed to issue guidelines for harmonisation of the new
     taxation requirements and the provisions of the DCA. This resulted in delayed finalisation of consultancy
     agreements and commencement of studies by over 8 months.
l    A project account for the emergency project was opened in Greenland Bank in April 1998 and due to financial
     irregularities, the Bank was closed by the Central Bank and this resulted in the freezing of the project account
     from April 1998 to February 2000. This resulted in failure to access the project funds for over one year thus
     delaying of the required services.
l    The scope of work was originally underestimated and with the inadequate staffing levels within the ministry
     coupled with institutional reforms, it was not possible to effectively implement the initial procurement tasks as
     originally envisaged. This resulted in substantial time loss.
l    Insecurity in northern Uganda caused a delay in procurement of the credit components in this particular
     project area.

Although the original credit amount was not fully utilised, overall, the project physical objectives were achieved
due to Government's early intervention using its own resources. The achievements were follows:

B.1     Repair of damaged road sections
Using the ministry's maintenance budget, a total of approximately 1,835 Km of roads and drainage structures were
restored to their pre- El Nino condition at a cost of US$ 7.09 million. Works were executed using both force
account and contract and these involved installation of culverts and restoration of embankment across swampy
areas and rivers. Details are shown in Annex 2.

B.2     Rehabilitation/Regravelling of Atiak ­ Moyo road
The detailed engineering design for the upgrading works were completed by M/s Nicholas O'Dwyer at a cost of
US$ 0.36 million while the rehabilitation works were transferred to RDPP3 because of security situation that was
prevailing in the area at the time. The intention was to allow time for the situation to normalise and this could not
be achieved within the timescale of El Nino.

B.3     Repair/Replacement of box culverts and bridges
At project appraisal it was estimated that a total of about 120 bridges would be repaired or replaced through the
utilisation of the credit proceeds. However, after the extended rainy conditions it was estimated that a total of 150
bridges would need attention. However, due to the delayed project take-off, government undertook some remedial
repairs to some drainage structures through force account operations using materials procured under component 4
of the project. The cost for this intervention was US$ 2.62 million out of which DFID contributed US$ 0.23 million
through the Gravel Road Regravelling project in Western Uganda which was running at the time. After
restructuring of the credit, a full site inspection was carried out and verification of all damaged bridge sites done.


                                                          - 13 -

A new cost estimate based on a reinforced concrete design was prepared for six bridge sites and three culverts at an
estimated cost of US$ 4 million. This amount was within the provisions of the credit.

The tendered price for the six bridges was lower than the estimate at appraisal and this enabled the construction of
nine structures at US$ 2.26 million. Details of the structures repaired are shown in Annex 3.

B.4     Procurement of Pipe culverts and Bailey Bridges
This component was successfully implemented at a cost of US$ 2.55 million although the credit provided for US$
3.7 million. A total of 7,950m of metal pipe culverts of different sizes, 15 Compact panel bridges, 3,900 gabions
were procured. Most of these were utilised in the restoration of the damaged structures through force account
operations.

B.5     Engineering Studies and Construction Supervision
a)      Engineering Studies
Designs were eventually undertaken by M/s NorConsult for Kampala, Central and Eastern Uganda at a cost of US$
0.05 million to and M/s Norplan for Central and Western Uganda at a cost of US$ 0.13 million and were
completed in November 2000. M/s Nicholas O'Dwyer undertook the detailed engineering design including EIA,
SIA and RAPs for the Atiak-Moyo road rehabilitation works at a cost of US$ 0.36 million. M/s Gauff undertook
the feasibility studies and engineering design for the culverts and bridges.

b)      Construction Supervision
M/s Gauff Consulting Engineers provided the supervision services for the civil works. The total cost for
supervision and engineering studies was US$ 0.48 million.


C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT

The delay of the project implementation and its management at the early stages had a major impact on the
fulfilment of the original project objectives.

C.1     Factors not generally under Government control

l    The detailed design of the Atiak-Moyo road and finalizing of the RAP was significantly delayed due to the
     effect of the insecurity in the north. This mainly affected field surveys and the related property valuation work.
     Consequently, the design was not completed in time for implementation, even after extension of the closing
     date of the Credit.
l    At the early stages of project implementation, government opened a project account in Greenland Bank,
     unfortunately due to problems within the banking sector, Bank of Uganda closed down Greenland Bank and
     this resulted in freezing the project account. Consequently, project funds on the account could not be accessed
     between 1998 and Jan 2000. As a result procurement could not proceed and this was a major setback for the
     project.
l    In 1998 government introduced a new tax law and since the credit had already become effective, there was a
     need to reconcile the provisions of the new law and both the credit requirement and the banks procurement
     requirements. This resulted in contracted negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
     Development and the issue was settled after approximately two years with the waiver of tax requirement for
     procurement under the project proceeds. This accordingly delayed the engagement of consultants to undertake
     assignments under the project.
l    After procurement of Consultants for design studies, M/s COWI for the northern and western packages
     declined the offer citing insecurity in the Northern part of the country. This resulted in a repeat of the
     procurement exercise for this particular item causing loss of time on the project cycle.




                                                          - 14 -

C.2     Factors under the control of Government and co-financiers
l   At the start of the project, new regulations governing taxes on consulting firms and their personnel were
    introduced in the country. As the RFP's for consultants had already been prepared and issued and proposals
    obtained from the firms, it was not possible to implement the new tax regulations. After a delay of
    approximately two years of discussions with the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
    (MoFPED), a waiver was issued specifically for the ENERRP Credit not to charge taxes on consultants and
    their personnel.
l   The project experienced serious delays in the early stages while still under the MoWHC due to inadequate
    procurement and contract management capacity. This resulted partly in the delay of design of bridge and road
    sections. Subsequently GOU had to intervene and implement the restoration of damaged road sections in
    Eastern and Northern Uganda and requested for the cancellation of this component of the credit.
l    Government constituted a task force to manage the project, which was headed by the Commissioner for Works
     and comprised of five regional Road Maintenance Engineers. However, due to the underestimation of the
     emergency scope coupled with inadequate staffing levels, the team was overwhelmed, as they had to attend to
     other emergencies in their various areas of jurisdiction. Consequently, the disaster management task force did
     not fulfill the intended objectives as expected and was subsequently disbanded.
l    After commencement of the implementation of the restructured component, the contractor submitted an
     application for payment of advance payment, which was inadvertently sent for payment to the Bank signed by
     an unauthorized signatory. The application was subsequently returned by the Bank without any action due to
     the unauthorized signatories. This caused a delay in the commencement of works and the contractor has
     claimed for payment for acceleration of works.

D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The sustainability of the facilities procured under the project and the realisation of the project objectives has been
generally achieved. Government has established the Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU), which has been able to
reduce time lost in the procurement cycle, and enhance the efficient implementation and management of project
implementation. It is Government's intention to transform RAFU into a fully-fledged Road Authority.

E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
The performance of the Bank during project identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank's
performance is summarised below;

E.1     Project Identification
The Identification Mission worked closely with Government officials during the field inspections. The
establishment of the position of a Highway Engineer in the Uganda resident mission further enhanced the project
identification process. This arrangement resulted in well-conceived project concepts. Failure to implement some of
the identified components of the project was a result of factors that emerged during project implementation and
could not have been reasonably anticipated. The Bank's performance on identification can be rated as successful.

E.2     Project Preparation
Despite the project being of an emergency nature, the Bank's support for long-term flood related solutions was well
thought out.

E.3     Project Appraisal
The project was prepared in Jan/Feb 1998 and appraised in March 1998 taking into consideration the emergency
nature of the assignment. This fast procedure led into early negations in April 1998.

E.4     Project Monitoring

The Bank's monitoring system was satisfactory and this was reflected through the periodic visits to the various
sites by the Banks' supervision mission where good guidance was given.




                                                         - 15 -

F.     BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
The Project was originally handled by the Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications but after restructuring
of the credit, its management was transferred to RAFU. In general the Borrowers performance was satisfactory
with adequate counterpart funding being provided. The preparations were done in reasonable time and details are
shown below:

l   Before restructuring of the credit, the Ministry created a disaster management task force to implement the
    project. However due to inadequate staffing levels, the task force lacked a dedicated team to specifically handle
    the project. The task force was subsequently disbanded and the project transferred to RAFU to ensure its
    effective management and implementation although under a revised scope.
l   The Ministry of Works, Housing and Communication (MOWHC) was originally responsible for the overall
    supervision and implementation of the agreements set out in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA),
    however following the redefined project requirements, these responsibilities were transferred to RAFU.
l   Although the project conceived was of an emergency nature, its preparation can be considered to be
    satisfactory although its implementation was considerably beyond the disaster period. At the early stages of
    project implementation delays were experienced as explained earlier however, in light of the need for
    emergency interventions, Government repaired some of the damaged structures using its own resources so as
    to restore accessibility to the affected areas. This intervention resulted in the cancellation of some of the
    original project components.
l   With the establishment of RAFU and transference of the project management to this institution, the borrower
    was able to ensure a smooth implementation of the project and accordingly the performance can be considered
    satisfactory. Furthermore, the borrower managed to appoint capable and qualified personnel to manage the
    respective project components and this resulted in the successful implementation of most of the selected project
    components.

G.     PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS
Detailed engineering design and construction supervision for the project was undertaken by consultants. These
included Norplan and Norconsult for the feasibility studies; Nicholas O'Dwyer for detailed engineering design of
Atiak-Moyo road and HP Gauff for the design and supervision of the repair and replacement of pipe culverts and
bridges. Although some project components were deleted due to the subsequent intervention by Government, the
performance of all the consultants was generally satisfactory.

H.     ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The implementation performance of the project was generally satisfactory. Despite time lost due to delays in
procurement and cancellation of some project components due to Government's immediate intervention, overall,
most of the project objectives were achieved. In particular all damaged road sections were restored to conditions
pre-EL Nino rain and flooding menace and there was replenishment of stock regarding drainage materials.
The situation happened at the time when the Ministry did not have the capacity to effectively handle such a
situation and although a Disaster Task Management Force was created, this did not adequately provide the
anticipated output due to inadequate staffing levels. Subsequently, the project was transferred to RAFU, a result
oriented body which was able to complete the restructured project on time.

I.     EX-POST ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
At the project preparation stage (April 1998), a simplified economic analysis commensurate with the emergency
level characteristics of the proposed road works was carried out for most, but not all of the investments under Part
A of the credit, the road section repairs component. Economic analysis for the Atiak-Moyo road
rehabilitation/regravelling was carried out separately and no economic analysis was undertaken for the repair/
replacement of bridges sub-component.

The PAD of April 1998 stated that most of the quantifiable project benefits would ultimately accrue to producers
and consumers countrywide, under the form of a reduction of transport costs to their pre-emergency levels. This
reduction would result from the elimination of congestion bottlenecks and other vehicle operating cost savings in


                                                       - 16 -

the affected sections of Uganda's road network. This rationale remains unchanged, the current simplified ex-post
economic analysis having been conducted to provide a quantifiable estimate of the benefits deriving from reduced
transport costs. The analysis has been carried out for the six bridge structures. The key assumption underpinning
the analytical approach is the number of days in the year during which the bridge is closed and the road therefore
not passable to motorised traffic.

The base estimate was put at 15 days closure in order to allow the necessary time for both transporting a Bailey
bridge to the site in question and the time for erecting it on site as a temporary emergency measure to provide
accessibility during the period that repairs or reconstruction of the damaged bridge structure is carried out. For
purposes of sensitivity analysis, a minimum closure time of 10 days was also tested.

The analysis was carried out for a 21-year period ­ one year for the bridge repair/reconstruction and 20 years
passability to traffic. The discount rate applied is 12 per cent for calculating the present value of benefits. The
benefits are derived from the fact that existing motorised traffic has to divert on to other routes between points of
origin and destination, in effect representing the "without project" case. The benefits themselves are a function of
vehicle operating cost savings between the existing route without any bridge closure ­ the "with project" case ­ and
the alternative, longer routes due to the bridge closure. Average daily traffic (ADT), traffic growth rates, vehicle
operating costs and values of time have all been taken from Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications
traffic counts for 2003 and the National Transport Master Plan study (Interim Report No.3, February 2004). Cost
data for bridge repair/reconstruction was obtained from previous data for both 15 and 10-day annual closure
periods.

J.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
Although the project was of an emergency nature, its implementation demonstrated the need to establish a
dedicated unit to handle emergencies. In addition, laxity in the effective monitoring of the condition of drainage
structures has been exposed and this needs to be addressed. Accordingly, Government has established a Bridge
Monitoring and Maintenance Unit that will ensure the proper functionality and maintenance of bridges and
drainage structures along the country's road network. Furthermore, Government, through its Road Agency
Formation Unit, will continue to further enhance effective supervision and maintenance of road infrastructure
including the associated structures. Therefore, to ensure the proper functioning of the bridge inspection and
monitoring unit, its management should be transferred to RAFU when management of the road maintenance
operations are taken over.

K.     KEY LESSONS LEARNT

     a)   At the Project Identification stage, it was established that extensive damage had been caused by the EL
     NINO weather phenomena and this exposed the inadequacy of a database and bridge management system.
     This highlighted the need to devise and implement effective measures to monitor the performance of bridge
     and drainage structures along the road network.

     b) Procurement rules associated with donor funding can be a hindrance to early intervention in emergency
     situations. This needs to be reviewed by relaxing the procurement requirements when dealing with emergency
     situations.

     c)   Having discovered that some of the structures did not have adequate hydraulic capacity, many of them
     were upgraded to bigger hydraulic capacities, thus reducing the potential for flooding and minimizing
     environmental damage. This underscored the need to reassess all the bridge and drainage structures to ensure
     that they are of the required capacity.

     d) Delays in procurement were experienced at the early stages of project implementation. This resulted in the
     cancellation of some of the project components, as Government could not wait for the emergency situations to
     be dealt with under the project. Therefore in future, government should put in place institutional structures to
     handle such emergencies in the shortest possible time.




                                                         - 17 -

    e)   The destruction caused by the rains and floods happened at a time when the Ministry lacked the capacity
    to handle extensive emergency situations and although a task force was created to specifically handle this
    situation, its performance was not successful due to inadequate staffing. A Bridge Management Unit has been
    established within the MoWHC and in order to enhance the unit's performance and efficiency, government
    intends to transfer its management to RAFU or the future Road Authority.

    f)   The Government of Uganda through its Ministry of Disaster Preparedness and Refugees has established a
    Disaster Management Policy. This policy is aimed at enhancing Government's ability to detect, respond to, or
    facilitate early responses to emergency situations in a timely manner. Government is also finalising the
    establishment of Inter-ministerial and Multi-sectoral Disaster Management Unit whose role will among others
    include the monitoring of early warning indicators so as to assist government in intervening effectively during
    crises.

    Regarding the road infrastructure, Government's overall policy is to make all roads passable all year round. A
    commitment has been made to ensure that the Ministry maintenance stations are adequately facilitated to
    undertake routine road inspection and undertake remedial interventions through contractors. In order to
    further enhance the Ministry's preparedness to handle road emergency situations, a fully-fledged Bridge
    Management and Inspection Unit has been established. This unit ensures that all drainage structures are
    properly maintained so that the drainage structures perform as required. Within this unit, a team trained to
    assemble compact panel (bailey) bridges has also been established. This unit is fully functional and has to-date
    handled four emergency bridges needs. A budget provision for this unit has also be been established in the
    Ministry's budget.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Annex 1:          Key Performance Indicators


  Indicator/Matrix
 Outcome/Impact                Projected in the last   Actual/latest Estimate
 Indicators                    PSR
Reduce                         Elimination of        Achieved
infrastructure-related         flood-related
market and distribution        congestion delays in
costs countrywide              restored facilities
Stabilize the ecosystem near Re-establish drainage   Achieved
the affected roads           condition to
                             "pre-flooding" levels



Output indicators
Road sections repaired       1505.3 km of unpaved    Achieved
                             road section; and 329.5
                             km of paved roads
                             repaired.
Major bridges and major      6 major bridges and 3   Achieved
culvers constructed          major culverts
                             constructed, other
                             crossings addressed
                             under road maintenance
                             program
Engineering studies          Completed               Completed
Construction supervision     Completed               Completed




                                                    - 19 -

       Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                          Table 1: Project Cost by Component

                                       Appraisal      Reworked           Actual cost  Percentage actual to
                                       Estimate         Project           estimate    reworked cost

                                       (US$ mio)       (US$ mio)         (US$ mio)

1.     Repair of damaged road
sections and pipe culverts               9.4               7.09              7.09            100%

       2.       Atiak-Moyo road
       rehabilitation/regravelling       10.0              0.00              0.00        Transferred to
                                                                                           RDPP3

       3.       Repair and replacement
       of box culverts and bridges       5.0              4.20               5.40          129%

       4.       Procurement of pipe
       culverts and bailey bridge
       sections                          3.7              2.70               2.55            94 %

5.     Engineering studies and
construction supervision                 1.9              1.90              1.14             60%


       6.       Contingency estimate                      1.36



                                         30.0             17.25             16.18            94%
TOTAL




                                                       - 20 -

                           Table 2b: Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal)
                                            (US$ million)

 Components                                      Procurement Method
                                                  ICB      NCB     International Other   Total
                                                                     Shopping
     1.   Repair of Damaged Road Sections                   9.4                           9.4
                                                           (8.5)                         (8.5)
     2.   Rehabilitation and Regravelling of      10.0                                    10.0
          Atiak-Moyo road                        (9.0)                                   (9.0)

     3.   Repair and replacement of Box                     5.0                           5.0
          culverts and bridges                             (4.5)                         (4.5)

     4.   Procurement of Pipe culverts sections                         3.7               3.7
          and bailey bridge.                                           (3.7)             (3.7)

     5.   Engineering studies and Construction                                     1.9    1.9
          Supervision                                                             (1.9)  (1.9)
                                                  10.0      14.4        3.7        1.9    30.0
 Total                                           (9.0)     (13.0)      (3.7)      (1.9)  (27.6)



                            Table 2b1:Procurement Arrangements (Actual) ($ million)

Category                                       ICB       NBC     International  Other   Total
                                                                  Shopping
1.       Repair of Damaged Road Sections                 7.09                            7.09
                                                        (0.00)                          (0.00)
2.       Rehabilitation and Regravelling of
Atiak-Moyo road
3.       Repair and replacement of Box                   5.40                            5.40
culverts and bridges                                    (2.78)                          (2.78)
4.       Procurement of Pipe culverts sections                       2.55                2.55
and Bailey bridge.                                                  (2.55)              (2.55)
5.       Engineering studies and                                                 1.14    1.14
Construction Supervision                                                        (1.14)  (1.14)
                                                        12.49        2.55        1.14   16.18
Total                                                   (2.78)      (2.55)      (1.14)  (6.47)




                                                     - 21 -

                            Table 2c: Project financing by Component
                                               ($ million)




                  Component                                  Estimate                       Actual/
                                                           at Appraisal                 latest estimate
                                                  GOU             IDA             GOU                   IDA
1. Repair of damaged                              0.9                        8.5 7.09*                  0.00
Roads Sections
2. Rehabilitation and                             1.0                       9.0 0.00                    0.00
Regravelling of Atiak-Moyo road
3. Repair and replacement                         0.5                       4.5 2.62+                   2.78
of box culverts and bridges
4. Procurement of Pipe culverts sections and 0.0                            3.7 0.00                    2.55
Bailey bridges
5. Engineering and construction Supervision 0.0                             1.9 0.00                    1.14
6. Contingencies
Total                                             2.4                       27.6 9.71                   6.47
* Include an additional US$1.27million financing for El Nino emergency road repair was obtained from DfID. + Inclusive of
US$0.27 million that was obtained by DfID.




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

ERR Estimates of Emergency Bridge Structures

1. At appraisal, it was recognized that rigorous economic analysis was not generally appropriate given the
emergency characteristics of the project. Nevertheless, a simplified form of analysis was adopted to help identify
the real emergency works that should have priority claim on the Credit. Accordingly, the economic analysis was
carried out in the field in tandem with the preparation/appraisal of the project. Conservative estimates of the
benefits and prudent 20% allowance of physical contingencies were assumed. The MOWHC initial ERR estimates
were verified at appraisal using Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III). The weighted average ERR
estimate for all priority roads and structure was 80%.

2. Post-construction economic analysis was carried out for the bridges funded by IDA credit as a proxy for the
investment in road network as a whole. Further, the analysis covered only the Bridges and excludes the less
important works. Out of the six bridges, the analysis did not cover one bridge structure as it does not have
alternative route.

3. The economic analysis was based on the re-evaluation of the data on traffic performance, costs and benefits of
the bridge structures. The methodology used similar to the one used at appraisal. The following key assumptions
were made:

On benefits: The benefits are derived from the fact that existing traffic has to be diverted on to other routes
between point of origin and destination; benefits are a function of: vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings between
the existing route without any bridges closure and alternative, longer routings due to the bridge closure; value of
time (VOT); traffic growth and average daily traffic (ADT). The economic life of the investment is taken as 20
years and the discount rate for NPV is 12%.

On costs: The actual economic costs of the all six bridges and 3 structures was US$2.78 million or 69.5% of the
planned investment. The cost of the 5 bridges for which ERR estimates were calculated was US$2.26 million. The
key assumption underlying the analysis is the number of days in the year during which the bridges will be closed
and the roads therefore will not be passable to motorized traffic. The bridge closure to traffic is conservatively
estimated to be 15 days per year;

On data sources: The data used in the ERR estimates have been taken from existing reports and studies, in
particular: - MOWHC traffic data for 2003; - GIBB (1997) Feasibility Study Kampala (Buenga) to Mubende, Draft
Final Report : July 1997; TAHAL (2004), National Transport Master Plan, Interim Report No. 3, 2004.

                                           Summary of Economic Analysis

        Bridge Structure                   NPV Estimates at 12%                           ERR
                                                    USD
Dura (C.IV.26)                                              $6,214,161                                222.4 %
Mayanja (C.1.5)                                             $11,284,752                                351.6%
Mutufu (C.11.12)                                                $165,624                                18.9%
Naibionga (C.11.33ª)                                          $1,171,832                                53.3%
Apokor (C.11.17)                                              $1,978,807                                67.8%

Total (5 bridges)                                           $20,815,176                               143.4%
Manafwa (C.11.17)                               US$ 102,297 (estimate)                                    N.A.

Results. The table shown above summarizes the Net Present Value and the ERR estimates. The NPV is highly
significant, over 9 times of the investment; and the ERR of 143.4% is also high, but not unusual for projects of
this nature.



                                                        - 23 -

Sensitivity analysis. If the closure is for 5 days, the net present value would be US$5,890,945 and the aggregate
ERR would be 51.4 %; on the other hand, if the closure is for 7.5 days, the NPV would be 9,622,002 and EIRR
74.4 %. Overall the benefit of the project is robust.




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/28/1998                6    TEAM
                                             LEADER(1),TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST(1), HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINNER (1),TASK TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT(1),
                                             CONSULTANT (1), ROAD
                                             ENGINEER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/28/1998                6    TEAM
                                             LEADER(1),TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST(1),
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINNER
                                             (1),TASK TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT(1),
                                             CONSULTANT (1), ROAD
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              06/03/1998                2    TEAM LEADER(1), ROAD
                                             ENGINEER (1)

 Supervision

              12/07/1998                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             HIGHWAYS ENGINEER (1);
                                             ROAD ENGINEER (1)
              03/12/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             ROADS ENGINEER (1)
              11/02/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              03/13/2000                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); SR. FIN.
                                             MGMT. SPECIAL (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              10/28/2000                4    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);        U               U
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1);
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1)
              10/28/2000                4    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);        U               U
                                             HIGHWAY ENIGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1);
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1)
              05/18/2001                3    SR.HWY. ENGINEER (TTL)           U               U
                                             (1); SR.HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                                             (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              11/13/2001                5    SR.HWY.ENGR. (TTL) (1);          S               S



                                              - 25 -

                                            SR.HWY.ENGR. (1);
                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                            HWY. ENGR. (1);
                                            FIN.MGMT.SPECIALIST (1)
               05/06/2002              5    SR.HWY.ENGR. (TTL) (1); SR.       S    S
                                            HWY. ENGR. (1); HWY.
                                            ENGR. (1);
                                            FIN.MANAGEMENT SPEC.
                                            (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                            (1)
               10/18/2002              5    SR.HWY.ENGR.(TTL) (1); SR.        S    S
                                            HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                            HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                            FIN. MANAGEMENT SPEC.
                                            (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                            (1)
               02/25/2003              5    SR.HWY.ENGINEER (TTL) (1);        S    S
                                            SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                            HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                            FIN.MANAGEMENT SPEC.
                                            (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                            (1)
               07/15/2003              2    SR.HWY.ENGINEER (TTL) (1);        S    S
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               12/14/2003              1    SR.HWY.ENGINEER (CONS)            S    S
                                            (1)

 ICR
               02/18/2004             3     TASK TEAM LEADER,                 S    S
                                            SR. ENGINEER,
                                            HIGHWAY ENGINEER

Note:

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              0.1                           0.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 20.1                           63.6
  Supervision                           87.3                         310.9
  ICR                                     7.3                          21.4
  Total                                114.8                         396.1




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


Overall Bank and Borrower performance ratings are marginally satisfactory




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


The World Bank, Republic of Uganda, El Nino Emergency Road Repair Appraisal Document, April 7,
1998.

IDA, Development Credit Agreement, El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project , May 14, 1998.

IDA, Preparation Documents, Project Supervision Reports, Aide Memoires, 1997-2004.

Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, El Nino Emergency Road Repair Programme, Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), February 1998.




                                                - 29 -

- 30 -

