Document of
The World Bank
FOOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5090-GA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
.NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
OF US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
GABONESE R.EPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JUNE 15, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     CFA Franc (CFAF) 1
US$ 1               m     CFAF 320
CFAF 1 million    m       US$ 3,125
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DP. ....... .......                           . Directorate of the Payroll
(Ministry of Finance)
FAGA ..                                        Fonds d'Aide et de Garantie
GDCS                ..                  ..... General Directorate of the Civil
Service
IEF                  ....... Institut d'Economie et des Finances
PDE .                    .. . Ministry of Planning, Development
and Economy
PIP            ......                    .     Public Investment Program
PMU ........ Project Management Unit
PROMOGABON          ............. Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
Promotion Agency
S14E                   .... Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
UDEAC         .        ....... Union Douanibre et Economique de
l'Afrique Centrale
(Central African Customs and
Economic Union)
UNDP         ........ United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
I The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1  CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR omCIL USE ONLY
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER                      The Gabonese Republic
MAIN BENEFICIARIES    *       Ministry of Plan, Development and Economy;
Ministry of Finance, Budget and Participations;
Ministry of Civil Service, Administrative
Reforms and Resettlement; Ministry of Small and
Medium Scale Enterprises
AMOUNT                  s     US$ 5.0 million equivalent
TERMS                         15 years, including a five-year grace period, at
the standard IBRD variable interest rate.
ON LENDING TERMS              Not applicable
FINANCING PLAN                Government  US$  1.3 million
IBRD        US$ 5.0 million
TOTAL       US$ 6.3 million
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN               :    Not applicable
STAFF APPRAISAL
REPORT                  :    No separate report
MAP                           IBRD 14994R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ,nby in te performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without tV'-rk'! 4ank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.    The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to the
Gabonese Republic for an amount of US$ 5.0 million equivalent is submitted for
approval. The proposed loan would have a maturity of 15 years, including a
five-year grace period, at the standard variable interest rate, and would help
finance a Technical Assistance Project.
2.    Background.  The Bank ceased lending to Gabon in 1974 and until April
1988, when it was resumed following a sharp decline in the country's per
capita GNP, Bank Group operations in Gabon consisted mostly of limited
technical assistance. One such operation was to act as executing agency for a
Government-financed UNDP technical assistance project. Since 1986, Gabon has
been in a financial and economic crisis and the project provided significant
assistance in preparing macroeconomic and sectoral policies as part of the
structural adjustment program which the Government adopted in early 1987 to
address the crisis. This UNDP project closed on December 31, 1988 but the
need for technical assistance continues and Government realizes that it does
not yet have adequate human resources to drive the adjustment program on all
fronts as speedily as it needs and wishes to. The Government has asked the
Bank to provide financing for the assistance needed.
3.    Rationale for Bank Involvement.  For a long time Gabon enjoyed high
levels of revenue and hired large numbers of costly expatriates at all levels
of the administration and in all sectors to compensate for the lack of trained
nationals. Today, it can no longer afford this. The country is in financial
crisis, nationals are losing their jobs or having their incomes reduced
through adjustment measures, and the Government is under public pressure,
triggered by the mass-media, to lessen its dependence and to control its
spending on technical assistance. Existing contracts, particularly those with
no specified project objectives or terms of reference, are being re-examined
or terminated. The issues involved are sensitive, but the Government feels it
must gain greater corntrol over the technical assistance it pays for. However,
there are serious limits on how quickly it can proceed, the most evident being
that there simply are not enough nationals adequately prepared to replace
expatriates in all sectors over the short term. To address these issues, the
Government, in consultation with the Bank, has decided on a strategy which
focusses initially on management of the country's economy. It intends to
recruit high caliber experti',e with a commitment to training nationals and the
ability to transfer economic management skills. The Government is also
committed to targeting and monitoring technical assistance more effectively
and ensuring a higher return for cost. than previously. The proposed project
would help the Government implement this strategy through explicit provisions,
incorporated in the Loan Agreement, for careful selection and monitoring of
suitable technical assisttnce jointly by the Government and the Bank. These
provisions are designed at only to guarantee strong quality control of the
technical assistance "product' but also to accelerate the process of
transferring responsibility and accountability for management of the economy



2
to Gabonese managers and advisors at an average cost that the country can
afford. Having been executing agency for the UNDP technical assistance
project and currently supporting the Government's reform program through a
Structural Adjustment Loan, the Bank is in a unique position to provide the
type of support the Government has requested.
4.    A further reason for the Bank to assist the Government is to encourage
recent significant moves it has made toward more prudent management of the
economy and increasing the share of the non-oil sectors in national
production. The key areas of the Government's reform program are: public
investment programming; the agriculture, forestry and medium and small scale
enterprises sectors, all of which face adverse conditions and need sound
strategies backed by realistic planning and appropriate incentives; and reform
of the civil service and parapublic sector. The support the Bank would
provide through the proposed project would maintain a channel for constructive
input to the design of key elements of this reform program.
5.    Proiect Obiectives.  The proposed project would support the Government's
adjustment program over a three year period and focus on strengthening key
ministries in critical areas during the adjustment period. Effective training
of local counterpart staff would be a major objective. Suitable Gabonese
would be identified and recruited to train alongside the team of expatriate
technical assistants in line with the objectives of the Government's technical
assistance and training strategy to: (i) transfer more responsibility for
management of the economy to nationals over the short term; (ii) reduce the
cost of technical assistance; and (iii) over the long term, lessen Gabon's
overall dependence on technical assistance.
6.    Proiect Descrimtion.  Three specific components were defined and agreed
at negotiations. These are:
(a) Support to planning and training: The project would build on the
achievements of the UNDP technical assistance project in
macroeconomic assistance to the Ministry of Planning, Development
and Economy (MPDE) and continue some of its activities. Four
resident advisers -- a macroeconomist, a parapublic sector
specialist, an agricultural specialist and an infrastructure
specialist -- would be recruited under the project. They would
assist the Government with monitoring of the structural adjustment
program, preparation and monitoring of the three-year investment
program and be responsible for preparation and implementation of
training programs.
Available skills and specific training needs in public economic
and financial management would be assessed and programs to meet
these needs would be implemented. In addition to the resident
advisers' counterparts, training would also be made available to
graduates of the Institut d'Economie et des Finances (IEF) during
their first year in the civil service. IEF graduates frequently
go on to high level posts in the civil service and public
enterprises. The proposed project would provide direct assistance
to IEF's quantitative technology and computer training courses.



- 3 -
(b)   Support to civil service reform and managements  An audit of the
civil service would assess achievements under the Government's
administrative reform effort launched in 1986 and would advise on
complementary or corrective actions. The project would also help
set up computer equipment needed to facilitate data entry
operations and the flow of data between various administrative
agencies and the Ministries of the Civil Service and of Finance,
jointly responsible for management of the civil service.
(c)   Sunnort to promotion of SMEs:  A diagnostic study of the promotion
system and an audit of the promotivn agencies, PROMOGABON and
FAGA, would be done to determine, inter alias (i) actions to make
the prorotion system more efficient; and (ii) the type of
complementary support to be financed by the Bank under the
proposed project. Using information already available, the study
would identify opportunities for SMEs. Financing would also be
provided for a study of the country's banking system to help
identify constraints on the availability of credit to the SME
sector and with a view to preparing a restructuring program for
banking institutions with portfolio problems.
The project would also includes
Financing for a rapid response to other needs identified during
project or adjustment program implementation; and
Financing for the equipment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) and
other project management needs.
To meet these ends, the project would finances (i) eight manyears of the
services of resident advisers to strengthen Government's capacity to design
and implement reform programs in key areas; (ii) the services of a computer
skills instructor at IEF for three years; (iii) training programs, including
training for three successive graduating classes from IEF; (iv) an estimated
total of 60 manmonths of short term consulting services; and (v) computer
equipment. The project would be coordinated and managed by a unit within MPDE
headed by a Project Coordinator, a senior MPDE official, and staffed by
Gabonese nationals.  The salaries of PMU staff and the unit's operating costs
would be financed from the Government's contribution to the project.
7.    There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.  Further information on the
project is provided in the Technical Annex. Depending on the future evolution
of Gabon's reform efforts, the project could be followed by further technical
assistance to support subsequent stages of the adjustment process.
8.    Benefits and Risks.   The principal benefit expected from the project
would be the progressive transfer of greater responsibility for management of
the country's economy to Gabonese nationals. This would help reduce
dependence on foreign expertise and the considerable burden which it
represents on the national budget at a time of economic and financial
constraints. The main risk associated with the project is that it would fail
to achieve this transfer of responsibility either: (i) through failure to



- 4 -
identify suitable Gabonese nationals for this role; or (ii) failure to recruit
expatriates both willing and able to provide the necessary training for
nationals to take over their function relatively quickly. This risk is
mitigated to some extent by the fact that the Government has explicitly
committed itselft (i) to nominatlng and maintaining in place motivated,
capable, national counterpart staff for project training ar (ii) to
exercising partitUlar care in the selection of expatriate b_ Vertise and
monitoring of their performance, in particular with regard to counterpart
training. To further limit the risk, Bank staff would maintain close links
with the PMU and, both from Headquarters and during field supervision, pay
particular attention to implementation of procedures for close monitoring of
experts' performance with regard to training of nationals.
9.    Agreements Reached.  At negotiations, the Government agreed to: (i) set
up a Project Management Unit and appoint the Project Coordinator, the
Administrator and the Assistant Administrator to that unit before loan
effectiveness; and (ii) beginning December 1, 1989 and at six months
intervals, through the Project Coordinator, furnish to the Bank for review andi
approval proposed work plans for the execution of the project during the
following six months and, on the basis of semi-annual reports, exchange views
on the status of project implementation. The Government has also agreed that
before recruiting any technical assistance or undertaking any atudies or
training arising from either the recommendations of the SME diagnostic study
or needs identified during project implementation, it would, in cooperation
with the PMU, submit detailed proposals, including the justification, plan of
action and list of supporting services for such actions to the Bank for its
approval.
10.   Proiect Cost and Financing.  Total project costs are estimated at US$6.3
million equivalent including contingencies. The Bank loan of US$5 million
equivalent would cover 80 percent of total costs and 100 percent of foreign
costs. The Government would finance the remaining US$1.3 million equivalent.
No cofinancing is expected from other donors. A PPF of US$580,000 equivalent
would be refinanced. A detailed cost table and financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursements are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of
Bank Group operations in Gabon are given in Schedules C and D respectively.
11.   Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Attachments
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
June 15, 1989



S
SCHEDULE A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Percent of
Proiect Costs *                     Foreian      Local       Total Base Costs
-        US$ million)----
Support to Planning
and Training                    2.8          0.5        3.3       59.0?
Civil Service Support                 0.2          0.1         0.3       5.02
Support to SME Promotion              1.1          0.2        1.3       21.02
Studies and Other Activities          0.3          0.1        0.4        7.5?
Project Management Unit               0.1          0.3         0.4       7.51
Base Costs                            4.5          1.2        5.7      100.0X
Total Contingencies                   0.5          0.1        0.6
Total Project Costs                   5.0          1.3        6.3
* Including a PPF of US$580,000 equivalent.
Note: Local costs include taxes of approximately USS 600,000 equivalent.
Financint Plan
Local      Foreign        Total
---------(US$ million)---------
Government                              1.3         0.0            1.3
IBRD                                    0.0         5.0            5.0
Total                                   1.3         5.0            6.3



- 6 -
SCHEDULE B
Procurement Method
ICB         LCB             Other         TOTAL
- US$ millions -
… -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Resident Advisers                                        3.7          3.7
(3.4)        (3.4)
Short Term Consultants                                   1.1          1.1
(1-0)        (1.0)
Equipment/Vehicles/Computers                             0.5          0.5
(e.4)        (0.4)
Training l                                               0,3          0.3
(0.2)        (0.2)
Operating Costs                                          0i.7         0.7
(0.0).      1.2i)
TOTAL                                                    6.3          6.3
(5.0)        (5.0)
Notes Figures in parentheses represent amounts financed by IBRD.
Disbursement Category                      Amount                  S
(US$)
1.    Equipment, Vehicles and Computers    300,000                 80
2.   Consultants' Services               3,050,000                 90
3     Training Activities                  130,000                100
4.    Other Activities:
a) Consultants' services             200.000                100
training and equipment
for SME support
b) Goods and services for            240,000                100
activities to be determined
during project implementation
5.    Refunding of PPF                     580,000             Amount due
6.    Unallocated                          500.000
TOTAL                              5,000,000
Estimated IBRD Disbursements                          IBRD Fiscal Year
90*      91      92   93      94      95
-----------   (US$ million)------------
Annual                              1.0      0.8     1.0   1.0    0.8     0.4
Cumulative                          1.0      1.8     2.8   3.8    4.6     5.0
* Including reimbursement of PPF     ----Disbursement Profile for Region----
1 Reflects costs of logistic support to training only. An additional
US$1.7 million eq. is included for training to be carried out by consultants.



SCHEDULE C
KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
First Bank Mission                                 May 1988
Identification Mission                             November 1988
Prepared by                                        Government with Bank
assistance
Appraisal                                           February 1989
Negotiations                                       Harch 1989
Board Presentation                                 July 1989
Anticipated Date of Effectiveness                  August 1989
APlCO
5/24189



-8-
SCHEDULE D
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GABON
As of December 31. 1988
A.  Status of Bank Loans
Original
Fiscal                Principal      Disbursed 11   Undisbursed
Lo. No.   Year   Name
- USS millions -
Total
through   1975                 69.3            67.0            00.0
2933-0    1988   SAL I         50.0             9.0            41.0
Totals for all Loans          119.3            76.1            41.0
B. Status of IDA Credits
NIL
C. Status of IFC Investments
Fiscal            Type of                 Original Gross Coœmitment
Year    Obligor  Business      Loan    Eauity    Total   Undisbursed
- US$000 -
1988    SPE             Okoume       4,000     -        4,000       4,000 2/
1988    Comilog         Mining       32,000    -      32,000       20,000
1989    Shell Gabon    Oil         160,000    -      160,000 31  160,000
1989    Elf Gabon       Oil         10.000    -       10.000 21   10.000
TOTAL         206,000           206,000      194.000
AFlCO
February 1989
1/   Net of Cancellations
2/Investment approved but ursigned as of December 31, 1988
I/Includes US$110 million for the =ccount of participating



_9_
TECHNICAL ANNEX
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Table of Contents
Page
SECTION A: THE INSTITUTIONAL SETTING ............................ .   10
SECTION B: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                 .     ..   10
Part 1: Support to Planning and Training .............. ......   10
Part 2s Support for Public Administration Management ........   14
Part 3: Support for Small and Medium Scale Enterprises ......   17
Part 4: Study Fund and Other Activities ....................  20
SECTION C: PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ............... ...  21
SCHEDULE 1s  Training        ............................................   24
SCHEDULE 2s Implementation Calendar       ...................         26
ATTACHMENTS
Table l: Proposed Financing Plan ................. . .... .......   28
Table 2: Summary of Project Costs by
Component and Type of Expenditure ...............   29



- 10 -
SECTION A: THE INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
1.    The Project will be located in the Ministry of Planning, Development and
Economy (MPDE). The Project Management Unit (PMU) and a team of four resident
advisers will function within MPDE.  The advisers willt (i) provi   support to
the structural adjustment program Interministerial Steering Committee (Comite
de Gestlon) coordinated by MPDE; (ii) assist MPDE in the preparation and
monitoring of the multiyear rolling investment program; and (iii) be
responsible for the preparation and monitoring of training programs with the
assistance of the Institut d'Economie et des Finances (IEF) in Libreville.
2.    In addition, the project will assist Gabon's efforts to reform the
management of its civil service. It will therefore provide support to the
Ministry of the Civil Service, responsible for personnel management, and to
the Ministry of Finance, responsible for payroll administration.
3.    Finally, the project will support the principal institutions responsible
for small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs), namely the Ministry of Small
and Medium Scale Enterprises, the promotion agency, PROMOGABON, and the Fonds
d'Aide et de Garantie (PAGA).
4.    Coordination of these activities will be the responsibility of a project
management unit (PMU) to be established within MPDE and composed of a limited
number of Gabonese professionals headed by a Coordinator who will be a ranking
official of MPDE. Coordination between MPDE and the Ministries of the Civil
Service, Finance and Small and Medium Scale Enterprises, which are responsible
for carrying out key components of the project, will be the responsibility of
the Project Coordinator.
SECTION B: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Part 1: SunRort to Planning and Training
1.    Project support for planning will have three main objectivess
(i) to help the Government implement and monitor its structural adjustment
program; (ii) to identify, prepare and monitor development projects; and
(iii) to implement new technical assistance and training policies. Project
funds will be used to finance the services of a team of resident experts and
training of national counterparts working with this team.
SuRport to the Adjustment Prosram
2.    The team of advisers will assist the Technical Committee (Comite
Technique Permanent) set up by the Government to prepare and monitor its
reform program launched in 1987 and for which the Bank later provided support
under a US$50 million equivalent structural adjustment loan. So far, the
Committee has worked efficiently and provides an excellent channel for
Governuent coordination, communication and brain-storming. The structure and



- 11 -
areas covered by the Committee are as follows:
|           COMITE DE GESTION
Interministerial Committee in charge of
I   Economic and  Financial Adiustment
I    COMITE TECHNIQUE
PERMANENT
Technical Committee    l
I                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i            I                j    Structural Adjustmentl
Public Finance    l                       and PE Reform        l
1. Project Financing                           1. PE Sector
and Guarantees                             2. Prices, Trade, Tariffs
2. Financial Sector (Programs                   3. Investment Code
with IMF and other Donors)                 4. Labor Code
3. Debt Situation                              5. Health Sector
6. Education Sector
7. Redeployment of parapublic
sector employees
Support to the PIP
3.    The team of advisers will consist of a macroeconomist, a parapublic
sector specialist, and two investment experts, one each in the
agriculturelforestry and infrastructure sectors, recruited for a period of two
years. These posts have been identified by the Government in consultation
with the Bank and reflect the most urgent needs for experience and expertise
in preparation and monitoring of development projects in these priority
sectors. Terms of reference for the posts have been agreed between the
Government and the Bank. Each team member will work under the authority of
the Director of the Department to which he is assigned.
TVrainina
4.    The t.aining of national staff will be a key element of the resident
experts' contribution. The Government will assign counterpart staff with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to each resident expert before the
expert's arrival at his duty station.
5.    The experts will be responsible for on-the-job training of national
counterparts and will draw up and participate as teachers in specific pzoject-
related training programs such as the seminar on the preparation and
negotiation of adjustment and stabilization programs which has already been
discussed with the Authorities. It will include role acting, with counterpart
staff playing in turns the role of World BankJIMF missions and Government
representatives. IEF, whose students frequently go on to high level posts in
public and parapublic management, will provide the setting for the seminars.



- 12 -
High-ranking officials and members of the Technical Committee will be asked to
make presentations on subjects related to both the Government's reform program
and their own responsibilities in implementing the program. Visiting Bank
missions will be asked to contribute some of their time and participate in the
seminars. The seminars will be prepared jointly by IEF and the team of
resident experts at MPDE with limited input from outside short-term
consultants. They will be financed from the proceeds of the loan.
6.    To help prepare training programs to include not only the resident
experts' counterparts but also other key staff in the main areas of economic
and financial management, the project will finance an assessment of available
skills and training needs, and implementation of programs to meer these needs
with a view to lessening dependence on technical assistance. The training
will include all greduates of IEF during their probationary year (stage) in
the Administration and will provide the necessary guidance, assistance and
follow-up during that crucial period of a civil servant's professional life.
7.    Before undertaking any training program, the Government, acting through
the Project Coordinator, will provide the Bank with a detailed proposal for
each such program, including a reasoned justification, plan of execution and
list of supporting services to be provided and financed under the project for
its approval.
8.    Finally, to allow IEF to enhance its curriculum through the addition of
computer training, the project will provide financing to equip the new
computer class-room and recruit a specialist to teach computer applications of
public and parastatal management for three years. Seven micro-comnuters will
be acquired.
Post Descriptions for the Resident Advisers.
9.    The Macro-Economist.  This specialist will participate in the activities
of the Technical Committee with technical input from the other experts
financed under the project within the MPDE. He will work under the direct
authority of the Project Coordinator and the Directors of the Departments
which he is recruited to assist. He will assist the Departments of Investment
Planning and of General Planning in the Commissariat General au Plan (MPDE)
with: (i) the preparation and monitoring of a three year rolling investment
program and will follow up on application of procedures for the periodic
review of the investment program; and (ii) the monitoring and finalization of
macro-economic and sectoral studies to be done by the Department of General
Planning. He will provide on-the-job training for his counterparts and
supervise proparation and 'prlementation of training programs by the team of
resident advisers.
10.   The Parapublic Sector Specialist.  The principal tasks of this
specialist will be to assist the Government to: (i) define and implement
appropriate economic policies for the parapublic sector, in particular with
regard to its reform and the identification of subsidies, transfers, cross
debts and arrears within the sector; (ii) monitor the settlement of arrears
and cross-debts; (iii) monitor and collate the results of PE audits and
diagnostic studies carried out with a view to streamlining the sector;



- 13 -
(iv) identify price, competition and personnel management policies which will
improve the general environment of those companies maintained within the
sector; (v) reduce the operating costs and increase the efficiency of the
sector, in particular through the use of action plans (contrats-plans);
(vi) define procedures to fazilitate the appraisal and programming of sector
investments and incorporate them In the rolling investment program; and
(vii) establivh a program of annual financial Audits and monitoring of PEs.
The expert will provide technical support to implement the entire range of
parapublic sector-related actions under the Bank-supported structural
adjustment program. This includes: (i) the establishment of a management
information system for the sector; and (ii) the launching and monitoring of
studies aimed at rehabilitation, privatization or liquidation of particular
companies. He will be posted in the Department of MPDE responsible for the PE
sector and be a member of the parapublic sector working group of the Technical
Committee.
11.   The Infrastructure Sector Specialist.  This specialist will be an
appropriately qualified engineer economist. His principal tasks will be to
assist the Department of Infrastructure and Utilities (Equipements Collectifs)
in MPDE to: (i) define the criteria, methods and procedures for appraisal of
communications and social infrastructure projects; (ii) apply these criteria,
methods and procedures in evaluating proposed projects and make
recommendations on their adoption or rejection; (iii) draft reports
summarizing the status of on-going projects and formulate recommendations on
whether or not they should be continued; (iv) establish a monitoring and
control system for projects retained in the Department's program; lv) identify
and draw u-p a multi-sectoral "normalization' project; (vi) identify ways of
establishing prices/costs for civil works projects; (vii) identify and
implement a national economic policy for the infrastructure and utilities
sector; and (viii) provide on the job training for national counterparts. His
responsibilities, and expertise, will cover a wide field of activities in the
roads rehabilitation, road maintenance, railways, water supply and other
communal utilities (dispensaries, schor ., sports facilities, etc.).
12.   The ARricultural Sector Specialist.  This specialist will be an
appropriately qualified agro -economist. He will be posted in the Department
of Production Projects (Projets Productifs) in MPDE. His principal tasks will
be to: (i) take an active part in the review of agricultural and forestry
projects in light of their results to date and of the diagnostic studies being
carried out as part of the Structural Adjustment Program; (ii) in
collaboration with the parapublic sector specialist, propose reorganization,
rehabilitation and/or reorientation measures for the companies; (iii)
contribute to the definition of a new agricultural strategy through
identification of measures likely to make a significant improvement in the
development prospects of the agricultural and forestry sectors;
(iv) participate in the preparation and monitoring of the investment program
for agriculture and forestry; (v) help in reinforcing the sector's project
monitoring and control systems; and (vi) provide on the job training for
national counterparts. Furthermore, given the project evaluation skills
required for this post, the agro-economist may be asked to participate



- 14 -
infeasibility studies for projects in other sectors than agriculture and
forestry.
13. Cost Table:1 Summary of Support to Planning and Training
Approximate
duration of services    Expected cost
(manmonths)      (US$ '000 eq.)
- 4 Resident Advisers                            96                1,795
- IEF Computer Specialist                       36                   673
- 7 micro-computers for IEF                                          156
- Assessment of available skills and
budget for additional trainers                                  518
- 5 IEF seminars                                                      78
3,220
Part 2: Support for Public Administration Management
The Present Situation
14.   Given the economic crisis that Gabon is going through at present, the
civil service is a vital and sensitive area, first because of the significant
burden the public payroll represents for the national budget and secondly
because its capacity to execute the Government's economic recovery program
will be crucial to its success. The publi- payroll has grown excessively,
going from CFAP 16.5 billion in 1975 to 96.5 billion in 1988 while the numbers
of civil servants doubled during the same period. The public payroll now
accounts 622 of non-oil tax revenue, up from 47S in 1985. Despite the
Government's efforts to contain the public payroll through reducing some
allowances and limiting the numbers of persons on the payroll at around
29,500, the tendency again is towards growth. The public payroll is likely to
be of the order of CFAF 110 billion in 1989 unless new stabilization measures
are urgently undertaken. According to IMF figures, such measures could bring
the payroll down to about CFAF 90 billion in 1989.
The Government Action Proaram
15.   The Government carried out a census of the civil service in 1987 and, as
a result of the census findings, has made efforts in the context of its
structural adjustment program to reduce the share of the public payroll in the
budget. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has embarked on a program of in-
service training seminars and measures to strengthen wage bill control. These
1 All costs in this Technical Annex are given net of contingencies,
incremental operating costs and taxes. Incremental operating costs and taxes
will be financed 100X by the Government as its counterpart contr4hution to the
project.



- 15 -
includes computerization of some management procedures within the General
Directorate of Civil Service, publication of annual personnel and wage bill
statistics; computerization of the payroll management; creation of units to
control data entries on payroll and manageient information; handling of staff
separation notifications in a systematic way; creation of a computerized data
bank to monitor appointments; enforcement of the rules against salary
accumulation; and suppression of unwarranted expenditures.
16.   The crisis makes it all the more indispensable that the civil service be
able to carry out the Government's recovery policies but at present it is
heavily bureaucratic and cannot provide motivation to attract or retain
skilled and experienced staff. The Government is aware of this and intends to
embark on a long term program to redynamize the public sector and adapt its
human resources, means and capacities to the need for more effective
management of the nation's economy. The program will be based on: (i) the
reform of the civil service regulatory framework, to strengthen recruitment,
enhance career paths, improve compensation, link career and compensation with
performance evaluation, and improve the management of retirement benefits;
(ii) personnel management strengthening, to make it more accurate, timely and
efficient, and consequently record savings on the wage bill; and (iii) the
definition of a personnel in-service training policy. To better prepare the
next phase of its action program, the Government wants to make an evaluation
of the first results and has asked the Bank to provide the necessary
assistance.
Proiect Support
17.   Project support to public administration management will include the
following actions:
3     an evaluation study of the administrative reform carried out to
date; and
-     equipment and training required to strengthen personnel
management.
18.   The Evaluation Study. The study will evaluate the reform measures taken
by the Government since 1986 to improve the efficiency of the civil service.
It will focus on examining: (i) the civil service regulatory framework; and
(ii) personnel management, for which the Ministries of the Civil Service and
Finance as well as line ministries are jointly responsible. The project will
finance five manmonths of consultant services to do the study.
19.   The evaluation of the civil service regulatory framework will be
extended to the 1981 civil service code and all special statutes and
arrangements, and is expected to provide a comprehensive analysis of the
existing regulations, their advantages and drawbacks and of juridical gaps or
inequities. In particular, it will tackle issues related to: statutes
harmonization; recruitment strengthening; career path enhancement;
compensation reform and revaluation; performance reward systems; and in-
service training policy. The evaluation of personnel management wi_l result in
a comprehensive analysis of existing institutional management structures,



- 16 -
procedures and interfaces, both manual and computerized, and of personnel,
equipment and operating budgets of the management units. The key departments
are: (i) for career management of civil service personnel: the Ministry of
Civil Service (permanent and non-permanent staff), the Ministry of Education
(teachers), the Ministries of the Interior and of Justice; and (ii) for
payroll management: the Ministry of Finance.
20.   The recommendations arising out of the study will be jointly reviewed by
the Bank and Government and the Bank will assist Government in seeking
appropriate financing for implementation. One potential donor to be kept
informed of the outcome of the study is Canada's CIDA which has expressed
interest in participating at the implementation stage.
21.   Strengthening Personnel Management.  Personnel management improvement
activities will be geared to establishing ways and providing means to
facilitate more efficient payroll management through accurate and timely
information transfer between the key management centers and the Directorate of
Payroll (DP), Ministry of Finance. The project will therefore finance the
acquisition of five micro-computers for these centers and for the DP. In
addition, personnel will be trained in operational methods of how to share
files and data with the DP and how to transfer DP data to diskette on a
monthly basis so that the main payroll files are kept up to date. This is
expected to reinforce measures already taken by DP to improve information
quality control. A regular data transfer would notably improve the security
level of wage bill management, since the data transferred on diskette would
eliminate further manual data entries at DP and leave more time for monitoring
such information. A small data processing system will be developed for this
purpose on micro-computer. This system will later be integrated into the
overall management reform program through the implementation of the study
recommendations.
22.   Cost Table: Summary of Support for Public Administration Management
Approximate
duration of services   Expected cost
(manmonths)      (US$ '000 eq.)
- Public Administration Experts                  5                  94
- 5 micro-computers                                               125
- Logistical support for training
of computer users                                                25
244



- 17 -
Part 3: Supuort for Small and Medium Scale Enterorises
Background
23.   Since 1987, there has been a significant improvement in the framework
within which SMEs operate. The Government puts a high priority on the
development of small and medium scale business and despite the financial
crisis, this priority has translated into budget allocations for SME promotion
to match the needs which have been expressed. The structural adjustment
program places heavy emphasis on the development of the SME sector and three
institutions --the Ministry of SMEs, the promotion agency, PROMOGABON, and the
guarantee fund, FAGA -- exist for the single purpose of encouraging SHE
development. A bank of projects has also recently been established.
Nevertheless, SME development in Gabon faces a number of difficulties which
require realistic and pragmatic solutions.
24.   Institutional Support for SMEs.  Typically, the professional staff of
PROMOGABON are young Economics or Business Administration graduates with no
experience of the profession in which they are expected to be expert or even
of the "real" working world. Clearly, they bring no expertise of the specific
sectors or ventures most likely to interest entrepreneurs: agriculture and
cottage or light industries. This deficiency is compounded by the high
turnover of PROMOGABON staff who are attracted to the better salaries and
career prospects in the Administration or private sector. In these
conditions, reliance on the practice of training such inexperienced staff as
"counsellors" can only lead to failure of the SME support programs, no matter
how materially well endowed they may be. On the other hand, Gabon cannot rely
indefinitely on expatriate counsellors. If, for the time being, expatriates
must be employed in this function, it should be done under conditions and with
clear provisions that enable nationals to take over within a specified time
frame.
25.  Diversification of SME Opportunities.  Despite legislation designed to
encourage SMEs, financing of a total CFAF 14 billion worth of projects through
the promotion system and assistance from the European Development Fund and
other donors, efforts to diversify SME activity have been so far
disappointing. Nearly all the SME activities proposed for Government
assistance are in the tertiary sector. It is clear that the framework
supplied by PROMOGABON is inadequate. Structures need to be set in place
which would allow easier access to the more productive agricultural and
artisanal sectors which presently are difficult to penetrate, and more
difficult to make a living in, than the purely commercial sector.
26.   Because Gabon has nc SME tradition, development of businesses in the
productive sectors will be difficult. If it is to take place at all, then a
highly favorable and well-organized environment is indispensable. To limit
the number of failures, SME promotion efforts will have to rely heavily, and
for a relatively extended period, on existing projects and programs with which
they can be associated as contractor or supplier. The public investment
program (PIP) contains a number of projects where this kind of arrangement



- 18 -
could be made without undue risk to successful implementation. Some examples
would be as follows:
(a)   A program of school construction could very well give rise to SME
sub-contracting provided the responsibilities of the enterprise were
clearly defined. An SME could, for instance, be contracted to supply
school benches, to transport building materir.ls, or even to construct
relatively simple buildings. The maintenance of roads, to begin with
dirt roads, could be entrusted to national enterprises which would not
necessarily need to be heavily mechanized or previously qualified since
the practical needs of such an operation are simple and could be handled
with some preparatory training at the foreman level. The enterprise
would receive technical and managerial guidance from Ministry of Public
Works specialists. The Bank-financed Road Maintenance project, expected
to come on stream at approximately the same time as the proposed
project, has made provisions for such SME participation.
(b)   The importation and distribution of agricultural inputs, or the
supply of other goods and services, to a project included in the PIP
would also be pragmatic ways of associating SHEs with a larger operation
in a clearly defined sub-contracting role. Parts of contracts under a
specified PIP project could be reserved for national SMEs if the
project: (i) is supported by external financing; (ii) is getting the
technical assistance it needs for successful implementation; and
(iii) contains incentives that result in one or two local commercial
banks participating.
(c)   The risks are greatest in agricultural production but the same
approach holds good. As a first step, private companies could gradually
take over the buying and transporting activities of the Coffee and Cocoa
funds and, at a later stage, SMEs could be encouraged to venture into
agricultural production itself.
27.   The rationale for such pilot projects will be to address the issue of
how to incorporate SMEs into a given project or activity and support it over a
long enough period of time to give a reasonable assurance of satisfactory
results. Clearly, PROMOGABON cannot provide all the support that the
potential entrepreneurs in the productive sector pilot projects will need.
For this reason, the pilot projects scheme needs to be integrated into SME
promotion effort downstream from PROMOGABON. At the same time, PROMOGABON's
role in facilitating contacts between potential entrepreneurs and projects
will be essential and should be clearly defined.
28.   SME Financing.  The general record of 'Development Banks" in Africa is
not good and Gabon is no exception. Alternative ways of financing SME
activities need to be identified. One such alternative would be to appeal to
regular commercial banks and ask them to open a special 'SME window' to be
financed in such a way as to guarantee its overall financial equilibrium.
This cuuld be achieved by adopting a margin sufficient for the banks to cover
the particular risks of financing SMEs. The opening of such a banking window
would entail managerial expenses to constitute a specific team to handle the
SME portfolio. The basic idea would be to cover the bank's risks while



- 19 -
allowing for normal banking practices and commercial interest to determine
whether or not credit should be extended to any given SHE.
Proiect Sunport
29.   Project support to the SME sector would include the following actions:
(i) a diagnostic study; (ii) Implementation of selected recommendations of the
study; (iii) a banking sector study; and (iv) financing for equipment.
30.   The Diagnostic Studs.  A diagnostic study of the SME promotion system is
under way with PPF financing to help find solutions to the constzaints on
development of SMEs described above and identify specific assistance that
could be provided under the project to help implement such solutions.
31.   The study covers redefinition of PROMOGABON's role and functions,
restructuring of its services and the clarification of its links to other
actors in the sector, Ministries, FAGA, and the private sector. The study
also covers the other agencies involved in SME promotion, particularly FAGA,
but in less detail than for PROMOGABON. The study focuses, among others, on
the problems outlined above with regard to recruitment of appropriate
technical counsellors. PROMOGABON's traditional role in drawing up
feasibility studies for proposed projects and in providing support to
entrepreneurs will be maintained and strengthened. The diagnostic study will
identify what additional resources PROMOGABON might require for this. The
diagnostic study also looks into the need for appropriate mechanisms to
provide openings and orientation (Structures d'accueil) in the various sectors
and PIP projects, as described above. The study is not expected to make
detailed recommendations on these questions -- that will be done as the
initial projects are i4entified -- but to deal with the essential questions
of : (i) which sectors and/or activities are most likely to provide openings
for SME activity; (ii) likely problems and their possible solutions; and (iii)
drafting action plans for the pilot projects and terms of reference that
define the responsibilities for their implementation. Finally, the study will
make recommendations on the orientation of young graduates to the private
sector, a high priority. Nevertheless, the prime target groups most likely to
make immediate, effective use of the provisions of this component are: (i)
existing SMEs which have already proved they are to some degree viable but are
running into problems; and (ii) people who have been made redundant as a
result of the economic crisis (e.g. former parapublic sector employees) and
who, generally, have professional experience and are willing to face some
degree of risk. In analyzing FAGA's role, the diagnostic study will make
detailed proposals on the kind of commercial bank financing plan to be drawn
up together with various options appropriate to the different financing
sources. This will be done after consultation with local bankers.
32.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Bank's agreement will
be sought prior to the undertaking of any technical assistance, studies or
training arising from the recommendations of the study and that the Government
will, in cooperation with the PMU, submit detailed proposals --including the
justification, plan of action and list of supporting services for such
actions-- to the Bank for its approval.



- 20 -
33.   The Banking Sector Study.  The project will also provide financing for a
study of the country's banking system to help identify constraints on the
availability of credit to the SHE sector and with a view to preparing a
restructuring program for institutions with portfolio problems. The terms of
reference of this study are similar to those of studies carried out in
neighboring UDEAC countries which share the same central bank within the franc
zone.
34.   Eouipment.  Finally, the proposed project will provide promotion
agencies with financing for limited office equipment.
35.   Cost Table: Summary of SupPort for SME Promotion
Approximate
duration of services    Expected cost
(manmonths)      (USS '000 eq.)
- Diagnostic study                                4                 60
- Banking Study                                   4                 70
- Provision for implementation of
diagnostic study recommendations:                                900
- Training                                                          16
- Equipment                                                         31
1,077
- SME Study Fund I/                                               (180)
I/ Financed under the "Other Activities' component of the project.
Part 4.   The Study Fund and Other Activities
36.   The project contains provision for funding of consultant services,
training or equipment, the need for which can be expected to arise in the
course of project implementation but which cannot be specifically itemized at
this stage. It is expected that these would concern studies and equipment
needs in the SME sector, other studies and training. Approximately
USS 400,000 equivalent has been earmarked for such needs. The allocation of
funds within this overall envelope has been tentatively identified as follows.
37.   Cost Table: Summary of Study Fund and Other Activities
Expected cost
(US$ '000 eq.)
SME Study Fund                                              180
Other studies                                               100
Equipment and vehicles                                       32
Training                                                     80
392



- 21 -
The Government agreed at negotiations that it would submit detailed proposals
to the Bank for its approval before undertaking any technical assistance,
training or studies or acquiring any equipment under this component.
SECTION Cs PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
38.   The Project Management Unit.  At negotiations the Goverranent agreed that
a project management unit (PMU) will be established within MPDE as a condition
of loan effectiveness. The PMU will be composed of a limited number of
professionals and will have a structure and mandate allowing it to act quickly
and efficiently to meet project management needs and facilitate project
implementation. Specificallys
-     the PMU will be headed by a Coordinator who will be a senior
official of MPDE with ready access to the Minister and able to
communicate on his and the Government's behalf with the Bank. The
Project Coordinator will also be responsible for: (i) the
preparation and implementation of counterpart training programs
for national staff involved in investment program preparation and
monit.oring activities; (ii) coordination of the work programs; and
(iii) the preparation of semi-annual reports which set out in
detail the concrete achievements made under the project and
compare these to projected achievements for the period, give a
calendar of actions for the next six months and specify the
measures needed to fulfill it;
-     the Coordinator's appointment will be additional to his existing
responsibilities in MPDE and he will therefore delegate some
responsibility for coordination of the project to the project
macro-economist who will act as Counsellor under the authority of
the Coordinator;
-     A project Administrator and an Assistant Administrator will be
recruited to manage the project office, keep project records,
coordinate project activities and facilitate implementation as
needed. The Administrator should have management and accounting
qualifications and may be recruited from outside the civil
service; and
-     the PMH  will also recruit support personnel --  a secretary,
chauffeur, messenger or other such staff as may be necessary for
the efficient operation of the PMU.
The entry on duty of the Project Coordinator, the Administrator and the
Assistant Administrator will be conditions of loan effectiveness.
39.   The PMU will be provided with the financial and material resources
necessary to carry out its mandate in the most effective way. PMU staff



- 22 -
salaries, equipment and operating costs will be financed from Government's
counterpart contribution to the project. A seminar in relevant Bank
procedures and practices, financed from proceeds of the loan, will be
organized in Washington as part of project start-up. The seminar will focus,
among other things, on agreed methods for recruitment and periodic evaluation
of locally and internationally recruited technical assistance. A smaller
seminar will be organized in Project Year 2 to draw the lessons learned from
project implementation to date and to agree on a timetable for implementation
of remaining project activities.
40. Cost Table: Summary of Support to the PMU
Expected cost
(000 USS eq.)
- Training seminars                                      16
- Equipment                                              78
94
41.   Interministerial Coordination.  Coordination between MPDE and the
Ministries of the Civil Service, Finance and Small and Medium Scale
Enterprises, which are responsible for rarrying out key components of the
project will be the responsibility of the Project Coordinator.
42.   Procurement.  The Bank and the Government attach high priority to the
development in Gabon of national consulting firms to substitute for costly
international expertise.  It is not, however, possible at the present stage of
Gabon's development to rely on the local market to a significant degree and
project activities will require international recruitment of technical
assistants. The Government and the Bank have agreed that where this does take
place, every effort will be made to minimize the average unit cost of such
assistance to the Government. The qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of all consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank
and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for the use of consultants.
43.   Purchases to be financed from the proposed loan are not large enough to
attract international competition. Contracts for office equipment, computers
and vehicles to be financed from the loan, valued in excess of US$25,000
equivalent, will be awarded on the basis of local procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of small items estimated at less than
US$25,000 equivalent and up to a cumulative total of US$200.000 equivalent
will be done by shopping after solicitation of quotations from no fewer than
three eligible suppliers. Procurement arrangements are summarized in
Schedule B.
44.   Disbursement.  The project is expected to disburse over a five to six
year period. All eligible expenditures will be financed net of taxes. All
disbursements will be fully documented except for payments against contracts
of less than US$25,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of SOEs and



- 23 -
retained in the PMU office for review by Bank supervision missions and
independent auditors. Disbursement arrangements are summarized in Schedule B.
45. Revolvina Fund. To expedite implementation, the Government will
establish a Special Account at the central bank to be operated as a revolving
fund for the Bank's contribution to the project. This account will be
financed with an initial deposit of US$300,000 equivalent from the proposed
loan upon presentation of a withdrawal application. The account would be
replenished periodiaclly.
46.   The PMU will maintain accounts to record all project expenditures,
commitments and reimbursements in accordance with accepted accounting
principles and the status of project funds. This will be the responsibility
of the project Administrator. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
these accounts will be audited annually no later than six months after the
close of each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
47.  ReDorting and Monitoring.  In addition to the semi-annual progress
reports and training and work programs to be submitted through the Project
Coordinator to the Bank by the Government, the PMU will be required to submit
brief but substantive quarterly reports on project implementation. In
addition, the PMU will prepare an annual report summarizing progress in all
key project areas of activity and defining a work program with monitorable
outputs for the year to follow. The PMU will submit a Project Completion
Report to the Bank no later than six months after the Closing Date of the
loan.



- 24 -
Schedule 1
Page 1 of 2
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TRAINING
48. The Government has decided on a strategy which focusses initially on
management of the country's economy. However, it realizes that it does not
yet have adequate human resources to reach its objectives over the short term.
It therefore intends to recruit high caliber expertise with a commitment to
training nationals and the ability to transfer economic management skills.
The proposed project will help the Government implement this strategy through
explicit provisions, incorporated in the Loan Agreement, to guarantee strong
quality control of the technical assistance 'product" and accelerate the
process of transferring responsibility and accountability for management of
the economy to Gabonese managers and advisors.
49.   The training of national staff will be a key element of the resident
MPDE experts' contribution. The Government will assign counterpart staff with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to each resident expert before the
experts's arrival at his duty station. The MPDE experts will be resp.msible
for on-the-job training of national counterparts --about ten staff-- and will
draw up and participate as teachers in specific training programs. The
training will include not only the resident experts' counterparts but also all
graduates of IEF during their probationary year (stage) in the Administration
and will provide the necessary guidance, assistance and follow-up during that
crucial period of a civil servant's professional life. Over the life of the
project, it is expected that forty-five IEF graduates --fifteen per year--
will benefit from such assistance.
50. Assessment of Training Needs. To help prepare training programs in the
main areas of economic and financial management, the project will finance an
assessment of available skills and specific training needs, and implementation
of programs, mainly seminars, to meet these needs.
51.   Seminars.  The seminars will be prepared jointly by IEF and the team of
resident experts at MPDE with limited input from outside short-term
consultants. Five such seminars will be financed from the proceeds of the
loan. A seminar on the Preparation and Negotiation of Adjustment and
Stabilization Programs has already been discussed and agreed with the
Authorities. It will include role acting, with counterpart staff playing in
turns the role of World Bank/IMF missions and Government Representatives.
IEF, uhose students frequently go on to high level posts in public and
parapublic management, will provide the setting for the seminars. High-
ranking officials and members of the Technical Committee will be asked to make
presentations on subjects related to both the Government's reform program and
their own responsibilities in implementing the program. Given their regular
work load, IEF teaching staff will not be in a position to provide all of the
assistance needed to complement the resident advisers' input in preparing and
implementing training programs. For that reason, a budget of approximately



- 25 -
Schedule 1
Page 2 of 2
US$464,000 equivalent will be available to recruit outside assistance for
short term missions targeted at specific training needs as they arise and to
finance other related needs.
52.    Direct Assistance to IEF.  Finally, to allow IEF to enhance its
curriculum through the addition of computer training, the project will provide
financing to equip the new computer class-room and recruit a specialist to
teach computer applications of public and parastatal management for three
years. Seven micro-computers will be acquired. The cost of such assistance
to IEF is estimated at US$829.000 equivalent.
53.   Cost Tables Summarv of Support for Training
Expected cost
(000 USS eq.)
- Assessment of training needs                                      54
- Additional trainers/other training needs                         464
- tEF Computer Specialist                                          673
- IEF Seminars                                                      78
- Logistical support under Public Admin.                            25
- Logistical support under SHE                                      16
- Budget under 'Other Activities'                                   80
1,390
In addition, training activities account for roughly one third of Resident
Experts' assignments for a cost of approximately US$600,000 equivalent. The
total training budget is therefore on the order of US$2 million equivalent, or
over 30Z of total project cost.



- 26 -
Schedule 2
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION CALENDAR
Major Activities                                  Timetable
1.    Proiect Management
(a)   create and set up a
Project Management Unit (PMU)                    Effectiveness
(b)   entry on duty of Project Coordinator
and Administrators                               Effectiveness
(c)   adopt semi-annual work programs                   June and December
and send sem2-annual work reports                 1989-1992
to the Bank
2.    Support to Planning and Training
(a)   recruit the four MPDE advisers                    September 1989
(b)   select MPDE counterpart staff                     September 1989
(c)   recruit IEF computer science teacher              September 1989
(d)   install IEF computers                            October   1989
(e)   prepare training programs for MPDE               October and April
1989 - 1991
(f)   carry out assessment of training needs           October   1989
(g)   develop IEF training program                    December and August
1989 - 1991
3.    Civil Service Support
Evaluation of the Civil Service Reform
(a)   recruit consultant for evaluation study           September 1989
(b)   submit proposals arising from the
evaluation study to the Bank                     January   1990
Strengthening Personnel Management
(a)   define computer hardware, software
and training needs (study)                       November  1989
(b)   install computer hardware and
software and train users                         February 1990
2 Work Programs and reports to include resident advisers' ant
counterparts' semi-annual work programs and reports.



- 27 -
Schedule 2
Page 2 of 2
4.    Supoort for SMEs
(a)   recruit consultant for diagnostic study      March 1989
(b)   submit proposals arising from the
study to the Bank                            July 1989
(c)   implement agreed actions                     September 1989 to
June 1992
(d)   recruit consultants for                      September 1989
banking study
5.    Studies and Other Needs
(a)   carry out studies for further preparation
and implementation of the adjustment
program as required                          June 1989-June 1992
(b) submit proposals arising from the studies
to the Bank                                  June 1989-June 1992
(c)   implement agreed actions                     June 1989-June 1992
6.    Audits
(a)   financial audits of project accounts         June 1990,1991,1992



- 28 -
Attachment I
T OCAL AsiTsrNQ PRoJECT
ffiPtOSX FDNaNCDG PLAN (IN US8 THOUSMDS)
TOTAL.
Component               COST   Government   IU          O1HIR
I:   PUINO AMO TRAINING               3,694       61       3.179          0
II:  PULI.C AIINISTM                    823        87        236          0
IIU:  SEPROIeTI                       1.2,        225      1.065          0
IV:  OtlHER AcrIvITM                    465       U8         a79          0
V:   FlU                                488      a89          98          0
TrTAL C087                     6S.25       1.,2       4.957         0
Percent of Trl9.  Flnuocing:    100.01      20.81     79.2MM      O.1



- ;19 -
Attachment 2
19-Nay-GO
CAMON -- TE44ICAAL ASSISTANE PROJET                               Annox I1
SUW.tW OF FARO  COSTS DY CWUO8E A*07 TPEM OF E4(XPT
CM  '000)
Short-   E4quipstt  Ineeorsa- en)
Residest    T'r-    Furniture  tal Oper-                           Contis-    TOtal      T Ital
Component            Esperts  Consultants A Vehicles ating Costs  Tmining  Sass Costs gencie      Costa      Costs
Is   PlAN4 AM TRA1               2.470         817        19i         103         78      3,324       870      3,694    8W.as
PI:   USUC AONINISTRATION            0          94        12i         41          25        288        S8        323      8.23
III: SHE PRiNTiO                   897         184         31          64         1i       1.12      120       1.290    20.63
IV:  ON ACTIVITIE                    0         200         31         28          78        418        47        465      7.45
V:   PM6U                            0           0         78         342         16         436       82        480      7.83
0          0          0           0          0           0          0         0          0      0.0s
0          0          0           0          0           0          0         0          0     O.OS
0          0           0          0          0           0          0         0          0      O.0s
0          0           0          0          0           0          0         0          0      0.03
amSE COSTS                  3,866       l.02Q        422        89         213       8.624
Physical Contilngseies        0          0          21          0           0         21
Price Contingencies         3U          111         46         68         29         61G
TOTAL PRoJ   COStS           3.7n2       1.13         491        684        286       6.289       634      6.259   100.03



E6e6y.  BC     A        M          R      O  O        N
Bwl.  \  | ..  !) a  ...... ., z:j (                                                                    PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
EQU A T O R I                     A           ssckNgomn'                                                          OF THE
MbmU        ~G U I N E A                       > 1e  .- 
I                 °~~~~~~~E-yconpW.>!                    3            X                                                   CONGO
1           {~~RIO  MUNI)                                             *.-                    /
Accloyo    ,                                                             e,                          fo            e4nt 
C cobeach        Ir                                                                                                         M
Ca.to -. c"                             f          ,t?oahna
UORRE                                                                                                      D         n     Ki  *.  '. Md.,j .
-0.
C)weodt Don,baKn&Mt        <        *-    *     -      'I~s..r-
\. ,, >.J  ... o Sjwr    E                 N     ?     .....................  
C  GO  0  o U  E~-..y~Baaaaman,  Fc~REST   Z E   Ia           Iagn,... .
O  G  C7 0  U        .-   FtLaou                                                                                    IN        A     U  ET   :E1  Noloalu\ F J dhn
Al J5/      o1\  ubt   N                                                            4    pwsM
NtGERIA  "''  f\ CENTRL                                                                                  R    0) t l k 0                    r
ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                   Mb. .                        l  kA tbo
s.tt6 C.t,,      ;              sur            )  Q    it\   
/ PEOPLE                             ANGOE   LA
G2 A 8 0                                              .1                         Rs ,
*n 4iABINDA)) _ens aflknraae a          G  A  O    N
NtOERIALA                                                                 'oI                                _ ..  iailt.ratRn4l
CAMEROON                                                               K {  g;'           S          i/)                    RD   6CId
G A G O N,1F#.                                                          PainfttN       /       :O       ,                          nRS                               .
rs)GrTHE                                            FOUPa~~~~~~~~~K-.,ABIND,AiFMpr lv   BdL0'lr 
R     I .   . ~~~~~ITOMIERCS D, ,p  1, 6,C   Sp TC  1, IE 4 ,C IV,                                               .           ,I, zon wu~.ifOIrtP
e     yZ A I A E.    Mwr                C       DomC>                                   !      2E8   FEF   ¢"imu                                         0
$   EW   .   .   2  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .S=~~~~~~~ _ ~~Z I RE. H                                                                               E-= ,4OCloO S
. A NGCOL A \ Yd-  ~      
_  Icv                                      ,   1r  '          I                                      t4L'                       i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-j



