Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Rqpirt No. 14017
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GABON
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3114-GA)
MARCH 2, 1995
Country Operations I Division
Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: CFA
(Average CFA per US$)
1988    1989      1990      1991      1992       1993
267     303      290        261       259        276
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DP               Directorate of the Payroll (Ministry of Finance)
DPEC             Directorate of Infrastructure (Ministry of Planning)
DPI              Directorate of Investment Programming (Ministry of Planning)
DPIP             Directorate of Productive Investment Projects (Ministry of Planning)
DPS              Directorate of Sectoral Programs (Ministry of Planning)
FAGA             Guarantee Fund
GDCS             General Directorate of the Civil Service
lEF              Institute of Economy and Finance
MPDE             Ministry of Planning, Development and Economy
PIP              Public Investment Program
PMU              Project Management Unit
PROMOGABON Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Promotion Agency
SME              Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
TA               Technical Assistance
UDEAC            Central African Customs and Economic Union
UNDP             United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office ot Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                       March 2, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO TIlE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Gabon
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3114-GA!
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Gabon - Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 3114-GA) prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
This project, for an amount of US$5 million, was approved in August 1989 and closed in
December 1993, a year later than the original closing date. It had the main objectives of (i) helping
the government, mainly through the provision of expatriate advisers and consultants, to implement
and monitor SAL I (approved in 1988) and to prepare a then-intended SAL II; and (ii) building
local capacities through both on-the-job and formal training in economic and financial management
and computer applications. Several important studies were also planned under the project.
The project's main achievements appear to have been (i) the provision of formal training
(five percent of the project budget); (ii) counterpart training (of ten counterparts) of mixed quality
and uncertain impact; and (iii) the familiarization of the staff of the Project Management Unit
(PMU) with Bank procedures. The project's main objectives of reform design and implementation
and of institutional development were not however achieved as the government's implementation
of SAL I faltered, and the preparation of SAL II was abandoned.
Although it became evident that the initial project objectives could not be met, there was
no formal stock-taking (as in a mid-term review) leading to closing of the project or a major
modification of its objectives and modalities. The consultants and advisers (whose costs constituted
the main share of total project costs) continued to work to terms-of-reference that were no longer
relevant to the prevailing circumstances. Supervision by the Bank was weak. A lesson of this
experience is that such a project should have been mounted from the beginning with more of a
"process" than a "blueprint" approach.
The PCR provides a satisfactory description of the project's objectives and outcomes. The
PCR's Summary, however, understatcs the evidcnce provided in the text about the extent of the
shortfall in meeting the objectives. Because of this shortf:all, the project outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory and its institutional development as negligible. The case is made that such training
benefits as were achicved arc proving sustainable. But taking the project as a whole and in view
of the limited information available. sustainability is rated as uncertain.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted dist libution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of Gabon
Technical Assistance Project
(Loan No. 3114-GA)
Table Of Contents
Page
PREFACE   ...............................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .                  ....................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...............  1
Project Identity ......................................... 1
Project Background   ...................................... 1
Project Objectives and Description ......................... 2
Project Design and Organization ...........                  .............  3
Project Implementation  ............... .....................  4
Project Results ............... 6
Project Sustainability ...................................... 7
Bank Performance ...................... 7
Borrower Perforrnance ............... 8
Lessons Learned ............... 8
Project Relationship  ............................                       ......    10
Consultants' Services ............. 10
Project Documentation and Data ............................... 10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                           ....... 11
PART III: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA                                  .          .     14
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans .14
Table 2:      Project Timetable ............................... 17
Table 3:  Loan Disbursements .18
Table 4:  Project Implementation .20
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing .23
Table 6:      Project Results ................................. 24
Table  7:     Status  of Covenants   .............................    25
Table 8:      Use of Bank Resources  ........................... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of Gabon
Technical Assistance Project
(Loan No. 3114-GA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical Assistance Project in
Gabon for which Loan 3114-GA in the amount of US$5.0 million equivalent was approved on
August 3, 1989. The loan was closed on December 31, 1993, one year behind schedule, and
the last disbursement was made on January 5, 1994. The Borrower was given until April 30,
1994 to submit a final disbursement request for eligible expenditures. A telex dated June 14,
1994 was sent to the Borrower with notification that the undisbursed balance of $226,747.18 is
cancelled, effective January 5, 1994.
Parts I and IIl of the PCR were prepared by a consultant with the assistance from staff
of the Country Operations Division (AFlCO) of the (then) Occidental and Central Africa
Department of the Africa Region. There was a completion mission. Part II was prepared by
the Borrower.
The PCR was compiled on the basis of information available in Washington and Gabon.
It is based, inter alia, on the Memorandum of the President, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and
interviews of Bank staff involved in the project, discussions with representatives of the Borrower
and technical assistants in the field.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of Gabon
Technical Assistance Project
(Loan No. 3114-GA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives (cf. paras 1.06 - 1.09)
1.    The principal objective of the project was to support the Government's adjustment
program over a three-year period by strengthening its key ministries in critical areas of
economic management. Civil service reform, training and skills transfer to local
counterparts and small and medium scale enterprise development were the core elements
of the technical assistance project. Suitable national staff would be identified to train
alongside the team of expatriate technical assistants in line with the objectives of the
Government's strategy to: (i) transfer more responsibility for management of the
economy to nationals over the short term; (ii) reduce the cost of technical assistance; and
(iii) over the long term, lessen Gabon's overall dependence on technical assistance.
Implementation Experience (cf. paras 1.14 - 1.15)
2.    Some variances were noted between planned and actual implementation:
(a) Duration. Loan closing was extended by one year to compensate for (i) four months'
delay in loan effectiveness. Loan effectiveness was conditional on Gabon's fulfillment of
requirements for release of the second tranche of SAL I; (ii) delay in recruitment of the
experts; (iii) replacement of two SME advisors; and (iv) slow disbursements. Project
completion, which was originally scheduled for December 1992, was achieved in
December 1993 with about US$227,000 remaining undisbursed. The Borrower was
notified that the undisbursed balance will be cancelled, effective January 5, 1994.
(b) Coordination of experts' activities by the macroeconomist. The project provided for
the macroeconomist to be the head of the team of the foreign experts. While this was
spelled out in his TORs, it was not explicit in the TORs of the other experts. As a
result, the macroeconomist was not able to provide the leadership and coordinate the
overall TA.
(c) Optimization of experts' skills. Experts' terms of reference were designed to respond
to capacity needs of Government for implementing SAL I and helping to prepare a
possible SAL II. The original scope of project objectives and activities was affected since
SAL II never went beyond identification, but experts' TORs were not amended to reflect
the -change or to maximize use of their skills for SAL I only.
(d) Under-utilization of experts' skills. Some of the departments to which experts were
assigned did not take full advantage of their expertise (cf. experts' progress reports). This
could be attributed to issues of internal management of the departments: low absorptive
ii



capacity, unclear definition of tasks and roles in the agencies; inadequate availability
and/or coordination of logistic support; lack of administrative discipline; and weak
documentation culture.
(e) Distribution of costs. The actual distribution of expenditures departed from
projections, with funds shifted from components that were not implemented or partially
implemented to the planning and training component, the only one that was fully
implemented.
(f) Respect of loan covenants was generally satisfactory, except for some delays (cf. para
1.15).
(g) Development of national capacity. Borrower commitment to use and to develop
national consulting firms to substitute for costly international expertise was not carried
out.
Results (cf. paras 1.16 - 1.19)
3.    The project objectives were achieved only partially: (a) 10 counterparts and 45 graduates
from the Institute of Economics and Finance (IEF) were trained. According to interviews
with selected counterparts, acquired skills have been very useful in job performance. In
addition, several IEF students received training in computer technology; (b) IEF's
curricula in economic and financial management have greatly improved.(cf. paras. 1.17 -
1.20 for results)
Sustainability (cf. para. 1.20)
4.    Some project actions have been sustained: positive results were achieved in the IEF with
improvement in the quantitative methods and computer training curricula, and the
promotion/advancement in the Administration of IEF-trained cadres. However, the
project could have been more successful in skills transfer if the training program had
been more adequately combined with on-the-job training in Ministry of Plan departments.
Net benefits can be expected to increase when (a) job performance of trained officials
improves as a result of skills acquired during the project (b) the training program in
economic and financial management is institutionalized (taught by Gabonese nationals)
at IEF and adequately utilized by the ministries in charge of economic management; (c)
skills learned by PMU project staff are used in other Bank-financed projects; and (d) the
Government becomes more serious about pursuing adjustment in continuation of its
efforts to restructure its economy, as it has started to do since the 1994 devaluation.
Lessons Learned (cf. para 1.23)
5.    Several lessons may be drawn from this experience:
(a)  The project was adequately designed since the components were mutually
complementary and responded to the Government's strategy to implement SAL I and
prepare a subsequent SAL II. However, a technical assistance project designed to
support a SAL program should be re-oriented when the SAL does not materialize. The
terms of reference of TA advisors should be amended accordingly.
iii



(b) Given the borrower's history with TA substitution and the project's primary
objective, which was to strengthen Government capacity to manage its economy, the
technical assistance project should have benefitted from more upstream preparation than
a few months as was the case in this project. Preparation should have included:
(i) institutional assessment of beneficiary agencies which would have
facilitated a more realistic matching of technical assistance to the
government's absorptive capacity (cf. progress reports);
(ii) sufficiently prescribed ways for minimizing the risks identified during
preparation regarding skills transfer from expatriates to nationals; and
(iii) an appropriate organizational and management structure, designed
with a more careful assessment of institutions' capacity, analysis of tasks
of project implementors, including performance indicators and the
distinction of roles and responsibilities between experts and counterparts.
(c) Closer monitoring by the Bank of success indicators during implementation would
be desirable. Also needed is more active Bank participation in design of project activities,
such as the formulation of training programs and assessment of training impact. Finally,
due to the labor-intensive nature of TA, supervision missions should be more frequent.
(d)  Due to the PMU's competent project administrator, project activities were
implemented smoothly. However, Government willingness to implement some of them
was at the least questionable. The socio-political environment was not very enabling,
particularly regarding institutional strengthening objectives. Skills transfer within the
Ministry of Planning, Development and Economy (MPDE) suffered from failure or
inability of departments to provide the needed logistical and institutional support (cf.
progress reports). As a result, project implementation seemed to have occurred in a
climate of little collaboration between departments and the experts assigned to them. The
essential lesson to be drawn is that middle level management of the Borrower must be
associated during project preparation since it must own and implement the project and
sustain the results.
(e) It is crucial to ensure that Government conditions of service and administrative
procedures do not constrain the fulfillment of TA project objectives. In particular, staff
continuity, clear indicators of how TA will relate to counterparts' work programs, and
a minimal incentive framework that should favor learning on the part of counterparts and
facilitate sustainable skills transfer on experts' side should be addressed by both the Bank
and the Borrower during TA project design.
(f) A more coordinated and less ambitious approach to the delivery of TA, particularly
training, in countries with heavy reliance upon foreign TA (and the resources to do so)
should be considered. Better results could be attained by strengthening a local training
and management development institution like IEF, which was done under this project,
since this would ensure a more sustainable and cost effective way of producing national
experts who can progressively take over from expatriates.
iv






PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name:            Technical Assistance Project
Loan Number & Amount:  Ln. 3114-GA of US$5.0 million
RVP:                     Africa
Country:                 Gabon
Sector:                  Economic Management
B.    Project Background
1.01. With a population estimated at slightly over one million inhabitants, growing at the rate
of 2.4 percent per year and spread over 267,000 km2, Gabon is a one of the more sparsely
populated countries of Africa. Endowed with abundant natural resources of oil, manganese,
uranium and timber, Gabon enjoys one of the highest per capita incomes in Sub-Saharan Africa:
$4,900 in 1992 and even following the January 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, GDP per
capita for 1994 is estimated to be US$3,600. Nevertheless, social indicators such as life
expectancy, daily calorie supply and literacy are much lower than those usually associated with
comparable levels of income in other countries.
1.02. The economy of Gabon is dominated by the oil sector (one third of GDP, close to one
half of government's revenue, between 50 to 60 percent of gross investment, and over three
quarters of merchandise exports). Because of its heavy dependence upon oil, Gabon's economy
suffered in 1986, when the average US dollar price of crude oil on the world market fell by
about 50 percent, combined with an appreciation by 30 percent of the CFA franc relative to the
dollar. Compounding the situation were severe institutional and managerial weaknesses within
government agencies, which resulted in undue reliance on expatriate labor.
1.03. Gabon graduated from Bank lending in 1977. Following the onset of the economic crisis
in 1986 and the resulting sharp decline in the country's per capita GNP since 1985, Gabon's
eligibility for Bank lending was reinstated with SAL I in 1988. During the era of non-eligibility,
Bank support consisted mostly of limited technical assistance to help the government address
capacity problems. One such operation was in 1982 when the Bank acted as the executing
agency for a Government and UNDP-financed technical assistance project to strengthen
government's capacity in project design and implementation. The project provided significant
assistance to the Ministry of Planning to expand and strengthen its role to improve the process
of investment planning and the arbitration of conflicting claims on the country's limited
resources. It provided major help in the preparation of Government's structural adjustment
program, both at the macroeconomic and at the sectoral policy levels, which the Government
adopted in early 1987. The project closed in December, 1988 but the need for technical
assistance continued, and in 1988 the Bank provided Gabon with a structural adjustment loan
(SAL I) which focussed on (i) improvement of public resource management, (ii) public
enterprise restructuring, (iii) promotion of trade, and (iv) resumption of sectoral productive
activities.



1.04. Realizing that it did not yet have adequate human resources to manage the adjustment
program, Government asked the Bank to provide financing for the assistance needed. In late
1988 the Government and the Bank agreed to build on the experience of the UNDP-funded,
Bank-executed TA project and design a technical assistance project that would enhance
government's ability to implement SAL I and prepare its subsequent phase during SAL II.
Unfortunately, SAL II never went beyond identification stage due to lack of political will on the
part of the Government to implement a reform program.
1.05. Having been executing agency for the UNDP technical assistance project and already
supporting the Government's reform program through SAL I, the Bank was in a unique position
to provide the type of support the Government needed to restructure its economy. Although the
technical assistance loan was small, the TA project was the only tool available to the Bank for
providing advice on Government's macro-economic strategy, as it afforded an opportunity to
consolidate efforts to foster more prudent management of the economy and to increase the share
of the non-oil sectors in national production. The key areas of Government's reformn program
were: public investment programming (PIP); agriculture, forestry and small and medium scale
enterprise sectors; civil service; and the parapublic sector.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
1.06.  Objectives. The principal objective of the project was to support the Government's
adjustment program over a three-year period by strengthening its key ministries in critical areas
of economic management. Civil service reform, training and skills transfer to local counterparts
and small and medium scale enterprise development were the core elements of the technical
assistance project. Suitable national staff were to be identified to train alongside the team of
expatriate technical assistants in line with the objectives of the Government's strategy: (i) to
transfer more responsibility for management of the economy to nationals over the short term;
(ii) to reduce the cost of technical assistance; and (iii) over the long term, to lessen Gabon's
overall dependence on technical assistance.
1.07. Description. The project was essentially designed to consolidate the achievements of the
Government/UNDP-funded, Bank-executed technical assistance project, to help the government
of Gabon to implement the SAL I program and to prepare the subsequent SAL II program, under
identification at the time. Available skills and specific training needs in economic and financial
management were to be assessed and programs designed to meet needs to be identified in the
Institute of Economy and Finance (IEF).
1.08. The project was to finance: (i) 60 staff months of short-term consulting services for
studies of reform measures; (ii) 8 staff years of the services of resident advisors to strengthen
Government's capacity to design and implement reform programs in key areas of public
investment programming, agriculture, SME development, national statistics and civil service
management; (iii) 3 years of services of a computer skills instructor at IEF; (iv) design and
delivery of training programs; and (v) provision of computer equipment.
2



1.09. Project Components. Three specific components were defined and agreed upon at
negotiations:
(a)   Support to planning and training: The component comprised, through
participation of foreign experts: (i) support to structural adjustment through the
technical committee set up by the Government to implement and monitor its
reform program launched in 1987 and later supported by SAL I; (ii) support to
public investment programming (PIP) to identify, prepare and monitor
development projects in agriculture, forestry and infrastructure sectors; and (iii)
training through the implementation of new technical assistance and training
policies. A team of resident advisors would offer training in economic and
financial management, quantitative methods and computer applications to ten
counterparts, selected key staff, and to 45 IEF graduates during their first year
in the administration.
(b)   Support for Public Administration Management comprised an audit of the
civil service to evaluate the impact of Government's administrative reform
measures taken since 1986 and implementation of recommended actions for
improvement. The audit was to focus on a review of the civil service regulatory
framework and personnel management.  It was also to consider personnel
management efforts that would establish ways and provide means to facilitate
more efficient payroll management through accurate and timely transfer between
the key management centers and the Directorate of Payroll (DP) of the Ministry
of Finance. In addition, the component was to provide equipment and training
required to strengthen personnel management.
(c)   Support for Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) consisted of:
(i) a diagnostic study of the SME promotion system with an audit of the
promotion agencies, PROMOGABON and the Guarantee Fund (Fonds d'Aide et
de Garantie, Guarantee Fund); and (ii) a study of the country's banking system
to identify constraints on the availability of credit to the SME sector, and to
prepare a restructuring program for banking institutions with portfolio problems.
(d)   Other project related activities: (i) the update of the macroeconomic model
of Gabon, called "MEGA", (ii) study fund for short-term consultant services,
(iii) the equipment and operating costs of a Project Management Unit (PMU), and
(iv) training of project staff.
D.   Project Design and Organization
1.10. Project design. From inception in 1988 until approval in 1989, the project was designed
to encourage a progressive transfer of greater responsibility for management of the country's
economy to Gabonese nationals, and to reduce dependence on foreign expertise and the economic
burden it placed on the Government. Project scope was the subject of exhaustive discussions
within the Bank and between the Bank and the Government. The project components were
adequately designed in that they were mutually complementary and responded to the
Government's reform requirements and strategies.
3



1.11. Organization. The Ministry of Planning, Development and Economy (MPDE), through
the Project Management Unit (PMU) established specifically for the TA project, had the overall
responsibility for implementation of the project. The PMU was headed by a project coordinator,
a senior official of MPDE. Other PMU staff included a project administrator, an administrative
officer, a secretary, a messenger and a chauffeur. In fact, the PMU administrator took
responsibility for inter-ministerial coordination between MPDE, the Ministries of Civil Service,
Finance and Small and Medium Scale Enterprises; monitoring of counterpart training programs
for national staff; coordination of the experts' work programs; and preparation and submission
of semi-annual reports on project implementation to the Bank.
1.12. Four resident experts were assigned as advisors to four departments of MPDE (DPEC,
DPI, DPIP, DPS) where they would (i) provide support to the Inter-Ministerial Steering
Committee (Comite de Gestion) in charge of the structural adjustment program, coordinated by
MPDE; (ii) assist in the preparation of the three-year rolling public investment program; (iii)
be responsible for the preparation and monitoring of training programs at IEF; and (iv) provide
on-the-job training to counterparts. The macroeconomist was to head the team of the foreign
experts. While this was spelled out in his TORs, it was not explicit in the TORs of the other
experts. As a result, the macroeconomist was not able to provide the leadership and coordinate
the overall TA. Two experts were placed as advisors, one each in the Ministry of Small and
Medium Scale Enterprises and in PROMOGABON, where they would provide support to the
principal institutions responsible for SME activities, namely the Ministry of Small and Medium
Scale Enterprises, the promotion agency, PROMOGABON, and the Guarantee Fund (FAGA).
A computer expert was posted at IEF to strengthen its training capacity in quantitative methods
and computer training and applicatiors.
1.13. Each advisor was to prepare a semi-annual work program, which would be approved by
the department or organization to which he was attached and reviewed by the Project
Administrator. The work program was to include detailed activities and timetables for its
execution and to specify the respective tasks of expatriate and national counterparts. The
government was expected to assign qualified national counterpart staff.
E.    Project Implementation
1.14. As it turned out, the project was implemented in a climate of political instability and
social unrest and lack of political will to proceed with a subsequent phase of structural
adjustment, which would have required implementation of unpopular reforms in a pre-electoral
environment. Variances between planned and actual implementation include:
(a) Duration: Loan closing, was extended by one year from December 31, 1992
to December 31, 1993 to make up for time lost due to: (i) the four-month delay
in loan effectiveness, which was conditional upon Gabon's meeting conditions for
release of the second tranche of SAL I; (ii) delay in recruitment of the advisors,
some of whom did not take up assignment until nine months after loan
4



effectiveness; (iii) replacement of two SME advisors; and (iv) slow disbursements
caused by ineffective communication between the Bank and the PM? during
1992. Project completion, which was originally scheduled for December 1992,
was achieved in December, 1993 with about US$227,000 remaining as the
undisbursed balance, which was cancelled effective January 5, 1994.
(b) Coordination of experts' activities by the macroeconomist. Although this role
was assigned to the macroeconomist in his TORs, it was not respected by other
experts as there was no mention of this role in their terms of reference. (cf.
progress reports). The macroeconomist's role in coordinating other experts' work
program was not even defined in his own terms of reference.
(c) Optimization of experts' skills . Experts' terms of reference were designed
to respond to the needs of Government for implementing SAL I and preparing
SAL II. The original scope of project objectives and activities was affected since
SAL II never went beyond identification, but experts TORs' were not amended
to maxirnize use of their skills to support only SAL I.
(d) Under-utilization of experts' skills. Some agencies to which the experts were
assigned did not take full advantage of their expertise and experience (cf. experts'
progress reports). This could be attributed to the issues of internal management
raised in the experts' progress reports: low absorptive capacity of the agencies;
unclear definition of tasks and roles in the agencies; inadequate availability and/or
coordination of logistic support; lack of administrative discipline; and a weak
documentation culture.
(e) Distribution of costs. The actual distribution of expenditures departed from
projections, with funds shifted from components that were not implemented or
partially implemented to the planning and training component, the only one that
was fully implemented.
(f) Respect of loan covenants was generally satisfactory, except for (i) delays in
submission of semi-annual progress reports by the PMU; and (ii) failure of the
macro-economist to exercise his full responsibility as counsellor to PMU. (cf.
progress reports)
(g) Development of national capacity. Borrower commitment to developing
national consulting firms to substitute for costly international expertise was not
carried out. (The President's Memorandum did not elaborate how this was to be
brought about.)
1.15. Potential project risks flagged during project preparation were accurately identified, but
others were not, including:
(a) the difficulty in recruiting experts with the necessary skills for training
counterparts in a developing country with heavy dependence on foreign TA;
5



(b) the limited absorptive capacity of beneficiary departments to properly
participate in and benefit from technical assistance, particularly with regards to
skills transfer;
(c) the fragile or vacillating political will of the Government to proceed with
structural adjustment activities in an election environment;
(d) coordination problems among resident experts, between them and the PMU,
and between them and departments to which they are assigned; and
(e) necessary indicators for measuring the impact of experts' activities on
beneficiary agencies' work programs or counterparts' job performance.
F.    Project Results
1.16. Although project objectives responded to Gabon's immediate need to help irnplement SAL
I and prepare the SAL II program, results were less than anticipated (cf. Part III. table 6).
Several factors affected project results:
(a) The overall technical assistance support to the stnrctural adjustment program
suffered from: (i) lack of coordination between the experts and the Government
officials, and limited team spirit among them; (ii) lack of experts' access to the
highest levels of authority to make their ideas and actions known; (iii) unclear
definition of tasks and roles of officials and experts; and (iv) sub-optimal use of
experts' skills in macroeconomic and sectoral planning, and in public investment
programming (cf. progress reports).
(b) The impact of counterpart training is vague, due to lack of its mention by
experts in their progress reports (cf. supervision reports).
(c) The civil service audit and the banking study were not carried out.
(d) The SME study recommendation to restructure PROMOGABON was not
implemented, although Government took a decision to liquidate PROMOGABON.
1.17. Apart from providing useful guidance and input to future Bank actions in the areas of
capacit-y building and public investment programming in Gabon, some project results are
beginning to have an impact. Ten counterparts and forty five IEF graduates were trained.
According to interviews with some of them, the training received has been very useful in their
job performance and has, in some way, contributed to their promotion to higher level positions.
1.18. Perhaps one of the most rewarding side benefits of the project was the satisfactory
performance of the PMU which, in some instances, compensated for the physical absence of a
Bank resident mission in Libreville by providing support to Bank missions and operations in
Gabon. The skills the PMU staff received in Bank procedures and project management enhanced
performance in administrative coordination and financial management and contributed greatly
to the relative success of the project. Both the Borrower and the Bank are already using these
skills in another Bank operation in Gabon, where the TA project administrator is the coordinator
of the Bank Forestry/Environment project.
6



1.19. IEF benefitted greatly from the project in terms of curricula enrichment (macroeconomic
analysis, quantitative methods, computer applications) and acquisition of computer equipment.
Although the project added a new and essential dimension to the institute's training for civil
servants, training was not institutionalized. This has forced the Borrower to extend the contract
of the macro-economist beyond the project cycle so that he may work with Gabonese trainers
to institutionalize the training at IEF.
G.    Project Sustainability
1.20. Except for the positive results in the IEF, the project could have been more successful
in skills localization if the training program had been adequately combined with the on-the-job
training in some Ministry of Planning departments. Under the circumstances, therefore, the
most likely ways for sustaining project results would be through: (a) IEF to "localize" training
(with Gabonese nationals) to continue to respond to Government skills requirements in the area
of economic and financial management, quantitative methods and computer technology; (b) the
civil service structure to retain and recycle trained counterparts and other officials; and (c) use
of the project management skills acquired by the MPDE staff (in the PMU) in other Bank
operations, as is done in the Forestry/Environment project.
H.   Bank Performance
1.21. Strengths and Weaknesses
(a) Project management was properly designed to allow investments to be managed
within the primary beneficiary ministry's existing administrative structure, with
appropriate mandate and autonomy to enable the PMU to carry out project management
responsibilities.
(b) Project preparation time was inadequate. The project was identified in November
1988 and appraised in February 1989 without an institutional assessment of the
beneficiary agencies' capacity to implement activities. Yet a major objective of the
project was to increase the capacity of Gabon to manage its economy more efficiently.
(c) Given the seriousness of the development objectives and risks identified in the
President's Memorandum, Bank supervision missions were inadequate (five for a total
of 22 days and none in 1992, cf. Part III, table 8B) and were not very effective in
monitoring the substance of project activities.  One of two measures stated in the
President's Memorandum to counter the risk of extending project lending to Gabon,
where lending was resuming after several years, was the assurance that the Bank would
work with PMU to closely monitor the performance of the experts, particularly with
regards to counterpart training. This safeguard was not properly executed.
(d) Project design did not include indicators to monitor the substance and impact of
project activities on beneficiary agencies' performance or mechanisms for matching
experts' TORs to agencies' work programs.
(e) Supervision reports did not provide much analysis on implementation. They tended
to dwell on process and summaries of meetings and less on providing analytical data on
project management achievements and weaknesses.
7



(f) There is no evidence that local consulting firms were involved in implementing some
,project components as agreed in the President's Memorandum, Annex IV.
(g) Turnover of Bank staff was problematic. During project execution, there were four
different task managers of the TA project.
I.    Borrower Performance
1.22. Strengths and weaknesses
(a) Establishment of the PMU with a very competent project administrator and adequate
staffing at management level resulted in continuity that was beneficial to the project.
Financial audits recognized that project accounts had been properly managed.
(b) Government willingness to implement some of project activities was at the least
questionable. The socio-political environment was not very enabling, particularly with
regard to institutional strengthening objectives. Skills transfer within MPDE suffered
from failure or inability of departments to provide the needed logistical and institutional
support (cf. progress reports). As a result, project implementation seemed to have
occurred in a climate of little or no collaboration between the departments and the
experts that were assigned to them. The essential lesson to be drawn is that the level of
discussions with Borrower during preparation and appraisal should be increased to
include middle level management who eventually must own and implement the project
and sustain its results.
(c) The Borrower did not respect all covenants in the Loan Agreement, mainly due to
lack of an enabling institutional environment and the unstable socio-political environment
prevalent in the country. The civil service component was never implemented, and the
recommendations of the SME study that could have led to substantial development of the
private sector were not implemented and became obsolete when the institution which was
to implement them was liquidated.
J.    Lessons Learned
1.23. Several lessons may be drawn from this project experience.
Bank
(a) The technical assistance project designed on the basis of the requirements of a
structural adjustment loan (SAL I) and its subsequent phases in SAL II should have been
re-oriented when SAL II was not adopted, since terms of reference for project staff were
dependent on identified needs of both SAL operations.
(b) Closer monitoring by Bank staff of the indicators of success during implementation
would be desirable. Also needed is more active Bank participation in design of project
activities, such as the formulation of training programs and assessment of training
impact.
8



(c) A more coordinated and less ambitious approach to the delivery of technical
assistance, especially training, in countries with heavy reliance on foreign TA like Gabon
should be considered. More emphasis could be placed on strengthening a local training
and management development institution like IEF, as was done under the project, to
ensure a more sustainable and cost effective way of producing national experts who
would gradually take over from expatriates. The counterpart training and mentorship
approach is usually difficult to implement and evaluate, particularly when a government
can rely on revenues from oil to maintain the status quo in TA substitution.
(d) The absorptive capacity of the beneficiary institutions must be given more attention
in the determination of technical assistance. In other words, institutional assessment of
the agencies to be strengthened must be part of project preparation and appraisal, as this
will not only involve more active participation by such agencies and foster a stronger
sense of ownership but also provide guidance on indicators of success in such areas as
on-the-job training. The essential lesson to be drawn is that the level of discussions with
the Borrower during preparation and appraisal should be increased to include middle
level management who eventually must own and implement the project and sustain its
results.
(e) There should be frequent meetings between the task manager and project personnel,
expatriates and nationals.  In addition, due to the labor-intensive nature of TA,
supervision missions should be more frequent. Finally, there should be less turnover of
Bank staff during project implementation.
Bank and Borrower
(f) More time should be devoted to technical assistance project preparation in order to
design a more appropriate organizational and management structure for the project,
through careful analysis of the tasks to be performed by project implementors (including
indicators for task achievement) and the distinction of roles and responsibilities between
technical assistance and counterparts, and thus build up Government ownership. A quality
control and monitoring system should be part of the project design, including a
requirement for annual work program and budget, with monitorable indicators and
timetables, to ensure smooth implementation in TA project supervision, particularly in
case of change in task manager or project personnel.
Borrower
(g) It is important to ensure that the conditions of service and administrative procedures
on the Borrower's side do not constrain the fulfillment of TA project objectives. In
particular, discussions on personnel continuity, clear indicators of how TA would be
integrated into counterparts' work programs and impact their job performance, and a
minimal incentive framework that should favor learning on the part of counterparts and
facilitate skills transfer by the experts should be held between the Bank and the Borrower
during TA project design.
9



K.    Project Relationship
1.24. The Bank's relationship with the Borrower (PMU) was generally good. However, the
free flow of communications that marked the beginning of the project suffered in 1992 when
there was no supervision mission and thereafter when there was frequent turn-over of task
managers at the Bank. On the other hand, throughout the project it appeared that the Bank had
full confidence in the PMU to respond in a timely manner to the project management needs.
1.25. The Borrower's relationship with both the Bank and experts was characterized by some
ambiguity which sometimes is common in technical assistance projects. The urgency attached
to project preparation diminished dramatically after loan effectiveness, when economic pressure
to increase Gabon's capacity to restructure its economy gave way to the overriding preoccupation
with political pressures of the Government. In such an environment, officials seemed less
concerned with the project's success than with their own survival. Experts, particularly the
macro-economist who was to coordinate technical assistance, found themselves readjusting, on
a unilateral basis, their terms of reference to the changing situation. The above factors strained
to some extent the relationship between the Government and the experts.
1.26. The relationship between some experts and the foreign firns that hired them, particularly
with regards to benefits, salaries and quality control was rocky. This affected the implementation
of the project.
L.    Consultants' Services
1.27. The assessment of the foreign experts' contribution differs between the Bank and the
Borrower. According to Bank supervision reports, their overall performance in training is rated
as very satisfactory. But PMU/Borrower progress reports from the field described experts'
performance in the delivery in training as ranging from excellent to unsatisfactory. The
Borrower rated the performance of the computer expert as very satisfactory in training students
in quantitative methods and computer technology, and in institutionalizing computer training at
the IEF. In the Ministry of Planning, the infrastructure specialist was very effective in training
assigned counterparts.  The public enterprise expert's performance was satisfactory in
counterpart training and designing a management information system to monitor the activities
in the public enterprise sector. The macro-economist's performance was mixed; his training
delivery at the IEF was rated as very satisfactory, but he concentrated more on classroom
teaching, to the detriment of on-the-job training in the Plan department to which he was posted.
The performance of the two agro-economists, the first and his replacement, was characterized
as lackluster.
M.   Project Documentation and Data
1.28. Overall, the provisions of the Legal Agreement were appropriate. Most of the
information necessary for the preparation of the PCR was obtained from project files. Back-to-
office reports are uneven in terms of factual data, analysis of issues in project implementation,
and project results. Supplementary data was obtained from interviews of Bank staff, Gabonese
officials and counterparts, and expatriate experts who worked on the project. Data required for
the statistical annexes was available from the MIS and project files.
10



PART H - GABONESE REVIEW OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
2.1. In response to the fiscal crisis brought on by the petroleum shock of 1986, the
Gabonese Government was compelled to implement a program of targeting public
expenditures. In fact, one could observe the progressive annual increase in several
budgetary chapters, especially in the allocation to Studies and Research, that reached 8 to
10 billion under the State's general budget.
2.2. To cope with such an increase in the Studies and Research chapter, the Gabonese
Government called on the World Bank for support under the framework of a Structural
Adjustment Loan. Thus, the Technical Assistance Project was signed on December 5,
1989.
2.3. This project had 3 objectives:
(a) Assist Gabon to put in place and adhere to the Bank's adjustment and Fund's
stabilization programs; this implied as much significance in the financial ministries
as in the technical.
(b) Improve the transfer of technical assistance: recruitment of qualified and
competent personnel, precise definition of terms of reference and acceptable level
of remuneration.
(c) Train national staff to a level comparable to that of the technical assistants.
2.4. In the framework of this project, the Government recruited seven experts, who were
divided among to the following ministries: 4 at Planning, 2 at Small and Medium
Enterprises and I at Finance.
A.    Technical Assistance
2.5. At the start up of the project, there were some disagreements between certain
consultants and their consulting firms, which would have resulted from the interpretation
of the terms of their contracts. An appropriate solution became difficult since the majority
of firns had home offices outside the country, causing delays in implementing the project.
Given this experience, it would be beneficial that the legal services of the World Bank take
an active part in resolving the misunderstandings and that the procedures be included in a
handbook for managing projects.
2.6. Concerning conflicts between consultant and the Gabonese Republic, it had been
stipulated in the contracts that the technical expatriate could be fired with at least one
month's advance notice, according to Gabonese labor law. We noted that these
consultants addressed themselves to the Bank rather than to the Gabonese authorities;
this behavior slowed down progress and consumed project resources. To avoid such
inconvenience, the consulting firms should have been made aware of the Bank's role in the
11



project. This would have avoided interferences, useless financial costs and delays in the
execution of certain project components.
2.7. The other major factor, prevalent since the execution of the project, is the turnover
of the task managers at the World Bank which hampered the continuity of work: for
example different work approaches, discontinuity of procedures, sending the same
document several times, etc. These mistakes underlie the lack of supervision and
management of the project.
B.    Countervart Trainin!
2.8.   The training of the Gabonese counterparts was the key component of the
Technical Assistance Project. Particular emphasis was placed on the training of local
counterparts by the foreign experts, which initiated the transfer of knowledge and
consequently, the pursuit for efficiency in our administrations.
2.9. The training had been organized through workshops, seminars or full-time training of
which the trainer was an expert working for the project, with civil servants from several
departments of the administration assisting. One can observe that in failing to have
prepared national trainers, there has been no transfer of permanent training in the
administration. The institutional strengthening did not take place as scheduled. The
Government would like for the Bank to allow for greater collaboration between EDI and
the IEF.
2.10. To cover this gap, the administration has allocated part of this assistance to the
sectors requiring a certain level of technical assistance, which is the case in the Ministry of
Planning where the experts were required to put in place an investment budget, monitor it
and train personnel.
C.    Oualitv Control
2.11. Quality control was important; the loan agreement stipulated that the TA Project
Management Unit (PMU), should submit every 6 months, an activity report to the World
Bank. The schedule was not respected given the delays in the effective start up of the
project, the arrival of the experts, and the transmission of experts' progress reports to the
PMU. Nevertheless, the various reports submitted by the PMU covered the entire time
frame of the project.
2.12. For better supervision of the project, the expert and his counterpart each had been
asked to draft separate activity reports. This method of evaluation allowed for an
improvement in work and human relations. However, the World Bank should put in place
tools to assist in the evaluation, whether by organizing seminars for the benefit of the
Administration or better yet, by distributing specialized manuals. Such practices would
12



help the Administration to evaluate the technical expert's work in relation to his/her terms
of reference.
2.13. The three audits produced during the exercise allowed for better management of
financial resources. Because of this, the Government's request to extend the closing date
was approved by the Bank. However, the World Bank delayed its approval, by linking it
with the provision of the SAL I audit reports by the Gabonese Government. Given this
fact, a delay in the execution of the project occurred in spite of the steps taken by the
PMU; namely the drafting of the terms of reference of the SAL audit, the choice and
selection of the auditor after receipt of the World Bank's non-objection, and the drafting
and transmission to the World Bank, for its non-objection, the draft contract for the audit.
2.14. This conditionality created a situation of wait-and-see for the experts as well as for
the Gabonese officials, which was detrimental to Gabon and partly attributable to the
Bank. The Government waited for the World Bank's response regarding documents
needed to prepare the PAS audit reports.
D.    Proiect Results
2.15. Gabon and the Bank agreed that the Civil Service Reform component be dropped
from the project due to the frequent changes of the head of the Civil Service Department.
In addition, using the TA Project as support to the SAL was mitigated.
2.16. The main contribution of the TA Project was to enable the Gabonese administration
to recruit from an international pool of experts, thanks to the World Bank's publications.
In effect, in proceeding with international competitive bidding procedures, Gabon was able
to choose from a much larger selection of consultants, of expertise and of service fees.
This allowed the State to achieve substantial budgetary savings, even without the use of
the less expensive independent and African experts, who were not included in the World
Bank's database of consultant firms.
2.17. This procedure of remuneration and control of the PAT experts now serves as a
reference for the Administration to set consulting firms' fees. The 1993 budget law had
already made provisions directed at reducing costs charged by consulting firms by use of
short term contracts. An effort is going to be carried out in 1994 to better manage their
utilization. The Government requests the World Bank to provide assistance in the
recruitment of experts and with the manual mentioned in point 5.
N.B. Part II of the Project Completion Report has been translated from the French
version, signed by Mr. Andr&Dieudonne Berre, Minister of Economy, Planning, and
Parapublic Restructuring and Privatization and dated on April 28, 1994.
13



PART III: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1:    Related Bank Loans
Loan
Year of
Title           Purpose                   Aproval  Status         Comments
Effectiveness: 1982
Assistance to   To help Ministry of Plan             Completed   Closed: 1988
the Ministry    (a) implement an efficient    1982                Government/
of Plan         project appraisal and                             UNDP-funded;
GAB/82/004      monitoring system to make                         Bank-executed
sound investments;
(b) set up a management                          Instrumental in
information system;                              preparing SAL I
(c) provide on-the-job
training to improve
ministries' capacity; and
(d) assist technical
ministries in project
preparation
*First Structural  (i) To initiate a program of   1988    Completed   Effectiveness:
Adjustment Loan public enterprise                                 5/20/88
(SAL I)         rehabilitation and                                Closing date:
Ln.2933-GA      rationalization;                                  6/30/90
(ii) to strengthen public                        Extension of TA
sector resource management                       Project closing date
through better control over                      was conditional on
the investment budget and                        the signing of the
and wage reduction; and                          contract to carry
out overdue audit
of SAL I
(iii) to liberalize the policy
environment in order to
stimulate private sector
initiatives.
14



Title           Purpose                  Approval  Status        Comments
Effectiveness:
Road Mainte-    (a) To preserve Government  1989    On-going    10/5/89
nance Adjustment past investments in the                         Closing date:
Project         road network and extend                          12/31/94
Ln.3046-GA      their useful life;                               Loan was co-
financed by
AfDB and France
(b) to optimize the use of
limited Government resources
available for road
maintenance;
(c) to maintain vehicle
operating costs at a
reasonable and stable
level;
(d) to develop an indigenous
capacity to plan, manage
and supervise road mainte-
nance and rehabilitation,
gradually taking over
in-line positions held
by foreigners; and
(e) to initiate changes in
policies regarding the
organization and methods
of execution of road
maintenance.
Forestry/
Environment    (a) To improve man-         1993    On-going    Effectiveness:
Ln.3506-GA      agement of forest                                9/23/93
resources and                                   Closing date:
environment;                                    6/30/98
The TA project
administrator is the
coordinator of this
p-oject.
15



Title           Purpose                  Approval  Status        Comments
(b) to serve as an important
instrument for implementing
Government's policies in
forestry and environment;
and
(c) to strengthen the planning
and operational capacity of
Government institutions and
local environment NGOs through
implementation of training
programs, studies, and the
provision of equipment and
infrastructure support
Comments: *First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I): Even though Government implemented
drastic cuts in overall expenditure of 45 % in 1987 and 12% in 1988, it showed considerable
reluctance to follow through with agreed upon wage reduction measures. The Government made
some progress with Public Enterprise Reform but overall results were mixed. Government failed
to agree on restructuring programs for some large parastatals largely because of vested political
interests and deep opposition from management.
16



Table 2:    Project Timetable
Date                          Date
Item                     Planned                        Actual
Identification                                          November, 1988
Appraisal                January, 1989                  February, 1989
Loan Negotiations        March, 1989                    March, 1989
Board Presentation       July, 1989                     August 3, 1989
Board Approval           August 3, 1989                 August 3, 1989
Loan Signature           December 5, 1989               December 5, 1989
Loan Effectiveness       August, 1989                   February 12, 1990
Loan Closing Date        December 31, 1992              December 31, 1993
Comments: During Bank negotiations, it was noted that the approach advocated in the TA
project would require heavy supervision resources by the Bank and that this should be factored
into the Bank department's forward budgeting.
There was a four month delay in loan effectiveness (para 1.14).
Extension of project closing date was conditional upon the signature of a contract to carry out
overdue audit of SAL I and upon submission of technical assistance work programs.
17



Table 3:    Loan Disbursements
Actual
Appraisal estimate           As of
Category              Amount (US$)     %         01/05/94
Equipment, Vehicles      300,000       80        286,863
and Computers
Consultants' Services   3,050,000      90      3,614,029
Training Activities      130,000      100        238,747
Other Activities:
a. consultants' services    200,000  100        77,892
training equipment
for SME support
b.Goods and services    240,000      100        107,187
for activities to be
determined during
project implementation
Refunding of PPF         580,000                 237,361
Unallocated              500,000                      0
Special account                0                 211,174
TOTAL                 5,000,000               4,773,253
18



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD fiscal year                  FY 90   FY 91   FY 92    FY93   FY 94
Appraisal Estimate                 1.0      1.8     2.8       3.8      4.6
Actual                            0.73      1.9     2.9       4.3      4.8
Actual as % of Estimate            14.7    38.7    58.9       86.9    95.5
Date of Last Disbursement: January 5, 1994
19



Table 4:    Project Implementation
Appraisal                     Actual (or
Indicators                             Estimate                     PCR Estimate
Project Management
Establishment of PMU                   Effectiveness                 August, 1989
Entry on duty of project               Effectiveness                 February, 1990
coordinator & administrators
Adopt semi-annual work programs        June & December               Only June 1991
and send semi-annual reports           (1989 - 1992)                 and July 1993
to the Bank                                                          reports
submitted
Support to Planning and Training
Recruitment of four long-term          September, 1989               Oct 1990-March
MPDE advisors                                                        1991
Selection of MPDE counterparts         September, 1989               October, 1990
Recruitment of IEF computer            September, 1989               March, 1991
science teacher
Installation of IEF computers           October, 1989                NA
Training needs assessment              October, 1989                 Did not take
of students at IEF                                                   place
Development of training program        October and                   Ongoing from
for MPDE                               April, 1989-91                October, 1990
through
September, 1993
Development of IEF training            December and                  Ongoing from
program                                August, 1989-91               October, 1990
t h r o u g h
September,
1993
20



Civil Service Support
Evaluation of the Civil Service Reform
*Recruit consultant for evaluation     September, 1989              Did not take
study                                                               place
*Submit proposals arising from the    January, 1990                 Did not take
evaluation study to the Bank                                        place
Strengthening Personnel Management
*Define computer hardware, software   November, 1989                Did not take
and training needs (study)                                          place
*Install computer hardware and soft-   February, 1990               Did not take
ware and train users                                                place
Support to SMEs
Recruitment of consultant              March, 1989                  May, 1989
for diagnostic study of SMEs
Submission of proposals                July, 1989                   December, 1989
arising from the study of SMEs
to the Bank
*Implement agreed actions re          Sept. 1989-June 1992          Did not take
SMEs                                                                place
*Recruit consultants for banking      September, 1989               Did not take
study                                                               place
Studies and Other Needs
*Carry out studies for further        June 1989-June 1992           Did not take
preparation and implementation of                                   place
the adjustment program as required
*Submit proposals arising from the    June 1989 -June 1992          Did not take
studies to the Bank                                                 place
*Implement agreed actions             June 1989-June 1992           Did not take
place
21



Audits
Financial audits of project accounts  June 1990, 1991, 1992         Feb. 1992
(1990-91 accts)
July, 1993
(1992 accts)
April, 1994
(1993 accts)
Comments: *These activities did not take place. When it was decided to drop the civil service
component, the civil service audit did not take place. Because of the liquidation of
PROMOGABON, the SME study recommendations were not carried out. The banking study
was contingent upon implementation of SAL II, which did not take place. With regards to the
five seminars envisaged in the Technical Annex on Training, six actually took place.
22



Table 5:      Project Costs and Financing in $US
Appraisal             |              Actual
Category                      _ _ _ _ _-_              _ _ _ _ _-_  _ _  _        =
Total Cost    Foreign     Local     Total Cost   Foreign     Local
Equipment, vehicles,     500,000     400,000    100,000           NA    286,863        NA
computers
Consultants' services   5,230,000   4,035,000  1,195,000          NA   3,614,029       NA
Training activities       130,000     130,000         0           NA    238,747        NA
Other Activities
A  Consultant          200,000     200,000          0           NA      77,892       NA
services,
training and
equipment for
Part C(b)
B  Goods and           240,000     240,000          0           NA      107,187      NA
services for
Part E
Refunding of PPF                                                  NA    237,361        NA
Special Account                0           0          0           NA    211,174        NA
TOTAL              6,300,000   5,000,000  1,300,000          NA   4,773,253       NA
23



Table 6:    Project Results
Indicators                     Appraisal                       Closing date
On-the-job                     10 counterparts                 10 counterparts
training to counterparts       were to be trained              received training
Training in                    45 graduates (15 in each        45 graduates
economic and financial         graduating year) in first       were trained
management at IEF              year of administration
were to be trained
Seminars                       Five training seminars          6 training seminars
were held
Support to IEF                 (a) a new computer classroom    12 computers and
with seven microcomputers      8 printers were
(b) courses in computer        purchased
applications of public and     Computer courses
parapublic management          given during project
life
Support to public administration   (a) Audit of the civil service*  Did not take place
(b) 5 microcomputers           Were not purchased
(c) computer training required  Did not take place
to strengthen personnel
management
Support to promotion of SMEs    (a) diagnostic study of the    Took place
promotion system
(b) audit of the promotion     Took place
agencies, PROMOGABON and
FAGA
(c) implementation of          Did not take place
SMEs study recommendations
(d) study of the banking system    Did not take place
(e) training                   Took place
(f) equipment                  Was not purchased
PMU                            (a) vehicles                     2 were purchased
(b) equipment                   1 computer
purchased
(c) training seminars           PMU staff attended
two training seminars
24



Table 7:     Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant           Subject                 Compliance          Status
Loan Agreement
Section 2.02.(b)    Maintenance of project   Not specified     Satisfied
special account
Section 2.03       Closing date            12/31/92            Extended from
12/31/92 to 12/31/93
Section 3.01. (b)    Establishment of PMU    Effectiveness     Satisfied
under the overall respons-
ibility of MPDE
Section 3.01.(b)*   Macro-economist to serve    -              Not satisfied
as counselor to Project
Administrator
Section 3.02 +     Procurement of goods and    -               Generally satisfied
Schedule 4         consultants' services
Section 3.03. (a)    Provision of semi-annual  Beginning       Submitted only June 1991
progress reports by PMU  Dec. 1, 1989       and July 1993
Section 3.03. (a)    Submission of work    Every six months    Not satisfied
plans                   beginning Dec. 1.89
Section 4.01.(b)    a. Provision of information   -            Satisfied
b. Maintenance of records    -              Satisfied
c. Yearly audit of accounts   -             Satisfied
Schedule 4,        Borrower shall take all
Part B,            responsible measures                        Partially satisfied
Section II(b)      to facilitate the work
of consultants
Schedule 4, Part B, Borrower shall make evaluation             Partially satisfied
Section II(e)      of performance of each consultant
and exchange views with Bank
Schedule 4, Part B, Borrower shall assign local                Satisfied
Section II (f)     counterpart staff to TA before
arrival of latter
* Role of macroeconomist as counselor was stated in Loan Agreement but not included
in the macroeconomist's TORs
25



Table 8:    Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inputs
(in staff weeks from MIS & 590 forms)
1988   1989    1990   1991    1992       1993    1994
Identification
Preparation/           7.1    1.1
Appraisal
Board Approval           -      NA               -       -            -
Supervision                             2.0     2.0              2.0      -
Other (PCR)             -       -        -       -       -        -      7.0
Total                  7.1    1.1       2.0     2.0      -       2.0    7.0
Total supervision: 21.2 SW, of which 7 SW PCR
The weeks shown under Supervision represent weeks spent in the field. Data on total staff
weeks spent at headquarters was not available.
26



B.   Missions
Stage of            Month/      No. of Days in   Specialization     Performance
proj. cycle         year         pers.   field    represented       Rating Status 1/
Identification      Nov 21-Dec 2  3        12     PSM
1988                         Specialist,
Editor, UNDP/TA Specialist
Preparation/        July 21 -26    1      6       PSM Specialist
Appraisal           1989
Board
approval            Jan 23 -30     1       8      PSM Specialist
to effect-          1990
iveness
Supervision
#1              Nov 18-21      1       3       PSM Specialist    OS: 2
1990                                            PDO: 1
CLC: 1
PMP: 2
AOF: 2
#2              June 24-27     1       4       PSM specialist    OS: 1
1991                                            PDO: 1
CLC: 1
PMP: 2
AOF: 1
#3              Nov 28-Dec 3  1        6       PSM Specialist    OS: 2
1991                                            PDO: 2
CLC: I
PMP: 1
AOF: 2
27



Stage of            Month/      No. of Days in   Specialization     Performance
proj. cycle         year         pers.   field    represented       Rating Status 1/
Supervision (cont'd)
#4               Feb 14-28     1      7*      Financial         OS: 2
1993                         Economist         PDO: 2
CLC: 1
PMP: 1
AOF: 1
#5               June 17-19    1       2      PSM
1993                         Specialist        OS: 3
PDO: 3
CLC: 3
PMP: 1
AOF: 1
7* of the 14 days in the field were used to supervise the TA project.
1/ OS  = Overall Status
PDO = Project Development Objectives
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants
PMP = Project Management Performance
AOF = Availability of Funds
28















