 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14748

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/29/2015

               Country: India
             Project ID: P101653                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Power System                  Project Costs (US$M):                     2,114         1,300.72
                         Development Project
                         Iv
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      1,000            855.22
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                              03/18/2008
                                                                 Closing Date:           07/31/2013         07/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (100%)
          Theme(s):        Infrastructure services for private sector development (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Fernando Manibog           John R. Eriksson       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective (PDO) is "to strengthen the transmission system in order to increase reliable power
exchange between regions and states of India" according Schedule 1, page 4 of the Loan Agreement dated March 28,
2008 between IBRD and the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (POWERGRID).

According to the Project Restructuring and Additional Financing Paper dated May 15, 2014, there was no change in
the PDOs.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) state the same
PDO.

Note:
Through the Power System Development Projects (PSDP) series, the Bank has supported POWERGRID's
emergence as one of the world's largest transmission utilities through a series of investments. Bank financing for the
PSDP series has amounted to US$3.7 billion since 1993 and has included intensive capacity-building support during
POWERGRID's formative years. The Bank has financed the following projects, with the loan amounts indicated:
  Northern Region Transmission Project (NRTP) for US$475 million (closed in September 2000)
  First PSDP (PSDP I) for US$350 million (closed in December 2000)
  Second PSDP (PSDP II) for US$450 million (closed in June 2006)
  Third PSDP (PSDP III) for US$400 million (closed in July 2011)
The project under review is the Fourth PSDP, and the Fifth PSDP is presently under implementation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
This repeater project (see costs below) had only one major component - the Transmission System Strengthening
Schemes - which consisted of the partial construction of the following, including transmission lines and substations:
1. East-West Transmission Corridor
2. Western Region Strengthening II
3. Eastern Region Strengthening I
and also the completion of construction of the following:
4. 2,500 MW, +/- 500 kV Balia-Bhiwadi HVDC Bipole System
5. Northwest Transmission Corridor
The above works included transmission lines and substations.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Costs and Financing:
The project contributed to POWERGRID's 2006-2014 investment program totaling US$2.125 billion. Of this total, the
Bank financed US$600 million under the original loan and US$400 million under Additional Financing approved on
May 15, 2014. The Borrower financed the remaining amount.

Restructuring
The project had a Level 2 restructuring requiring Country Director approval in May 2014 -- with no change in the PDO
-- to utilize the significant savings of US$145 million (US$60 million under the original loan and US$85 million under
the Additional Financing) that resulted mainly from the highly competitive market and the continuing devaluation of the
Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar since loan approval. The restructuring included:
1. Southern Region System Strengthening Scheme XIII (SRSS 13), which was a new scheme
2. System Strengthening in Western Region for Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project (UMPP), which was shifted from the
new Power V project to the Additional Financing of this Power IV project.

Dates:
Appraised in January 2008, the project was approved by the Board on March 18, 2008, and became effective on May
16, 2008. The midterm review was conducted from April 12 to 23, 2010. As explained above, the project was
restructured in May 2014. The original closing date of July 31, 2013 was extended by one year to July 31, 2014,


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

The project's objective was substantially relevant at the time of appraisal and remains so today, both in terms of the
Government's sector strategy and the Bank's country assistance strategies.

During the years surrounding project appraisal (January 2008), a rapidly growing demand and electricity shortages
seriously affected India's energy sector. Consequently, the Government's sector strategy in its 10th Year Plan
(2002-2007) gave high priority to addressing the limitations of grid integration, deficits in generation and transmission
capacity, and severe peak load shortages -- all of which had resulted in high losses to the economy. The PDO was
especially relevant to the dire need for expanding the regional transmission network and inter-regional capacity to
transmit power. Project completion (2014) coincided with the consolidation of the National Grid that was being
pursued under the 12th Five Year Plan (2012–17).

Also at appraisal, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (2004–2007) cited as its priority areas of engagement
infrastructure as one of its priority areas of engagement, together with human development and rural development.
Operationally, this translated into prioritizing the expansion of POWERGRID’s inter-regional and state-level
transmission capacity, and improving electricity access.

Currently, within the umbrella of its Country Partnership Strategy (2013–2017), the Bank's power sector strategy
centers on: (i) addressing bottlenecks in generation, transmission, and distribution at both the state as well as national
level through the financing of relevant public investments; (ii) supporting policies and regulatory measures to foster
private sector participation and efficient sector operations; and (iii) promoting economically and financially sustainable
access to electricity.

b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial

The project’s design is substantially relevant to the over-arching goal of achieving grid integration, by supporting
investments in transmission capacity to transfer power from surplus to deficit regions. This synchronization of the
Southern Region grid with rest of the country's grid is essential to truly achieve one National Grid. More specifically,
the focus of the project's design on transmission lines and substations directly serve POWERGRID's need to reinforce
its capability to manage and operate the national grid, which it is pursuing through the Power System Operation
Corporation Limited (POSOCO), a fully owned subsidiary of POWERGRID. POSOCO has state-of-the-art Unified
Load Dispatch and Communication (ULDC) facilities that are designed to carry out efficient and transparent operation
and management of the national grid. To this end, the National Load Dispatch Center (NLDC) and Regional Load
Despatch Centers (RLDCs) have also been continuously upgraded and modernized.

The relevance of project design has been further enhanced by capitalizing on the accumulated technical experience of
POWERGRID and using the eligibility criteria under the immediately preceding Third PSDP to identify investments
and financing mechanisms for transmission systems. Through the latter, POWERGRID was able to establish that the
selected transmission investments were technically justified, operationally sound, and selected on the basis of having
been the least-cost option after consideration of alternative investments.

However, the Results Framework as presented in the PAD (Annex 3, pages 22 to 23) is rudimentary as it basically
states the PDO and only shows physical growth in (i) units of power exchange within and across regions, and (ii)
circuit-kilometers of transmission capacity. None of the key activities and no intermediate indicators are shown.
Critical factors of performance related to institutional capacity are totally absent. However, given the straightforward
PDO of expanding the transmission system to increase power exchange, and the technical strength of POWERGRID
built with Bank support since 1993, this is considered a relatively minor shortcoming.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Substantial

The objective of the project is to strengthen the transmission system in order to increase reliable power exchanges
between regions and states of India.

Overview:
By 2013. the project had exceeded the targets that were set in the PDO-level and intermediate outcome indicators.
During the September 2013 Bank supervision mission for this PSDP IV project (also the midterm review for the
ongoing PSDP V), the indicators were revised upward to lay the basis for the project restructuring that was approved
in May 2014. Subsequently, the revised targets were also exceeded by POWERGRID, except for the small gap of
0.18% in transmission capacity. The project's over-arching achievement was to increase the availability of electricity
via the national grid, especially in deficit regions, thus promoting the optimal utilization of scarce transmission system
resources and increasing access to reliable electricity supplies.

Outputs:

PDO Indicator:
Inter-regional power exchange grew to 78,384 million units (MU) in 2014, compared to the baseline of 37,752 MU set
at the 2007 appraisal. This represents a 108% actual increase, compared to the appraisal estimate of a 54% increase
from the baseline.

Intermediate Output Indicators:
Transformation capacity grew to 205,923 megavolt-amperes (MVA) in 2014, compared to the baseline of 59,417 MVA
set at the 2007 appraisal. This represents a 247% actual increase, compared to the appraisal estimate of a 55%
increase from the baseline.

Transmission capacity grew to 106,804 circuit kilometers (ckm) in 2014, compared to the baseline of 59,400 ckm set
at the 2007 appraisal. This represents an 80% actual increase, compared to the appraisal estimate of a 60% increase
from the baseline.

Outcomes:
The project's development outcomes include the following (these may not be fully attributable to PSDP IV alone given
the cumulative effects from previous operations in the PSDP series):
    POWERGRID’s operational performance in terms of transmission system availability improved from 99.2% to
     99.9% from 2007 to 2014.
    The number of trippings per line was reduced from 3.64 to 0.56 during the 2007 to 2014 period.
    Power traded as a percentage of total power generated has increased from 3.6 percent in 2007 to 11 percent in
     2014, which would indicate an improved utilization of existing transmission capacities, i.e., the ability when
     needed to easily transfer electricity from surplus regions/states to regions and states that are experiencing
     deficits.
    Measures have been adopted to bring the frequency within the prescribed band. As a result, POWERGRID and
     POSOCO are now running one of the largest transmission networks in the world that operate at a single
     frequency.
    Grid security is now better ensured and distribution utilities have greater incentives to procure power through
     contracts in organized markets.
    The Southern Region was also connected synchronously with the rest of the National Grid in December 2013.
    Corporate-level indicators show a continuation of POWERGRID's strong performance across several technical
     and financial metrics (see Section 5 below on Efficiency).
    Private sector participation has increased by more than 4.5 times in terms of circuit kilometers of line constructed
     from 2007 to 2014.
    Improved corporate governance and financial accountability has resulted in the successful listing of
     POWERGRID in local and international stock exchanges.


5. Efficiency:

Substantial

Economic Efficiency
At appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) ranged from 14.8% to 22% in the base case and 10% to 16% in the
most adverse case. At completion, and using the same methodology at appraisal, the ERR varied between 11% for
the Eastern Region System Strengthening 1 (ERSS1) and 24% for the Northwest Transmission Corridor (NWTC).
The recalculated ERRs at completion are all above the 12% opportunity cost of capital except for ERSS1.

Financial Efficiency
Return on Equity (ROE) was used as the proxy for a financial rate of return calculation during appraisal. Using the
same methodology, the ROE at completion for all the cases of the different schemes varied between 14% for ERSS I
and 29% for NWTC.

Corporate Financial Viability
POWERGRID has complied with all the financial and legal covenants in the Loan Agreement. Financial ratios are
robust compared to those stipulated by the covenants:
   The debt-equity ratio was always less than 80:20
   The self-financing ratio was also greater than 20 percent for all the years from FY2008 to FY2014.
   Accounts receivable over the project life were also much lower than the 3 months of billing
   POWERGRID’s receivables as of July 31, 2014 stand at 0.34 months of average billing.

Administrative and Implementation Efficiency
There were no major delays. The Southern Region System Strengthening XIII (SRSS 13) was delayed due to severe
Right Of Way issues that were faced at the state level, which is beyond the control of POWERGRID. The expected
completion date is March 2015.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      22%                                     100%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                      24%                                     100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
The relevance of the objectives of this repeater project was substantial; the relevance of project design was also
substantial, having benefitted greatly from the accumulated knowledge and experience from previous projects in the
PSDP series. Efficacy was substantial, although it should be noted that while the outputs were achieved and have
exceeded their targets, the outcomes while impressive may not necessarily be all attributable to PSDP IV given the
cumulative effects from previous PSDP series operations. Efficiency was substantial, on all the criteria of economic
and financial rates of return, corporate financial viability, and implementation efficiency, except from a relatively slight
delay in one of the schemes (SRSS13).

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The physical investments are expected to be sustainable, given POWERGRID's financial, operational, and technical
strength. POWERGRID has been proven to have an adaptive corporate and operational structure that enables it to
manage and run its infrastructure facilities flexibly and efficiently. There is also a likelihood that POWERGRID will
continue to attain high performance levels technically and financially, given its strong institutional capacity and
managerial performance track record. Private participation in terms of circuit kilometers of transmission lines
constructed has also increased (by over four-fold, as indicated in Section 4 above), thus giving further assurances that
high technical and commercial standards would be maintained.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The Bank's knowledge and experience gained from PSDP I, II, and III had a positive impact on the preparation of
PSDP IV, notably by helping ensure that lessons learned and a deep understanding of the sector context were
reflected in project design and appraisal. For example, at appraisal, the implementation of several PSDP IV
schemes were already underway under PSDP III. POWERGRID had also already initiated advanced procurement
of all packages to be financed under PSDP IV. The objectives under PSDP IV and III were also fully consistent,
namely, to increase inter-regional power exchange capacity. Thus, in practice, the Project Implementation Plans
(PIPs) for all the PSDP IV schemes had already been reviewed and approved by the Bank early in the appraisal
stage, since they had already met the eligibility criteria under PSDP III.

At entry, the Bank already had a deep knowledge of the Indian power sector, the transmission subsector, and
POWERGRID's operational and institutional capabilities. This enabled the Bank to capitalize on already
established strong partnerships and good working relationships with the sector’s stakeholders, including
POWERGRID, POWERGRID's subsidiary POSOCO, the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, the Ministry
of Power, and the Ministry of Finance. This enabled the Bank to more efficiently carry out a financial management
assessment, as well as a safeguards and compliance measures assessment. The Bank was able to more readily
ensure that effective Environmental and Social Policy (ESPP) framework and procedures had already been
established. As a result, POWERGRID provided the initial Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and Rehabilitation
Action Plans (RAPs) early on.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

The Bank project team conducted 9 supervision missions during the 6-year implementation period, which included
site visits that focused on monitoring compliance with environmental and social safeguards. Given the high profile
of the PSDP series, the team also interacted regularly with diverse stakeholders including the Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Power, the Central Electricity Authority, relevant State Electricity Boards, Project Affected Peoples, and
NGOs (ICR, page 93). Close supervision was delegated to country-based staff, which had a counterpart staff in
POWERGRID. This facilitated the implementation and monitoring of the project's activities. The ICR indicates that
the Bank team was provided adequate budgetary resources and an appropriate skills mix. The Implementation
Status and Results Reports (ISRs) provided timely information on compliance with covenants, disbursements, and
any corrective actions thay may have been needed. By the mid-term review of April 2010, the targets of the
performance indicators had already been exceeded. The forest management and Right Of Way issues, which
resulted in a delay in one of the PSDP IV schemes, required close collaboration between the Bank team and
POWERGRID. The issues were eventually resolved. The Bank team also closely monitored the financial
management (FM) performance of POWERGRID and took actions to strengthen its internal audit department,
including the hiring of consultants to (i) review the company's Enterprise Resource Planning and (ii) strengthen its
Enterprise Risk Management. POWERGRID’s internal systems are robust enough to enable its listing on stock
exchanges in India and abroad. POWERGRID's FM performance has benefitted from its long-term partnership
with the Bank through several previous operations.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government placed strong emphasis on the energy sector as being critical for India's sustained and inclusive
economic growth. This was consistently reflected in its Five-Year Plans and continued actions to invest heavily in
the transmission subsector so that electricity demand can be met by a reliable delivery network. The
Government's broad-based commitment -- including the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Finance, and the Central
Electricity Regulatory Commission --- was evident in its willingness and readiness to engage with the Bank during
project supervision, as well as in the larger dialogue that pervaded the PSDP series. The key stakeholder made
themselves available to the Bank supervision teams and worked together to resolve issues during project
supervision.

When necessary, the Government took the actions through strategic and managerial directives for the power
sector. The Government provided regular monitoring of loan disbursement and counterpart funding, and
compliance with loan covenants, including payment of arrears. The Government provided an adequate legal and
regulatory framework for achieving the PDO and promoting POWERGRID’s sustainability. For example, the
regulatory framework allowed for tariffs that enabled POWERGRID to achieve adequate and satisfactory rates of
Return On Equity.


   Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

POWERGRID was the Borrower and implementing agency for PSDP IV. Its strong institutional capacity was built
through sustained strengthening under the preceding PSDP projects, which the Bank had supported since 1993.
POWERGRID has the managerial strength, operational culture, and project management capabilities needed for
effective monitoring of implementation. As a result, POWERGRID demonstrated its efficiency in implementing
most investment schemes on or near schedule.

As discussed in Section 4 on Efficacy, POWERGRID was able to exceed its Output targets under the project
(disbursements were 96% of the original loan, and 100% of the Additional Financing loan). POWERGRID
complied with the financial and other legal covenants, as well as the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. It employed
its Integrated Project Management and Control System (IPMCS), its corporate Environmental and Social Policy
and Procedures (ESPP), and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to mitigate safeguard risks. This allowed
corrective actions to be taken in a timely manner. According to the ICR (page 28), "POWERGRID continues to
improve its corporate governance, environmental, and social responsibility through strengthening of the ESPP and
CSR, internal audit department, carrying out of operational audits, implementing of the ERM framework, and the
ERP system."


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

M&E design was keyed exclusively to the implementation and completion of the transmission schemes. Thus, the
M&E framework focused the reporting on the achievement of physical output targets and the operational performance
of the transmission system as well as POWERGRID's own performance, including legal covenants with the Bank,
financial reporting, and contracts monitoring. This was evident from how the PDO and intermediate indicators for the
project were formulated.

b. M&E Implementation:

Using an agreed reporting format, POWERGRID utilized its Integrated Project Control and Management System
(IPCMS) to collect real-time data on the progress of physical installations, as well as increases in transmission and
transformation capacities, while the National Load Dispatch Center (NLDC) monitored growth in power exchange. In
addition, POWERGRID monitored billing and collection and provided the Bank a monthly report. In addition,
POWERGRID also produced quarterly progress reports (QPRs), quarterly financial management reports, audited
annual financial statements (within six months of the end of each financial year), and annual information on progress
with sector performance indicators.

c. M&E Utilization:

The data generated in the quarterly reports were utilized in addressing all aspects of the project including
procurement, engineering, safeguards, financial management, and corporate finance, as well as POWERGRID's
covenanted targets with the Bank such as the debt-equity ratio, the self-financing ratio, and payment of arrears.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The original project and its Additional Financing were both rated ‘Category A’ on safeguards. In 1998, POWERGRID
developed its corporate Environment and Social Policy Procedures (ESPP), which has been updated in 2005. The
ESPP, which is systematically applied to all POWERGRID projects whatever the financing source of financing, is in
compliance with the Bank's safeguards policies and its provisions, according to the ICR (page 13). The ICR further
indicates that "The ESPP outlines POWERGRID's approach and commitment to deal with the environmental and
social issues relating to its transmission schemes and lays out management procedures to address them. The ESPP
provides POWERGRID with a framework for identification, assessment, and management of environmental and social
concerns at both organizational as well as field levels." The 2005 ESPP update was accompanied by
capacity-building in POWERGRID's environmental and social management department, and national and regional
consultations; the ESPP was further updated in 2009 to meet the guidelines of multilateral funding agencies and adopt
international best practices. This revised ESPP was adopted by the Bank as a pilot for Use of Country Systems under
PSDP V. (ICR, page 13)

The ICR (page 14) further indicates that In line with the Bank’s social safeguards, the Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) policy is aimed at promoting community development around its establishments and substations with a focus
on education, health care, infrastructure development, ecology and environment conservation, and disaster relief in
the country. The CSR initiatives are aimed to improve the quality of life of the local population and bring the
marginalized people to the mainstream of development. POWERGRID has articulated a ‘Social Entitlement
Framework’ based on the National Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy of 2007 and other progressive trends in its
ESPP applicable for the affected families. In line with its land acquisition policy (for the construction of substations),
POWERGRID acquires land with minimal social impact on account of land loss. Site selection is planned on the basis
of avoiding irrigated land, homestead land/houses, religious structures, cultural property, or public infrastructure.
Overall, implementation of ESPP along with measures adopted under CSR has played a major/vital role in mitigation
of social impacts of the project."
At completion, the rating for safeguards compliance was Satisfactory. All the transmission schemes were completed
except for SRSS 13, for which completion has been delayed due to "severe RoW issues being faced in the state of
Karnataka, which were out of the control of POWERGRID. Monitoring of implementation of this scheme
will now be done under PSDP V." (ICR, page 15)


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Previous Bank support under the PSDP series included the strengthening of POWERGRID’s internal audit
department, as well as the development and implementation of an organization-wide frameowrk for Enterprise Risk
Management (ERM) and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) aimed at improving corporate governance and financial
accountability. In July 2008 as the project started, financial management (FM) was rated as Moderately Satisfactory
due to outstanding issues and subsequently to the delay in submission of the project audit report for FY2013 (caused
by the delay in appointing an auditor). Moreover, the FY2013 audit report was qualified due to the diversion of
Bank-funded materials to other projects. The FY2014 audit report was submitted on time but the qualification
remained on POWERGRID's diversion of materials from the sites where issues and delays occur (e.g., the
Right-of-Way issues in SRSS 13) to sites that are higher priority for the National Grid. The ICR (pages 15-16)
indicates that "A proper arrangement is formulated between the sites where the material has been diverted to return
the material of the same specifications and diligently followed. Both the Bank and POWERGRID are working together
to resolve the issue at the earliest and this will be closely monitored under PSDP V." The ICR (page 16) indicates that
that "POWERGRID’s FM system accurately accounted and reported for the project resources and expenditures" and
that "its FM performance under previous loans has been rated Satisfactory."

Procurement
In terms of procurement, all 73 packages (39 packages under PSDP IV and 34 packages under PSDP IV AF) were
awarded according to the Bank’s procurement procedures.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):



d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Some of the key lessons provided by the ICR (pages 29-31) are quoted below:
    Long-term programmatic engagement results in a successful partnership . The Bank's long-term support for
     POWERGRID has resulted both in a strong transmission system and deep institutional strengthening, as
     shown by the continuous improvements in POWERGRID's technical implementation, procurement, and
     safeguards systems, which are now used as standards by other companies.
    Repeater operations contributed toward effective implementation of POWERGRID projects . Early preparation
     while the previous PSDP III was still being implemented helped to minimize the issues for PSDP IV. Moreover,
     the use of the same eligibility criteria helped to maintain the Government's commitment to the project.
    Timely measures are required for overcoming Right -of-Way (RoW) issues. POWERGRID seeks early
     assistance from local government authorities and has adopted an innovative tower design that reduces the
     width of RoW requirements, thus minimizing conflicts and delays in obtaining RoW.
    Due focus on safeguards help in obtaining forest clearances with a shorter turnaround time . The
     strengthening of POWERGRID's environment and social department, and its allocation of one officer in each
     region for regular follow-up and monitoring of forest proposals with the relevant officials, helped expedite
     obtaining forest clearances.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is clearly written and provides a large amount of quantitative evidence, although it is long at 31 pages partly
because of repetitive texts and elaboration of detailed procedural matters. Overall, it complies with OPCS guidelines
for ICR preparation. However, the financing figures in Annex 1(b) do not exactly add up to the project cost figures in
Annex 1(a). Moreover, the ICR is almost entirely focused on physical outputs as formulated in the Key Performance
Indicators, thus leading the ICR to say that "POWERGRID has satisfactorily achieved the PDO and has not only met
but outperformed all KPIs, thus meeting all development outcomes." The physical outputs embedded in the KPIs are
not the same as development outcomes. As indicated in the M&E section above, which has been rated Modest, there
has been no effort (apart from physical bean-counting) to conduct an impact evaluation or a similar effort to assess
the welfare impacts (particularly on the poor) of the expansion of India's transmission system and the ensuing
increase in electricity access.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
