RESTR I CTED
FILE      COPY                           Report No. P-533
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR
April 10, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPCRT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$ 4,000,000 to
the Port Autonome de Dakar, to be guaranteed by the Republic of Senegal,
to assist in financing improvements to the Port of Dakar, Republic of
Senegal.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The proposed project is the outcome of a series of consultations
during the past three years between the Government, the Port Autonome de
Dakar (the Port) and the Bank on a port rehabilitation and modernization
program suitable for financing by the Bank.
3.       The proposed loan would be the first Bank loan to the Republic
of Senegal. An IDA credit (96-SE) of US$ 9.0 million equivalent was made
for the modernization of the Senegal Railways in September 1966. This
credit became effective on January 25, 1967 but no disbursement has yet
been made. Prior to this, in 1954L, the Senegal Railways benefited from
a Bank loan (100-FR) of US$ 7.5 million equivalent, to the Office Central
des Chemins de Fer de la France d'Outre-Mer for the dieselization of the
then French West-African Railways. This project was successfully completed
and the loan has been fully repaid.
4.       IFC has an equity investment of US$ 1.0 million in, and has made
a long-term loan of US$ 2.45 million to, a Senegalese Company (Societ6
Industrielle des Engrais du S6n6gal) established to build and operate a
fertilizer plant near Dakar. The principal amount disbursed to date for
these investments is US$ 0.8 million equivalent.
5.       Bank staff appraised the project in April/May 1966, after a
number of contacts and visits in 1964 and 1965. Formal negotiations were
completed in Washington in December 166 but the presentation of the proposed
loan to the Executive Directors has been delayed until the Government and
the Port Authority had taken steps agreed upon during negotiations involving
amendments to the Port Statutes and the appointment of a qualified accountant.
The Senegalese Delegation was led by H.E. Habib Thiam, Minister for
Planning and Development and Mr. Sidi Mohamed Dioury, Managing Director
of the Port.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.    BorrowVer:                   Port Autonome de Dakar.
Guarantor:                   The Republic of Senegal
Amount:                      Equivalent, in various currencies,
to U.S. $b.0 million.
Purpose:                     To meet part of the cost of
improvements to the Port of Dakar
(extension of a mole, reconstruction
of twro quays and a dredging program).
Amortization:                15 years including 3.1/2 years of grace.
25 semi-annual payments beginning
October 15, 1970 and ending April 15,
1982.
Interest rate:              6% per annum.
Commitment Charge:           3/8 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.     An Appraisal Report (Appraisal of the rakar Port Project,
Republic of Senegal - TO-569-a) is attached. The project consists of
the high-priority items in that part of Senegal's Four-Year Development
Plan (1965/66-1968/69) applicable to the Port.   It includes
(a)   the extension of the existing Mole 3, to increase the
handling capacity for Mali traffic, and the reconstruction
of the quay wall in the adjacent East Basin, with dredging
alongside to 10 m depth;
(b)   reconstruction of the quay wall of the Middle Basin, with
dredging alongside to 10 m. depth;
(c)   dredging to provide improved access for cargo vessels to
the southern sector of the Port and to permit deeper draft
vessels for phosphate exports.
8.     The financing of this project would complement to a certain extent
IDA's credits for the rehabilitation of the Senegal and Mali Railways
(95-MLI and 96-SE), since the majority of the international traffic on
the railways, including the greater part of the maritime trade of Mali,



- 3 -
passes through the Port of Dakar. The success of the project therefore
depends on continued cooperation between Senegal and Mali in this sector.
Traffic between Senegal and Mali is regulated by an International Traffic
Agreement, a Railway Convention, a Customs Agreement providing for transit
in bond through Senegal for Mali goods, and a free-zone agreement providing
transit facilities for Mali goods through the ports of Dakar and Kaolack.
The assurances obtained for the continued cooperation of Senegal with Mali
within the framework of these agreements are reflected in the Loan documents,
as they were in the agreements for the railways credits.
9.    The estimated total cost of the project, including consultants'
services and allowances for ccntingencies, is US.$6.9 million. The
foreign-exchange component is estimated at US$ 4.0 million. The amount
of the proposed loan is calculated to cover the estimated foreign exchange
requirements and would finance about 58% of the total project cost. The
remainder would be met by the Port out of its own resources.
10.   Since the CFA franc is the common currency of seven African countries
and is freely convertible into French francs, tender documents in Senegal
do not provide for a breakdown of the bids between foreign exchange and
local currency and, therefore, disbursements from the loan account cannot
be related to the actual foreign exchange cost. For this reason, disburse-
ment would be made on the basis of the estimated overall percentage of
foreign exchange to the total cost of the project, that is 58%. The
loan would be disbursed over the period during which expenditures are made
on the project. If there were a substantial increase in the estimated
total cost of the project, a lower percentage would be established to
ensure that withdrawals would be made as nearly as practicable in relation
to the physical progress of the project. If a reduction were to occur
in the total cost of the project, the Bank would be entitled to maintain
its 58% participation and cancel the resulting savings in the loan
account.
11.   In view of the urgent need for the extension of Mole 3 owing to
increased traffic and the reconstruction of the East Basin quay wall which
has collapsed, a contract for these works amounting to $2.12 million
equivalent was let in July 1966, following discussions with the Bank.
This was done in accordance with international bidding procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank and on the basis of specifications which incorporated
the Bank's recommendations. It is therefore recommended that the Bank
reimburse from the proceeds of the proposed loan 58% of the payments made
by the Port for these works since November 15, 1966, that is, an amount of
about US$ 200,000. Contracts for the remainder of the project will be
let in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines regarding procurement.
12.   There are two major financial conditions to the proposed loan.
The first is that an adequate return on the net fixed assets in use should
be earned by the Port and, to achieve this, increases in the Port's charges
and dues are necessary. The Senegalese Government and the Port have
agreed that charges should be increased in stages, and the first of these
increases was made effective in December 1966. Secondly, the fixed assets



of the Port are to be revalued in accordance with sound accounting
practices acceptable to the Bank, and the agreed rates of return w7ill
be calculated on the revised value.
13.     The Government and the Port have accepted a wide range of
measures recommended by the Bank, including: (a) a gradual increase of
revenue; (b) a reduction in Port staff: (c) strengthening of the Port
Managing Director's Authority over its staff; (d) a modification of the
Board's and Permanent Committee's quorum requirements and voting
procedures, to reflect more closely the representation of members of the
full Board; and (e) exemptions from import and custom duties for capital
equipment to be imported under the project. The various measures suggested
should enable the Port to achieve a rate of return rising from 0.L% in
196L/65 to about 3% in 1968/69 and about 6% in 1970/71, and to a figure
in excess of 6% in subsequent years.
1L.     The project would be completed by the end of 1969.   It will
increase the efficiency of port operations, allow a reduction in freight
charges, enable the Port to meet the expected increases in traffic and
bring about an improvement of the Port Authority's finances- In view of
its direct and indirect benefits, the project is economically justified.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.     A dreft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Port Autonome
de Dakar, a draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Senegal and
the Bank and the Report of the committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
16.     The draft Loan Agreement conforms generally with agreements for
loans for ports and includes provisions limiting capital expenditures
outside the Project (Section 5.13) and requiring actions to ensure an
adeouate return on fixed assets (Section 5.l1). In view of the importance
to the Borrower of traffic to and from the Republic of Mali, discussed
in paragraph 8 above, provisions similar to those included in the
Association's Development Credit Agreement wiith Senegal (96-SE) have
been included here, e.g., Sections 5-15 and 6.02 (c) and (d). The
employment of consultants w7ould be a condition of effectiveness of the
agreement (Section 7.01).
17.     The Guarantee Agreement follows the general pattern of guarantee
agreements for similar loans.



PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.     A report on "The Economy of Senegal" No.AF-Lla, dated May 26, 1966
was circulated to the 3xecutive Directors on June 1, 1966.
19.     Over the last six years, real national income has probably no
more than kept pace rTith the population growth rate estimated at about
2.5% per annum. Thus average income per head has shown little change.
Howyever, largely as a result of the special position that the country
occupied before 1960 when it was the administrative, commercial and
industrial center of the Federation of French West Africa, a vast area
of some 20 million inhabitants, it still is among the highest per capita
in West Africa. Having kept income at that level is in itself a
remarkable achievement since the adjustment of Senegal to its present
position of an independent country with 3 .5 million people has involved
a significant reduction of income from services, a loss of actual and
potential markets in Africa, and consequently, a marked slow-down in
private investment. There has also been a progressive reduction of
French Government civil and military expenditure, other than direct public
aid. Some offset to these depressing factors has been provided by an
increase, although ,'ith great irregularities from one year to another,
in the production of groundnuts and groundnut products, which account for
60% of total exports and 30% of GDP. Prices for groundnuts have been
maintained at a steady level for the past ten years as a result of
guaranteed price on the French Market. However, rising import prices
have led to a slow deterioration in the terms of trade contributing to the
relatively slow growth rate in total real income.
20.     In spite of these difficulties, the Government has kept the
financial and monetary situation well in hand. Current public expenditure
has been practically stabilized since 1963-64, while high government
resources (24% of GDP) permitted maintenance of a current budget surplus
averaging CFAF 3)4 billion over the last four years, and CFAF 2.7 billion
in 1965/66. Total investment has been running at around 10% of GDP,
about half of it, public. Some 50% of public sector capital expenditures
has been financed by external aid, mainly grants from France and EEC,
as well as soft term loans. In total, these have amounted to around
CFAF )45 to 5.5 billion per year. The Government has also relied to some
extent on local borrowings from resources generated by private savings.
In fact, private domestic savings have been greater than government savings
in most recent years, although they have apparently been decreasing mainly
because of a decline in agricultural real per capita income. In total,
domestic savings have financed about half of investment, which is a
comparatively high proportion for a country with per capita income as low
as Senegal's.  Institutional financial and monetary links Twith the external
world manifest themselves, in the first instance, in the firm attachment
of the country to the Franc Area System within the West African Financial
Community and in its association with the Ehropean Economic Community.
After a period of estrangement, relations with Mali were restored in
July 1963 and have continually improved since.



-6-
21.     Growth prospects appear to depend mainly on the success of
agricultural policy and on the inflow of external capital. As a result
of the convention signed in 1964 between EEC and the Overseas Associated
Countries, Senegal will have to abandon, in the near future, the system
wihereby it enjoyed its guaranteed outlet and a stable guaranteed price,
above the world market level, for its groundnuts exported to France.
In order to compensate for the adverse effects to be expected from this
move internally and externally, the Government has embarked upon policies
aimed at reducing marketing and transportation costs for groundnuts, at
increasing productivity in its production and, more generally, at
diversifying agricultural production, including livestock, with financial
aid from EEC.  An obvious objective for its efforts is to fill the food
gap which results from the general low productivity in agriculture and
from the overwhelming emphasis which has been put on groundnuts production
for many years, and thus try to reduce the major item of expenditure in
the import bill. At the same time, new export crops such as cotton are
being encouraged and also scme improvement in exports may be expected
from increased production of calcium and aluminum phosphates. However,
the results of these policies -wll not bear fruit for several years and
the benefits of the increased physical production oriented towards
3xportation are likely to be offset in varying degrees by the adjustment
of groundnut export prices to world market levels and by the general
downward trend of world market prices for primary commodities.   On the
other hand, the industrial sector which was established before
independence on a wider base than is required for present needs suffers
from some excess capacity. As a result of this, and the narrowness of
the local market, Senegal is unlikely to provide the same opportunities
for foreign and domestic capital investment as in the past.
22.     If investment is to rise at the rate which seems necessary to
achieve an increased growth rate in per capita output, imports wrill
probably have to rise at a faster rate than in the past, at least for
the next few years.  Given the present outlook for relatively slow
growth in exports and domestic savings, a net capital inflow will
probably be required on a substantial scale for some years to come.
If the bulk of this were obtained on conventional borrowing terms, this
could lead to a sizeable debt service burden by the mid-1970's. Thus
it would be desirable for Senegal to continue to receive the major part
of its external capital on concessionary terms. However, given the
present lo level of external debt service - around 3 percent of exports -
and the sound management of economic affairs which has been characteristic
of the Senegalese administration, Senegal should be able to contract a
moderate amount of loans on conventional terms. Since an IDA credit
(No. 96-SE) of $9 million for the Senegal Railweys was approved by the
Board in September 1966, a Bank loan for the present project would appear
to be consistent with the present capacity of Senegal to service external
debt.



- 7 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE IITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
2b.     I recommend th't the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution.
RESOLUTION NO
Approval of Loan to Port Autonome de Dakar in an amount equivalent
to U.S. $L4,000,000 to be guaranteed by the Republic of Senegal
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Port Autonome de Dakar,
to be guaranteed by the Republic of Senegal, in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to four million United States dollars,
(U.S. $U,000,000), to mature on and prior to April 15, 1982, to bear
interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan A ree.-: rt (Port
of Dakar Project) between the Bcnk and the Port Aubonome de Dakar and
in the form of Guarantee Agreement (Port of Dakar Project) between the
Republic of Senegal and the Bank which have been presented to this
meeting.
George D. Woods
Preside nt
Attachment
Washir.gton, D.C.
April . );l167



