Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rewt No. P-3692-TJU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$72 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NICERIA
FOR A
BORNO STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
February 27, 1985
This  et ry recipiet ody hi the peof_nee of
Thdr    fdlksa ftella ws d.. otb ee dbded wi                _t Waa Ba    Jo



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
Calendar 1983 December 1984
US$1             -        N0.72             10.81
N1(100 kobos)    -      US$1.38           US$1.24
Used in this report: Nl - US$1.43,
the August 1983 rate.
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 cubic meter (m3)        -   264 US gallons
1 cubic kilometer (km3)   -   264,000 million US gallons
m3/h                      -   cubic meter per hour
m3/d                      -   cubic meter per day
mbd                       *   million barrels per day
ABBREVIATIONS
BSG       -    Borno State Government
BSWB      -    Borno State Water Board
CBDA      -    Chad Basin Development Authority
FGN       -    Federal Government of Nigeria
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLCL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
BORNO STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN)
Benefici8ry:         Borno State Water Board (BSWB)
Amount:              US$72 million equivalent.
Terms:               Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:     The Feleral Government would onlend the full amount of
the loan to the Borno State Government (BSG), which in
turn would relend US$57.6 million to the Borno State
Water Board (BSWB) on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank loan. The remaining US$14.4 million would be
given to BSWB by BSG as equity contribution. BSG vould
carry the foreign exchange risk on the entire loan
amount.
Project              The project would expand the water supply service in the
Description:       Borno State capital, Maiduguri, to include some 74,000
people who are presently not served by BSWB and to meet
.the demand of the projected population of 543,000 by
1992. The project would improve the quality of service
and assist in strengthening BSWB both financially and
institutionally, through the provision of technical
assistance. The project includes (a) a plant for
the treatment of raw water from the Alau dam and
reservoir; (b) pumping and storage facilities; (c)
transmission mains and an improved distribution system;
Cd) headquarters building and workshops;
Ce) generators, drilling rigs and vehicles; (f) technical
assistance for financial management and accounting,
project implementation and plant operation,
management improvement and training; and (g) studies of
*                                sanitation in Maiduguri and tariffs for the State.   A
special account would be established with part of the
proceeds of the loan. The amounts advanced into this
account would be used to prefiuance reimbursable local
costs and small foreign expenditures.
The principal benefit of the project would be to make
safe drinking water available and to improve the quality
of service to the population of Maiduguri. Project risks
could arise from delays in securing the source of water,
inadequate and tardy counterpart funding, and BSWB's
inexperience in the operation of the proposed plant.
Construction work for the Alau dam is well underway.
Assurances have been obtained from FGN that funding for
the completion of the de-.a would be provided.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without V.orld Bank authorization.



- ii -
In order to ensure timely counterpart funding, establishment
of a project account and a schedule of BSG payments into it
have been agreed at negotiations. Technical assistance would
be provided to facilitate smooth plant operation in the early
years and to train BSWB staff for eventual takeover of
operational responsibilities.
Estimated Costs:
Foreign     Local        Total
----US$  million
Water Treatment Plant                        8.6         12.0         20.6
Transmission Line (Raw Water)                4.6          3.7          8.3
Transmission & Distribution                  18.0        15.0         33.0
Generators, Rigs, Vehicles, Meters etc.    7.0            2.6          9.6
Headquarters Bldg., Workshops                2.4          3.5          5.9
Technical Assistance & Training              2.6          0.7          3.3
Consulting Services & Studies                5.0          1.3          6.3
Base Costs                                48.2         38.8         87.0
Phvsical Contingencies                       4.5          2.6          7.1
Price Contingencies                          7.4         13.5         20.9
Total Project Cost                     60.1         54.9.-/    115.0
a/ Of which US$5.6 million in taxes and duty.
Financing Plan:
Foreign   Local        Total
US$ million
.
IBRD                60.1       11.9        72.0
BSG                           43.0         43.0
Total             60.1      54.9        115.0



- iii -
Estimated Disbursemnt:
IBRD Fiscal Year
86    87    88    89    90    91    92    93    94
--    -  - -__ --
Annual                3.1   8.2  11.4  12.8  11.7   9.9   7.1   4.3   3.5
Cumulative            3.1  11.3  22.7  35.5  47.2  57.1  64.2  68.5  72.0
Economic Rate of Return:  6 percent in border price 1/
Staff AppraLeal Report:   4830-UNI, dated February 21, 1985
Map:                       IBRD No. 17516RI
.
1/ This is the minimum ERR with expected incremental revenues to BSWB as a
result of the project taken as a proxy for project benefits. This
understates the true benefits, however, as other benefits (such as
consumers' surplus) have not been quantified, and externalities (such as
improved health conditions) are not included.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE E)ECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA FOR A
BORNO STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$72.0
million to help finance a project for water supply In Borno State. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. The Federal Goverument would relend the full
proceeds of the loan to the Borno State Government (BSG), which would
further onlend US$57.6 million of the loan to the Borno State Water Board
(BSWB) on the same terms as the Bank loan and give them the remaining
US$14.4 million as equity contribution. BSG would carry the foreign
exchange risk on the entire loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.          The assessment of the Nigerian ecoromic situation in this report
is based largely on the work of an economic updating mission of November
1984 supplemented by further analysis undertaken by Bank staff on the basis
of the 1985 budget speech. The fiudings of a 1982 economic mission were
more fully reflected in a Country Economic Report (No. 4506-UNI) which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on August 15, 1983. Annex I presents
selected social and economic indicators for Nigeria.
Background
3.        Nigeria, with a population of about 94 million in 1984, is the
most populous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Bank members, in 1980
Nigeria accounted for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60
percent of regional investment. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about
US$760 in 1983, which is twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa. While
Nigeria as a major oil exporter since the early seventies enjoyed a
*            substantially improved resource base from increased oil revenues, it still
remains at a very early stage of development in terms of socio-economic
indicators, in which it compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
4.        Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a nev federal
constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government came into power
in 1979. This Government was reelected in September 1983. However, a
I/   Except for minor changes to reflect the 1985 Federal Budget, this
section is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's
Report for the Technical Assistance Project (P-3648-UNI), approved by
the Executive Directors on December 29, 1984.



military government led by Major-General Mohammadu Buhari, took power in
December of the same year.
Macro-economic Developments
5.        Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74, which dramatically altered the
country's resource position.  Between then and the late seventies, Nigeria's
development strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of growth and
diversifying the economy through the resources generated by the oil sector.
The principal objective of the policies pursued by the Nigerian
decision-makers was to translate the large oil revenues accrued--about
US$100 billion in current prices during the 1973-81 period--into investments
in economic, social, and physical infrastructure. While there have been
some "non-economic" investments and waste, significant development gains
were made in both economic and social infrastructure. Transport
infrastructure, particularly roads and ports, expanded considerably. Power
generating capacity tripled, and refining capacity has more than quadrupled
since 1973. Manufacturing grew at an average annual rate of ten percent
during the 1973-82 period, although there was a highly distorted investment
structure due to large variations in the rates of effective protection
provided to various industrisl sub-sectors. There also has been a rapid
spread of education at all levels; in particular, the primary enrollment
ratio which was about 35 percent in the early seventies has more than
doubled.
6.        Developments were not as positive in some other areas.  According
to official statistics, overall output in agriculture remained virtually
stagnant during the 1973-83 period, with the production of grains increasing
probably at the same rate as the population growth rate, but the production
of root and export crops declining substantially. Within a decade, Nigeria
became a major food importer (US$2.7 billion of imports in 1982) as domestic
terms of trade moved against agriculture. Inflation, coupled with an
appreciating domestic currency, pushed up domestic costs of production, thus
putting the commodity-producing sectors at a disadvantage vis-a-vis imports
and non-traded goods. This encouraged diversion of resources from commodity
production to services (including trade and construction). Both agriculture
and industry became "high-cost" activities. Trade and exchange rate
policies, which were formulated in response to frequent swings in oil export
earnings, were largely used to dampen inflationary pressures or ration
imports rather than to provide appropriate incentives to domestic
production. This was partly due to the fact that, as a result of the
fluctuations in the world oil markets and their impact on the balance of
payments and government revenues, Nigerian policy-makers were preoccupied
with short-term crisis management. This diverted attention from the
formulation of longer-term policies to reduce the country's dependence on
oil and to strengthen the domestic productive sectors.
7.        The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when
the world oil markets presented a favorable outlook. Nigeria's oil exports
for the year amounted to US$25 billion and foreign exchange reserves stood
at US$10 billion. The Plan, accordingly, reflected an ambitious investment
program. It envisaged a total capital investment of N80 billion (about
US$145 billion at the 1980 rate of exchange) over the period 1981-85, half



- 3 -
of which was to be invested directly by the Federal Government and a quarter
directly by the states-with the remaining quarter to be invested by the
private sector. Emphasis was placed on the development of agriculture
(through statewide agricultural support programs and uassive irrigation
schemes) and on heavy industry based on cheap energy (steel, petrochemical.
etc.). both supported by substantial investments in infrastructure.
Nigeria's development plans, however, were overtaken by the sharp decline in
oil export revenues since 1981. Its economic problems during 1981-83 were
exacerbated by the inability of Nigerian decision-makers to cut back the
public investment program sufficiently, partly because of a continuing
0            belief that oil markets would soon recover.
8.        Nigeria's oil production fell by one-third from its 1980 level of
2.06 mbd to 1.44 mbd in 1981, and subsequently declined further to 1.23 mbd
in 1983. Coupled with a decline in the oil price from a peak of US$39 per
barrel in 1981 to US$29.9 per barrel in 1983, oil export revenues declined
from US$23.4 billion in 1980 to US$17.4 billion in 1981 and to only US$10.1
billion in 1983. Imports peaked at US$24.2 billion in 1981, resulting in a
current account deficit of US$6.5 billion, which was financed largely
through the drawing down of foreign exchange reserves and external
borrowing.
9.        Confronted by a worsening balance of payments situation, the
Government reacted in April 1982 by introducing a number of austerity
measures aimed at stabilizing the domestic and external financial situation.
However, these measures failed to achieve their stabilization objective;
imports of goods for the year 1982 declined only marginally to US$17 billion
(from the 1981 level of US$19.1 billion) resulting in a wider current
account deficit of US$7.7 billion. Reserves declined further to only US$1.4
billion by the end of 1982, while trade payment arrears of US$4 billion were
accumulated.
10.       By 1983, however, previous measures in the form of quantitative
restrictions, together with a growing reluctance of the trading partners to
extend further trade credits to Nigeria, led to a reduced import level of
US$12.2 billion. This was largely financed by further accumulation of trade
payment arrears (US$3.8 billion), a process which had already begun during
1982. Discussions with major overseas creditor banks resulted in the
a            rescheduling of the arrears owed to these institutions (for confirmation of
letters of credit) of about US$2.1 billion accumulated prior to August 31,
1983, with repayments to be made over a period of 31 months starting January
1984. In April 1984, the Government completed negotiations to reschedule
US$4-$5 billion of the remainlng arrears incurred through "open-account"
inter-company import finarcing. This agreement included only those arrears
not covered by export credit insurance and rescheduled the payments over a
period of six years including a grace period of two and half years at an
interest rate of 1 percent over LIBOR. Outstanding arrears at this point
are US$2 billion insured by export credit agencies (ECAs). The terms under
negotiation for these remaining arrears are similar although formal
agreement to reschedule has been made conditional by the ECAs on Nigeria
reaching an agreement with the IMF. The military government has so far been
regular in making repayments due on earlier medium- and long-term debt, as
well as on the 1983 reschedulings.



-4-
11.       The deterioration in the external financial situation had a severe
impact on the fiscal position of the Federal and State Governments as well
as on growth. Federally collected revenueo fell from N15.2 billion in 1980
to N12.0 billion in 1983, because oil revenues account for such a large
percentage of total revenues (about BO% in 1980 and almost 60Z in 1983).
Until 1984, the Federal Government did not reduce expenditures in line with
the reduced revenues, thus large budget deficits emerged over the period
1981-83, with the deficit/GDP ratio in excess of 8 percent.  In order to
finance these deficits, the Government borrowed from the Central Bank.
This, coupled with the physical shortages of many imported commodities, led
to an acceleration in the inflation rate which rose to about 23 percent in               4
1983. As a result of a decline in imports of about 30 percent in real
terms, domestic output contracted by 6.0 percent in 1983 following declines
of 5.9 percent in 1981 and 2.3 percent in 1982; as a consequence, most of
the manufacturing sectors, starved of imported raw materials and spare
parts, are now operating at very low capacity levels. In addition to the
decline in manufacturing output, the construction sector suffered from an
almost one-third decline in gross output in 1983.
12.       In order to get the balance of payments situation under control,
and accommodate the increase in debt service to about US$4.2 billion in
1984, the government imposed in early 1984 very strict limitations on
imports through the use of an import licencing/foreign exchange allocation
scheme. As a result there was a sharp curtailment of imports which is
estimated to have amounted to only about $10 billion in 1984. Since oil
export revenues increased by about $1.2 billion over the 1983 level, there
was also a drastic improvement in the external balance with the current
account deficit estimated to have amounted to only about $150 million in
1984. The improvement of the external balance through measures to constrain
imports carried with it, however, very high costs for the economy in the
form of further decreases in industrial production, construction and
investment, accelerated inflation (officially estimated at 37% in 1984) aS
well as increased unemployment. The manufacturing sector as a whole is
estimated to have operated at only about one-third of capacity in 1984.
However, due to the increased oil revenues as well as good performance in
the agricultural sector - in part explained by a return of workers to
farming following recent years increases in agricultural prices - Nigeria
was able to break three consecutive years of declines in overall production,
and held production about constant in 1984.
Adjustment Policy Issues
13.       At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues: first,
the management of the short-run financial crisis and stabilization of the
economy; and second, the longer-term structural adjustment of the economy by
stimulating productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and developing
a wider resource base. With regard to the short term, the measures that the
government has taken since January 1984 to reschedule trade arrears, control
imports and restrain domestic expenditures (which were reconfirmed in the
1985 budget released in January), may help to arrest a further deterioration
of the external and internal financial situation. However, the remaining
external arrears need to be rescheduled, particularly in view of the need
for substantial external borrowing in the near future.



- 5 -
14.       While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigria to overcom  the
current crisl, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the
economy. More vigorous and consistent policies. beyond the measures taken
to restore financial stability, will be needed to bring about structural
chnge. The chlef requirements comprise: (t) further Incentives for
efficlent export promotion and import substitution, Including appropriate
exchange rate, tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to
strengthen the balance of payments through judicious management of foreign
borrowing and external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate demand
through prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv) improvements
in the composition and implementation of public investment to increase its
efficiency; and (v) steps, such as raising interest rates and improving tax
collection, to Increase private and public savings and investment.
Prospects and Financing of Development
15.       Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to
be significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of
its foreign exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon
sectors during the next twenty years. In addition to oil exports, this
could incluJe exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG)--although the market
prospects for LNG during the 1990s are more uncertain thait before--and some
exports of petrochemicals. To maintain economic growth, major structural
changes are needed in order to adapt the economy to lower levels of oil
export earnings. In the short-run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports is
likely to be determined by the uncertain conditions of the world oil markets
rather than by the deliberate extraction policies of the Government. It is
projected that oil production would rise gradually, possibly attaining a
level of 1.6 mbd in 1987, from its estimated level of 1.3 mbd in 1984.
16.       The prospects for the Nigerian economy over the medium term are
closely related to the kind of economic policies the Government pursues over
the rext few years. One option open to the Government is to pursue a "high
growth/economic reform" strategy comprising policy measures which have been
discussed in the context of a possible Extended Fund Facility (EFF) with the
IMF and a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the Bank. Such a strategy
would also give Nigeria renewed access to international borrowing from
commercial banks, although the amounts that would be available are difficult
to quantify.  On the estimation that about US$2-3 billion per year of
international lending would be available from all different sources, this
would permit a moderately high growth rate of about 4 percent per annum over
the period 1984-1992. It would prevent a further deterioration in the
average standard of living and allow employment to expand broadly at the
same pace as population growth. In addition, it would over time stimulate
non-oil exports, which, in the longer run, will need to replace oil as the
engine of import growth. In the "low" case, on the other hand, assuming no
agreement is reached on an EFF/SAL package and the only "reform" is in
maintaining enough macro-economic discipline to avoid the reemergence of
trade arrears as a major problem, the possibility of foreign borroving would
be very limited and balance of payments constraints would necessitate the
continuation of restrictive policies. The result would be lower growth
rates for the rest of the decade leading to a further deterioration of the
average standard of living, low capacity utilization rates in many sectors
and increasingly severe unemployment problems.



-6-
17.       At present the Government is pursuing an intermediate strategy.
In addition to the adjustments in the investment program mentioned above
(para. 12), the Government hba recently introduced now achadulea of customs
and excise duties that move in the direction of equalizing effective
protection across industries. In the 1984 budget the Government made
reductions in public expenditures in line with Bank recoaendations and, to
help rationalize future investments, instituted a Project Review Co ittee
which reviewed projects funded under the capital budget. The Committee has
proposed that all projects be categorized as "core" or "non-core" with the
former to receive full funding and the latter being shelved pending
availability of funds or abandoned. The recommendations of the Review
Committee are currently being reviewed by the Government. Measures to
streamline public sector employment have resulted in a reduction of some
55.000 employees; and a freeze on public sector salaries and wages has also
been introduced. Together these measures are estimated to have resulted in
a reduction of the Federal budget deficit from about 23 percent of GDP in
1981 to about 5 percent in 1984. The 1985 budget continues with the policy
of stabilization and the sectoral allocation of public expenditures Is once
again in line with the Bank's recommendations. The new Government has also
enforced much greater financial discipline on state governments which has
resulted in greater revenue raising efforts by the states together with
improved focus on development priorities. Tighter monetary policies
including increases of 1.5 to 2 percent in interest rates have also been
introduced. With this progress on fiscal reform, but little progress on
incentive reform, growth would be higher than in the low case, but would
result at best in a stagnation of per capita incomes.
18.       The three policy scenarios differ more from each other in their
impact on growth than in their impact on Nigeria's ability to service
external debt. This is because in the low and intermediate cases, lack of
confidence on the part of commercial lenders would mean severely limited
access to international borrowing. Of course, if the moderate fiscal
discipline assumed even in the lew case is not maintained, there would be
pressure on imports and an eventual risk of a build-up of trade arrears with
a resultant further decline in access to external credits. At the present
time, though, this does not appear likely, given the Government's firm
commitment to austerity. Under all these scenarios there will be severe
liquidity problems over the next few years with the debt service ratio
likely to range from 39 to 45 percent between 1985 and 1987. Under all the
scenarios, the debt service ratio begins to decline after 1987. The decline
is somewhat slower--although still marked--in the high case, because with
better growth policies, access to international borrowing is higher.  In the
high case, the debt service ratio in 1992 would be 22 percent, while in the
intermediate and low cases it would be about 10 percent.  The volume and
composition of Bank lending would be determined by the policies pursued by
the Government--ranging from an expanded lending program including a
Structural Adjustment Loan in the high case to a limited program focussing
primarily on social and physical infrastructure in the low case.



- 7 -
PART II - BUNK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of September 30, 1984, amounted
to US$2,514.4 million (net of cancellations). The amount of loans and
credit disbursed as of September 30, 1984 was US$1,338.5 million, leaving
an undisbursed balance of US$1,175.9 mlllion. Agriculture accounts for
about 50 percent of total commitments; tranwporL, power, and water supply
together for about 34 percent; and education, Industry, urban, and the
post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 16 percent. There have been
only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC has made six loans to borrowers totalling US$24.7 million,
and six equity Investments totalling US$4.6 million. Of these amounts,
US$7.5 million have been repaid, torminated, caneelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.
20.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run
into serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant state governments are making concerted efforts
to alleviate the situation. The Bank, under the Special Action Program, has
agreed to the reallocation of loan proceeds and the upward revision of
disbursement percentages to speed up dlsbursements. Working within the
resource constraints (which are likely to continue in the near future), the
Federal Government is supplementing the funding for selected projects for
1984 and has agreed to ensure that adequate funding will be provided for
projects for 1985 on the basis of updated estimates of funding requirements.
The state governments are instilling a greater degree of discipline in their
budgeting processes and cutting back on new capital expenditures in order to
fund existing obligations. As a result, the prospects for counterpart
funding for Bank-assisted projects are expected to improve.
21.       Provided appropriate policy changes are undertaken, the Bank's
lending program would aim primarily at the urgent diversification of
Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessive dependence on petroleum as a
source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same time, the Bank
would continue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest
income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in
Nigeria.  As in recent years, the Bank would contir   to provide support for
agriculture and rural development with emphasis on institution building and
transfer of technology. These objectives are in line with the Federal
Government's priorities and with the emphasis it is placing on the need to
use the proceeds of the country's oil revenues to increase the productive
capacity of the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of Its
population, particularly the rural poor. The Bank would similarly support
efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and integrated development of Nigeria's
industrial sector. This approach would entail a combination of intensive
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's
Report for the Technical Assistance Project (P-3648-UNI), approved by
the Executive Directors on December 20, 1984.



- 8 -
sector work and policy dialogue with the Government, as well as Bank
assistance for industrial projects in crucial subsectors.
22.      Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two
to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in production related infrastructure.
There are good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant contribution
in energy and highway maintenance. Similarly, there is a strong case of
continued lending for education. In this context, vocational, technical,
and teacher training would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank
would support the federal and state governments' efforts to spread the
benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the
pressing problems of rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed
through a number of urban development projects focussed on the needs of the
urban poor and resource mobilization for urban areas. The Bank is also
assisting the Government in overcoming the country's health problems with a
project aimed at both federal and state (Sokoto) levels, and is continuing a
dialogue with the Government on population issues, perhaps leading to
lending in this area.
23.      Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY1978 to nearly US$272 million in FY1984, Nigeria's disbursement
performance has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. The
undisbursed balance now stands at 47 percent of the US$2.5 billion in loans
and credits approved. One of the reasons for this development is the rapid
expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that a
number of large loans, with relatively large, planned disbursements during
the early years. were extended during this period, mainly for agricultural
projects. In many cases, however, disbursements have been slowed by long
delays in loan effectiveness and institutional and management problems.
Recently, the inadequate counterpart funding of projects by federal and
state governments, resulting from lower oil revenues, has further slowed
disbursements. The government, with the assistance of the Bank's Resident
MLssion, is now carefully monitoring loan disbursements with a view to
identifying problems early and taking corrective action. Also, the Bank has
recently agreed to a series of measures aimed at accelerating disbursements
under both ongoing and new projects (para. 20). These efforts are beginning
to show results.                                                                      w
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
General
24.       Water supply and sanitation is the responsibility of the state
governments and each state bas its own development plan, which is a
component of the national plan. While provision of safe and adequate water
supplies is an important social goal in Nigeria, the resources actually made
available by the states to the water supply and sanitation sector have
fallen far short of needs as well as plan targets. On a general level, the
situation has stemmed from a sharp reduction in resources, principally
because of the decline in national oil revenues; and more particularly at
the state level, these shortages have been aggravated by inadequate tariffs



- 9 -
and revenues, poor billing and collection systems, and the low level and
intermittent release of state funds to neet recurrent expenditures which has
led to poor operations and maintenance practices. Sewerage, drainage and
solid waste disposal systems are even more inadequate. The Bank has already
made two loans to two states (Kaduna in FY79 and Anambra in FY82) for the
development of water supplies. Implementation of both projects has been
slowed by the lack of counterpart funds, but recent steps taken by the new
military governors in the states have noticeably improved the status of both
projects.
Borno State
25.       Borno State, with an area of 112,000 km2, is the largest of
Nigeria's 19 states.   It has an estimated population of 5 million and is
one of the poorer states in the federation. Maiduguri, the State capital,
is the comnercial and industrial center with a population of about 323,000.
Except Lake Chad, which is the only notable perennial source of surface
water, the rivers in the State are seasonal and tend to dry up during the
long, hot, dry season. Fortunately, artesian aquifers stretch across about
70 percent of the State and serve as the source for year round supplies of
water for the bulk of the population. However, as the demand for water
rapidly increases, the groundwater level in Maiduguri is rapidly declining,
and the need for an alternative source for water supply is urgent.
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector OrEanization
26.       The Borno State Water Board (BSWB), a parastatal organization
established in 1977, is responsible for the development, operation,
distribution, and maintenance of drinking water supplies throughout the
State. The other organization involved in the water supply sector is the
Chad Basin Development Authority (CBDA), which is the federal agency
responsible for the integrated development of the water resources of the
Chad River Basin area. The CBDA is responsible for the construction of the
Alau dam and reservoir, vhich would be the source of future water for
Maiduguri. The Ministry of Health monitors drinking water quality.
Sanitation, drainage and refuse collection are constitutionally the
responsibility of local government authorities. In practice, development
funds channelled through the Ministry of Local Government are utilized by
the Ministry of Works acting as agent for local governments in the
implementation of drainage projects. This arrangement is not satisfactory
because the Ministry of Works does not have the resources to effectively
carry out this responsibility.  Linkages between the various sector
organia-tions are weak and ill-defined and, as a result, there is little
coordination in sector programs. The proposed project would finance studies
for a master plan to improve this situation and the efficient carrying out
of the plan would be monitored by a special unit which would be established
by BSVB (Section 2.01(d) of the Project Agreement).
Existing Water Supply and Sanitation Facilities and Services
27.       While BSWB is responsible for urban and rural water supply
throughout the State, its service covers only about 43 percent of the total
urban population and a small fraction of the rural population. The supplies
in many areas are irregular and unreliable. In Maiduguri, BSWB operates 69



- 10 -
boreholes producing an estimated 40,400 m3 per day. The estimated daily
average per capita consumrtion is 60 liters. There are 20,000
house-connections serving about 122,000 people and 254 standpipes providing
access to at most 127,000 people. The rest of the population, at least
74,000 people, who are not served directly by the BSWB facilities, obtains
service from a combination of vendors, neighbors who have house-connections,
and a few existing private wells.
28.       In practice, however, even fever people are served by BSWB because
only a fraction of the standpipes is in good working order. The service is
unreliable due to frequent power failures and lack of spare parts and fuel
to run standby generators. The situation is getting worse because
population growth is outstripping the pace ot which service is being
provided and, in the future, it would be threatened by a decreasing
availability of water. The production ceiling from the current water
facilities would be reached in the next three years and the aquifers are
being depleted at a rate which would, within three to five years, make it
undependable as the sole source of water supply for Maiduguri.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       Recognizing the urgent need for an alternative source of water for
Maiduguri, CBDA and BSWB had reached an agreement to share the waters of the
Alau reservoir, which is being constructed with federal government funds
(para. 47). Subsequently, Borno State requested Bank assistance to finance
a facility to treat the raw water from the Alau reservoir on the River
Ngadda near Maiduguri. Following an exploratory mission in 1979, the
project was identified in 1980. A feasibility study on the Maiduguri
component was completed by consultants of BSWB in March 1983, and the
project was appraised by the Bank in May 1983. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4830-UNI) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1984. The loan documents, as
well as the capacity of the Federal and State Government to service the
project, were reviewed and subsequently cleared by the new military
government. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives, Bank Role, and Justification
30.       The objectives of the project are to provide adequate and reliable
supplies of safe drinking water to people in Maiduguri by supplementing
current supplies with water from the Alau reservoir and by improving
existing services; to strengthen the technical, financial and management
capabilities of BSWB; and to establish the basis for an effective sanitation
system in Maiduguri.
31.       The basic water needs of the low-income consumers would be given
special attention in this project. Priority would be given to improvement
of the distribution system and densification of standpipe coverage in the
densely populated areas where the low income consumers mostly live and where
shortage of water is critical.



- 11 -
32.       Since 1980 the Bank has maintained a dialogue with BSWB and
offered advice on its operations and policies, as vell as on its
organization, management and training. At the Bank's suggestion, BSWB hired
consultants to prepare the feasibility study and design the proposed
project. This project would be the Bank's first participation in the water
supply sector in Borno State, although the Bank will also be involved in the
rural water supply subsector through a proposed agricultural development
project in the southern part of the State. The Bank's main objectives in
support of the proposed project are to bring about institutional
development, financial viability of a sector institution (BSWB) and the
policy reforms needed to address these issues. Showing strong commitment to
the project and willingress to work with the Bank towards these objectives,
at the Bank's suggestion the State accepted the principle of cost recovery
and recently enacted a new tariff structure, which increased the existing
flat rates for water by 50 percent.
33.       As indicated above, the capital city, Maiduguri, is entirely
dependent on groundwater for its water supply; and in the last five years,
the water level has dropped an estimated seven meters, indicating
overabstraction at the present rate of demand. At this rate of abstraction,
coupled with growth in demand, in about three years the city would not be
able to meet the water needs of its population from this source. The
proposed project would provide Maiduguri this urgently needed supplemental
water supply. In addition, the project would assist in developing and
strengthening the State's water authority by providing technical assistance
for financial management and control, the accounting system, operation, and
overall management, as well as providing extensive staff training.
Project Description
34.       The principal components of the project are as follows:
A.   Water Supply
(i)  Construction of (a) pimping stations for raw and treated
water, (b) a 67,000 m /d treatment plant consisting of
mixing/flocculatiou, sedimentation and filtration units with
pH adjustment and disinfection facilities; (c) one ground
and one elevated reservoir;  and (d) rehabilitation of the
existing elevated reservoir;
(ii)   Provision and laying of approximately 48km of transmission
and 190km of distribution pipe; and
(iii)   Provision of eight generators (standby power for treatment
plant), 10,000 meters and connection materials and
installation of 300 standpipes.
B.   Operating Facilities
(i) Construction of headquarters building, operational staff
quarters, zonal workshops and stores and meter repair shop;
and



- 12 -
(ii)   Provision of two drilling rigs, siX vehicles, leakage
detection equipment and office equipment (including billing
machines).
C.   Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
Technical Assistance
(i)   To assist BSWB in the areas of (a) financial-commercial
management and control (24 man-months), (b) accounting
systems (12 man-months), (c) project implementation and plant
operation (36 man-months), and (d) management improvement
(24 man-months); and
(ii)   To prepare the final design, preparation of tender documents
and construction supervision of the water supply and
operating facilities outlined above.
Training
(i)   Reviev of the manpower and training needs of BSWB and
formulation of a training plan (12 man-months);
(ii)   Establishment of a development program for training BSWB
staff (6 man-months) and provision of training equipment and
materials; and
(iii)   Overseas training for BSWE staff to develop practical skills
and experience in progressive and well-managed water
utilities (15 man-years).
Studies
(i)   Preparation by 1989 of a follow-up project to increase water
supply to cover the entire Maiduguri area and to consolidate
institutional improvement initiated under the proposed
project and to improve the quality of service in other areas;
and
(ii)   A tariff study for the State and studies for a master plan
for drainage/sewerage and solid waste disposal for Maiduguri,
including optimum arrangements for institutional
responsibility of this subsector by end-1987 (para. 26).
The Project Area and Population Coverage
35.       The estimated population of Maiduguri was 323,000 in 1982 and is
expected to reach 543,000 by 1992, the final year of implementation of the
proposed project. The increased resources and service improvements provided
under the proposed project, together with the dramatic reduction in domestic
connection fees (from N190 to N15) being recommended by BSWB, should
increase coverage from 77 percent of the current population (about 249,000
people) to 100 percent of the estimated 1992 population.



- 13 -
Proiect Preparation and Implementation
36.       The project would be implemented by BSWB over seven year. with
assistance from consultants   Its major component would be the construction
of the water treatment plant scheduled to start by mid-1986 with completion
in late 1989. Construction would be tendered as described below in para.
43. Contracts for detailed design and preparation of tender documents for
the physical works of the project have been awarded to Dar Al-Randasah,
Lebanese consultants who had prepared the feasibility study. These
contracts are about to be completed. At the Government's request the Bank
has agreed to provide the first tranche ($500,000) of a one million dollar
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to carry out these contracts. The second
tranche of the PPF would be used to fund technical assistance, as well as
connectors for water meters which would accelerate revenue collections
(para. 45).
37.       While it is overstaffed at the lower and unskilled levels, BSWB
has a serious deficiency in senior professional and middle management staff
and has difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified staff in the face
of the more generous and flexible conditions in the private sector. The
majority of the current professional staff are expatriates under contract.
To ensure that BSWB would have the capacity to execute the project and to
train Nigerians to assume increased responsibilities, and to gradually
replace the expatriates, a substantial amount of technical assistance and
training is included in the project. It is hoped that these training
opportunities would help retain staff in the future. The proposed training
program (outlined in para. 34) was discussed in detail and agreed to at
negotiations. The possibility of providing the technical assistance team
through a "twinning" arrangement with a water utility company from a
developed country is being explored. In order to ensure timely and
appropriate measures are taken on these and other operational and management
problems (such as illegal connections and billing and collection), a
detailed action program was discussed and agreed to during negotiations
(Section 3.07 and the accompanying Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement.)
Project Costs
38.       The total cost for the project is estimated at US$115.0 million.
s            The use of Lake Alau water is the least cost option;  groundwater supplies
are inadequate, and the most accessible surface water is from the Alau
reservoir. The distribution system has also been designed to supply the
maxilum number of consumers at minimum acceptable service levels at least
cost. Total project costs include US$28.0 million for physical and price
contingencies and US$5.6 million for duties and taxes. The foreign exchange
component amounts to US$60.1 million. A breakdown of costs by major
categories based on preliminary designs of project facilities is given in
the Loan and Project Suiary.  A provision of five to ten percent has been
made for physical contingencies on top of the base costs. Price
contingencies have been added to this. For foreign costs they are estimated
at 3.5 percent in 1984, 8.0 percent in 1985, and 9 percent thereafter, and
for local costs at 22 percent in 1984 and 14 percent thereafter.



- 14 -
Project FinancinR
39.       The proposed loan of US$72 million (66 percent of the project cost
net of taxes and duties) would co,ver the full foreign exchange cost and
US$11.9 million of the local cost. FGN, as the borrower, would onlend the
entire loan to BSG, which would further onlend US$57.6 million (80 percent)
of the loan to BSWB on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. BSG
would provide the remaining US$14.4 million (20 percent), together with its
own contribution of the equivalent of US$43 million, to the project costs as
equity for BSWB. This would result in a project financing by 50 percent
equity and 50 percent loan. BSWB is not envisaged to contribute toward the
costs of the project due to its inability to generate cash for investments
before 1990. BSG would pay the commitment charges and assume the foreign
exchange risk. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between FGN
and BSG, and between BSG and BSWB would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). Co-financing was discussed with the
borrowers during project preparation and, at their request, it was not
pursued further.
40.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of counterpart
funding, assurances have been obtained during negotiations that:
(a) as a condition of effectiveness, a project account would be
established by BSWB at a commercial bank with an initial
payment by BSG of 12 million into the account (Section
6.01(b) of the Loan Agreement, Section 2.01(b) of the Project
Agreement, Section 2.02(c)(i) of the Borno State Agreement);
(b) BSG would make quarterly installments of N1.5 million per
quarter in 1986 (excluding the initial payment) into the
project account (Section 2.02(c)(ii) of the Borno State
Agreement);
(c) BSG would provide its subsequent contributions to the project
on a quarterly basis in advance of the due date according to
the schedule of payment agreed upon during negotiations
(Section 2.02(c) of the Borno State Agreement);
(d) in the event the project does not receive funding from BSG,
the Federal Government would be authorized to pay directly to
the project account that part of the State's statutory
allocation corresponding to its agreed financial support for
the project (Section 2.02(d) of the Borno State Agreement).
Financial Position and Cost Recovery
41.       Because water in Borno State is sold at below production cost and
collection is not enforced, BSWB's finances have depended on state
subsidies. As a result of the dialogue with the Bank, BSWB has begun to
acknowledge the role of revenues as a means of financing. By taking various
measures such as increasing the existing flat rate tariffs by 50 percent,
strengthening manpower for collection, and introducing metered tariffs for
larger consumers, in three years BSWB increased revenues ten-fold from less
than N100,000 in 1980 to nearly N1,000,000 in 1983.  To assist BSWB in



- 15 -
promoting the principle of cost recovery through the adoption of a metered
consumption tariff structure, the proposed project would finance purchase of
meters and connection materials.
42.       In view of the recent tariff increase, another imdiate tariff
increase to achieve full cost recovery does not appear feasible.
Furthermore, without reliable information on BSWB's cost of production and
distribution, the proper level of tariff increase cannot be decided at
present, nor can the tariff study be undertaken because of the absence of
sufficient information. To determine the proper level and timing of future
tariff increases which will unsure adequate revenue targets for BSWD, In
preparation for the tariff study, BSWB would, no later than June 30, 1985
and January 31, 1986, employ a financial controller and a financial
consultant, respectively, to develop the basic accounting system in 1986 and
collect data necessary for the tariff study (Section 2.02 (a) and 3.07 of
the Project Agreement). In the meantime, however, it seems possible to
increase revenues gradually through adopting further measures for better
billing and collection, limiting recruitment at the unskilled level and
reducing the unaccounted for water from leakages and illegal connections.
At negotiations, an action program of measures was discussed and agreed upon
(para. 37) and assurances have been obtained that the tariffs will be set at
levels which will ensure coverage of BSWB's operational expenditures in
Maidiguri not later than 1986 and generate profit after its fiscal year
ending in December 31, 1989 so that from 1990 onward, a rate of return on
average net fixed assets in operation would not be less than 5 percent for
Maidiguri and 2 percent for BSWB annually (Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the
Project Agreement). Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that
the recommendations of the tariff study, after consultations with the Bank,
would be implemented (Section 4.06 (a) of the Project Agreement).
Procurement
43.       Contracts for the supply and installation of treatment plant
equipment, pumps, pipes. meters, rigs and generators and other items
estimated to cost above US$250,000 as well as civil works contracts for the
construction of the treatment fi'clities, transmission mains and ground and
elevated storage reservoirs would be awarded under international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Prequalification would be
required. Procurement of vehicles, spare parts, and miscellaneous supplies
under contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 but less than
US$250,000, or equivalent, for equipment and US$250,000, or equivalent, for
*            civil works would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding, locally
advertised, conducted in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Cortracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$100,000 would be procured on the basis of negotiated
purchases after solicitation of price quotations from at least three
established and reliable suppliers. Domestically manufactured goods would
be allowed 15 percent preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is
lower, for the purposes of bid evaluation. Consultants for the various
studies and specialists recruited under the project for technical assistance
and training would be selected on the basis of qualifications and experience
and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The following table
summarizes the amounts and methods of procurement with the categories
proposed for Bank financing shown in parentheses:



- 16 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ millions)
Total
Procurement Methods        Cost
Project Element                      ICB       LCB     Other
Equipment, plant, and materials      51.3       2.5       -      53.8
(34.0)    (1.3)      -      (35.3)
Civil Works                          34.4      16.2       -      50.6
(18.5)   (10.0)             (28.5)
Consulting Services, Technical
Assistance and Training             -        -       10.6     10.6
(8.2)    (8.2)
Total                           85.7      18.1     10.6    115.0
(52.3)   (11.3)    (8.2)   (72.0)
Disbursements
44.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over the period FY1986-1994.
Disbursements on equipment, plant and materials would be made against 100
percent of foreign costs for direct import and 72 percent of local
expenditures. Disbursements on civil works would be made against 35 percent
of total expenditures. Disbursements for consulting services, technical
assistance and training would be made against 100 percent of foreign costs
and 80 percent of local expenditures.
45.       A Special Account vould be established in a comercial bank in
Nigeria on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in order to eliminate
the need for the Borrower to pre-finance local expenditures that are
eligible for financing under the Bank loan (Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan
Agreement).  An initial deposit of US$600,000 would be made into this
account from the proceeds of the Bank loan.  Disbursements would be made on
the basis of full documentation with the exceptions of minor civil works
contracts and small contracts for equipment and consultant services, as well
as training expenditures which would be disbursed on the basis of Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs).  In addition, an advance of US$1 million is being
proposed under the Project Preparation Facility for technical assistance,
detailed design and preparation of tender documents and connectors for
metering. The PPF advance, which would be realeased in two trenches at
$500,000 each, would be refinanced under the Bank's loan at the date of
effectiveness (para. 36).
Project Benefits and Risks
46.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Maiduguri components of
the project has been estimated at about 6 percent. The rate has been
calculated from an analysis of quantifiable benefits, such as incremental
water supplies resulting from the project, and costs, including project



- 17 -
investments. incremental operating cost., and replacem_nt over tha life of
the project. The principal benefits of thi proposed project would be the
expanded coverage and improved quality of *ervice provided by BSWB in
Maiduguri. Densification and ezpanmion of the distribution system would
permit more people to have direct access to piped water. The project would
particularly benefit the residents of the high density, low income areas of
central Mlaiduguri who are poorly served at present. The strengthening and
development of BSWB through the technical assistance and training components
of the project should better enable BSWB to carry out its responsibilities.
47.       Some risks to the project relate to the source of the raw water,
in this case, the unsecured water from the River Ngadda where the Alau dam
is being constructed. However, assurances have been received from FGN that
the necessary funds would be ma.4e Available and that the Alau dam would be
constructed in time in order not to jeopardize the proposed project (Section
4.02(a) of the Loan Agreement). The FGN has already paid mobilization fees
to the civil vorks contractor. During negotiations, it was also agreed as a
condition of effectiveness, that an agreement satisfactory to the Bank would
be reached between CBDA and BSWB for the sharing of waters of the proposed
Alau reservoir based on a schedule of releases to provide the needs of
Maiduguri (Section 4.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).
48.       During the project implementation period, an estimated average of
22 percent of BSG's annual investment funds would be required as counterpart
funds to the project, and failure to release local counterpart funds in an
adequate and timely manner could jeopardize the successful implementation of
the project. The Borno State Government, however, gives water supply high
priority and based on the available information, it is estimated that the
State would have enough resources to meet the requirements of the proposed
project. Recently, reconfirming the priority and the financial commitment
the State is according to the proposed project, the new Governor included in
the State's 1984 budget the initial State contribution of N2 million for the
project. The new Federal Military Government has made realistic state
financial planning a top priority, and accordingly, the state governors have
given a great deal of attention to reviewing their current expenditures,
revenues and future obligations. The recent reconfirmation of the
commitment to the project by the new Governor and inclusion in the State's
budget of the initial State contribution of 12 million for the project,
would appear to give reasonable assurances that the State will make
available the necessary local funding. To reinforce this position, during
negotiations we obtained BSG agreement that FGN, if necessary, would deduct
any amounts outstanding to the project from the Borno State's federation
account. In addition, BSG's assurance was received to provide its
contribution to the project according to the payment arrangements agreed
during negotiations (para. 40).
49.       There are some technical risks for this project relating to BSWB's
inexperience with the proposed treatment plant. However, the provision for
technical assistance under the project to facilitate plant operation in the
early years and to train BSWB staff to take over the responsibility later
would reduce these risks.



- 18 -
50.       Through providing access to piped water for a larger segment of
Maiduguri's population, the project would iucrease consumption and
corresponding waste water. Proper disposal of the waste water is,
therefore, imperative to avoid a public health hazard. BSG has been alerted
to this potential hazard and has agreed to review the institutional
responsibilities for this subsector. A review and analysis of the
sanitation needs of Naiduguri is Included in the project (para. 34).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Borno State
Water Board, the draft State Agreement between the Bank and Borno State, and
the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III including the following conditions of effectiveness of the loan,
set out in Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement:
(a)  signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Borrower, the Borno State Goverrent and the Borno State
Water Board (Section 6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement);
(b) opening of a project account by the Borno State Water Board
and the initial payment of N2 million into the account by
Borno State (Section 6.01(b) of Loan Agreement; Section
2.01(b) of the Project Agreement; Section 2.02(c) of the
Borno State Agreement); and
(c) satisfactory conclusion of the agreement between the Chad
Basin Development Authority and the Borno State Water Board
to share the Alau Dam and Reservoir waters to provide
adequate water to meet the needs of Maiduguri (Section
4.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - R3CO"NNDATION
54.       1 recoumend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
X,         loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 27, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                                ANNEX I
Page  1 of 5
NI3ORRI              _ - nOdAL INDICATORS ATA SHUT
HIDNT                uTr IICUw  UTImATl) /b
uccht       MIDDLE INCOC            EDET.
lu,oot    l,70t1k    EUIxSATULk   AFtICA 6. or S A    N. AFRICA4 HID EAST
UAR   (TlNOLUD M  IN)                                                             -
TOTAL                              923.6        921.6      923.6
AGRICULTliAL                       471.0        497.4      31.13
GNP Ma CAPITA (D")                    2no.0        330.0      U60.0             3132.                  1140.6
WNtW CODUFUOl MN CAPITA
(XltROINAN  OP Oil. EQUIVALNT)      20.0         31.0      243.0              329.0                 022.1
IPOPLATID a nTAL mnutATICn
PUPULATtlM,NMID-YRAN  TTHNUSAD)   S15ua.0    wib1A2.     90572.0
tIIANN POPLATION (X OF TOTAL)      11.1        13.4        21.4               297                   43.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
PoPULATIoN IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                           309.3
NTATIONARY PUPULATION (NILL)                             617.7
POPULATION NIOHEFl,o 2.0
POPULATION WNH ITT
PKR SQ. M.                        13.9         71.1       94.                33.4                   30 .1
pEE SQ. KM. AUDI. LAND           101.6        133.0      170.7              111.5                 461.7
PUPULATION ACI STRUCTURE CR)
0-14 YR6'                        4.4          46.0        47.6              *5.4                   43.0
15-04 MRS                         52.3         51.0       49.6               51.7                  53.1
63 AND AnOVn                       2.3          2.4        2.4                2.9                    3.3
POPULATION 135WTH RAITC 2)
TOTAL                              2.4          2.5        2.0                2.6                    2.6
URIAN                              4.7          4.7        6.9                5.2                    4.1
CRUDE SIRTH RATE (PER THDUS)        12.0         30.7       49.5               47.0                   40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TNaIn)        25.3         20.6       16.2               25.2                   33.5
GMOSS REnIFOUCTION RATC              3.4          3.4        3.4                3.2                    2.8
PAEILY PLANNING
AcCCxWO's. ANIUAL (THOU1)           .,          7.1         *-
USCRS (2 OF ARRID WM)               ..           ..        6.0                 .                    22.2
7m AIID IuImII
INDCX o0 P00D PROD. PCR CAPITA
(1909-71-100)                      100.0        102.0       92.0               91.6                  97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CE OP REQUIREMENTS)      S3.0         64.0       91.0               98.2                  110.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PCR DAT)          45.0         45.0       49.0               50.7                  70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10.0        11.0        11.0 I            17.0                   17.8
CHILD (ACS 1-4) DEATH RATE          50.0         34.0       20.0               18.7                  14.6
AtLT
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       38.7         43.7       49.6               51.7                  57.5
INFANT NC?T. RATE (PER THOUS)      190.0        134.0      109.0              102.7                  101.5
ACESS TO SAFE WATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                               ..           ..         ..              13.6                    39.7
URtAN                               ..           ..         ..               34.1                   U.5
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..               27.3                   36.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
POPULATION m   PHYSIC1AI         73710.0      24670.0    12550.0 /d         11946.3                4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           4040.0 La   3070.0      3010.0 l          2246.9                  1631.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           3020.0 If   2220.0      1160.0 fd            S6.*9                 632.9
URlAN                            430.0 /      490.0      370.0 f            368.7                  545.5
RURAL                          25630.0oj  38490.0       5490.0             4012.1                 2513.5
AIIIISSIONS PER NHSPIL SED            ..           ..         ..                 ..                   26.2
gmim
AVEtAGE SIZE OF HOUSSDLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..
U33AN                               ..          4.7         ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERaGE NO. or PEUSousRao
TOTAL                               ..           ..
UR                                 3.0          2.2/.
RURAL                               ..           ..
AcCSS To ELECT. (2 OP DIHLLMCSI462
TOTAL                               ..           ..         ..                 ..                   46.2
UBAW                              6.3 N..                                      ..                   77.7
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..                 ..                   36.1



-21-ANN 
Page 2 of 5
MIDiT               ("tDST SCEN IIuSTIWr)
08IC         NlODI INC               NSDDW 
9inal     107ic        R1TCETi     HRC  ISCOF  HALA        .    oI  RiD AuST
ADJUSTED INROLJUINT RATIOS
PRIATus   TOTAL                    36.0         37.0        @6.0 /1            *1.0                   *1.3
MALE                    46.0         47.0          ..               90.J 101.1
FiNALE                  27.0         27.0          .7 3.6                                   13.6
SECONDNBTI TOTAL                    4.0          4.0        16.0 L             17.4                   43.0
HALE                     6.0          6.0          ..               23.7                    12.3
rFf                      1.0          3.0          ..               14.5                   33.0
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDY)             4.0          D.S         3. t               5 3.3                 1O.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PEJLARY                            30 0         34.0          ..               3.                     30.3
ICOINDARY                          19.0         21.0          ..               24.3                   23.1
ADULT LITERACY  ATIE (S)             13.4  a        ..        34.0               23.6                   43.5
FArSEECR CA/THOUSAND POP              0.6          0.9         1.4 it           20.7                    17.6
RADtO hzCuxVvl/T0UaShAD POP           2.8         19.3        66.L              100.3                  13.N
TV RECEIVRRS/TIOUSAD POP              0.0          1.1         5.3               is.3                   46.1
NSrPAPER (-DAILY GEHNL
INTElAS") CIRCULATION
PCX THNOUSAND POPULATION            5.5          4.N:09                          . 32                  1. 7
CINDIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPlITA       .            .          03                                        17
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         21758.0      23992.0    32476.0
FEMALE (PERCINT)                   41.3         40.6        39.7               33.-                   10.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              71.0         62.0        54.0               57.1                   42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.0         14.0        19.0               17.4                   27.9
PARTICIPATION RATZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              42.2         39.3        35.9               36.3                    26.2
MAUL                               30.3         47.3        43.7               47.6                   46.4
FENALE                             34.4         31.5        28.2               25.1                    3.6
ECONONIC DEENIDENCY RATIO             1.1          1.2         1.4                1.4                    1.8
tuLn "suuamnfh
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICNEST Y o0  HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGHEST 2CR OP HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOHEST 20S o  HOUSEHOLDS              .
LOSEST 42 OF HOUSE;HOLDS             ..
ESTIMATED AUSOLUTE POVERT  INCSE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..       696.0              525.3                  274.o
RURAL                                ..           ..       341.0              249.0                  177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOUS
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..       621.0              477.4                  402.6
RURAL                                ..           ..       207.0              186.0                  2R4.9
ESTIMATED POP. IIELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMIC LEVEL (2)
IIURBAN                              ..
RURAL                                ..
ROT AVAILABU
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT E S
/a  The group averagee for each indiestor are populetioe-wighted arlthmtic me_. Covers" of countrle  among the
tmdie-tore mdepend oon ailabiltty of data ad Is not uniform.
/b   Uolmao  otberide noted, "Date for 1960S refer to say year betwee  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; end dats for "Ibt Ratent srlntt" betwee  1980 and 1982.
/C  1977; Id 1979; fe 1962; If Including es-North Cameron under British adtnoletration; IL 1976; /h 1972; /1 1979;
Cert-ain filde of stiy preiousely claseif td under other second levl uducatlon of vocational or technical
necure are mm reported uner  enoral education.
JUNE. 1954



-22 -                                                                          ANEX I
- SMQL I.O[COM           ~Page 3 of 5
lusi   s-s- -f5          1   -5a55L-ad ashsstta -0 -ass.  -0 h dsSSssu  aueftt.s I.1su-2sledtb La- .- IlIl d               a.  uustu.. u-nl 
telis   155ftscsss Ia   tod  Kare  -LI        Mrsnss _e  n.I  -uddt. issu  Sb Alriss ad US: 55.' Ia kbsa bus.. or u(55f  sut .euIs
55    -  5~* h  t   iedlcutt. 'las  tr Cer.a     so - 5.5dla55  d.55*    -  l  55.55 .5-Ls  -t .                        -10ls.. usif1-  = -
-511t_  Su _stsSt   crdud             .55  sa.u..~.u   aa.-tt-.InI Is s-a-  tuusus   -  ldSss.u. C. Iste   -V fl5 a5     -4
tds  iS,.ads.u                                                                          Sal.s15u      SIsuti.. . la-rut.._ ditsjw Wr -b  of Pasu:ctttu
-S  lost1 *s'r   s                                                                                                                               o.tl.     ussd  .  tt S.s   lts   u5Ststs.edrtseut-ut.tfr1u
U11511 -  -5 ea..L-                                                                  runtrtt-d  - l   se.-      - 15.1   rs..-     11   -91ps.Sta.  -551.
n..5.  .55.tst-u              .5 tu5             t d"L sttes  CbSs
-L.MSt    rdS W.1 -55   b.-*i  -asa.. CaL. L1lsd b-sth ad 
a  ed.,u1 .rarcts1  I ilass-1                                                       I tsa   s  .K:.iu, ~ sts  11555L-    r    dlussUsa taffrlat
su,aSetas.                                                                         si.su-uss A use-  1u-sa..4'.5t-. _LIa - 455..et.s
t-tama  - swat. u-.ttsluu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~_,;i,                                 -t*  'r   1      1t-
thIs: .etasa.. usa.... tsa.p.-,                                          F a4Psi,&I- 11~ .         -Ir-L -   CLgsIN
'ssiuis       Sfla-    e                                                            sers. .    r a- -Let:  d u-ru.  e  st-55:   rs    deaEas
s..-        sn-ue*.,twuct   s  Ss       .                                          5u5         S    51      s         s 1-etuc a.u.stue
Vaa pssaas.    .   .    -   dearusalt          usiu                          CaUis.ruesttul.usisu55.5  aans                           iss
lusa.  frusautas p...s tsr ti,  -Il ru.S  S*m t..5    ru        ~Ita.4  p.s....    -w-                                                       -
.usLu  ~inia  u,. saaugs.- ttst saueu  uSEs. ss.   eu-                   .s..... strgrl  S P-I Zlu.     sal.                            ss 
PLu.u   fussae I,      s Csfltly  us b5.         sud d  s  .01  .                   -lst             d  uu        tsSuSct
seata ESetius Id Isustitug  sus 5. Ia- leg.- ad essu la-!
garasfgu..s.a -C 4- Isu    Suf-itO--.55e55at.ig                                  rur   tri-uuluIdf -                  - Ouuu 551..pu-K., =d ran-
r5u- Sag  -   T.    r. S-dars.15.at  u-rt 1           .Sttll                    ssl.      s st           Sureu  155 - M Ssussss attgt
faa I.. ulsiSsu:v S.-ts  gIs 1-1u-sI.:Cusuts                                                      Iluis     Vals   sssi  glus  511.   d51
as   -Uk ryut.d~tr.5fl55  aus  5,5iK-Isuu   s                                  .usr         t. .- -uSL..uI       iul       s5a        .1  su
,ue   a   b. 5t*.:  .at-a .us , -7-g                      _~rsa..iu.            i carqIt_     _S. - lsem   ss,  M        4Id Sacusi tusutSla.
rsssusl    asS. -15Sb.sisau  Sc*.rtsta  let  -1  -aste                    eSst    us-.:.4 ussflss. taSruuue   -55-55t5                 Es.o
M   e   s ua55   uga-ss  Isuis,hsus.s%.utstalscS..5  lI  ttLu.u 4 55. L.555555    L.5 -CC-
ss.-Ia.  ssru.us urdeusrs    tuahd sies. lt                                            Sais-`d-
S            t5u   l  9.e-  I  .sd-5-suu  h                                     g.eus  suls   gg.t-V  a   ssa.l    s.ealtctut
susla LuS ttu,                                                             ustle.s. ftla    rmu          - .utS    i- St!uuacsrlsSa
- u9.    uu'51    ut....~..*1- etS  5.   ss.u   S                tss.u5.sST-d-le d1.5555.
-r a. -  .crs.sKufs: sa - Cueueu    L S-.s Sar  MtIus'51I                         sscasctas                 at   s  Iiat us..a 
at.;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  ..I teAsa 5_m._s
.c..laua   u urureur. (,u'raiS - Culdas Cl-It  uest.   s tss Sl  .   S.
-  aul.-  sICsd   s  -s.- ssS- V..gs          ustusa -1si  Sec Stas                                    st ta r       uuss an. tuts  -*u
.-1 tala        - -NS  IS-S. aI-iLZu. O-55t- -uWusia Ks...                                             l      -aug15    U~ cuas    0&. saes ta s.ales,-
s.tsu    letst   an.i-sa - a-ut grith                                                      ... ut   d  utt.  . utIttis..&. 97
-1s .Su    5 iSs-t. ss-    W-  -V; ooi.C.         M    II                  SaCI   .sist dl-    5        uudt- -SIs5ss  sutusCeI
fuusS   fuI  ..  es'-55.-au  Aunts Cgs . se                                   Iaus   -                                             tt-5   stsU.S-u   tepKeass salad
tsats    5ftSusi 5555.151  d l_a-S    Su.tiaasd 5555K-m.. i ceuftaadI te                                                           rsdU5l.ta - f t-ItS
Cad  -tutSes(U- dCsa  -aust K  Scrb. Se  W.Iu-  uf-                                    1-us a94 us utS.s  duesIs ruac aur  us. u- I  swuisut.
*S  Lsscs. s,ss.                     -b55 adsiCV55.                           css.St.. " atn.  ttau-ts5.-d
,X =  u1-3,too-5r O                  dsss  -1siLt  a. u.s                        .4      eu        ues         rdslea5  V sa5   ls
ts  ase      , r..se-eft.) l             -M  If  v-sa'a-'duWa. l t..            P=es   tRuiWi--  Ci-    Mou.: susua  -11 a- Sb-1 susIe                    
lads.      -E ss. -    n-E .s-IK  rr-    s p-  a,-t a-.           ua a-.5  cI                                         tgCrle      s
Pu    l    "s       O usassesss -i asa  a~ -ue-a  tat  sIIu                          t-        lilsuc   s  ste   .   s.-SC-C
e.nSSc        CO          rr.c  Ks 5  u-1d.        -    u-. al                    L.a.
uttdWue. W    .-ae!.               adt-S   ttst s                                  sa   .5   es    Sas    55aalgltr wguus Uesa  tstutu  sled
CA'1d (_1-1  -SM  .-  ?asr  '-d 55t5      a- K .s P-  s  555.S5  fsse.P- l,                              e.  sc  ss.tuus  f55:leu  uC
sau    r.t    ! S  a              tS.u   r.dsus aaaeeta                            sr.t.sturse     ub   5t  .lauu.rr5lHCcpa
-ss j-adUu- ettu-1 f-   Il r       Isis   tts  sal0 sla          C....                50.55-   a     Ca   af. 1.555 labu Suns  *i, 14 at tid  ds.1
dues.                                                                   r.eetrcadtsu tsf   -AM  -     ussCsna     ual  -   a    ul   - Miec5.es W
ts   -Ills      I oal cauu  Csrs-                                                                                             -1-ts.    sd5.  gll sga w Sasst   t,a    a. - tshs -i...
saW ssutu  u   ul. I-s.mdut=l   sn  s,st,a                                            ersss. east.  -i-    Issia l.stdsd  55-uI a    suutu-f
d     P..s5I.""CI. SntsaSt  Jaieu..  ft-.q   Na,oa   it   d11C.   Ieu. ..        S.  .tgee.   us
sasu.-ua   5.5 Ca  pnu-.lp  ad  s-s. Istl durh.sl%-.&Sutu-I.sisa  -te                                    eK     .
A..  S uutiu-s.d ft15ldd       .uIisa         d  esf u.rel P                   seat5.ssrsis-SIsS    aa-aII  dI   d55
". &W Wf ad tuslu M  tdet   a-          su    ..sus bd  lu.                           b   sui   .  .sst  Stua'l-i
aSs    dlatlulss 5 r.lal.u.  d . iat   ISaru  -wr aS.-
a   st s..s  55.5. ie    dtifl Sa.                                       st    5  1505
fa              byt .t  ufF55t   aa-   I ts   -  tr.: pitaS  .5t  -s  disIiae   1Staulsu  Sc  srta  buh-bgldI   t- 



- 23 -
AMNEX I
Page 4 of 5
EcoNomic inrCAT1oS
____..____._______
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GEOWTNIS. Constant Pricis)
-       ------ -- - - _
USC Nln. /1/    7               1975-10                   1981 /2/              1982 /1/
.___-  --                                           ---.
CUP at Market Prices               70,106        100.0               3.1                     -7.6                 -a.2
Cross Domestic Investment          16,515         24.0               1.3                      7.6                -1838
L  Cross National Saving                9,070         12.9               5.2                   -31.4                 -24.0
Current Account Balance            -7,341        -10.5                -
Exports of Goods.NFS               13.590         19.8               2.0                   -34.4                 -19.1
Imports of Goods,NFS               19.909         28.5              1S.6                    -7.1                 -31.9
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
____________________
Value Aded 1I                  Labor Force /31               V.A. PER Vorker
US$ "in.        S                  Kn           S                 US .          S
Agriculture                        15,466         21.8              19.6          59.8               878          *0.6
Industry & Mining                  27.709         39.0               6.2          18.9              4,320        199.5
3ervices                           27T.87         39.2               7.0          21.3              3.978        183.7
TotallAverage                  71 020        1000               32.1         100.0             2.16S        100.0
OATERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                   Central Goverment
CN Nn.         S or CDP                             (N KIl.)       S of GDP
1982 /1/  1962 /1t  1979"81 /8/                      1932      12/1  19?9-81  /86
Current Reeiopts                   12,620      26 .         29.5                         7.320      15.3          21.3
Current Expenditure                 9.612      20.1         20.1                         *.878      10.2          10.5
Current Surplus                     3,008       6.3           9.4                        2,482       5.1          10.5
Capital Expenditure                 9,5T7    20.0            1a.0                        6.270      13.1          12.9
External As3lstance(net)                                                                  26         0.6           0.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                          1976      1977       1978       1979      1980       1981       1982
(Million N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Paney                            5,843    7T813       7.521      9,9849   1t,390    15,239    16698
Dank Credit to Public Sector(net)                  551     2.309      3 143     3.313      3.539      6,299    10,328
Banit Credit to Private Sector                   2.382     3,J59       , 495     5,126     6,7JJ      8.917    10,567
(Pereentages or Index Numbers)
Money & Quasi Money as S or GDP                   21.6      24.7       22.2       24.3      30.9       32.3       3J.9
General Price [ndex(1975=100)                    123.9     143.0      166.7      186.3     208.9      287.5     266.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                               21.7      15.4       16.6       11.8      10.0       20.8      7T7
Dank Credit to Public Sector                               319.1       36.1        5.1       6.8       78.0      64.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     3.a8      45.2       29.7       16.3      31.6       32.2       18.5
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table Ore at the average exchange rate prevailing during period
covered.
1/i Revised estimates. /2/ Officil estimates. /4/ Provisional.
131 The data is derived from planning documents and refers to the number of 'gainfully employed'.
lNot Available.
April 18, 1988.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PATETS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
ILbAUCE OF PATIENTS                                                         NEIRCHADISE EXPOITS (CAERAGC 1981-1963) /6 /
1981 III  1982 /2/  1963 /3/                                U5$ Nin         S
(Nillion  US $3
3aperts Of Goods f.o.b.              17.T18    12.930    10.730             Crude Oil               13.421       96 7
of wikeh:Petroleum                  T,162    12.751    10.350             Cocoa Products             22S        1.6
ports of Geodes f.o.b.               11,390    16,835    12,256             Palo Products               eS        0.6
Services & Income                    -6,603    -3.060    -3,208             Tin                          25       0.2
Not Transfers                          -567       -373      -260            Other Co_oditesa           127        0.9
Curroot account Solance              -6,062    -7,3Jr   -_.992                         Total        13,632      10O0
EXERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1963 IS/
ftrect Foreign Investment               16S        3S8       365            _-              - --
Eat Ofricial NLT Beorrowing             i11        75        980                                              USS NIn.
of which: Amortlzation               -533      -677       1200                                               ----
Publc Debt, mci. UndLabursed   15,504
Other CopitalCShort-Term)               *09        496      -663            Non-Guaraated Prlvate Debt
Net Errors & Onissions                -1563       -689         0            Total Outatanding & Dibursed    11.756
Overall Balonee                       -6200      -6Jl     -4290
FImaecing                              6200       641e      4290
--        --         - - - - -        DEBT SERVICE RATIO For 1983 f6f
Uesrve Nowements(Incr.-)              6.200     2.367        S16
Arrears                                   0      4.051     3.770                                                   5
JSomrve Levels d,261                             1,629     1.092
eserve as Month of Imports             0.16       0.07      0.07            Public Debt,  Icl. Guaranteed        17.9
Non-Guaranteed Priwate Debt
Mports                               18.390    16.836    12.254 67
or wblc: Food                         3.1S5      2.736     t.e75            Total Outstamding I Disbursed        17_9
Consumer Goods             *.612 eZ     1* 1    3.2S9
Interm_eate Goods          *,682      4.342     3,13T
Capital Goods              S,992      5.569     3.963            12DIDA LENDING (Feb. 29.1984) (Nllilons 5)
RA   OF ExCNANGE
ISOD     IDA /71
19T7: U1100 a US51.57
1979  dl .00    USS31 66                                                    Outatanding & Olsbursed            866.0       36.7
1966:  l_100    USt1.83                                                    Undisbursed                      1,091.6        -
1911:  1.00    US$1.63
1962: 11.00 z USS1.49                                                       Outstanding  nel. Undisbursad   1,939.6        J6.7
1983: *1100 = US$1.39
II1 Provslional. /2/ Orriciai estimtes. /3I Staff *timates.
/X/ Official estimates for 1961 asd 19U2.
/S/ Fscluding $5.9 billion short-term arrears.
/6/ natio or ELT debt service to esports of goods and non-ractor services.
17/ As of February 1988.
-- Not Available
April 18. 1966



-25- -s
S  STATUS 07 DUNQ 0Q01? OPhDA
A.  5545Lf 0? DiESK SOUP 0IaflONI5     NI0i j,/
A.    (As of SaptabNr 30.M1A3I/
oa  r of  USt
Credit                                                        f        (loea ccll-ti  ns)
Saber    Tear        Dorrar   Purpose                                    _IDA        tburscd
Tenty SIx loan. nd two credita fully daburned                 682.1      35.3 2/
1191     1976      Nigeria     LC. State Oil Palo              19.0                  9.7
1454      1977      Nigr.    Agric. Dew. Lafia                 Z7.0                  0.5
1455      1977     Nigeri      Agerc. Dew. Ayantbe             35.0                  0.2
1591     1978      lgria    Mae. gat.  eallbolder Oil          30.0                  3.7
1597     1978      PIDS        Induarial Dweloent              54.7                 14.8
1667     1979      Nieria    Agric. Dv. Ride                   23.0                  4.2
L                                1668      1979        gria      Agric. Dew. forIn               27.0                 10.6
1679     1979      Nigeria     orertry                         31.0                  5.3
1711     1979      Nigria      Mater Supply - Kaduna           92.0                 70.7
1719     1979      Nigeria     Agrile.   Rural Itut. loat.      9.0                  5.7
1766     1980      UIIA        Poaer Lagoe                    100.0                 65.9
1767      190      Niria       Urlbn Dwe$o t - Daabi           17.8                 10.3
1838     1960      Niria       Aglc. Dwv.  Oyo-Narth           28.0                 11.9
1854      1980     Nilria      Agrie. Dw. -iti-Akoko           32.5                 20.4
18U3     1980      NIri        Road.                           78.0                 25.6
191       191      Nipia       Agic. Dew. -  uchl             132.0                 55.9
1982      1981     Nieria      Agilc. Dew. -lao               162.0                 97.6
2029      196       N ria       Tech. Anaiatance-Agr1c.        67.0                 31.3
Z036      192      Nigria    vater Supply - Anmbra             67.0                 54.4
2085      1982     ERUA        Paver - DMtailbuaton           100.0                 62.1
2185      1982      Nigeria    Agilc. flew. - Sokoto          147.0                119.6
2299      1963     NDI         Industrial Denlopnot           120.0                118.2
2345      1964     Ngri        Fertilzer Import               20.0                 139.8
2376      1984    MNUM         Small i Hadiu Scale Indutry  41.0                   40.9
2390      1964     MleC        Tech. asmt. - Gs Engneering  25.0                    25.0
*   2436      1964      Nigeria     Agile. Dew. - Kadan           122.0                122.0
Total                                             2,279.1      35.3   1,175.9
Of which baa been repaid                            293.3       6.0
Toga  Outstaning                                  2,1-5.6      31.3
Amount aeld                        16.8
Of wbich hbs been repaid           16.8               0.0
Toal nm bheld by Dank  IDa                        2,185.8      31.5
Total undiabursed                                                      1,175.9
D. STMNr OF IFC INVESTN2TS
(an of Sptber 30. 1984)
Fiscal                                              Type of        Amount io USS  illon
Tear                                               Buineas        Loan              Total
1964, 1967.      Arew Texcil-e  Ltd.                TextiLe Mfg.    1.0      0.6      1.6
1970
1964             Nigerls Industrial                 Dev. Fin. Co.            1.4      1.4
Development Dank Ltd.
1973             Funtua Cottonseed                  Vwg. OIL        1.6               1.6
1,                                                 Cakhing Ltd.                      Czahing
1913             Nigerian slundnts                  Aluminim        1.0      0.3      1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                    ProesaiDng
-                                1974              Lifiaga Sugar                     Sugar                    0.1      0.1
Eatate
1980             Wm                                 TextILes        6.2      0.7      6.9
1981             laeja Hotel                        Tours          10.2      1.5    11.7
1985             Trime Battery                      Dry-call        4.7      _        467
Toeal Croa Co_mirenta                            24.7      4.6    29.3
La"s cancelationa. ttma-
tiSm, repsyang and a4LdA                      5.9      1.6      7.5
Total Co_airnt -ow bld by IFC                    18.6      3.0    21.8
Undlaburmed                                       7.2      1.4      5.6
5 Not yet signd.
1/ The Statue of tbe projecta lIated in Part A in described in a aeparata report on all D&anIDA
finaced projecta In execution, whicb ia updated twice yearly and circulated to the Exective
Director. on April 30 and October 31.
Z7  Frior to exchange rtae adjuatuce



- 26 -
ANNEX III
NIGERIA
BORNO WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:       two rears
(b) The agency which has prepared the projects:
Borno State Water Board with assistance by
consultants and Bank staff.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:                 1979
(d)  Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:   May 1981
(e)  Date of departure of the appraisal mission:             May 1983
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:                     April 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                          October 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
PPF advance of US$1 million (in two tranches) for detailed design
and preparation of tender documents required for water supply
facilities, and for technical assistance.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between Federal Government
and Borno State Government and between BSG and BSWB (condition of
effectiveness, para. 39);
2.   Agreement satisfactory to the Bank between CBDA and BSWB to share
the Alau Dan and Reservoir waters in order to meet the needs of                 )
Maiduguri (conditiou of effectiveness, para. 47);
3. Opening of a project account by BSWB with an initial payment o' ''
million by BSG (condition of effectiveuess, para. 40); and
4. Payment by BSG into project account of Y6 million in 1986 (N 1.5
million per quarter) (para. 40);
5.  Deduction by federal government of necessary state contribution from
federal statutory allocations to BSG, should BSG fail to provide
adequate and timely financing (para. 40); and
6.  Appointment by BSWB of a financial controller by June 30. 1985
(para. 42).



NI6A L IJ 
-0              N  I G  E R
MAL       0^\           .X        S;?>\/oeo
BURKIN A.                                                                                             Ia*or---
s5olZr        NIGERIA           a   .                                       '  eir
N~~~~~~O,
0,A  N                              hi G E                                      '. I  'A-
S1    CAMEROON
G;udf cf  Guinec       f-                                                      ,_-    ----
Airport
AR,mor
College ~   ~       Cllge~
13              ;Cole,.CHAD~no
KANO,                 B 0              
-12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
Afafon Forest Resere
+<Ls~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2                    9.. rf99.9
1~                                            1 /C A     __  _ _ _  _____, __ __'_   __.:-___
B A Ii C I                                 /        CAMEROON                                    0         5
10  ve             >.;~~~G O                                                               _0 
10           lr,,               ro rai   1 A        14-/HD_                                             _



IBRD 17516R1
N IGERIA
BORNO STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MAIDUGURI
4                                                      /                                               0 \ ./       , /
L...J  Treotment Facilities
ED < 11    Proposed Primary System Pipelines
8 t   z   , ; W  A N GE..                             Proposed Secondary System Pipelines
Existing Pipeline
Boreholes
-  __ _NdAirok,lnvikekn                ^.   Ground Reservoirs
i~   _Elevated Reservoirs
*    End of Pipes
Rivers
fuel                                                     RaW \rTeaching  Rcilway
A- Xt  IF                                                          -     Trunk Roads
Fede/Rl                     Other Roads
G F?   ~ ~ ~ ~~ -College
/     ,     --~                                       -   State Boundaries
<   /  }       S   ~   -       \                                              -@-   International Boundaries
-  911  !  ,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
*\           5    ~~~~~University of
\            \id~~~~oiugun,
! ~      ~~ 3KILOMETERS'v                                                           
10        1l5 MILES
a   SWe   kw w                                                                                                                 _ a* Ce.ww  o
*..  - Tm I< meo md mei*W_m.
_...E m  e b '.  .ye.. V   mw  -                                .
C m.d VWme adonsh.W R.Nnft CwvpmueF NW                                                                                        19
FEBRUARY 1985






