Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3105 AL
Loan Agreement
(Third Ports Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 17, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3105 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through its Ministry 
responsible for Transport and its Ministry responsible for Public Works;
      (C)   by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Entreprise Portuaire d'Alger (EPAL), EPAL has agreed to undertake certain obligations 
in respect of the operation and management of the facilities provided under Part A.1 
of the Project and the operation, management and maintenance of the equipment provided 
under Parts A.6 (i) and A.8 (ii) of the Project;
      (D)   by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Entreprise Portuaire d'Oran (EPO), EPO has agreed to undertake certain obligations in 
respect of the operation, and management of the facilities provided under Part A.2 of 
the Project and the operation, management and maintenance of the equipment provided 
under Part A.6 (ii) of the Project;
Page  2
      (E)   by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Entreprise Portuaire d'Annaba (EPAN), EPAN has agreed to undertake certain obligations 
in respect of the operation, and management of the facilities provided under Parts A.3 
and A.4 of the Project and the operation, management and maintenance of the equipment 
provided under Parts A.6 (iii) and A.7 of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and 
EPAL, EPO and EPAN, respectively;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)   "EPs" means the Borrower's entreprises portuaires, including EPAL, EPO and 
EPAN;
      (b)   "EPAL" means Entreprise Portuaire d'Alger, a socialist enterprise a 
caractere economique established under Decree No. 82-286 of August 14, 1982;
      (c)   "EPO" means Entreprise Portuaire d'Oran, a socialist enterprise a 
caractere economique established under Decree No. 82-289 of August 14, 1982;
      (d)   "EPAN" means Entreprise Portuaire d'Annaba, a societe par actions with a 
share capital of 10,000,000 Dinars established on February 28, 1989 by Acte Notarie 
registered under No. 118-1989 on March 4, 1989;
      (e)   "EPAL Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and EPAL of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the EPAL Project Agreement;
      (f)   "EPO Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and EPO of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the EPO Project Agreement;
      (g)   "EPAN Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and EPAN of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the EPAN Project Agreement;
      (h)   "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Transport;
      (i)   "MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Public Works;
      (j)   "DA" or "Dinars" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (k)   "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from January 1 to 
December 31; and
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty three million dollars ($63,000,000), being the sum of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of 
Page  3
the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank of Algeria on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
      (c)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings' means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOT and MP1W, with due diligence and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, management and engineering practices.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) cause EPAL, EPO and EPAN to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the EPAL, EPO and EPAN Project Agreements, all of 
their respective obligations therein set forth; (ii) shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EPAL, EPO and EPAN to perform such 
obligations; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      Section 3.02. For purposes of coordinating the execution of the Project and 
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall:
      (a)   not later than one month after the effectiveness of this Agreement, 
Page  4
appoint and thereafter maintain within its MOT, a Project coordinator with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and
      (b)   take all necessary steps to provide such coordinator with appropriate 
resources and technical, accounting and administrative staff in sufficient number for 
the purpose.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower undertakes to take or cause to be taken all 
necessary measures, including the adjustment of port tariffs, in order to enable EPAL, 
EPO and EPAN to carry out their respective obligations set forth in Sections 4.02 and 
4.03 of the EPAL and EPO Project Agreements, and in Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of 
the EPAN Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.07 (a) and (c), and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, records and reports, and 
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Parts A.4 to A.7 and A.8 (ii) of the Project 
shall be carried out by EPAL, EPO and EPAN, respectively, pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the EPAL, EPO and EPAN Project Agreements.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall enter into Reimbursement Agreements with 
each of EPAL, EPO and EPAN for reimbursing the Borrower for the amounts withdrawn from 
the Loan Account under Categories (1) (d) and (3) (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of the equipment 
provided to each of them under Parts A.6, A.7 and A.8 (ii) of the Project and the 
facilities provided to EPAN under part A.4 of the Project. The terms and conditions of 
such Agreements shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and shall include, 
inter alia, the principal terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Reimbursement 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive either of the Reimbursement 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.07. For purposes of carrying out the training program under Part B.1 
of the Project the Borrower shall through MOT coordinate the conventional cargo 
handling training and the container handling training components of such program.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
           (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Page  5
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   take all necessary measures to allocate sufficient funds for the financing 
of rehabilitation or renewal of its port sector facilities and
      (b)   not later than December 31 of each year, commencing in 1989, furnish to 
the Bank for information its proposed budgetary allocation for the ports sector for 
the following Fiscal Year, broken down by port and by activity, together with its 
proposed medium-term budgetary commitments.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31, 1991, carry 
out a study under terms of reference acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank on the 
tariffs, charged by all EPs for their services, cost accounting and fixed assets 
valuation; (ii) not later than June 30, 1992, furnish to the Bank for review and 
comments the findings and recommendations of such study; and (iii) based on such 
review, take all necessary measures satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank to adopt 
a new tariff structure in line with the financial requirements included in Section 
4.02 and 4.03 of the EPAL and EPO Project Agreements and in Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 
4.04 of the EPAN Project Agreement.
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than July 1, 1992, or such later 
date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, carry out a study under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank on the handling of cereals imports 
in the Borrower's territory; and (ii) not later than December 31, 1992 or such later 
date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank for review and 
comments the findings and recommendations of such study.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)   EPAL, EPO or EPAN shall have failed to perform any of their obligations 
under the EPAL, EPO or EPAN Project Agreement, respectively.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that EPAL, EPO or EPAN to perform its obligations under the EPAL, EPO or EPAN Project 
Agreement.
      (c)   The Decrees establishing EPAL and EPO referred to in Section 1.02 (b), and 
(c) of this Agreement and the Acte Notarie establishing EPAN and referred to in 
Section 1.02 (d) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of EPAL, EPO 
or EPAN to perform any of their obligations under the EPAL, EPO or EPAN Project 
Agreement or the EPAL, EPO or EPAN Reimbursement Agreement.
Page  6
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EPAL, EPO or EPAN or for the 
suspension of any of their operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Reimbursement Agreements referred to in Section 
3.06 of this Agreement have been executed on behalf of the Borrower, EPAL, EPO and 
EPAN, respectively.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that each of the EPAL, EPO and EPAN Project Agreements has been duly 
authorized or ratified by EPAL, EPO and EPAN, respectively, and is legally binding 
upon EPAL, EPO and EPAN in accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the Reimbursement Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto and are legally 
binding upon such parties in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances
            Immeuble Mauretania
            Place du Pdrou
            Algiers
            Democratic and Popular
             Republic of Algeria
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  FINPLAN                  52062
                  ALGER
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  7
      Cable address:
  Telex:
 
                  INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                  By /s/ Abderbamane Berrid
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ W. A. Wahenpans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
    (a)  under Part           19,400,000     48%
         A.1 of the
         Project
    (b)  under Part            3,400,000     48%
         A.2 of the
         Project
    (c)  under Part            5,500,000     48%
         A.3 of the
         Project
    (d)  under Part            5,000,000     48%
    A.4 of the
    Project
(2) Preparatory works          1,000,000        100% of foreign
    under Part A.5 of                           expenditures
    the Project
(3) Equipment:
    (a)  under Part            3,400,000
Page  8
         A.6 (i) of
         the Project
    (b)  under Part            1,400,000
         A.6 (ii) of
         the Project
    (c)  under Part            1,800,000
         A.6 (iii) of
         the Project
    (d)  under Part            6,900,000        100% of foreign
         A.7 of the                             expenditures
         Project                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures
    (e)  under Part            1,300,000
         A.8 (i) of
         the Project
    (f)  under Part            1,200,000
         A.8 (ii) of
         the Project
(4) Consultants,               4,200,000        100%
    services under
    Parts B.2 and B.3
    of the Project and
    training under
    Part B.1 of the
    Project
(5) Unallocated                8,500,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                63,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the terms "local expenditures' means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to (i) assist the Borrower in strengthening 
its investment planning and coordination in its ports subsector; and (ii) assist EPAL, 
EPO and EPAN in achieving financial viability and to strengthen their management, 
organization and operation.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:     Modernization and Rehabilitation of the Ports of Algiers, Oran and Annaba
1.    Remodeling of existing berths in the port of Algiers by relocating seawards the 
quay wall of an existing mole to provide about 320 meters of berth length for 
container vessels with a water depth of about 11 meters, backfilling an adjacent basin 
to provide for paved storage areas and improving road access to and from the port 
area.
2.    Paving of an existing berth and strengthening of a quaywall in the port of Oran 
to provide a storage area for containers and Ro-Ro trailers.
Page  9
3.    Relocation seawards of an existing quay to provide a container berth with a 
water depth of 10 meters, as well as paving of a storage area in the port of Annaba to 
provide facilities for container and Ro-Ro traffic.
4.    Construction of a 80,000 ton storage facility for cereals in the port of Annaba.
5.    Carrying out preparatory works in the port of Algiers including the removal of 
mercury canisters from the site proposed for the construction of the facilities 
provided under Part A.1 above.
6.    Provision of specialized container handling equipment and related maintenance 
equipment for a first phase of modernized container operations: (i) in the port of 
Algiers; (ii) in the port of Oran; and (iii) in the Port of Annaba.
7.    Provision of unloading equipment for bulk cereals traffic in the port of Annaba.
8.    Provision to: (i) MPW of miscellaneous equipment for navigation aid and for 
civil works surveys and maintenance; and (ii) EPAL of computers for its management and 
operation.
Part B:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Development and execution by the Borrower, EPAL, EPO and EPAN of a comprehensive 
program of training covering conventional cargo handling, management, maintenance and 
utilization of container handling equipment.
2.    Provision of consultants' services to: (i) MOT for Project monitoring and 
supervision of construction of civil works in the port of Algiers and in the port of 
Annaba; and (ii) EPAN for the monitoring and supervision of the civil works and the 
setting up of the equipment in the port of Annaba.
3.    Carrying out of a study by MOT under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank for tariffs, costing and fixed assets valuation, and studies for 
subsequent phases of port modernization, including a study for the optimization of 
grain transport and storage and a study of the need for a marine repair facility.
*  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
      beginning March 15, 1995
      through  September 15, 2004               3,150,000
