Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3105 AL
EPAN Project Agreement
(Third Ports Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ENTREPRISE PORTUAIRE D'ANNARA
Dated September 17, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3105 AL
EPAN PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ENTREPRISE PORTUAIRE D'ANNARA (EPAN).
      WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between DEMOCRATIC AND 
POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-three 
million dollars ($63,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that EPAN agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS EPAN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) EPAN declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall operate and 
manage the facilities provided under Part A.3 of the Project and operate, manage and 
maintain the equipment provided under Parts A.6 (iii) and A.7 of the Project and the 
facilities provided under Part A.4 of the Project, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and EPAN shall otherwise agree, EPAN shall: (i) assign 
appropriately qualified staff to be trained under the training program provided under 
Part B.1 of the Project; and (ii) implement said program in a timely fashion.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and goods required for Parts A.4, A.6 (iii) and A.7 of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.03. EPAN shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.07 (a) and (c), and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, 
respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Parts A.4, A.6 (iii) and A.7 of the 
Project.
      Section 2.04. EPAN shall duly perform all its obligations under the EPAN 
Reimbursement Agreement. Except as the Bank and EPAN shall otherwise agree, EPAN shall 
not take or concur in any  action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the EPAN Reimbursement Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) EPAN shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress achieved in carrying out Parts A.4, A.6 (iii), 
A.7, B.1 and B.2 (ii) of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the EPAN Reimbursement Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   EPAN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by EPAN of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the EPAN Reimbursement Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPAN
      Section 3.01. EPAN shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. EPAN shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and engineering practices.
      Section 3.03. EPAN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. EPAN shall not sell or lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of the 
property or fixed assets owned by it, if such lease, transfer or disposition would 
materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) EPAN shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   EPAN shall:
            (i)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, copies of 
the unaudited accounts, referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year;
           (ii)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
           (iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank and EPAN shall otherwise agree, EPAN shall 
take all necessary measures to maintain starting with Fiscal Year 1992, a ratio of 
working expenses, excluding depreciation and financial charges, to total operating 
revenues not higher than 3 to 4.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
the term "working expenses' means all expenses related to EPAN's 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes; and
           (ii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to EPAN's operations.
      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank and EPAN shall otherwise agree, EPAN shall 
produce for each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 
1992, net operating revenues related to container handling and storing equivalent to 
not less than two times the estimated debt service requirements of EPAN under the 
Reimbursement Agreement for the succeeding Fiscal Year.
      (b)   Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, EPAN shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by EPAN and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that EPAN would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, EPAN shall 
promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)
The term "net operating revenues" means the sum of net operating 
income related to container handling and storing operations plus 
provision for depreciation.
           (ii)
The term "net operating income" means total revenues related to 
container handling and storing operations less total operating 
expenses related to container handling and storing operations.
          (iii)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses, related to 
container handling and storing operations, including 
Page  4
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, and provision for depreciation, but excluding interest 
and other charges on debt and corporate tax and possible 
distribution of part of the terminal net operating revenue to the 
workers as a bonus. 
      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank and EPAN shall otherwise agree, EPAN shall 
produce for each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 
1992, net operating revenues related to cereals handling equivalent to not less than 
two times the estimated debt service requirements of EPAN under the Reimbursement 
Agreement for the succeeding fiscal year.
      (b)   Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, EPAN shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by EPAN and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that EPAN would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, EPAN shall 
promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)
The term "net operating revenues" means the sum of net operating 
income related to cereals handling and storing operations plus 
provision for depreciation.
           (ii)
The term "net operating income" means total income revenues 
related to cereals handling and storing operations less total 
operating expenses related to cereals handling and storing 
operations.
          (iii)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses, related to 
cereals handling and storing operations, including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and 
provision for depreciation, but excluding interest and other 
charges on debt and corporate taxes and possible distribution of 
part of the terminal net operating revenue to the workers as a 
bonus.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EPAN 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify EPAN thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
Page  5
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
      For Entreprise Portuaire d'Annaba:
      Mole Cygogne, Quai Nord BP1232
      Annaba
      Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
                                          Telex:
                                          81801
                                          81802
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPAN may be 
taken or executed by its Director or such other person or persons as EPAN shall 
designate in writing, and EPAN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ W. A. Wahenpans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                  ENTREPRISE PORTUAIRE D'ANNABA
                  By /s/ Nadjemedino Gais
Authorized Representative
