Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16239-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
May 7, 1997
Agriculture Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:    =    Zambian Kwacha (ZK)
SDRI.00    =    US$1.383 (As of March 31, 1997)
US$1.00    =    ZK 1,300 (As of March 31, 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA            -       Canadian International Development Agency
ECZ             -       Environmental Council of Zambia
EIA             -       Environmental Impact Assessment
ESP             -       Environmental Support Program
GRZ             -       Government of the Republic of Zambia
IDA             -       International Development Association
IUCN            -       Intemnational Union for the Conservation of Nature
MENR            -       Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MOFED           -       Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOLA            -       Ministry of Legal Affairs
MLG&H           -       Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MOE             -       Ministry of Education
MPU             -        Micro Project Unit
NESC            -       National Environmental Steering Committee
NDF             -       Nordic Development Fund
NORAD           -        Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PEF             -       Pilot Environmental Fund
PID             -       Planning and Information Department
SRP             -       Social Recovery Project
UNDP            -       United Nations Development Programme
WWF             -       World Wildlife Fund
ZEEP            -        Zambia Environmental Education Program
The preparation of this operation is the work of many, and has been facilitated by the Japanese Trust Fund resources. This report
is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Zambia in June/July 1996. The mission comprised Messrs/Mmes. B.
Souhial. Mission Leader, F. Falloux, Technical Specialist; F. King, Senior Economist; Y. Prevost, Environmental Information
Specialist: R. Robelus. Senior Environmental Specialist: T. Yudelman-Bioch, Environmental Specialist; R. Etheredge.
Consultant, Planning and Budgetary Specialist; S. Muntemba, Environmental Specialist; V. Okaru, Regulation Specialist; I.
Walton, Natural Resource Management Specialist; and J. Erikson. institutional Specialist. The following also participated in the
post appraisal of February 1997: Messrs. M. Bekhechi. Counsel; and H. Johnson, Institutional Specialist. Peer reviewers for the
document included Messrs/Mmes. R. Clement-Jones. Senior Environmental Economist; G. Yabrudy, Resident Representative:
and R. Goodland, Lead Adviser. Mmes. 1P. Pomerantz and S. Ganguly are the Country Director and the Technical Manager,
respectively, for the operation.
Vice President:                      Mr. Callisto E. Madavo, AFR
Country Director:                    Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz, AFC02
Technical Manager:                   Ms. Sushma Ganguly, AFTAI
Task Team Leader:                    Mr. Bachir Souhlal, AFTAI



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND ................................................1 
A. C             OUNTRY BACKGROUND .................................................                                                             I
B. THE ENVIRONMENTAL SITUATION ................................................                                                                  2
C. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK ................................................                                                           4
D. THE ENVIRONMENTAL AGENDA ................................................. 7
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST OPERATIONS ................................................                                                         7
F. OTHER DONOR ASSISTANCE ................................................                                                                       8
G. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ................................................. 8
2. THE PROGRAM ................................................                                                                                  9
A. PROGRAM RATIONALE ................................................                                                                            9
B. PROGRAM APPROACH ................................................                                                                             9
C. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES ................................................ 1 1
D. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION .................................................11
3. PROGRAM COSTING AND FINANCING ................................................                                                               18
A. COST ESTIMATES ................................................. I8
B. FINANCING .1.................................................9
C. PROCUREMENT ................................................ 19
D. DISBURSEMENT ................................................                                                                               22
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING ................................................                                                                       25
4. PROGRAM ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ................................................                                                    26
A. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT ................................................                                                                         26
B. PHASING OF IMPLEMENTATION ........................                                                                                           28
C. COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION ........................                                                                                            28
D. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING .....................................                                                                  32
E. IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT .....................................                                                                                33
5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................................                                                                            34
A. PROGRAM IMPACT .....................................                                                                                         34
B. RISKS .....................................                                                                                                  34
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..................................... 35
D. SUSTAINABILITY .....................................                                                                                         35
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .....................................                                                                          37
A. ASSURANCES OBTAINED AT NEGOTIATIONS .....................................                                                                    37
B. CONDITIONS OF BOARD PRESENTATION .....................................                                                                      37
C. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS .....................................                                                                            38
D. CONDITIONS OF DISBURSEMENT .....................................                                                                             38
E. RECOMMFNDATION .....................................                                                                                         38



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:    LOGICAL FRAMEWORK AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ANNEX 2:    COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
ANNEX 3:    AGREED FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ECZ AND PID
ANNEX 4:    ORGANIZATIONAL CHARTS
ANNEX 5:    ACTIVITY MATRIX OF DONORS IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL ARENA
ANNEX 6:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ANNEX 7:    PROGRAM SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
ANNEX 8:    PROGRAM COST ESTIMATES
ANNEX 9:    DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
TABLES
TABLE I: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT .................................................  18
TABLE 2: FINANCING PLAN .................................................               19
TABLE 3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .................................................     21
TABLE 4: DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT BY CATEGORY .................................................  24
TABLE 5: DISBURSEMENT PROFILE .................................................         24
Vice President:                Mr. Callisto E. Madavo, AFR
Country Director:              Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz, AFC02
Technical Manager:             Ms. Sushma Ganguly, AFTA1I
Task Team Leader:              Mr. Bachir Souhlal, AFTA1I



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Zambia.
Implementing agency:         Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR).
Beneficiaries:               Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR),
Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ), and local communities.
Poverty:                     Not applicable.
Amount:                      SDR 9.3 million (US$12.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment fee:              0.50% of the undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:              See Para. 3.4
Net present value:           Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:     No. 16239-ZA
Map:                        IBRD 28432
Project Identification No.:  ZM-PA-3253






1. BACKGROUND
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1    Zambia is a country of about 750,000 square kilometers, roughly the area of Spain and
the United Kingdom combined. With a population of some 9.2 million, it is one of the least
densely populated countries in Africa. It is one the most urbanized countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa, next to South Africa, with about 40 percent of the population living in cities and towns.
Copper has been the backbone of the economy and has had a central role in determining the
demographics of the country by creating urban centers in the Copperbelt that have drawn mine
workers from the rural areas with the promise of jobs and easy access to infrastructure and social
services. The proportion of the population living in poverty increased from 60 percent in the
mid-1970s to 69 percent in 1991.
1.2   Zambia adopted an ambitious economic reform program in 1991 aimed at reducing the
role of the state in the economy through decontrol, deregulation, and privatization and at
promoting faster private sector growth through reduced fiscal deficits and a more efficient public
sector focused on infrastructure and human development. The overall objective of this program
is to reduce poverty through faster and more broadly shared economic growth and improved
provision of social services.
1.3   Impressive progress has been accomplished in the past five years, especially in
liberalizing markets and reducing the role of government in commercial activities. An ambitious
privatization program is underway. Over half of the parastatals have been sold or liquidated, and
negotiations are underway for the privatization of the copper mining parastatal. Control on
prices, interest rates, imports, and exports have all been discontinued.
1.4    Macroeconomic performance has been uneven, particularly in the early years when
inflation was over 100 percent, but fiscal and monetary control have been more effective in the
past two years. The domestic budget achieved a small surplus in 1996. Progress on civil service
reform has also been limited, but the size of the public service has begun to decline, and plans to
restructure 14 ministries have been adopted, and implementation will begin in 1997.
1.5   The rate of economic growth was disappointing in the first five years of Zambia's
economic reform program. Overall GDP has been about flat since 1990; per capita GDP has
fallen by about 13 percent. Growth has been elusive because of incomplete and imperfect reform
implementation, the inevitable delays in investor response, and several droughts, along with the
considerable legacy of more than two decades of inefficiency and mismanagement from
Zambia's previous policies. Overall GDP is estimated to have grown by about 5 percent in 1996,
but only because good rains brought a 15 percent increase in agricultural GDP.
1.6   The country's economy has been, and is likely to remain, driven by the wealth of its
natural resources. Copper will continue to play an important role in the economy, but
diversification is needed. While the natural resource endowment could provide the basis for
accelerated and broad-economic growth, its improper management would constrain growth and
undermine efforts to alleviate poverty.



-2-
B. THE ENVIRONMENTAL SITUATION
Importance of the Environment
1.7    Abundant water, land and forest resources could provide the basis for sustainable
development in the country. However, increasing pressure on these resources has given rise to
environmental degradation, constraints to growth and increasing poverty. The effects can be
seen most directly in declining agricultural productivity, resulting from a lack of proper water
and soil management; dwindling wildlife populations, as a consequence of poaching or
degradation of their natural habitat; and declining fisheries earnings, as a result of overfishing
and water pollution. Both air and water pollution affect the health and productivity of Zambia's
work force, particularly in the urban areas surrounding mining operations. Many Zambians lack
access to clean drinking water, adequate sanitation and solid waste management facilities. The
adverse effects of these conditions on health and productivity tend to disproportionately impact
the poor segments of society.
1.8    In recognition of the importance of the environment, the Government of Zambia has
taken several steps toward its management. In 1985, it adopted a National Conservation Strategy,
which laid the basis for the enactment of the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act
in 1990 and the subsequent establishment of the Environment Council of Zambia (ECZ) as its
statutory body. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) was established in
1991 to set environmental policies and coordinate the ministries involved in environmental and
natural resource matters. In December 1994, after a process of broad consultation, the
Government finalized the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) which identified key
environmental problems and related institutional and legislative constraints, and recommended
actions for management and mitigation.
Boxta1f Natnal:EnvfronmeniaAdlon Plan (see Annex 4
:lAdpteby     in Decembere199 as assequel to the.Nationaltconservat.on St   the NEAP gves an 
overview ofZamb .. environmental  imsand assesthe effectieness hof legana  instituions
dealingwith  them. Jiodsaeioptions    for conom icalyand isocialy sustalnable managemet ,i0
-the erX~mn$ environment and/orms the basisf ; :fg;f:ff; 0 :;::fff;:gf:g l  : y : ii ;:y:0:4 : fo the f ::;fg l   .SP-  0 i gg;;;:
Ke 0rpsals merging from the MEAPinclude;'
A fttff0tS*000-S a cleardefinition ad afunderiistandingofnantitutonazl r iesosibiiisbetween Sthe:h IwoAiXfS   X :illfttt  
environmentalapexunitst (   .Z,hbeteen these units and theagencies responsiblefor 
:    mplementng environmenta  litse an  beteen g ent servies and thevcustodians of
the eavironment part'cuiar locolmmunittes;
a an expansion in ttheinstittional 0capacty t manage heenviroment ad a ratioalizatrion;f the
legal fr:amberk win :which envirnmen  biniti  are undertaken;
*  the promoonWoftraditional  institionsancommuni  pariciatn to he  create a'.
emand-d^riven cutre upport animrovend         OMni   ad d moresstainbleuse ofnara
or       Of..'J
o obliganvironment     al imassessments omr  d pt projets in ascrs; and
ti;t;  *0- the reatirtMon offianclngecantisms andan Inceedavailability freources XtorespondZ0000tittti 
t:;000g ;::e:00nvironmental  needsand opportn ie.:  -y      - -     000 :    0    jj:     S:    -  t     0000:iy0000t00  ;0;: 0;000000



-3 -
Issues and Concerns
1.9    The five major environmental issues identified in the NEAP include: (a) soil
degradation; (b) water pollution and inadequate sanitation; (c) deforestation; (d) air pollution,
especially in copper mining towns; and (e) wildlife depletion. The framework for addressing
these issues came out of a broad consultative process involving all segments of society.
1.10   Land. Agricultural land is abundant in Zambia, with only 6 percent of arable land
currently under continuous cultivation. Nevertheless, the predominant soils in Zambia are low in
nutrients, have low water retention capacities, and are generally strongly acidic. Land under
cultivation is often subject to degradation as a result of erosion, deforestation, nutrient loss, and
increasing of acidity levels. These problems, combined with a high rate of population growth
(3.5 percent per annum) and policy-induced changes in access to land, land use and patterns of
agricultural production, suggest a growing need to better manage agricultural land.
1.11   Water. Zambia is unusual in Southern Africa in that it is endowed with sufficient water
resources to meet present and expected longer-term demands. Rainfall generally is good,
groundwater is available everywhere in the country at less than 100 meters and reliable sources
of surface water are abundant. However, recent droughts have pointed to the need for
sustainable and sound management of water resources. While at present, there is no problem
with the quantity of water resources in Zambia, conflicting water demands have arisen in some
areas and environmental degradation has been increasingly observed. In the Kafue River Basin,
for example, competing demands for hydropower generation, agricultural production, urban
domestic and industrial use have created conflicts, and industrial waste in the Copperbelt and
Kafue Estates has polluted much of the Basin.
1.12   Access to clean water and sanitation is a growing problem. It is estimated that 59 percent
of the population has access to safe drinking water and that 55 percent has access to sanitation.
There has been little extension of the country's urban water delivery infrastructure since the
copper boom period ended. In response to this problem, the Bank is currently financing the
Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project to rehabilitate urban water and sanitation systems
and rehabilitate small rural-piped systems. Water quality is also a cause for concern. In urban
areas, increasing quantities of domestic waste and inadequate sanitation pollute groundwater
supplies and surface water systems. Mining and industrial areas suffer from leaching of heavy
metals and release of other forms of industrial waste into rivers. The country's extensive
wetland ecosystems are also starting to be threatened.
1.13   Forest Resources. Forests and woodlands, which cover some 60 percent of the land
area in Zambia, are rich in biodiversity but relatively poor in commercial timber species.
Firewood and charcoal from these forests are the main cooking energy source for 90 percent of
households. Deforestation, estimated at some 139,000 hectares per year in the period 1975-
1990, has reached critical levels as a result of uncontrolled settlement, illegal logging, clearing
for agriculture and, to a lesser extent, shifting cultivation, forest fires, and charcoal production.
Deforestation is a major contributor to soil erosion and siltation.
1.14   Air. Air quality is of increasing concern, especially in the mining areas. At present,
sulfur oxide emissions from the mining industry rarely reach hazardous levels, though



-4-
concentrations near some mines routinely exceed the country's newly established air quality
standards, and increased incidence of respiratory diseases has been recorded in the Copperbelt.
Over the medium-term, it would be economically feasible to reduce emissions by converting
sulfur oxides into industrial sulfuric acid which could then be used in the leaching process to
recover copper from low grade oxide ores, however, substantial investment would be required.
1.15   Wildlife. Wildlife and unspoiled habitats are a rich national heritage, a source of
livelihood for rural and peri-urban communities, and a potential source of significant tourism
revenues. The country, rich in biodiversity, is believed to host 233 mammal, 731 bird, 145 reptile
and 156 fish species. Zambia's fauna is protected in 19 national parks covering 6.4 million
hectares, while regulated hunting is permitted in game management areas covering an additional
16.6 million hectares. The private sector operates another 19 game ranches. Wildlife is currently
threatened by poaching, land-use pressures, development of economic infrastructure, mining,
logging, overfishing, tourism development, bush fires, and the destruction of natural habitats.
Traditional chiefs, who formerly ensured sustainable use of wildlife resources, no longer have
legal power to do so. A lack of institutional capacity and staffing to protect and plan for the
sustainable management and utilization of wildlife exacerbates the problem.
0000~~R~ 2 Poverty al iN2bthe Core fEnvirotnmentalDegradtlonfX li Zmia00;;;0
:E vironmental degradationin Zambiais irooted in povert and the lack falternatives in peole:'s surviva:
strategisinadequate understanding of environmental problems,4 weak admiistra  tive andlegal
fraxe;wtr and Xa breakdownlaf trational values and practices which pr helped to ensure
sstainarbil ty fthe tnaturalhabitat.i
The poor are gespecal vurablef tod ioion onaturiaresources and increases in pollution. The
*k4ackofaccess Ntoclea waer, the  depletion offeo   arpolutiont due to mining :options, ad sodl
drad ato ajffect the poor mostrsevere, in particur women, elderl, youth and singel
headed-households. in additon, their lakofaccess: 10stsftlresources often iworsens their sittion
leadnginto a downward spiraltoftwrsening poverty and environmental ddation.r Thirs,: once again,
illustrates t4he.nexus5 o fynatu  resource dleltion and envirnenta cdegradation
C. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Policy Context
1.16   Key policy orientations stemming from the National Conservation Strategy for Zambia
and the NEAP include:
* ensuring the sustainable use of Zambia's renewable natural resources;
* maintaining Zambia's biological diversity, including the range of biological
material governing the quality and productivity of domesticated plants and animals,
the rich diversity of wild species, as well as essential ecological processes and
life-support systems;
* developing an understanding and public awareness of environmental issues, and
reinforcing sound traditional practices to preserve natural resources and the habitat;



-5-
* fostering greater self-sufficiency within communities and building up their capacity
to take control of their resources and environment;
* gradually transferring the prime responsibility for environmental conservation and
management from government to the people; and
* tackling poverty as a root cause of environmental degradation and unsustainable use
of natural resources.
1.17  In addition to these environmental policy orientations, the Government has recently
taken a number of important policy initiatives which directly affect the implementation of
programs in the environmental sector. Many of these initiatives are linked to the Public Sector
Reform Program which is only now being implemented, after being formulated in late 1993. The
three most critical policies and the implications of these policies are:
*  Restructuring the Public Service. The main thrust of the Public Sector Reform
Program is to create a 'less costly, but more efficient Public Service,' which in
practice means smaller government.
* Decentralization and Strengthening of Local Government. The aim of this policy
is to reduce the concentration of government by devolving powers and functions to
the provinces and districts. Several ministries have already transferred staff and
responsibilities to the districts.
* Privatization. Consistent with the goal of 'small government' is the increased
emphasis on the private sector and the transfer of responsibility for some services
and agencies to the private sector, non-governmental and quasi-governmental
bodies, as well as local communities. The move toward greater involvement of,
and responsibility assumed by, communities is a direct consequence of this policy.
Legislative and Regulatory Framework
1.18   The Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act constitutes the overall umbrella
legislation for the environment. Zambia also has a number of general and sectoral laws relating
to environmental protection. Under ESP preparation, a comprehensive report assessed the
legislation covering environmental management and environment-related sectors such as land,
agriculture, health, forest, national parks and wildlife, local government, fisheries, international
environmental cooperation, mines and minerals, and water resource management. The report
shows that: (a) much of this legislation does not contain specific provisions and detailed criteria
for the preservation and sustainable use of particular natural resources; (b) laws on economic
development, natural resource management and environmental protection are not coordinated,
with the exception of the Mines and Minerals Act of 1995, and the Mining Environmental
Regulations of 1996, which require mining operators to comply with national environmental
standards in mining operations; and (c) some penal and enforcement provisions in the legislation
are outdated.
1.19   Furthermore, the report shows that the domestic legislation is not always consistent with
the international environmental conventions that were ratified by Zambia, including: the 1968
Algiers Convention on Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources in Africa, the 1973
Washington Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora,



-6-
the 1985 Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the related 1987 Montreal
Protocol, the 1989 Basel Convention on Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wastes, the
1992 Rio Convention on Biological Diversity, the 1992 Rio Framework Convention on Climate
Change and the 1994 Convention to Combat Desertification. Improvement of the legal
framework would also have to ensure Zambia's full compliance with international environmental
conventions.
1.20   The Government is currently reviewing various laws and their implementing instruments
to update and improve the overall environmental legislation. The government, through ECZ, has
enacted an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 1997 legislation. It is also reviewing the
legislation pertaining to forest and land tenure.
1.21   An effective policy and legislative framework for effective environmental management
requires: (a) laying down standards and regulations that support current laws; (b) ensuring the
consistency of environmental laws and related laws e.g., investment law, land tenure legislation;
(c) building implementation capacity by training staff to carry out environmental management
functions; and (d) ensuring effectiveness of the judiciary.
Institutions
1.22   The sheer number and diversity of government agencies involved in environmental
management highlight the need for coordination and clarity in functions and responsibilities. In
addition to MENR, a number of ministries have significant environmental responsibilities:
Mines and Minerals; Agriculture, Food and Fisheries; Lands; Energy and Water; Tourism, under
which falls the National Parks and Wildlife Service; Local Government and Housing; and
Education. Under the purview of the MENR, ECZ has the main responsibility for coordinating
and managing environmental initiatives by these ministries and other agencies, and responsibility
for technical management of the environmental mandate, while MENR is charged with high
level coordination and policy direction. In addition to being empowered to oversee the
implementation and enforcement of the environmental policies drafted by the Ministry, ECZ is
also responsible for setting, enforcing and monitoring standards and measures of pollution
control; maintaining an information network and database; facilitating environmental education
and training; supervising the environmental impact assessment process; and, when necessary,
implementing high priority and cross-sectoral environmental projects.
1.23   Since their inception, the two environmental apex institutions (MENR and ECZ), have
been constrained by insufficient support from Government. ECZ, which relies on the government
for its regular budget, has only managed to maintain its operations through donor support from
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Norwegian Agency for
Development Cooperation (NORAD). Only half of established positions have been filled. Some
current staff have received training through bilateral programs but much remains to be done on
training and capacity building to enable ECZ is to fully meet its mandate. However, the agency
has achieved considerable success, particularly in the field of pollution prevention and
protection.
1.24   At present, MENR has limited capacity to deal with environmental issues. Its two
departments--forestry and natural resources--have contributed little to the Ministry's overall
ability to carry out its environmental mandate. However, MENR has a number of competent
officers with environmental experience who will be brought together in a new department, the



-7-
Planning and Information Department (PID). The establishment of this new departmnent, if
matched with institutional support and training, would help address capacity constraints.
1.25   Through the ESP, the Government has committed itself to improving institutional
performance by assigning clear institutional responsibilities in order to: (a) minimize
opportunities for conflict among various agencies and bodies involved in environmental
management; (b) better define the functions of relevant agencies; and (c) ensure effective
coordination among government agencies and other actors such as local communities, NGOs and
the private sector.
D. THE ENVIRONMENTAL AGENDA
1.26   The NEAP outlines the Government's current agenda for coping with the key
environmental issues and concerns presented above. Institutional and legal issues are at the
forefront of this agenda. It is recognized that an effective, sustainable, prevention-oriented
framework must be in place before irreversible environmental damage is done and the costs of
remediation mount. While effective performance of MENR and ECZ are key to successfully
achieving this goal, active and coordinated programs and initiatives by the sector ministries and
agencies and cross-sectoral bodies such as the Ministry of Local Government and Housing
(MLG&H) are also critical to sound environmental and natural resource management.
1.27   The main challenges lie in strengthening institutional and legislative capacities and
frameworks; providing guidelines and enforcement mechanisms for sustainable natural resource
management and environmental protection; coordinating and monitoring the activities of
government, parastatal and private sector interests; and raising environmental awareness in the
country and encouraging broader participation in the management of Zambia's natural heritage.
1.28   The Forest Act of 1973, the National Parks and Wildlife Acts of 1991 and, until recently,
the Lands Act of 1975, tended to weaken traditional use and management systems.I This in turn
has undermined incentives for local communities to manage their forests, wildlife and other
resources. A return of custodianship of natural resources to local communities would restore the
incentive to invest in and manage the resource base and local environment. Many of the
programs designed to support local communities are uncoordinated (giving rise to duplication)
and do not enable communities to deal adequately with environmental issues. Moreover, current
understanding of the nature and magnitude of environmental and natural resource management
problems facing Zambia is limited. There is a need for mechanisms to facilitate local interaction
on environmental issues and provide financial resources and empower communities to manage
their resources sustainably. The Land Act has since been revised in 1995 to address some of
these issues.
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST OPERATIONS
1.29   The Bank's assistance strategy for environmental management is based on a dialogue
with the Government, lessons from previous Bank/IDA operations, and the Bank's global
perspective on the environment. Although this is the first Bank Group lending specifically
The Land Act was revised in 1995 while the National Parks and Wildlife Act and Forest Acts are in
the process of being revised.



-8-
aimed at the environment in Zambia, much of the prior lending for the agriculture and urban
infrastructure sectors has had a direct impact on the environment. The main lessons learned
from these operations and other ESPs implemented in the region are: (a) avoid overly ambitious
goals and minimize the inherent complexity of this kind of program; (b) set clear priorities
through a process of consensus building and active stakeholder involvement; (c) promote
community ownership through a highly participatory approach to program preparation and
implementation; and (d) start with a modest and flexible first-phase program to progressively
strengthen institutional capacity and initiate the process of change. These lessons are reflected
in the proposed ESP.
F. OTHER DONOR ASSISTANCE
1.30   Several donors and NGOs 2 (see Annex 5) have provided support for institutional
strengthening, pollution prevention programs and other environmental initiatives. However, it is
recognized that these initiatives must fit within a comprehensive regulatory and institutional
framework if they are to be fully effective and their full potential realized. The present
fragmentation of efforts and inefficient coordination mechanisms have been a constraint to the
development of future donor support for the environment. Because of this situation, there has
been a strong and coordinated support from the donor community for the joint Government/Bank
initiative to develop the Environmental Support Program (ESP).
G. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.31   Rationale for IDA Involvement. The program is in line with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on July 18, 1996, which supports a three pronged
strategy to assist Zambia's development efforts: (a) help create a stable macroeconomic
environment as a prerequisite for growth and employment; (b) promote private sector
development and greater public sector efficiency to stimulate more rapid and inclusive growth;
and (c) target assistance to poor and vulnerable groups directly. Effective environmental
management is a critical feature of the second and third prongs of this strategy, as the sustainable
management and use of Zambia's natural resources is fundamental for economic development
and poverty reduction. Responding to the Government's request for Bank assistance provides an
opportunity to help shape Zambia's regulatory and institutional framework, establish
environmental policy and financial instruments, and ensure the integration of environmental
concerns into Zambia's economy. The Bank, having supported the preparation of the NEAP, has
already made a substantive contribution to improving environmental awareness but much
remains to be done. Continued involvement of the Bank is essential to sustain the Government's
commitment to difficult but critical changes in its public investment program and its reform of
the civil service, including strengthening the capacity of districts to respond to community
initiatives. The Bank also has a key role to play in helping the country mobilize Global
Environmental Facility (GEF) financing, given the global nature of the benefits that are expected
from improved biodiversity protection. The program follows successful introduction of ESPs in
other countries. As one of the first environmental, stand-alone lending operations in Southern
Africa, it could serve as a guide for other countries in the Region.
2   CIDA, IUCN, NORAD, UNDP, WWF and ZEEP.



-9-
2. THE PROGRAM
A. PROGRAM RATIONALE
2.1    The program would support the objectives of both the Government's development
strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which seek to reduce poverty within the
framework of economic growth and protection of the environment and natural resources. Within
the NEAP's long-term perspective, the program would help the Government initiate a capacity
building effort to better address environmental issues. This would be part of a long-term,
multi-donor effort to finance projects and programs which have been generated by, or are in line
with, the NEAP priorities and recommendations. While it is important that environmental issues
be dealt with in an holistic manner, it is also essential that the responsibility for integrating and
strengthening environmental initiatives in program implementation remains with sector
ministries. Since existing institutions and the linkages between these institutions and other
stakeholders are weak, it would be important for ESP to foster intersectoral linkages, promote
capacity building at central and district levels, raise awareness, rationalize environmental
legislation and mainstream the use of EIAs in investment operations. ESP would also contribute
to the process, already underway, of empowering local communities in their role as custodians of
the natural resource base and in tackling environmental issues of local concern.
B. PROGRAM APPROACH
2.2   The approach taken in designing the ESP emphasizes active involvement of the various
stakeholders in program formulation in order to build a sense of ownership and facilitate
implementation. The approach has proved to be successful in a number of countries and has
resulted in programs which are more in tune with local capacity, while also recognizing the
particular constraints with which the stakeholders themselves have to contend. The ESP
approach has been designed to allow considerable flexibility in implementation and
responsiveness to priorities which might emerge during implementation. The support provided
would form the first phase of a long-term commitment to the improvement of the environment
and the sustainable use of natural resources. It would be limited in scope and ambition and
would include a number of small and challenging pilot initiatives which, if successful, could be
developed into full-fledged national activities. A similar approach was successfully employed
with the Bank-supported Social Recovery Project (SRP) which, now in its second stage, is
considered to be one of the model programs in the country.
2.3    The program would have an institutional focus. It would concentrate on building up the
capacity of the two apex organizations and developing environmental awareness and
management processes in sector ministries and agencies. As part of this focus, an environmental
presence would also be established at the district level, on a pilot basis, to determine how a
participatory environmental management capacity could best be developed in the communities.
As part of the long-term decentralization effort, the goal should be to transfer progressively the
responsibility for such management from Government to the communities.
2.4   The program would combine tightly targeted initiatives with more broadly applied ones.
The targeted initiatives would be employed to direct support to the poorer members of society,



-10-
and to poorer communities in both rural and urban areas. It is the poor who often live in the
most degraded areas and who, because of their condition and lack of options, contribute to
environmental degradation. The provision of incentives to develop environmentally sound
investment and income generating projects would enable communities to gradually reduce their
poverty and adopt a more sustainable approach to resource utilization, thereby tackling poverty
alleviation within an environmental framework. Along with targeted interventions, the ESP
would support broad-based initiatives, such as the program on environmental education and
public awareness and the development of environmental information systems, designed to foster
a better understanding of environmental issues.
2.5   Inherent in program design is a multi-donor approach. The Bank's role is that of a
facilitator and catalyst in the process, working with Government, the donors and other
stakeholders to help design and prepare the ESP. The program, by creating a framework for
tackling the concerns of the NEAP, would complement and reinforce the ongoing and planned
activities of the core group of donors and NGOs already active in the environmental arena.
Upcoming initiatives by two donors, NORAD and CIDA, would complement and be closely
linked to ESP components. These initiatives have been designed in consultation with
government and are directed at strengthening institutional capacity3. Other donors have
indicated their interest in supporting the ESP once a sound program is developed and they are
able to see the most appropriate application for their assistance.
B:; :  -ox 3 idStakeholder Purtf pa1kin: An A iaki that: Works0 -
The NEAP sarted th cn  -daivepre  on Mte evoetn  ambia. it-begn :~idntifi ahose
;:en,ities: with powery St ,effet cag ado thefis,ne me4 brought togehe ni aitonl cieft, and0t-t-;; ;00ff 000; :0
rp-resaes fiom:ine ministrie academicinstittionsN    andthedncommuniity tro devise- at:: ma: ;M  i jty  i
s!rategy for curbing env0ironmental and natural resouceI  odegradat  in Zambia V  thre tatives
fromh var ousgroups, themp      v    ent aNrResources then set  fiptsorces to-Ip
desig the0                  r* Enviromenta Supor Progra  (ES)') thfis stag of N0 impleentaton On
:innovationemrgng frm thi;s pres i tu propasalfo a   iot Evrnental un to p,romotue small .t.00-t.t0
scale. co     rago enionmental proymal   ---jects.
e Goermnentgawd a workhpto maintainmomentum im the C       tativa procsseand hto in ke
iff:: Xactive sthdepatiipatn Aspartofastrategytokeepthe EP demand ,resons.e..  the workshop;  :;
:: was shditded  coinidewith z the don or aprisal oth £;SP.h jon appraimsalmssin strnthenedttt 
the parnrsip w*t keystalders, helpig Sto define -their rolesand 4respnsibiities during  FtS
iXplementas<ion 8yth.e time or                         reh ac n   o the key
ingredients afa proposed ESroenFit 1017M0P.MM
.   b.   s  -  -   .   - }.  ~0 $ -  
Within its proposed Industrial Pollutfon Prevention Program, NORAD plans to provide support to
ECZ in strengthening its capacity to enforce air emission and hazardous waste regulations and
standards. Similarly, CIDA would provide a second tranche of funding to continue its program of
support to ECZ focused on strengthening capacity to enforce regulations and carry out critical clean-
up operations.



-11-
C. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
2.6   The program will support the Government's development strategy of poverty reduction
within the framework of economic growth and protection of the environment and natural
resources. The program aims to mainstream environmental and natural resource management in
Zambia's development processes at the national and local levels. At the national level, it will
strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection and natural
resource management. At the community level, it will strengthen local institutions and initiate a
process to enable rural and urban communities to address natural resource degradation and
capitalize on environmentally-sound investment opportunities. The key to the achievement of
these objectives would be the development of mechanisms to foster the interchange of ideas, and
the active participation and coordination of stakeholders at all levels. The lessons learned during
the proposed ESP would be incorporated in the preparation of the second phase of NEAP
implementation which would continue the process of institutional strengthening and expand
environmental interventions in priority areas.
D. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
Summary Description of the Program
2.7   The program would have four main components:
- Institutional Strengthening and Legal Framework, which would aim to put in place
an effective institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection
and natural resource management, and to pilot a Community Environmental
Management Program;
* Environmental Education and Public Awareness (EEPA), which would assist in
raising public awareness on environmental issues and would enable communities to
assume increased responsibility for environmental management through education;
* Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF), which would: (a) put in place an incentive
mechanism to promote community-based micro-projects, and (b) finance result-
oriented studies and the development of action plans and strategies of national
importance; and
* Environmental Information Management, which would support the establishment
of: (a) an Environmental Information Network and Monitoring Systems (EINMS)
comprising an EINMS Forum and several issue-oriented information sub-systems;
and (b) a monitoring, evaluation and reporting system as a management tool for
ESP.
2.8   These components, which are discussed below, would be closely interlinked and
mutually reinforcing.



-12-
Institutional Strengthening and Legal Framework (US$ 8.52 million4)
2.9   The component would comprise the following activities:
* Policy Formulation and Institutional Assessment, which would help Government
develop a national environmental policy document and analyze the roles, and
responsibilities in the key environmental institutions;
* Institutional Capacity Building, which would develop staff skills at ECZ, MENR
and other agencies involved with environmental activities, assist in setting-up sound
management practices and help to integrate environmental concerns into the
decision-making process of line ministries, local governments and NGOs;
* Community Environmental Management Program, which would aim to facilitate
demand-driven development to support an improved environment and better use of
natural resources at rural and urban community levels; and
* Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity, which would help remove conflicts
and gaps and develop a consistent body of environmental legislation with the
associated procedures and standards to ensure that the legislation is enforceable.
2.10   Policy Formulation and Institutional Assessment. This activity would comprise two
initiatives. Firstly, it would provide support to assist the Government in defining a series of
environmental and natural resource policies consistent with the overall recommendations of the
NEAP. Secondly, it would establish a more effective organizational framework, as well as
linkages and operating procedures in key institutions involved in environmental management.
This would be the responsibility of PID. Thereafter, within the agreed management structure,
the detailed requirements for staff upgrading would be identified, training programs developed,
and improved management practices spelled out. While most of this work would take place in
the first year of the program, the program would be an interactive process aimed at continually
assessing the organizations involved and refining the support provided under ESP. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that environmental policies would be reviewed through a
consultative process, a consensus established, and the agreed set of policies presented in a
document for submission to the Cabinet by December 31, 1999. Assurances were also obtained
on the implementation of the sectoral and policy reform according to the Letter of Development
Policy dated May 28, 1996.
2.11   An initial institutional assessment, endorsed by MENR and ECZ, was carried out in
November 1996 to clarify the roles of the two environmental apex organizations. The
assessment recommended alternative institutional strategies to enable the organizations involved
in environmental management to effectively fulfill their mandates and manage the ESP.
2.12   Institutional Capacity Building. This activity would: (a) provide training and
technical assistance in environmental/natural resource management, environmental economics,
financial planning and programming, and other management techniques for the two
environmental apex units; (b) establish an ESP Coordination Office and, through staff training
and long-term consultancies, help build up the capacity of PID to manage the ESP; (c) establish
environment units or focal points within seven core line ministries; (d) improve communications
The investment for each component is expressed in base costs.



-13-
and introduce cross-sectoral linkages through inter-agency seminars, meetings and other
interactions; and (e) support private organizations and NGOs active in urban areas and rural
communities. The institutional capacity building will be the responsibility of MENR.
2.13   Community Environmental Management Program. A key part of institutional
strengthening activities would be the initiation, on a pilot scale, of a program to support
community environmental management. It would actively involve communities--both rural and
urban--in environmental planning, decision-making and implementation, and over time, develop
their capacity to assume responsibility for management of their local environments. Central to
this process would be the establishment of a new position of Environmental Facilitator, to be the
coordinator of all environmental initiatives in the district. This person would work with
communities, act as a broker on their behalf, coordinate environmental activities of other district
officers, harmonize ESP initiatives and generally act as a catalyst for environmental activities in
the district. The program would fund, initially on a contract basis, the introduction of
Environmental Facilitators in a limited number of districts. These Facilitators would ensure that
lessons could be learned as the program progresses. The funding would cover: (a) establishing,
equipping and operating district environmental offices and a unit in the PID to manage this pilot
program; (b) preparation of operational and training manuals; and (c) the provision of training
and technical assistance.
2.14   Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity. The purpose of this activity is to
enhance the ability of the Government to draw up and enforce laws and regulations protecting
the environment. This activity exhibits a close complementarity with that of institutional
capacity building. In many respects they are mutually dependent. It would comprise three main
elements: (a) harmonizing environmental statutes and regulations; (b) strengthening institutional
enforcement capacity; and (c) enhancing community awareness and enforcement capacity.
2.15   Harmonization would address legal inconsistencies, conflicts and gaps in order to
produce a consistent and mutually supporting set of environmental legislation. This would
include: (a) reviewing the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act in order to
clarify the mandates and responsibilities of the institutions involved in environmental
management and to reflect new initiatives at local and community levels; (b) reviewing
regulations for environmental impact assessment; and (c) preparing, in conjunction with the
NORAD-funded Industrial Pollution Prevention Program, a set of regulations related to
hazardous wastes, air pollution, and water quality standards and monitoring.
2.16   The strengthening of institutional enforcement capacity would be done through seminars
and training programs in environmental law, environmental assessment and monitoring, and
enforcement techniques. A small core of trained staff would be created in each of the key
ministries and agencies responsible for environmental activities. In addition, staff in the
Ministry of Legal Affairs and ECZ would receive graduate training in environmental law.
2.17   The strengthening of community awareness and enforcement capability would aim at
increasing the capacity of communities to participate in environmental initiatives and to manage
and police their own resources. This would be done by revising the legislation and by
conducting workshops to raise community awareness of environmental issues.



-14-
Environmental Education and Public Awareness (US$ 1.78 million)
2.18   The Environmental Education and Public Awareness (EEPA) component would
complement the upcoming Education Sector Investment Program. It would foster increased
public awareness of environmental issues; support ESP's legal initiatives by developing local
communities' recognition of their roles and rights in managing their environment; assist the
public to assume individual and collective responsibility for environmental management; and
contribute to the national debate and the interchange of ideas among stakeholders in Zambia's
natural heritage. Training would be provided to enhance the capacity of various bodies involved
with natural resource and environmental management--including key government agencies,
educational institutions, the media, NGOs, and traditional and religious leaders. The component
would comprise five activities:
* Strengthening the ECZ Education and Communication Unit, for program
coordination;
* Media training and sensitization;
* Curriculum review and modification at primary and secondary school levels;
* Support to Environmental Management Programs in the districts; and
* Surveys of community environmental awareness.
2.19   Strengthening the Education and Communication Unit (ECU) of ECZ. This
activity is designed to provide short-term technical assistance, training, material and equipment
to enable the ECU to fulfill its mandate and to oversee the environmental education component
of ESP. The Unit would assist in the preparation and dissemination of environmental
information, through the formal education system, government published documents and the
mass media. It would provide education support to the Community Environmental Management
Program. Specialized services would be contracted to design and produce media materials on
topical environmental issues and events. The Unit would liaise with the Ministry of Education to
prepare a draft Environmental Education Strategy to aid the design of related investments under
later phases of ESP.
2.20   Media Training and Sensitization. The media training and sensitization program
would raise the profile of environmental issues on the agendas ofjournalists and program
designers. The program would make funds available to inform media personnel (managers,
editors and key journalists) about ESP programs, environmental strategies and the respective
roles anticipated for the various stakeholders involved in natural resource and enviromnental
management. The program would also finance a review of the environmental coverage in the
media and monitor changes in the level and quality of coverage during the course of ESP
implementation.
2.21   Curriculum Review and Modification. Building on the work of the Zambian
Environmental Education Program, this activity would assist the Curriculum Development
Center of the Ministry of Education in suggesting improvements in environmental education,
particularly in primary and secondary schools. An initial review would ascertain the
environmental content of current educational materials. The findings would guide: (a) the
development of modified teacher training programs and supplementary environmental training
courses for curriculum developers and (b) the re-design of selected school materials and training



-15-
manuals to incorporate environmental issues. Materials would be updated periodically through
newsletters for teachers and would incorporate information on indigenous environmental
knowledge or other recent knowledge to be derived from specially commissioned studies.
Modified materials would be introduced on an experimental basis into education programs in the
pilot districts of the Community Environmental Management Program.
2.22   Support to Environmental Management Programs in the Districts. This activity
would enable the ECU to respond to the requirements of specialized environmental education
identified through district and community-based planning processes. Subject to eligibility
criteria5, funds would be available for: (a) consultants and contracted services; (b) training and
workshops; and (c) information dissemination, including publications. Seventy-five percent of
funds would be used to complement the community-based aspects of other ESP components
within the framework of community environmental action plans. The balance would be available
for similar initiatives of provincial or national interest.
2.23   Surveys of Community Environmental Awareness. Funds would be allocated to
contract an initial baseline assessment and subsequent annual surveys of the level of
communities' awareness of environmental issues. Survey results would be part of the ESP
monitoring and evaluation system and be used as a feedback mechanism to inform ECZ and PID
of the effectiveness of various ESP activities.
Pilot Environmental Fund (US$ 4.26 million)
2.24   The Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF) would provide financial incentives to communities
through a matching grant facility that would enable them to tackle environmental issues of local
concern by adopting 'best practices' in local resource management. To date, there has been a
lack of funding for environmental initiatives, despite a recognition among many communities of
existing possibilities to better utilize or conserve the resource base in rural areas or ameliorate
environmental conditions in urban localities. Access to the Fund would promote a return of
environmental custodianship and strengthen the willingness and capacity of communities to
invest in the environment. The Fund would also stimulate widespread interest and opportunities
in conducting practically-oriented studies of key natural resource management and
environmental issues. Study grants, to be made available through the Fund, would help improve
understanding of the nature and magnitude of the natural resource management and
environmental problems facing Zambia and to develop appropriate solutions.
2.25   The PEF would comprise the Fund itself and a small national level unit which would be
integrated within the management structure of the SRP. The Fund would have two windows, one
to finance community-based initiatives and the other to fund environmental studies.
2.26   PEF Community-Based Initiatives Fund. The Fund (US$ 2.74 million 6) would
finance matching grants for eligible micro-projects identified through the pilot activities of the
Community Environmental Management Program and developed in partnership with selected
rural and urban communities. Funds would be allocated on the basis of clearly defined eligibility
These would be defined by ECZ in consultation with the PID.
6  Including PEF Secretariat and associated support costs.



-16-
criteria and procedures (see Annex 2, Attachment 2). An indicative list of the types of micro-
projects which may be considered for financing is given in Annex 2, Attachment 1. The number
of micro-projects to be financed each year would remain flexible and is expected to be
determined mainly by the rate of expansion of the Community Environmental Management
Program and communities' response to new investment opportunities.
2.27   PEF Environmental Studies Fund. The Studies Fund (US$ 1.52 million) would be
established to deal with priority topics. The Fund would finance investigations with a practical,
problem-solving orientation including:
* research proposals (studies and surveys) and environmental impact assessments
arising from the Community Environmental Management Program and designed to
complement the prospective micro-projects;
* studies on the relationship between poverty and environmental degradation and the
way in which it affects different social groups;
* small-scale studies of wider application;
* design of medium to long-term strategies of national importance such as
biodiversity and renewable energy;
* studies of the long-term management structure and financial sustainability of the
PEF, and studies to update the NEAP, and initiate the preparation of the next ESP;
and
* studies to prevent or mitigate environmental emergencies.
Environmental Information Management (US$ 3.91 million)
2.28   Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System (EINMS). The
EINMS would provide action-oriented environmental information and decision support tools to
the various stakeholders involved in the ESP, to allow them to better assess environmental
issues, plan and implement activities, and capture early lessons through monitoring and
evaluation. The EINMS would address coordination issues at the national level, while also
developing information systems at the district level, with a particular emphasis on participatory
processes involving the direct users and custodians of environmental information. The EINMS
would be oriented to problem solving, focusing on concrete environmental issues and targeting
policies and intervention strategies. The network would also establish the foundation for
progressively building a cost-efficient national Environmental Information System (EIS) that
would make information for environmental decision-making in Zambia more readily available
and accessible. Attention would also be paid to facilitate open public access to environmental
information.
2.29   The choice of activities to be funded under EINMS would be based on priority
environmental issues that require information services. The activities to be funded under
EINMS represent the first stage in the implementation of Zambia's strategy to develop an EIS.
Additional EINMS activities would complement ongoing or planned activities supported by
other donors. Work has already been started with support to ECZ from NORAD and CIDA.



-17-
2.30   The activities to be financed by IDA under the EINMS are:
* establishment of an EINMS forum and coordination of EIS activities; and
* development of issues-oriented information sub-systems.
2.31   The establishment of an EINMS Forum and Technical Secretariat, which would
facilitate coordination of EIS activities and cooperation amongst stakeholders, is essential for the
information system to be cost-effective, action-oriented and user driven. The Secretariat would
be open to all private and public sector institutions concerned or involved with the production or
management of environmental information. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the composition of the Forum, its terms of reference and functions would be submitted to IDA by
June 30, 1998. The Forum would focus on practical issues, including determining data
custodianship and operational responsibilities to avoid duplication of efforts; deciding on
measures to increase data sharing and exchange; and ensuring the interoperability of databases
by the adoption of a common data architecture as well as norms and standards. The Forum
would be supported by a technical secretariat hosted in ECZ that would supervise efforts
addressing specific technical issues such as publication of metadata, development of data
standards, organization of training courses for technical staff, and arranging executive training
seminars for decision makers and other EIS users and stakeholders.
2.32   The EINMS would also support the development of Information SubSystems for
each of the five priority environmental issues defined in the NEAP: (a) soil degradation;
(b) water pollution and inadequate sanitation; (c) deforestation; (d) air pollution; and (e) wildlife
depletion. Implemented at the district level, these information systems would seek to develop
both technical capacity to build environmental databases and operational capacity to use them.
The sub-systems would be located in districts where other ESP activities would be operating.
Furthermore, the sub-systems would integrate information collected by the Community
Environment Management Program on the basis of participatory rural appraisal techniques.
2.33   Establishment of an ESP Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System. The proposed
M&E system would be designed as a management tool to synthesize input, output and impact
indicators provided by ESP implementation agencies (see Annex 1). It would provide decision-
makers with quick and regular feedback on implementation progress and thus ensure that lessons
learned during program implementation rapidly translate into adjustments to the program. The
M&E would have three activities: (a) monitoring of key program performance indicators;
(b) gathering information on key program management (disbursement, procurement), and
(c) conducting impact evaluations, including beneficiary assessments, on a bi-annual basis.



-18-
3. PROGRAM COSTING AND FINANCING
A. COST ESTIMATES
3.1      The total cost of this ESP is estimated at US$20.8 million, including physical and price
contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$10.0 million, equivalent to
48 percent of the total. Since the Zambian Government provides for exemption of taxes for
internationally-financed projects, no taxes or duties have been included in the base cost estimate.
It is estimated, however, that taxes on the program would amount to approximately US$300,000.
3.2      Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent of the base cost of furniture
and office equipment and are estimated at approximately US$140,000 over the five year
implementation period. On price contingencies, it is estimated that international inflation, taken
from  the Bank's MUV  Index,7 will be approximately 2.3 percent per annum  over the life of the
project. It is assumed that the local exchange rate would adjust to compensate for differences
between local and international inflation. Total price contingencies for the project are estimated
at US$1.8 million. A breakdown of local and foreign costs by expenditure account is shown in
the table below:
TABLE 1 PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
(US$ Millions)
ES       % Total
Foreign     Bass
Local    Foreign     Total     Exchange     Coats
A. INSTiTUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Institutional Capacity Building                        1.4        2.2        3.6         61         19
Community Environmental Management Program             2.0        1.6        3.6         45         19
Legal Framework & Enforcement Capability                0.7       0.6        1.3         43          7
Subtotal                                                 4.1        4.4        8.5         52         45
S. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION & PUBLIC AWARENESS
Environmental Education                                1.1        0.7        1.8         41          9
Subtotal                                                 1.1        0.7        1.8         41          9
C. PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS
Micro-projects                                          1.8       0.9        2.7         33         15
PEF Studies                                             1.1       0.5        1.6         30          8
Subtotal                                                 2.9        1.4        4.3         34         23
D. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATiON MANAGEMENT
Environmental Information Network Monitoring System     1.2       2.1        3.3         63         17
ESP Mondoring & Evaluation System                      0.4        0.2        0.6         35          3
Subtotal                                                  1.6       2.3        3.9         58         21
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                           0.1       0.3        0.4         70          2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       9.8       9.1        18.9        48         100
Physical Contingencies                                  -         0.1        0.1         71          1
Price ContingencAes                                     1.0       0.8        1.8         45         10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        10.8      10.0       20.8        48         110
Note: Totals may vary slightly due to rounding.
MUV is a unit value of manufactured exports.



-19-
B. FINANCING
3.3    Of the total estimated cost for the ESP of US$20.8 million, US$2.2 million (11 percent
of the total cost) would be cofinanced by NDF, US$3.2 million (15 percent of the total cost)
would be financed by UNDP, and US$2.6 million (13 percent of the total cost) would financed
by GRZ with participation by communities. The remaining costs would be financed by IDA
with a credit of US$12.8 million (61 percent of the total cost).
3.4    Government would provide an increasing share of local costs, mainly operating costs and
related allowances and the costs of local training efforts. Through their contributions to the
financing of PEF-funded micro-projects (not less than 25 percent), communities would supply
about 2.4 percent of total program financing. A financing table in US dollars by type of
expenditure is shown in the following table. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GRZ
would make the necessary provision of sufficient counterpart funds in a timely manner to cover
program recurrent costs as agreed in the annual work program review. As a condition of
effectiveness, the Government would establish the Project Account and deposit therein the initial
deposit of US$135,000 to finance Government's contribution to the cost of the Project in the first
twelve months after the Effective Date, less the cost of salaries and wages of civil servants.
TABLE 2 FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Millions)
IDA        NDF         UNDP        Communities  The Governmwnt  Total
Aimount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %
1. Foreign       6.6  66.0    1.5  15.0   1.8  18.0  0.1   1.0     -    -    10.0  48.0
11. Local (Exd. Taxes)  6.2  57.4  0.7  6.5  1.4  13.0  0.4  3.7  2.1  19.4  10.8  52.0
I1. Taxes          -          -      -    -      -    -            -    -      -
Total Project      12.8  61.5   2.2  10.6   3.2  15.4   0.5  2.4    2.1  10.1  20.8    100.0
C. PROCUREMENT
3.5    Procurement of goods and services for all IDA financed components would be carried
out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996. Consultants,
including NGOs and other organizations providing services to the program, would be hired in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines - Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
The World Bank as Executing Agency " dated January 1997. World Bank Standard Bidding and
Contract Documents would be used for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement
and for consultant contracts financed by IDA. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would
follow procedures using standard documents approved by IDA. In the case of goods and
services financed by bilateral donors, procurement would be carried out in accordance with
procurement procedures and guidelines of the donor agencies. The Government would submit to
IDA, for review and comment, standard bidding documents and contracts proposed to be used
for all NCB procurement of goods and civil works prior to the issuing of the first Invitation for
Bid.



-20-
3.6    Goods. Items to be financed under the goods component of the ESP would include
vehicles, office and field equipment, office furniture and supplies, computers and peripherals.
Similar items would be grouped into individual contract "packages" when feasible. Procurement
packages equal to or greater than the equivalent of US$100,000 would be bid using ICB
procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. A domestic preference would be
employed in evaluation procedures, where applicable, in ICB procurement as per paragraph 2.54
and Appendix 2 of the IDA guidelines. It is most likely that ICB would be used for procurement
of vehicles, major office equipment, computers, and printers.
3.7    Goods packages valued at US$30,000 to US$100,000, up to an aggregate value of
US$2 10,000, could be procured using NCB, acceptable to IDA. Goods packages valued at less
than US$30,000, up to an aggregate value of US$1.6 million procured as investment or as
incremental operational costs, could be procured using shopping procedures with quotations
from at least three eligible and qualified suppliers in accordance with local procedures. It is
estimated that, of the approximately US$1.2 million of goods included in the incremental
operational costs of the project, about 50 percent would be procured using National Shopping
Procedures with the balance procured employing direct, "off-the-shelf" purchases from local
sources.
3.8    Micro-projects. Micro-projects under the ESP would be small and carried out under the
PEF component based on modalities of the PEF operations within IDA's Social Recovery Project
in Zambia as a guide. Procurement covered by micro-project grants would include items such
as: minor tools and equipment, purchase of seedlings, training materials, teaching aids and small
scale construction projects for water supply, storage, distribution and any other type of works in
accordance with the PEF general guidelines. Micro-project contracts with communities which
are estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$30,000, up to an aggregate value of US$2.1
million, would be carried out utilizing procedures agreed to in the PEF Operational Guidelines
found acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the
guidelines. Where practical, competitive procurement processes would be used to procure works
and goods under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of at least three
quotations.
3.9    Community contribution and full community involvement at all stages in micro-project
design and implementation would be required to ensure sustainability. Local expertise, materials
readily available in the communities, and labor intensive technologies, appropriate to local
conditions, would be used. Community participation would include furnishing labor and/or
materials valued at about 25 percent of the total project cost. Community micro-project
committees would manage their own projects, hiring skilled artisans and purchasing materials
and goods using either local shopping or direct contracting procedures, both having proven to be
efficient and expedient. Experience in Zambia has shown that it is not cost-effective to do bulk
procurement of building supplies and then distribute these to sites.
3.10   Consulting Services. Institutional technical assistance, environmental and feasibility
studies, as well as training and workshops, would be carried out by locally and internationally
recruited consultants (including NGOs) recruited by the respective implementing agencies.
Local and foreign experts could be recruited in specialized fields to assist in community
mobilization, environmental information systems, environmental education, and other
environment related fields as well as in finance and training. Consultants would be contracted in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines and qualifications, experience, and conditions of



-21-
employment satisfactory to IDA. Consultants would be recruited on quality/cost based selection
(QCBS) as described in the guidelines.
TABLE 3 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Millions)
International    Natonal
Compethve  Competitive          Consuttants
Bidding     Bidding    Other   QCBS la   N.l.F. /b   Total
A OFFICE EQUIPMENT& FURNISHINGS                       0.6           -     0.5           -      0.2      1.3
(0.6)              (0.5)                         (1.1)
B. VEHICLES & FIELD EQUIPMENT                         0.4         0.1                   -      0.2      0.7
(0.4)      (0.1)                                 (0.5)
C. TRAINING & WORKSHOPS                                 -           -     1.8           -      0.6      2.4
(1.8)                        (1.6)
D. STUDIES & CONSULTING SERVICES                        -           -                 3.6      3.2      6.8
(3.6)            (3.6)
E. DIDACTIC MATERIALS & PUBLICATIONS                    -         0.1     0.3           -               0.4
(0.1)   (0.3)                         (0.4)
F. PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUND
1. Micro-projects                                     -          -      2.0          -         -     2.0
(1.5)                        (1.5)
2. PEF Studies                                        -          -                  1.7        -      1.7
(1.7)            (1.7)
G. INCREMENTAL OPERATIONAL COSTS                        -           -     3.6           -      1.9      5.5
(2.2)                        (2.2)
Total                                                  1.0         0.2     8.2         5.3      6.1    20.8
(1.0)      (0.2)   (6.3)       (5.3)       -   (12.8)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
Due to rounding, totals may vary.
a/ QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
bi Not IDA financed,but financed by NDF, UNDP and GRZ.
3.11   Procurement Review Thresholds. An annual work program and budget would be
prepared and submitted to IDA no later than September 30 of each year for review and
comments. This annual work program would include a description of items proposed to be
procured during the following year with the estimated cost of each item. Items would be
packaged, where practical, to take advantage of savings through bulk procurement. Details of
procurement packages would be included as part of the annual work programs. Requirements for
IDA prior review of procurement documents are as follows.
(a)       Contracts for Civil Works and Goods. Invitation for Bids, draft bidding
documents, bid evaluation, and award recommendations for all contracts



-22-
exceeding US$100,000 would be subject to prior review by IDA. In addition,
the first contract for NCB, both for goods and civil works, regardless of cost,
would be subject to prior review by IDA. Micro-project contracts equal to or
less than US$30,000 would follow procedures established in the PEF Operation
Guidelines which would be reviewed and found acceptable to IDA during
negotiations.
(b)   Consulting Firms and Individual Consultant Contracts. Before inviting
proposals, the Borrower would furnish to IDA for its review the short list and the
proposed Request for Proposal and would make such modifications as would be
requested by IDA. All contracts with firms or individuals awarded on
competitive basis and costing US$100,000 and US$50,000 or more respectively
would be subject to prior review by IDA in accordance with Appendix 1, of the
Consultant Guidelines. Also subject to prior review would be: (i) amendments
to competitively awarded contracts resulting in a revised value exceeding the
thresholds mentioned above; (ii) all Terms of Reference; and (iii) contracts for
assignments of a critical nature.
(c)    With respect to IDA's prior review of technical evaluation, the following would
apply.
(i)    For contracts with firms with a value estimated to be equal to or
exceeding US$100,000 but less than US$200,000, the Borrower would
notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the
financial proposals.
(ii)   For contracts with firms with a value estimated to be equivalent to or
exceeding US$200,000 and for contracts with individuals with a value
estimated to be equivalent to or exceeding US$50,000, the Borrower
would fumish to IDA, in sufficient time for its review and comments, a
technical evaluation report and a copy of the proposals prior to entering
into a contract.
(d)   Training Programs and Workshops. Training workshops for participants,
government staff, communities, and NGOs would be carried out both locally and
internationally. These programs would be planned and budgeted as part of the
Borrower's annual work program and budget. The content of the annual training
program would be reviewed and commented on by IDA as part of the annual
work program and budget.
(e)    Contracts Below the Prior Review Threshold. All contracts and supporting
information (receipts, paid invoices, etc.) would be retained by PID and the SRP
and would be made available on a selected basis to IDA for ex-post review.
D. DISBURSEMENT
3.12   The proposed IDA Credit of US$12.8 million would be disbursed over five years with an
expected Project Completion Date of June 30, 2003 and a Closing Date of December 31, 2003.
The scheduled disbursements are based on the cost tables.



-23-
3.13   Disbursement Procedures. Disbursement from the Credit would be in accordance with
normal IDA procedures set out in the Disbursement Handbook (Fourth Printing, October 1996).
Once agreement has been reached on the annual work programs and budgets with the
implementing agencies and on other conditionalities, disbursements from the credit would be
made following the standard procedures, including: reimbursement of expenses incurred by
implementing agencies against submission of disbursement requests; direct payment to suppliers;
or replenishment of special accounts.
3.14   MENR would be in charge of the disbursement procedures for the agencies involved in
implementation of the program. A financial controller, with expertise in the management of IDA
financed projects, would be stationed in MENR's PID and be responsible for financial
management and reporting.
3.15   Special Accounts. Smooth program implementation would be facilitated through the
opening of two special accounts in US Dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to allow
the effective flow and management of funds for financing ESP operations. Upon program
effectiveness, initial advances would be deposited in the Special Accounts against disbursement
application(s). Reimbursements would be grouped to facilitate replenishment of these Special
Accounts and submitted for reimbursement every month or whenever the Special Account
balances are reduced to one-third of the original amount, whichever comes first, through the
standard channel of disbursement procedures for the Special Accounts. The accounts may be
used to pay for expenditures in either local or foreign currency through the commercial banking
system, against any category of expenditure. All replenishments would be fully documented
except in cases where Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are authorized.
3.16   The Main Special Account in the amount of US$600,000 equivalent would be used to
cover all program expenses except those of the PEF component. The initial deposit is expected
to be adequate to cover expenditures for a period of three months.
3.17   A separate PEF Special Account would be opened under SRP for the PEF. An initial
deposit would be made in the amount of US$400,000 to cover about four months at full
operation. Amounts would be drawn from the account to service approved micro-projects and
studies and finance the operating costs of the Secretariat. Matching grants for community-based
micro-projects would be transferred, under specified procedures, to bank accounts of
community-based organizations. The PEF Coordinator and financial officer would ensure that,
as soon as possible after the end of the Zambian financial year, but not later than six months after
its completion, the PEF Special Account and other PEF-related accounts be prepared for audit
with a separate opinion obtained on the use of the Special Account and SOEs. The audit report
for the community-based incentives fund would include a review of the performance of those
community-based organizations which have implemented micro-projects.
3.18   Disbursements from the Special Accounts would be made against standard IDA
documentation with the following exceptions for which certified SOEs would be used:
(a) contracts for goods, works, and consultant services (firms) costing less than US$100,000
equivalent; (b) contracts for consultant services (individuals) costing less than US$50,000; (c) all
local training courses; (d) in-country seminars and workshops; (e) all operating and maintenance
expenditures; (f) community-based micro-projects; and (g) environmental studies.
Documentation supporting SOE claims associated with the PEF would be kept at the SRP with
summary documentation forwarded to PID for information on a quarterly basis. Documentation



-24-
supporting SOE claims associated with all other ESP activities would be kept in PID. All
accounts and necessary information would be made available for audits and review by Bank
missions. During the course of the annual audit of the SRP Accounts, the auditors would certify
that all expenditures claimed under SOEs, had been properly incurred for the PEF activities.
3.19   The following tables summarize the disbursement of IDA Credit by Category and the
profile of disbursements.
TABLE 4 DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT BY CATEGORY
(US$ Millions)
Category                         Amount          Share of Financing
1. Equipment and Vehicles                  1.5        100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
2. Consulting Services, Studies, Training  4.0        100% of all expenditures
3. Grants under Part C of the Project:
(a) Micro-Projects                       1.4        75% of total expenditures
(b) Studies                              1.5        100% of all expenditures
4. Incremental Operating Costs             2.0        85% through December 31, 1998
75% through December 31, 1999
60% through December 31, 2000
50% through the closing date
5. Refunding of Project                               Amounts due pursuant to Section 2.02
Preparation Advance                     0.4        of the Development Credit Agreement
Unallocated                                2.0
TOTAL                                     12.8
TABLE 5 DISBURSEMENT PROFILE (US$ MILLIONS)
IDA Fiscal Year        FY-1998    FY-1999    FY-2000    FY-2001    FY-2002    FY-2003
Annual                   1.3        1.3       2.5        3.2       3.2        1.3
Cumulatve                1.3       2.6        5.1        8.3       11.5      12.8
Cumulative % of Total   10%        20%        40%       65%        90%       100%



-25-
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
3.20   MENR, through PID, would maintain separate records and financial accounts for each
IDA-financed component, using generally accepted accounting principles. The audit for
SRP-managed PEF components would be carried out by the SRP under its existing procedures.
A set of consolidated financial accounts would be prepared every year. Responsibility for
preparation of the component accounts would rest with the financial controller appointed for this
purpose in the implementing agency for each component. The IDA Financial Controller in PID
would consolidate the financial statements for IDA-funded activities, and arrange for the annual
audit of the accounts in PID and the relevant implementing agencies. The PEF would be audited
as a distinct and separately identifiable component during the SRP annual audit. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Government would appoint independent auditors
acceptable to IDA to audit the ESP accounts each fiscal year. A certified copy of the accounts,
together with the auditors' management report, would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of the financial year. The certificate would include a statement covering the adequacy of
the records and accounts used to support disbursements against SOEs.



-26-
4. PROGRAM ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
Institutional Arrangements
4.1   The program would be implemented according to the following principles: (a) it will be
implemented through existing institutions with the MENR having overall responsibility for its
coordination and management; (b) it will be implemented by a small core of implementing
agencies: MENR, ECZ, Ministry of Legal Affairs, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Local
Government and Housing, and Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED); (c) it
would depend mainly on more effective use of staff, their training and the introduction of new
procedures rather than a major build-up in numbers or creation of new institutions. While some
of the agencies would need to recruit additional staff, in most cases the staff required are already
in place or the posts have been established but not yet filled; (d) many of the initiatives to be
implemented during the program would be sub-contracted to local or locally-based international
NGOs and local consulting firms.
Coordination and Consultation
4.2   The Planning and Information Department (PLD) of MENR would be the focal point
for program coordination. A team within PID, with full administrative and financial autonomy,
would have overall responsibility for ESP management and coordination. PID staff would be in
charge of program planning, coordination, community environmental management, monitoring,
evaluation, procurement and financial control. The team would be headed by the Chief Planning
Officer working on a full time basis. The PID would assign responsibility for ESP administrative
and financial management to a Senior Planning Officer. A second Senior Planning Officer
would be in charge of the Community Environmental Management Program. As a condition of
effectiveness, the Government would establish, as part of the ongoing restructuring of MENR,
the Planning and Information Department and appoint the following key staff to the PID, that is,
a Chief Planning Officer, and two Senior Planning Officers, all having qualifications and terms
of reference acceptable to the Association.
4.3    An independent advisory body, the National Environmental Steering Commiutee
(NESC), would be established to: provide policy guidance, administrative backstopping,
international linkages, and coordination between ministries, other government agencies, NGOs,
donors and the private sector; approve ESP's consolidated annual work program and budget; and
ensure effective representation of the views and concerns of the key stakeholders. The NESC,
which would meet twice yearly and on an ad hoc basis as required, would be chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of MENR. The Vice-Chairman would be elected by the members of the
Committee from among its NGO/private sector representation. NESC membership would
comprise senior officials drawn from MENR, ECZ, implementing core line ministries, the
MOFED, PEF/SRP, NGOs, community representatives and the private sector. As a condition of
effectiveness, Government would establish the NESC for the program and would maintain the
NESC during the full implementation of ESP.



-27-
4.4    An ESP Program Management Group (PMG) would be established as the coordinating
and decision-making body of the program. Chaired by the PID Director, it would act as the
secretariat of the NESC. It would comprise representatives of ESP executing agencies and, on a
rotational basis one district Environmental Facilitator. Representatives of the core line ministries
involved in the implementation of ESP activities would be called to participate as and when
required. The Program Management Group would meet monthly and have the following
responsibilities: coordination, review and consolidation of annual work programs and budgets;
and coordination of program implementation among the participating executing agencies.
4.5    At the district level, a District Environmental Committee would be established as a sub-
committee of the existing District Development Coordinating Committee. Membership of the
sub-committee would be determined on a district-by-district basis to include appropriate district
technical officers and the District Planning Officer or Director of Planning in urban areas. It
would be chaired by an elected representative of the district, with the Environmental Facilitator
as its Secretary. The Committee would focus on priority environmental and natural resource
concerns and assist the Environmental Facilitator to coordinate his/her activities in the district. It
would meet once a month and on an ad hoc basis as required. The Environmental Facilitator
would also be an advisor to the District Council.
Implementing Agency Responsibilities
4.6   The Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) would be directly responsible for
managing two components: the Environmental Education and Public Awareness (EEPA) and the
Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System (EINMS). The EEPA would be
managed by the Environmental Communication Unit of ECZ. An EINMS technical secretariat
coordinator, answerable directly to ECZ Director, would manage the EINMS component. The
detailed assignment of officers and staff would be decided by ECZ in consultation with PID.
4.7   The Legal Drafting Unit of the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) would oversee the
process of harmonizing the major environmental statutes and regulations for the Legal
Framework and Enforcement Capacity activity.
4.8   The Curriculum Development Center of the Ministry of Education would be responsible
for further developing the environmental content of school curriculum and work in close
collaboration with the ECZ Education and Communication Unit.
4.9   The Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLG&H) would work with PID and
ECZ to develop the ESP program in the districts and coordinate ongoing district initiatives. It
would work closely with them to detail the role and responsibilities of the Environmental
Facilitators in the context of the district administration and the District Councils.
4.10   The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED) would be responsible,
through its SRP management team, for the management and implementation of PEF's activities.
It would take advantage of the existing institutional setup and systems which have been
developed and proven in the implementation of the SRP over the past five years.



-28-
B. PHASING OF IMPLEMENTATION
4.11   ESP would represent the initial, five-year phase of a long-term program, to run over ten
to fifteen years, to support natural resource management, environmental conservation and
environmental protection. To ensure the efficient start up of the components, a number of
preliminary activities are being financed through a Program Preparation Facility (PPF). PPF
activities began in late 1996 and are expected to be implemented through 1997 with a view to:
(a) carry out the institutional assessment of the environmental apex institutions to better define
their functions and responsibilities; (b) confirm component operating procedures and preparing
necessary operational guidelines; and (c) initiate the procurement of essential goods and services
prior to the first year of program implementation.
4.12  ESP would adopt an evolutionary approach. The first year's work program is found in
the draft Program Implementation Plan. Subsequent years' activities would be fully developed
on the basis of annual implementation reviews, with the participation of key stakeholders. The
reviews would be used to determine both the content and the rate of expansion of component
programs in the coming year. A rate of program expansion would be adopted to allow sufficient
time to finalize procurement of goods and services, train personnel in procedures, increase public
awareness of the objectives and opportunities available through ESP, and build implementation
capacity among the various stakeholders. PID would receive annual procurement requests from
the various implementing agencies as part of the annual work plan and budget submissions.
C. COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Strengthening and Legal Framework
4.13   The recommendations contained in the Institutional Assessment of the Environmental
Apex Units carried out in November 1996 would constitute the basis for a detailed review and
analysis, by the key participating organizations, of responsibilities for coordination and
management in the environmental sector. Under the institutional assessment process, to be
undertaken in the first year of ESP, more effective working procedures would be established for
the various organizations responsible for environmental planning and implementation.
4.14   The implementation of the institutional capacity building component would focus on
training and technical assistance, improvement of management/operating procedures and
systems development, and production of supporting management material. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1998 staff would be assigned in line ministries with the
appropriate qualifications and level of authority to establish and, thereafter, manage the
environmental focal points in the ministry.
4.15   The Community Environmental Management Program (see Annex 2) would enable
urban and rural communities to express their environmental needs and priorities, and to identify
activities or projects which they would like to undertake, but for which they would need
technical and/or financial assistance. It would also create an opportunity for government and
other interested parties to introduce new approaches for conservation or improvement of the
environment. This would be done through an interactive and participatory process focusing on
the development of community environmental action plans (CEAPs) incorporating participatory
environmental resource assessment. The CEAP would form the framework within which



-29-
assistance could be made available to the communities, either from the public or private sector.
Environmental Facilitators would assist communities to apply for support from ESP programs, in
particular, the PEF Community-Based Initiatives Fund and the environmental education
program. Equally important, the communities could use the CEAP to solicit support from donors
with projects in the area, or from other funding sources.
4.16   The community-oriented program would begin on a limited scale in two pilot districts
with provisions for expansion in the third year of the program to another seven districts. Each of
the selected districts would be in a different province. With only two initial districts, and a
limited number of communities in each district, the program would test different approaches in
partnership with the local communities, develop an experienced team of Environmental
Facilitators, train officers, develop operational manuals and training materials, and establish a
sound basis for expansion to other districts. As a condition of disbursement, Government would
make available the names, and the criteria used in the selection, of the two districts in which
Micro-Projects would be carried out during the first two years following the Effective Date.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the criteria for selecting additional districts to be
included in the program, and the list of the selected districts, would be made available by
December 31, 1999.
4.17   The Environmental Facilitators, although contracted by MENR, would be seconded to
the respective District Councils to serve as focal points for all environmental initiatives in the
district including, but not restricted to, activities supported through ESP components. The
Facilitators would form an integral part of the District Council team. More specifically, they
would: (a) use participatory techniques to work with communities to help them develop the
action plans and carry out associated investment activities; (b) act as brokers for the communities
in establishing links with district technical staff, NGOs, donors and the private sector; (c) act as
catalysts for promoting environmental activities in the district; and d) bring together ESP
facilities and services to support environmental initiatives in the district.
4.18 The support provided under the Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity activity
would focus on a small group of legal experts from MOLA and ECZ assisted, when needed, by
external consultants. Building on the recommendations of the NEAP and the detailed review
prepared for the ESP , the group of legal experts would develop a consensus regarding the gaps
to be filled, and the conflicts and disparities between laws, statutes, regulations and customary
laws. The group would propose draft revised laws, statutes and regulations. In order to ensure
the implementability and enforceability of the proposed drafts, the group would interact with all
ESP programs and stakeholders. The revised laws, statutes and regulations would be translated
into local languages for dissemination to communities. MOLA and ECZ would use training,
workshops and other participatory methods to develop a full understanding of the environmental
legislation and the associated rights and obligations.
Environmental Education and Public Awareness
4.19   Implementation of the component would follow two approaches. The first, to be
operated through the school system and the mass media, would provide a broad-based support to
raise awareness of environmental issues, principles and "best practices" among the general
GRZ/IUCN, ESP Technical Annex l-b, 'Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity' July 1996.



-30-
public. The second approach, to be implemented in conjunction with the Community
Environmental Management Program, would focus on developing local incentives for improved
environmental management.
4.20   ECZ would be the lead agency for this component and would work in close collaboration
with the Ministry of Education under the terms of a Memorandum of Understanding between
MENR/ECZ and the Ministry of Education. The primary implementation responsibility for the
Curriculum Review and Modification activity would be assumed by the Curriculum
Development Center with the technical support of the Education and Communication Unit of
ECZ.
Pilot Environmental Fund
4.21   While PID would have overall responsibility, the Social Recovery Project (SRP) would
be responsible for day-to-day management of PEF. To operate the PEF, a PEF Secretariat,
based in the SRP/Micro-Project Unit, would be established within the management structure of
the SRP, and the following staff appointed under the terms of reference specified in the
Operational Guidelines: an environmental specialist, a financial officer and a secretary, as
conditions of disbursement. Funding provisions would be made to furnish and equip the
Secretariat offices, provide a field vehicle for the coordinator, and enable the coordinator to
contract short-term consultants and services, as required, to assist with technical training and
systems installation as well as review of micro-project and study proposals.
4.22   A PEF/Micro-Project Unit (MPU) Steering Committee and a PEF/SRP Study Fund
Committee would be formed through expansion of the representation on the existing SRP
committees to include the ECZ focal person for ESP, PID's Chief Planning Officer, PEF's
Coordinator and others, as required. One of the Committee's main functions, once the program
is fully operational, would be to screen and approve applications for PEF funding. The
PEF/MPU Steering Committee and the PEF/SRP Study Fund Committee, which would meet
quarterly to review micro-project and study proposals, would be answerable to NESC for
environmental policy decisions affecting Fund adiiinistration and the technical aspects of
activities financed through the Fund. The proposed arrangement would minimize operational
costs during the early stages of ESP implementation, allow PEF to start operations with
minimum delay and assist in 'greening' the overall operations of SRP. Submission to IDA of
detailed Operational Guidelines of PEF procedures, including criteria of eligibility criteria for
micro-projects and studies, would be a condition of disbursement.
4.23   Given that SRP is an externally-financed facility which could be terminated prior to the
completion of ESP9, a study would be financed under the PEF component to explore the
advisability of establishing an independent PEF facility. This study, to be undertaken by the end
of project year 2, would focus on an evaluation of the organizational structure, implementation
arrangements and processes, and exploration of mechanisms to ensure PEF's long-term financial
sustainability.
4.24   The implementation of the PEF/Community Based Initiatives Fund would involve
close cooperation between the Micro-Projects Unit (MPU), which would manage the PEF fund
The completion date for the Second Social Recovery Project is June 30, 2000.



-31-
on behalf of ESP, and the district pilot programs led by the ESP-recruited Environmental
Facilitator. The Environmental Facilitators would assist communities to complete the
procedures necessary to access the Fund's matching grants to support eligible micro-projects.
These micro-projects would be identified through a participatory process led by local
organizations.
4.25   The approval process for the proposed PEF-fuinded micro-projects would be essentially
the same as that currently followed by the MPU. The main difference would be the availability
of technical reviewers to evaluate the environmental and economic/financial/technical soundness
of the proposed projects and the participation of the Environmental Facilitator in micro-project
appraisals and supervision. The PEF would maintain the MPU principle of securing
commitment from the participating community through their contribution of 25 percent of the
estimated cost of the micro-project in cash or kind, and their active support for their Community
Environmental Action Plan.
4.26   The PEF/Environmental Studies Fund would follow procedures similar to those
governing the studies fund of the SRP. Individual researchers or organizations could submit
proposals for studies either directly to the Secretariat or via the Environmental Facilitators. The
Research Adviser of SRP, together with two technical advisors, acting on behalf of the PEF
Secretariat, would then verify technical and economic viability and its eligibility and forward
proposals to the PEF/SRP Study Fund Committee for approval. The SRP Research Adviser, in
consultation with the PEF Coordinator, would contract the study reviewers to act as advisors to
successfuil applicants throughout the study period and to evaluate the results prior to the release
of the final payment. The same principles would be applied to applications related to the
development of major environmental strategies.
Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System
4.27   Design of the proposed EINMS is based on lessons learned and best practices in Africa.
Information management would be decentralized to a network of public and private institutions,
instead of being concentrated in a single agency. The institutions concerned with a specific
problem or issue would become key nodes of a specific information sub-system. Each institution
would establish and maintain its own information, corresponding to its specific mandate, while
having access to information created and maintained by the other members of the network.
Institutions would exchange information amongst themselves.
4.28   ECZ would host the EINMS technical secretariat. It would: (a) serve as the
coordinating unit for the EINMS Forum; (b) provide technical services to IDA-funded EINMS
activities, including the supervision of service contracts and quality control of products
delivered; (c) ensure the coherence of the different EINMS sub-systems; and (d) promote
linkages between the databases built by EINMS sub-systems and data collected by the
Community Environment Management Program using participatory techniques. Database
production, management and utilization would be entrusted to the individual EINMS sub-
systems. In particular, the EINMS technical secretariat would not itself produce, hold, manage
or distribute databases. Rather, it would serve as a referral system, indicating to potential users
where they could find the information they required. A coordinator would be hired to manage
the technical secretariat. The secretariat would also hire a GIS and Information Technology
expert to provide technical support and training. The majority of EINMS activities would be
sub-contracted to local consultants, in cooperation with international consultants, thus



-32-
encouraging the active participation of the local private sector and ensuring E1NMS
sustainability. These service contracts would be supplemented with efforts to strengthen specific
information centers within targeted user institutions.
4.29   To facilitate information sharing, EINMS would provide key network members with
access to electronic mail and, progressively, to full Internet service. This would facilitate the
functioning of the EINMS Forum as an information community. EINMS would also support the
preparation of World Wide Web pages related to EINMS activities, including a program
description, best practices, a catalogue of existing environmental databases, and a gateway to
environmental information.
4.30   The EINMS would take full account of other ongoing EIS development efforts at sub-
regional, national, provincial and district levels, to enhance complementarity and minimize
duplication of effort. The EINMS would also closely liaise with the Environmental Education
and Public Awareness component of the ESP to ensure that data holders adequately and
appropriately disseminate the information they generate to relevant user groups at the
community level. Similarly, the EINMS would work closely with PEF to provide data for
ongoing environmental research, as well as to improve EINMS applications through research.
D. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING
4.31   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The M&E system would function as a network,
with each implementing agency monitoring its components through its M&E sub-system.
Implementing agencies would be linked among themselves for information sharing, and with the
system's hub for consolidation. Responsibility for this hub would rest with an M&E cell within
PID, headed by an M&E supervisor recruited on contract by PID and assisted by a database
officer. This supervisor would oversee information flows, including: (a) the establishment of
collection frames for performance indicators; (b) the assembly of data from M&E sub-systems,
including fund disbursements and activity delivery reports, on a quarterly basis; and (c) the
production of consolidated quarterly reports for PMG.
4.32   Program progress reporting would take place semi-annually. Each implementing agency
would submit semi-annual reports to PID within four weeks of the end of the period, covering
progress, problems and issues by program component. The M&E supervisor would integrate
these reports into a consolidated progress report.
4.33   For the purposes of program and government budgeting, PID would prepare and submit
to PMG an annual consolidated work plan, based on proposals made by implementing agencies.
It would include activity schedules and budgets. Once cleared by NESC, the work plan would be
submitted to IDA. At negotiations Government agreed that annual work programs and budgets
for the ESP, approved by NESC, would be provided to IDA and other participating donors by
December 31 of each year.
4.34  Independent program performance studies would be conducted every two years. These
studies would be based on: (a) a review of quarterly reports produced by PID, including an
analysis of performance indicators; (b) a baseline survey; and (c) an evaluation of the program's
impacts and effectiveness, including independently conducted beneficiary assessments. The
studies would evaluate the extent of progress in terms of fulfilling Country Assistance Strategy
objectives, program development objectives, expected program outputs, and program objectives



-33-
of each ESP component (Institutional Strengthening and Legal Framework, Environmental
Education and Public Awareness, Pilot Environmental Fund, and Environmental Information
Management). They would specifically identify best practices, as well as constraints and critical
issues that must be addressed. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would contract an independent institution to carry out the bi-annual studies, beneficiary
consultations and performance analyses.
4.35   Mid-Term and Implementation Completion Reviews. Two reviews would be
conducted: the first at mid-term and the second just before completion. The mid-term review
would coincide with the end of the initial stage of the Community Environmental Management
Program, which is limited to two districts, and prior to its expansion to seven more districts.
Using the performance study conducted in project year 2, the program would be reviewed by
representatives from IDA, in cooperation with PID and the implementing agencies. The results
would be used to make any adjustments necessary to improve implementation performance and
development impact.
4.36   An Implementation Completion Review would cover program performance, output,
economic and social impact, and cost effectiveness, where this could be measured. The effects
and impacts of the program would be assessed through the beneficiary assessments carried out
under the PEF, the awareness surveys of the EEPA component, and the data collected under the
M&E activity. Section II of the Implementation Completion Review would be prepared by PID
and submitted to IDA no later than six months after the credit closing date.
E. IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
4.37  IDA implementation support to ESP would be intensive, particularly during the early
stages. The complexity of the decentralized implementation network, and the need to nurture the
development of MENR, would require inputs from persons with a broad range of environmental
expertise. In particular, extensive support would be needed during the first three years to
strengthen institutional capacity, establish EIA procedures, set up the EIS, and implement the
community mobilization and co-management activities. Furthermore, given the lack of prior
exposure to IDA procurement and disbursement regulations in the lead ministry, implementation
support missions should include expertise in these areas to ensure that the appropriate systems
are set up and correct procedures followed from the start of the program. The World Bank
Resident Mission in Lusaka would play a critical role in this effort, complemented by
13 supervision missions over the life of the program, including interim reviews, requiring an
estimated 100 staff weeks (see Annex 7). A minimum supervision time of 22 to 23 weeks per
year would be required during the first two years of the program, including a program launch
mission at the beginning of 1998, and three implementation support missions in each of the first
two years.



-34-
5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. PROGRAM IMPACT
5.1   The program intends to build capacity and improve the management of environmental
resources by both the Government and the local communities in an effort to achieve sustainable
development. The benefits from the program will be several. First, ESP will allow the
Government to develop the national management capacity required to effectively implement and
monitor the priority actions identified in the NEAP. Second, by dovetailing with ongoing
activities, it will reinforce the environmental perspective of sectoral strategies and strengthen
institutions in their ability to implement programs and enforce legislations. Third, the program
will increase national and local awareness of the environmental consequences of economic
policies and actions by conducting environmental impact assessments and implementing
environmental awareness and education programs. Fourth, environmental management capacity
building at the district level will facilitate the integration of environmental concerns into overall
district development plans - an important priority as the decentralization process to the district
level gathers momentum in Zambia. Fifth, the program will establish a process by which local
communities will be empowered to achieve sustainable management of their natural resource
base and to take action, through a grant matching facility, to reverse local degradation and
improve the sustainable management of limited resources. Sixth, ESP will also bring a number
of indirect benefits such as improvement of health and quality of life. Finally, the experience
gained under ESP in environmental and natural resource management will be extended to other
districts not covered under this program, thus adding a potential benefit of replicability.
5.2    While the program is not a targeted poverty reduction initiative, the positive implications
for poverty reduction are substantial. Through its participatory Community Environmental
Management Program and the PEF facility, ESP will target the most vulnerable households (in
particular those headed by women) which are more likely to suffer from environmental
degradation. The program will assist in improving their situation, both by preserving natural
resources and by encouraging their better utilization. This, in turn, will generate direct economic
benefits. In addition, ESP will bring a number of indirect benefits to the poor segments of
society, such as improvements in health, and quality of life.
B. RISKS
5.3   Some of the challenges the program could encounter during implementation include:
(a)   resistance to MENR's role and coordination conflicts with sector ministries and
other participants. This risk has been addressed by holding joint working
sessions with officers of MENR and ECZ to ensure a clear understanding of their
functions and responsibilities; by involving major sector ministries and other
participants in the preparation of the NEAP and the ESP to develop a consensus;
and by designing the program to provide support to all stakeholders in
environmental protection and natural resource management;



-35-
(b)    difficulty in implementation due to the inherent complexity of this type of
environmentalprogram. This risk has been reduced by utilizing existing
institutions and proven processes; emphasizing the participation of communities
and districts, rather than central staff, in the planning and management of
environmental initiatives; developing specific operating agreements that
establish clear definitions of roles and responsibilities of institutions involved in
the program; and preparing an implementation plan based on lessons from
similar IDA/Bank financed programs;
(c)   failure of the Government to adopt and successfully implement a participatory
approach to strengthen environmental and natural resource management at the
district level. This risk has been mitigated by the Public Sector Reform Program
and the decentralization policy of which it forms a part; by the Local
Government Support Program and similar initiatives which aim to restructure
and strengthen the district administration; and by the increased emphasis by
donors, with support from local and international NGOs, on participatory,
demand-driven community development; and
(d)   failure of the Government to release timely and adequate counterpartfinancing.
This risk has been reduced by keeping incremental recurrent costs to a minimum
and by ensuring that the Government is fully aware of the nature and
implications of the expenditures which would occur. Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that GRZ would commit the necessary counterpart financing in its
annual budget.
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.4    The proposed program, which is largely directed toward institutional strengthening and
pilot programs, does not lend itself to detailed cost-benefit analysis and rate of return
calculations. Individual micro-projects at the local level could potentially be analyzed in
financial terms, after they have been identified by local communities through the Community
Environmental Management Program. By Mid-Term Review, it would be possible to evaluate
the types of projects being financed or those likely to be chosen in the future. The overall impact
of economic analysis would remain negligible since funding of micro-projects represents less
than 10 percent of total program investment.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
5.5    Several features of the program will help ensure its sustainability. First, the program has
a strong human resource development focus through which it will increase the capabilities of key
agencies to plan and monitor the sustainable use of environmental resources. Second, ESP will
operate through existing institutions and thus will not create new administrative structures.
Third, while some additional staff will be needed, in most cases staff are in place or positions
exist but have not yet been filled. Therefore, demand for new government staff will be limited.
Fourth, ESP's impact on recurrent costs will be kept to a minimum and progressively taken over
by the national budget. The total incremental recurrent costs for ESP of US$5.5 million
represents 26 percent of the overall costs. The Government's contribution to these costs,
US$2.1 million over the program life, will increase from US$0.1 million in the first year to



-36-
US$0.7 million in the fifth year, i.e., 15 percent to 50 percent of the incremental recurrent costs.
By that time, additional sources of funds will have been identified. These could include fees,
user charges, and increased community participation. Finally, by directly involving local
communities, it becomes possible to augment the limited support services and budget that the
Government can make available at district levels to sustainably manage the natural resource
base.



-37-
6.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. ASSURANCES OBTAINED AT NEGOTIATIONS
6.1    The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)    Environmental policies would be reviewed through a consultative process, a
consensus established and the agreed set of policies presented in a document for
submission to the Cabinet by December 31, 1999 (para. 2.10);
(b)   Implementation of the sectoral and policy reform would be carried out according
to the Letter of Development Policy dated on 28th May 1996 (para. 2.10);
(c)    The criteria for selecting additional districts to be included in the program, and
the list of the selected districts, would be available by December 31, 1999
(para. 4.16);
(d)    Staff with appropriate qualifications and level of authority to establish and
thereafter manage the environmental focal points in line ministries would be
assigned by June 30, 1998 (para. 4.14);
(e)    Sufficient counterpart funds would be provided in a timely manner to cover
program recurrent costs as agreed in the annual work progran review with IDA
(para. 3.4);
(f)    ESP annual work plans and budgets approved by the NESC, would be provided
to IDA and the other participating donors by December 31 of each year
(para. 4.33);
(g)   Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to audit the ESP
accounts each fiscal year (para. 3.20);
(h)    An independent institution would be contracted by the MENR to carry out
bi-annual impact evaluations, beneficiary consultations and performance
analyses (para. 4.34); and
(j)    The composition, function and TORs of the proposed EINMS forum would be
prepared and submitted to IDA by June 30, 1998 (para. 2.31).
B. CONDITIONS OF BOARD PRESENTATION
6.2    None.



-38-
C. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
6.3   The following were sought as conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    As part of the ongoing restructuring of the MENR, Government would establish
the Planning and Information Department and appoint the following key staff to
the PID, that is, a Chief Planning Officer, and two Senior Planning Officers, all
having qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Association. (para
4.2);
(b)    The Government would establish the Project Account and deposit therein the
initial deposit of US$135,000 to finance Government's contribution to the cost
of the Project in the first twelve months after the Effective Date less the cost of
salaries and wages of civil servants (para.3.4); and
(c)    The Government would establish the National Environmental Steering
Committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MENR, and composed of
senior representatives of NGOs and beneficiary communities involved in the
Project (para 4.3).
D. CONDITIONS OF DISBURSEMENT
6.4   The following were sought as conditions of disbursement for the PEF component:
(a)    Detailed Operational Guidelines of PEF, including criteria of eligibility for
micro-projects and studies, would be submitted to IDA (para. 4.22);
(b)    A PEF Secretariat would be established within the management structure of the
SRP, and the following staff appointed under the terms of reference specified in
the Operational Guidelines: an environmental specialist, a financial officer and a
secretary (para.4.2 1); and
(c)    Government would make available the names, and the criteria used in the
selection of the two districts in which Micro-Projects will be carried out during
the first two years following the Effective Date (para 4.16).
E. RECOMMENDATION
6.5    On the basis of the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 9.3 million (US$12.8 million) to the Government of
the Republic of Zambia.



ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Logical Framework and Key Performance Indicators
Narrative                                   Performance Indicators               Means of Verification             Important Assumptions
CAS-related Goal:
Country environmental policies and strategies    1. Environmental degradation trend  1. State of the Environment Report
conducive to adequate management and        reversed and resource base successfully
protection of natural resource and to sustainable   maintained.
growth.                                     2. Resource-based economic growth    2. State of the Environment Report
spurred.
Project Development Objective (PDO)                                                                                (PDO to Goal)
Enviromnent and natural resource management   Widespread acknowledgment that     1. Independent program evaluation   1. Proper management of the environment
mainstreamed in the development process in  environmental issues are being      (mid-term & final)                 and natural resources will provide a basis
Zambia.                                     adequately addressed                 2. ESP progress reports.          for sustainable, accelerated and broad
3. Community log books and        based economic growth.
beneficiary assessments.          2. Widespread consistency of public and
4. ECZ records and EIA quality    private initiatives with environmentally
assessment.                       sustainable development.
e 4



Outputs:                                                                                                          (Outputs to PDO)
I An effective institutional and regulatory  1.1 National Environmental Steering    1.1 ESP progress reports      1. Govemment will give adequate priority
framework for environmental protection and  Committee and ESP implementing                                        to environmental issues and enforce
natural resource management.                agencies have successfully defined and                                environmental laws and regulations.
implemented work programs.
1.2 Removal of discrepancies among    1.2 Program evaluation (biannual)
existing regulations consistent with
environmental protection and natural
resource management.
1.3 ElAs systematically conducted and  1.3 Program evaluation (bi-annual)
mitigation measures taken.
1.4 Environmental Policy defined and   1.4 Adopted Policy Document.
adopted by government
2. Increased public awareness of environmental  2.1 Significant increase in     2.1 Awareness surveys among rural  2. Increased awareness of environmental
issues and greater responsibility at the   environmental awareness above        and urban populations within pilot   issues will lead communities to better
community level for environmental          baseline survey in pilot districts.  districts (bi-annual)             manage the environment and natural
management.                                 2.2 Significant increase in         2.2 National awareness surveys (bi-  resources.
environmental awareness above       annual).
baseline survey at national level.
3. A viable funding mechanism for community-  3.1 At least 50 % of pilot micro-  3.1 Beneficiary assessment as part   3. Micro-projects will empower
based environmental micro-projects, result-  projects meet user expectations.   of the independent bi-annual      communities in their role as custodians of
oriented studies and action plans.                                              evaluations.                     the natural resource base.
3.2 At least 10 % of communities in    3.2 Quarterly reports by district
pilot districts have completed a    environmental facilitator.
community environment action plan.
3.3 Increasing number of applications   3.3 Annual Report from PEF and
for support received, appraised and  ESP progress reports.
funded by PEF.
4. An Environmental Information Network and   4.1 Key data sets harmonized through   4.1 Data user satisfaction survey  4. Greater accessibility and harmonization
Monitoring System (EINMS) and five issues-    standardization                   (part of bi-annual program        of information will increase its use for
oriented sub-systems established and operational.                               evaluation)                       environmental and natural resource
4.2 Open access to environmental    4.2 Data user satisfaction survey  management.
system data.                        (part of bi-annual program
. evaluation)
0 D



Components/Activities:                    Inputs:                                                              (Components to Outputs)
($ budgets for each
1. Institutional Strengthening and Legal  component/activity)                 1. Quarterly disbursement reports    I Government positions filled.
Framework                                  1. US$ 8.52 million                                                2 Agencies actively cooperate on
1. I Policy Dialogue and Institutional                                                                        enviromnental issues.
Assessment                                                                                                     3. Acceptance by communities and district
1.2 Institutional Capacity Building                                                                           authorities of the district environmental
1.3 Community Environmental Management                                                                        facilitators role.
Program                                                                                                        4. Government endorses recommendations
1.4 Legal Framework and Enforcement                                                                           of assessment of apex organizations.
Capacity                                                                      2. Quarterly disbursement reports    5. Capacity exists in the Ministry of Legal
2. Environmental Education and Public     2. US$ 1.78 million                                                  Affairs to draft necessary legislation.
Awareness                                                                                                      6. Communities establish community-
2.1 Strengthening the ECZ Education and                                                                        based organizations.
Communication Unit
2.2 Media Training and Sensitization
2.3 Curriculum Review and Modification
2.4 Support to District Environmental
Management Programs
2.5 Community Environmental Awareness
Surveys                                                                      3. Quarterly disbursement reports
3. Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF)         3. US$ 4.26 million
3.1 PEF Comrnunity-Based Initiatives Fund
3.2 PEF Environmental Studies Fund
4. Environmental Information Management                                      4. Quarterly disbursement reports
4.1 Environmental Information Network and  4. US$ 3.91 million
Monitoring System (EINMS)
4.2 Monitoring and Evaluation System (M&E)  I
0 



ANNEX 2
Page I of 12
ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Community Environmental Management Program
Introduction
1.    This Annex provides guidelines and an action plan for facilitating community
participation in environmental and natural resource management which would form a basis for
the identification. planning and implementation of local level activities within Zambia's
Environlmental Support Program (ESP).
2.     Environmenital and natural resource management is not and should not be viewed as the
sole prerogative of goverinmenit. the involvement and empowerment of the resource users
themselves is considered critical to the success of any environmental initiative. Furthermore,
reliance on public or private sector law enforcement (often regarded as an alternative to
community participation) is costly, inefficient and unsustainable. Experience worldwide has
demonistrated that environmental management must be tackled as a joint venture between the
genieral public and goverilnmeit. These principles have governed the design of support for
promoting comimlunlity involvement under ESP.
Objectives
3.     The ESP aims to pilot a Community Environmental Management Program designed to
develop mechianlisimis for involvinig rural and urban communities in environmental planning,
decision-miiakinig and implementation. The program would raise community awareness of
environimilental issues and, over time, develop community capacity to assume responsibility for
lhe efficient, sustainable use of the resource base and the facilities and basic services it sustains.
4.     To meet these overall objectives, the program would seek to: (a) assist in the creation of
an enablinig environment at the national level for active community participation in
environmienital issues: (b) strengthen the technical and financial capacity of rural and urban
communities to deal with environmental matters at the local level and on their own behalf; (c)
strengthien operational capacity in the major organizations associated with the environment
(public sector -- especially at the district level -- SRP. NGOs, community-based organizations
and the private sector): and (d) assist in the development and implementation of a series of
simple Community Environmental Action Plans (CEAP).
Approach
5.     Rather than setting out a single blueprint for mobilizing a large number of communities,
the Community Environmental Management Program would initially test and develop
techniques on a limited scale to help communities in selected pilot districts to design their
respective CEAPs. The CEAPs would form the framework within which a series of small-scale,
community-based environmental initiatives could be financed through the Pilot Environmental
Fund (PEF) and/or other relevant sources. Experience gained under the pilot program would



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
enable the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) and other collaborating
government and non-government agencies at national, provincial and district levels to:
(a) determine how best to identify, design, implement and monitor programs and projects in
partnership with local communities; and (b) establish a sound basis for subsequent program
expansion.
6.    The establishment of an environmental presence at the district level would be central to
this process. Under the program, a new district level position of Environmental Facilitator
would be piloted in one district in each of the nine provinces in Zambia. The facilitators, who
would be trained in participatory methods, would be contracted by MENR and assigned as
technical advisers on the environment to the respective District Councils. District Council
representatives would assist the MENR, ECZ, SRP and MLG&H in drawing up Terms of
Reference for the facilitators. These would, inter alia, define facilitators' accountability, duties
and reporting responsibilities. The Districts Councils would participate fully in the recruitment
of their respective facilitators who would serve as the focal point for all environmental initiatives
in a district including, but not restricted to, activities supported through ESP components. More
specifically, they would: (a) be involved in the participatory process through which
communities would develop their CEAPs; (b) act as a broker for the communities in establishing
links with district technical staff, NGOs, donors and the private sector; (c) act as a catalyst for
environmental activities in the district; and (d) bring together ESP facilities and services in
support of environmental initiatives in the district, in particular, those available under the PEF
and Environmental Education and Public Awareness (EEPA) components. Facilitators would
receive regular training to improve work performance and update their skills based on lessons
learned through ESP and in programs elsewhere in the region.
7.    The facilitators for the initial two pilot districts would be contracted in project year 1.
Tlhe remaining facilitators would be recruited at the end of project year 1 and trained by working
alongside their colleagues in the two initial districts throughout project year 2. Once trained,
they would begin operations in their respective districts. The actual rate of program expansion
from project year 3 onwards would be determined during Mid-Term Review.
Participatory Community-Based Planning Process
8.    The design of the proposed process takes into account existing, albeit limited, experience
of engaging communities in environmental management in Zambia, and experience with similar
programs operating elsewhere in the region. The process is intended to permit flexibility in
implementation and may be adapted and modified as experience of working with communities
grows and the knowledge and understanding of Zambia's environment deepens.
9.    In the initial year of developing the Community Environmental Management Program,
pilot communities would be selected in which environmental concerns, particularly those
identified in the NEAP, are known to be pre-eminent. In such cases, the process of CEAP
preparation and micro-project identification would begin with a participatory 'environmental
needs assessment' in which attention would focus from the outset on natural resource and
environmental management. The process would involve a sequence of defined steps, although
local variants would be expected to emerge as dictated by location-specific circumstances.
10.   Step 1 - District Selection. The program requires early successes in order to build
credibility and stimulate other communities to participate. The program would select the pilot



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 12
districts on the basis of a core set of technical and social criteria including association with one
or more of the key environmental problems identified in the NEAP - water pollution, air
pollution, deforestation, land degradation, wildlife depletion; level of poverty; and health and
nutritional status. These would be developed by MENRJPID and ECZ in consultation with the
other institutions to be represented in the ESP Program Management Group. Additional criteria,
such as the presence of motivated and interested district line officials, the presence of interested
communities and traditional leaders, likelihood of success, and accessibility, would be used to
guide the final selection.
11.   Step 2 - Launch of the Community Environmental Management Program in the
District. The Environmental Facilitator would be responsible for coordinating launch
workshops for district council and line ministry officials, NGOs, church groups, traditional
leaders, and interested members of the private sector. These workshops would aim to inform
participants of ESP objectives, its components and the opportunities it presents, and involve
them in developing the Program in their districts. One of the outputs of these workshops would
be to develop an agreed set of criteria to aid the selection of communities in the district.
12.   Step 3 - Selection of Participating Communities. Using the recommendations of the
launch workshops as a basis, the Environmental Facilitator would work closely with the district
administration as well as traditional leadership to identify four initial communities. These
communities will have recognized the need for action in environmental control/management and
will have expressed an interest in accessing resources for environment-related investment. For
overall program planning purposes, it has been assumed that four new communities would
become engaged under the program in each district in each year of the ESP. Implementation
experience may suggest a need to modify the assumed rate of expansion.
13.   Step 4 - Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) Training and the Development of
CEAPs. International Environmental/PRA Specialists would train a suitably qualified Zambian
national team in a wide range of environmental and natural resource management issues and
adapted PRA techniques suited to use in urban as well as rural communities. With the assistance
of the facilitator, the national team would develop participatory appraisal skills among local
NGOs (where available), local line ministry officials and other individuals as appropriate
(teachers, community leaders, community facilitators, businessmen). Initial theoretical training
would be followed by practical, field-based training (learning by doing) while carrying out the
first community environmental needs assessment. Trained local groups would carry out
subsequent needs assessments in a district with further training and support from the national
team as necessary. Environmental Facilitators would help guide the assessments, particularly in
the early stages of the program. The national PRA team would initiate similar training processes
in other districts under ESP in accordance with the phased expansion of the Community
Environmental Management Program.
14.   The environmental needs assessment would lead to the preparation of a CEAP within
which a number of priority investment requirements may be identified. The Environmental
Facilitator would act as a broker, helping communities to contact appropriate sources of support,
such as the PEF, EEPA, SRP, programs of sector ministries at district level, and the Rural
Investment Fund. An indicative list of the types of micro-projects which may be considered for
PEF financing is given in Attachment 1. In guiding the communities, the ESP program would
avoid duplication and competition between different funding sources by reference to the



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 12
eligibility criteria of the respective funds. Proposed eligibility criteria for the PEF/Community-
Based Initiatives Fund are given in Attachment 2
15.   The Environmental Facilitator would help communities wishing to apply for PEF
matching-grants to meet necessary pre-qualification conditions, complete funding applications
and submit micro-project proposals to the PEF Secretariat (Attachment 3). During the initial
pilot phase, the PEF Coordinator would assist in the district level desk and field appraisals of
potential micro-projects. Where required, funds would be made available from PEF resources to
refine the technical and investment plans of micro-projects. The process from micro-project
appraisal to matching-grant approval by the PEF/MPU Steering Committee would take no longer
than 6 months. More than one micro-project could be eligible for funding in each CEAP.
Potential micro-projects would be prioritized by the communities and their implementation
phased taking into account communities' implementation capacity.
16.   Step 5 - CEAP Implementation. A key pre-qualification requirement for communities
to receive a PEF matching grant would be the establishment of a Micro-Project Committee to
manage the activities on behalf of the community and operate a bank account for the micro-
project. The Committee may elect to manage its own activities or to contract services from a
locally-based NGO or other local specialist(s) to provide technical and/or other services. The
facilitator would assist as necessary with arranging the contracts. Subsequently, both the
Committee and the facilitator would monitor project implementation progress. The facilitator
would assist communities to access additional technical assistance as required and, together with
a contracted local technical team appointed by the District Council, evaluate the project upon
completion. On an annual basis, the CEMP review would incorporate beneficiary assessments of
micro-project impact and the effectiveness of the participatory environmental management
process as a contribution to the overall management information system of ESP.
Benefits of the Community Program
17.   Implementation of the Community Environmental Management Program and the
experience gained in developing participatory environmental methods would have benefits at
community, district and national levels as follows:
* Community Capacity Building. The formation of Micro-Project Committees which manage
their own funds, and communities' collaboration with NGOs and other local experts in
solving environmental problems, would be expected to raise environmental awareness and
improve financial and technical management skills at the local level. This in turn would
increase communities' confidence and ability to tackle other community problems. Training
of the Micro-Project Committees in accounting procedures would give communities an
opportunity to manage their funds effectively and responsibly. In the longer term, such
experience could allow the feasibility of creating Community Development Funds to be
explored;
* District Capacity Building. Elected district officials, line ministry representatives, NGOs,
and the private sector would participate in the environmental/natural resource management
and PRA training on the district level. They would also take part in PRAs in their districts in
collaboration with the Environmental Facilitators. This would increase the level of
environmental awareness in the district and develop the technical environmental skills of
district technicians from both the private and public sectors. These skills and experiences



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 12
could be drawn upon in future phases of ESP for promoting the expansion of similar
programs within their own districts as well as in other districts; and
National Level Benefits. The Community Environmental Management Program would help
keep MENR and ECZ in touch with environmental and natural resource management
problems and concerns as perceived by communities. In addition, the program will begin the
process of gradual transfer of responsibility for environmental and natural resource
management from government to the user, thus reducing the burden on government and
facilitating sustainable management of the environment. The experiences gained through the
program during the initial phase of ESP would provide a sound basis on which MENR could
plan participatory environmental programs on a broader front in subsequent phases of ESP.
As part of the ESP 1 review of the effectiveness of community-based initiatives and in support
of ESP2 preparation, MENR would be in a position to conduct a series of policy review
workshops. The workshops would bring together representatives of Micro-Project
Committees, district administration, national policy makers, national and international NGOs
and technical experts to discuss their conclusions on the participatory processes tested and
developed through the community program. The workshop output would be to recommend
future directions for the private/public sector partnership in environmental and natural
resource management. Community program implementation experience and workshop
recommendations would serve as the basis for designing further legislative and policy
reforms. Finally, the availability of environmental skills within its management structure
would enable SRP to consider environmental activities in developing its programs with
communities in the ESP pilot districts.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
Attachment 1
Indicative List of Eligible Micro-Projects
Rural Communities
* Micro-projects addressing soil and water conservation
* Micro watershed management activities to control erosion and produce benefits (e.g., fuel and
fodder or other benefits)
* Establishment of community woodlots
* Erosion control activities for soil and water management with mainly vegetative measures
and in exceptional cases, with hardware structures
* Agro-forestry activities
- Reforestation activities, such as tree planting for fuelwood, charcoal, timber and other
purposes
- Sustainable charcoal production activities
- Activities which use fuel resources more efficiently (e.g., more efficient charcoal production
and fuel efficient stoves).
- Renewable energy activities (utilization of solar energy such a PV panels and others)
- Sustainable forest management by local communities (community forestry)
- Activities to control forest and bush fires.
* Establishment and maintenance of tree nurseries
* Establishment of orchards
* Beekeeping activities (traditional and modem)
* Sustainable exploitation of non-timber/minor forest products such as mushrooms, traditional
medicines (herbs), fruits, vegetables, tubers, honey, beeswax and others.
* Sustainable management of communal grazing areas (e.g., controlled grazing) and adoption
of sustainable livestock stocking rates
* Sustainable wildlife management and protection (such as the CAMPFIRE or ADMADE
approach), in combination with small-scale eco-tourism development
* Communal game farming activities, possibly in combination with eco-tourism development



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 12
* Small-scale community water supply systems in combination with tree nurseries and
horticulture
* Environmental sanitation, including communal latrines and small drainage works to improve
health
* Small-scale community based wetlands, swamps, lakes and river management activities for
sustainable fisheries development and biodiversity conservation
* Biodiversity conservation projects (small-scale)
* Small-scale water resources management activities (e.g., construction of small community
dams for water conservation for small-scale irrigation of tree nurseries, horticulture or other
high value crops and to maintain sustainable livestock densities)
* Small community-based flood protection works
* Environmental management activities that decrease the incidence rate of important diseases
(e.g., water-borne diseases such as malaria, bilharzia, dysentery and cholera)
* Community activities which increase drought preparedness and reduce impacts of
emergencies
- Small-scale activities dealing with national heritage conservation
Urban Communities
* Solid waste or hazardous waste management activities
* Waste recycling activities such as composting, recycling of plastics, glass, metal and others
* Communal drainage schemes
* Communal drinking water schemes or other water quality improvement programs
(exceptional, if SRP unable to respond)
* Environmentally sound, low-cost sanitation systems (e.g., communal latrines)
* Peri-urban agriculture activities, such as horticulture in combination with tree nurseries and
water supply
* Tree planting in urban communities (Toona ciliata or Cedrela, Neem and others)
* Control of local water, air and soil pollution (small-scale industrial pollution abatement)
* Small community-based flood protection works



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 12
* Environmental management activities that decrease the incidence rate of important diseases
(e.g., water-borne diseases such as malaria, dysentery, cholera and others)
* Community activities which promote production/efficient use of fuel (e.g., fuelwood
plantations; introduction of improved stoves)
* Renewable energy activities (utilization of solar energy such a PV panels for lighting and
other purposes, solar cookers and other appropriate technologies)
* Community activities which increase drought preparedness and reduce impacts of
emergencies
* Small-scale activities dealing with national heritage conservation



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 12
Attachment 2
PEF Eligibility Criteria
Eligibility Criteria for the Community Based Initiatives Fund
The eligibility criteria are defined to encompass initiatives which tackle natural resource and
environmental problems in rural and urban communities. During the process of CEAP
preparation, environmental facilitators would orient the communities to the PEF operational
guidelines and eligibility criteria for financing, and would assist communities to develop
proposals which fulfill the criteria. The PEF would consider proposals for matching grants to
support community-based micro-projects which:
* are technically in line with the priority natural resource and environmental management
concerns guiding ESP and identified through the National Environmental Action Plan;
* promote the sustainable management of natural resources and/or environment in either the
short- or long-term;
* tackle natural resource and/or environmental problems and priorities which have been clearly
identified as part of the CEAP preparation process; are consistent with district environmental
priorities; and have been endorsed by the District Environmental Committee, District
Development Coordinating Committee and the District Council;
* are technically feasible given the circumstances of the applying community;
* demonstrate that the micro-project will benefit the poor and other vulnerable groups;
* have a direct economic benefit;
* are cost effective;
* are submitted by a Micro-Project Committee which has been specially established with an
elected Chairman, Treasurer, and Secretary, and a membership in which men and women are
equally represented;
* demonstrate the community's commitment to, and ownership of, the micro-project through its
willingness to pay some 25% of the associated costs, either in labor, kind or cash. The
proportion to be contributed by the community may vary according to the nature of the
activity but would be worked out with the community during micro-project design;
* demonstrate that the majority of the community and future beneficiaries
recognize the importance of the long-term sustainability of the micro-project by committing
themselves to setting up a Community Maintenance Committee before micro-project
completion. The costs of future operation and maintenance would be the full responsibility of
the community; and
* require funding support from a PEF matching-grant not exceeding US$20,000. More
typically, a micro-project is expected to cost in the order of US$5,000 - 10,000.



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 12
Eligibility Criteria for the Environmental Study Fund
The Environmental Study Fund is designed to support several levels of investigation from
national environmental strategy development and environmental program/policy review to
small-scale studies of more localized interest. Studies and surveys eligible to be considered for
financing through the PEF/Environmental Studies Fund would be expected to contribute to one
or more of the following:
* research (studies and surveys) and environmental impact assessments arising from the CEMP
and designed to complement micro-projects;
* identification and/or implementation of techniques and actions which would increase
communities' sustainable use and improved management of natural resources, either as a
complement to CEAP implementation in the ESP pilot districts, or which are independently
derived from elsewhere in the country;
* furthering the understanding of environmental processes at work in Zambia;
* furthering the understanding of how the poor and other vulnerable groups are affected by
environmental degradation and/or pollution and suggest solutions for dealing with the
problem;
* a reduction in the risk of natural disasters (e.g., droughts, floods, pest infestation, etc.);
* design of medium- to long-term strategies of national importance such as drought
preparedness, biodiversity and renewable energy;
* identification of mechanisms for ensuring the long-term sustainability of PEF; updating the
National Environmental Action Plan; and initiating preparation of the second ESP; and
* prevention or mitigation of environmental emergencies, either through contributing to an
understanding of the cause of the emergency or developing action plans for dealing with the
emergency.
Studies and surveys should be designed to have a practical, problem-solving orientation rather
than being of solely academic interest, and should have adequate justification in terms of
technical feasibility and economic viability. Study proposals must indicate how the anticipated
results would be widely disseminated in a form understandable to and usable by communities, as
well as by decision makers at district or national level.



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 12
Attachment 3
THE PEF CYCLE OF MICRO-PROJECT FINANCING
Submission and Review of Micro-Project Proposals
Through its association with the Environmental Facilitators assigned in the pilot districts, PEF
would have the advantage of being linked to district administrations and the functions of the
District Council and the District Development Coordination Committee (DDCC). Micro-projects
supported by the Fund would be initiated by communities through the participatory planning
processes of the Community Environmental Management Program (CEMP) under ESP, with
support from district level technical and administrative staff. The PEF would complement the
community-based planning process and strengthen district administrations' capacity to respond
to communities' identified investment needs in environmental and natural resource management,
thereby contributing to the Government's decentralization effort.
On completion of a Community Environmental Action Plan (CEAP), and following the
identification of priority investment activities for implementation within the CEAP framework,
the community must establish a Micro-Project Committee to be responsible for micro-project
implementation. The Committee would have an elected Chairman, Treasurer and Secretary.
Equal gender representation on the committee would be attempted. Once this pre-condition has
been met, the community would initiate the project cycle.
Micro-project proposals which arise from the CEAP and are potentially eligible for financing
under the PEF, would be subject to monitoring procedures similar to those applied under the
SRP. Proposals would include a description of the activity, information on the expected benefits
and beneficiaries, and initial cost estimates. Matching-grant applications would be subject to an
initial screening through a desk appraisal organized at district level by the Environmental
Facilitator as Secretary of the District Environment Committee, and submitted to the Desk
Appraisal Committee (Planning Sub-Committee) of the DDCC. The desk appraisal would be
followed by an intensive field appraisal to assess technical feasibility and verify the
community's commitment and state of preparation for project implementation. Where possible,
the field appraisal by the district team would also involve the SRP Regional Officer and a
member of the Provincial Planning Unit. Successful proposals would be forwarded on behalf of
the community to the PEF Secretariat by the Environmental Facilitator. At each stage of
appraisal, copies of documentation would be forwarded to PEF/MPU to enable the PEF
Coordinator to monitor the review process.
At the level of the PEF Secretariat, proposals would be reviewed internally by the PEF
Coordinator together with the coordinator of the Community Environmental Management
Program in PID and the ECZ officer assigned as the focal point for ESP. Additional technical
specialists would be contracted to assist in the review if warranted by the nature of the micro-
project. On an exceptional basis, the review could include a site visit to gather any further
information not included in the request form.' Proposals would be fully costed in order to
Site visits from headquarters would ordinarily be restricted to micro-projects which had already been
approved.



ANNFX 2
Page 12 of 12
determine the requisite level of community contribution - normally not less than 25 percent.2
Following Secretariat review, proposals would be submitted to the PEF/MPU Steering
Committee for final approval. The Steering Committee would meet on a quarterly basis to
review funding applications. The process from the submission of applications by the
environmental facilitator to approval by the Steering Committee would take no longer than 6
months.
For a proposal that is approved, a contract would be signed between the community and the PEF
and a copy forwarded to the Planning and Information Department/MENR for information. The
PEF Coordinator, through the relevant Environmental Facilitator, would arrange for a micro-
project launch workshop in the community to confirm details of implementation arrangements
and the community's associated responsibilities.
Conditions of Matching-Grant Disbursement
Communities must demonstrate their financial and/or material commitment to their micro-
project(s) prior to formal submission and approval. Where communities have elected to
implement activities through contractual arrangements with an NGO or other local experts,
contracts must be established in principle, subject to confirmation following micro-project
approval by the PEF/MPU Steering Committee.
The Micro-Project Committee would be required to establish a community bank account
(generally at district level) controlled under the joint signatures of the Committee Chairman and
Treasurer. Accounting procedures of the Committee must be fully transparent at the community
level. Following the signature of the micro-project contract, an initial installment of 30 percent
of the PEF matching grant would be transferred to the community account. Later disbursement
would be in equal tranches effected only after 75 percent of the previous allocations have been
justified with receipts. The fourth and last allocation would be disbursed after an estimate has
been made of any remaining works.
Micro-Project Completion
The Environmental Facilitator would confirm physical completion of the micro-project and the
financial controller in the PEF Secretariat would certify that the micro-project has justified 100
percent of the allocations made for its implementation. The facilitator would maintain close
supervision of the micro-project throughout the implementation period. On average, the PEF
Secretariat would also carry out three supervision visits to a given micro-project and arrange a
follow-up visit to assess micro-project impact six months after completion. Micro-projects would
be closed if there is any misuse of funds or a lack of community commitment or contribution.
Should a problem develop in the financing of a micro-project, communities would be given
every chance to pay back misspent funds and/or to reduce targets so that the community may
benefit from at least part of the micro-project.
Different levels of contribution may be agreed with communities depending upon the nature of the
activity and subject to approval by the SRF/PEF Steering Committee.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Agreed Functions and Responsibilities of ECZ and PID
Activity          Environmental Council       Planning and Iarmation Det
Coordination:       * technical level coordination   * high level coordination
in environmental sector with .   coordination of policy
private sector, NGOs,         * initiate 'linkages with other
statutory authorities and       ministries and agencies on
planning and technical          environmental issues'(PID
departments of line             functions as per PSRP)
ministries                      'coordination of annual
* coordination of fund raising     budget process' (PID
for the activities of ECZ       functions as per PSRP)
* coordination of incentives,      coordinate international
financial and other, to         accords and conventions
encourage sound                 whose management is the
environmental practices         responsibility of sector
ministries, departments and
agencies
Ail-isor:           * advice, mainly technical in      'policy analysis and advice
nature, in response to          for informed decision
demands from public sector      making by government on
agencies, NGOs, private         environmental and natural
enterprises and the public, on  resource issues' (PID
an ad hoc basis                 functions as per PSRP)
* advice on environmental          advice on environmental
standards                       implications and
* advice to MENR on policy         repercussions
and planning                    preparation of
* advice on international          environmental sector
agreements and conventions      cabinet memoranda
* interpretation and               presentations to parliament
negotiation of international    on policy and other matters
environmental agreements        affecting the environmental
sector



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
Activit          Environtental Counci        Planning and laformation Dept
Planning,           * strategic planning and        * strategic and action
Programming           program and project             planning in MENR and
and Budgeting         planning for ECZ activities     preparation of annual
* preparation of local            budgets as part of the
environmental action plans      annual work planning/
jointly with Town and           budgetary process
Country Planning             * follow up of study proposals
Department                     so that priority ones can be
converted into effective
projects and work
programmes
development of
environmental performance
indicators and mechanisms
to help facilitate the
gathering and dissemination
of environmental
information
Project             * ESP: management of a            ESP: overall management
Management,           number of the sub-              of ESP and, in conjunction
Implementation        programmes                      with the Micro-project Unit
and Financing       * implementation of locally       of NCDP, responsibility of
and internationally funded     the Pilot Environment Fund
projects and programmes      * resonsibility for the
which are either cross-         proposed Pilot Support
sectoral in nature or are       Programme in Participatory
sectoral with a very high       Environmental Management
environmental priority          and the management of
* for environmental impact        district environmental
assessments (EIAs),            facilitators
'undertake or request others  * implementation of
to undertake such               international accords and
assessments for                 conventions
consideration by the
Council' (EPPCA, Part II)
* 'provide support for
environmental conservation,
protection and improvement
by way of grants or loans,
the provision of
accommodation, equipment
and the common use thereof
(EPPCA, Part II); this
includes raising financing
both for other bodies and for
ECZ itself



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
kiviA             Environmental Counillanning and IJfrmtw Depr
Training,           * responsibility for facilitating,  * preparation of briefs,
Education,             and when required                speeches, press releases and
Awareness              undertaking, training,           other public statements for
Creation and           education and awareness          the Ministry
Public Relations       creation in environmental
sector
'identify, promote and advise
on projects which further or
are likely to further
conservation for sustainable
development and the
protection and improvement
of the environment' EPPCA,
Part II
* public relations concerning
the activities of ECZ
* organizing workshops,
seminars and symposia 'on
matters relating to
environmental and natural
resources use and protection'
Regulation,         * 'recommend measures aimed       * submission of proposals for
Enforcement            at controlling pollution         amendment to existing
ad Legal               resulting from industrial        legislation or creation of
Matters                processes or otherwise;'         new legal instruments
(EPPCA, Part II)
* establishment of 'standards
relating to the improvement
of the environment and the
maintenance of a sound
ecological system' (ECZ
Brochure)
* 'draw up and enforce
regulations related to water
pollution, air and noise
pollution, pesticides and
toxic substances, waste
management and natural
resources management'
(ECZ Brochure)



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
Actvty           Environmental Coun           Planning and1f,ornmation Dept
Information and     * assembling, maintaining and     maintaining records of
Dats                  updating technical              international developments
Management            information and data for the    on environmental issues.
environmental sector            preparation of the
* 'request for information on     environmental chapter of
the quantity, quality and      the Economic Review
management methods of           preparation of precise
natural resources and           analytical summaries of the
environmental conditions        various studies,
from any individual or          programmes and projects
organization anywhere in       for the attention of the PS
Zambia' (EPPCA, Part II)        and Minister
* preparing reports on            preparing regular reports
environmental issues            and statistics on
* providing environmental         environmental issues for
informnation to government      various users, other
departments, statutory          ministries, donors and the
bodies, NGOs and private        public, particularly for
enterprises with               subjects not covered by
environmental mandates or  I    ECZ
concerns, and to the public in  * brief and debrief missions
general                         working in the area of
* provide library services        environment and natural
resources in Zambia
organize round table
meetings for donors, NGOs
and other parties assisting
government in the area of
environment and natural
resources
Monitoring,         * 'monitor trends in the use of   monitoring the impact and
'Evaluation and       natural resources and their     performance of
Reporting             impact on the environment'      interventions in all areas of
(EPPCA, Part II)                environment and natural
* monitoring and inspection of    resources
sound environmental             evaluate project and
practices by agencies and       programme proposals in the
companies holding licences      area of environment and
from ECZ                        natural resources for
* performance and impact          submission government
monitoring of ECZ            * initiate, undertake and
programmes and activities       commission studies on
* quarterly reporting to the      environmental and natural
Board (the Council) of ECZ      resources issues
* regular financial reporting
and monitoring, including
annual external auditing and
auditing by the Auditor
General



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
Environmental Support Program
ORGANIZATION CHART I
Program Management Structure
NESC
PMG
ECZ-                   EniomnaConiofZma
.,.    : Distri. Develo n CPlanning &
Min. of           .    *         .. Information
Educatio n    .  . . .:. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. ..:. .......I Departmnent
:, \ . . ~(MENR)
DEF  .. Ditri.tC EnvironmentalFacilitator
,N.          . Min.,DistryiofcEnvironme ta         Committees
MOLA        -         M        of        Councilsrs
& a               EnviroEnental
DE-Fs              Sub-Committee
DDCCs
Acronyms:
ECZ             -        Environg ental Council of Zambia
DC              -        District Councils
DDCC            -        District Development Coordinating Committee
DEF             -        District Enviromnental Facilitator
MENR            -        Ministry of Environment and Natuiral Resouces
MOLA             -       Ministry of Legal Affairs
MLG&H           -        Ministry of Local Governunent and Housing
NESC            -        National Envirommental Steering Committee
PMG             -        Programn Management Group
SRP             -        Social Recovery Project



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
ORGANIZATION CHART 2
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
Minister   ____________ ___
Director
LCZ
Permanent                   Deputy
Secretary                  Minister
Director                                              Director                  Principal
Human                     Direco                    F5retr                       Zambia
Resources                    PDDept                                               Forestry 
& Admin                                                                           Colege
Accounts
Section



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
ORGANIZATION CHART 3
Environmental Council of Zambia
MINISTER
ENVIRONMENT AND
NATURAL RESOURCES
CHAIRMAN
COUNCIL BOARD
(28 MEMBERS)
DIRECTOR
COUNCIL SECRETARY
POLLUTION CONTROL     PL    G                       |LEGALAND
DIVISION        MANAGEMENT                     ADMINISTRATION
.          ~~~~DIVISION
I           ~       ~~I                      _I _
AIR&NOISE            EIAs           FINANCE &       LEGAL
PESTICIDE & TOXIC   NAT. RES. MGT.     ACCOUNTS    ADMINISTRATION
WATER POLLUTION    ENVIR. INFO./EDUC'N               PERSONNEL
WASTE MANAGEMENT



ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Activity Matrix of Donors in the Environmental Area
Table I Present Activities
Sector                                     Belgium  Canada  Denmark  EU  FAO  Finland  France  Germany  Italy Jpn/JICA   Netherlands Norway Sweden  UK UNDP  USA WB
Air Pollution                                       I___
Community-based environ. protection projects           +        #+                                     +               +                                    +    +           +
Educ. & Publk Awareness                                +                             +                 +              +           +                  +
Energy                                                                 ___           #                        =                   +                  +      +
Enviro. Information SystemtGeo. Info. System                                                           +              +           +
Envir. Research Studies                                +                             +                                            +                  +
Forestry                                                         _      #   #        #                 #      =    _              #                         +    #
Hazardous Waste Disposal, ind. hospital waste                           +    #                         +              +                  .                                   +
Indust. Pollution Control                  __
Institutional Capacity Bldg                           #                      #       +                 +                                    +        +      +    #      _
Intemational Conventions                                                                                                                    +                    +
Legal & regulatory framework                           +                                               +              #                     #_                   #      +
Munic. Water Supply & Waste Water                                                                                                 +
National Parks                            . _         _                 # + _                                                     +         #                               =
Regional Envi. Management                                                     +                                                   +                              +
Soil degrad. erosion and desertification                                     #       +                 +
Soild Waste Disposal                       ___
Tourism                                                ##                                                                                   +               +
Water Pollution                                     .                                                                              -        +        +            +
Watershed management                                                          +                                                                                  +
Wildlife                                 #_                          _       +                                                    +                         +
User training                                                                +       +                                            +              __   _               _
Wetlands Management                 #   #    #                                                     _                                                        + _
Crisis Management                                                          _                                               _                               _                _
Human Res. Dev. in Natural Res. Mngt.         +            #                                                                                     _         +
Low cost housing                                                                             +                                              _     
Environmental Impact Assessment                    #                                          +        +              ____
AgriculturetFood Security                                    ______        _
Fisheries                                                                    #                            _   _                                        ___
+ Minor projects
# Major projects                                                                                                                                                        o 
EtA obligatory for all programs and projects
This matrix is based on data supplied by the agencies listed above and is subject to correction.                                                                        0
3/7/97



ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Activity Matrix of Donors in the Environmental Area
Table 2 Proposed Activities (Next 3 to 5 yearm)
Sector                                 Belgium Canada Denmark EU  FAO  Finland France Germany Italy Jpn/JICA Netherland Norway Sweden UK UNDP USA WB
Air Pollution                                                                                                                     #
Community-based environ. protection projects                       #    +                      +                                                +    #     #   #
Educ. & Public Awareness                           +                           +               +                        +         +       +
Energy                                                                  +                                     +         +                 +     +
Enviro. Information System/Geo. Info. System                            +                      +              +         +
Envir. Research Studies                            +                                                          +         +                 +
+         I+ 
Hazardous Waste Disposal, ind. hospital waste     #                     #                                                                       +
Indust. Pollution Control#
Institutbnal Capadty Bldg                          #                                           +                                          +     +    #    _ 
Intemnatonal Cornventions                     #                         + _   _                                                                      +
Legal & regulatory framework                       +               #    #                      +                        #         +                         +   #
Munic. Water Supply & Waste Water               __                                                              
National Parks                                                     #4_                         +                        + #  ##=-
Regional Envi. Managemnent                      _#                      _                                                                                  +
Soil degrad. erosion and desedification                            #    #                                               +                 +          +
Solid Waste Dispoal___+
Tourism                                            ## _                                                       +         +
Watr Polution                                      #                                                                              #        _          +
Watershed management                                                    #             _                                 +                       _
WIldife                                                            #4+                         +      _                 +         #_
Weands Management                         #        e               #    #              #
A~gricutm& Fishieries                     I      ____                                  I       I__                                _
Human Res. Dev. In Natural Res. Mngt.     #                       #    +                                      +                                            +
Environment Impact Assessment                                      #+.   +                                                                                 +
+ Minor projects
# Major projects
EIA obligatory for all programs and projects
This matrix is based on data supplied by the agencies listed above and is subject to correction                                                             la
3/7/97                                                                                                                                                      0



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Program Implementation Schedule - Primary Features
1997                                19g8                                 199           _                    2000                                 2001                                2002                                2003
ID  Tak Num                                                                Tire   Stan   01 02 03 04 Q  02 03 104                                                                                                       01 021.0 Q0                              1    Q203  04 Q0  0 3 104 0102 103 04
1    PrOjed EffeCrienS                                                          Ow    01W  01  .,
ProJec Effectiveness
.....   .........   ....                                    .   ....i......... .....                         .........   .............  ....   ..''..                        ...... .-----.........   ...   .....                  .....
2    IDA Support Mission                                                  312.4w   01107198                       .w    3w    3w    3w    3w    3w    ;w 3w    3w                                                                                               3; 3w                               3w 3                  . w                       3w
~~~~II ~~~~~~~~~I  FE                                                   I I    I                                                           I
.. . . . . . . .   .. . .      .. .  .. . .  .  .............. .    .. . . ... . . .    .  ........   ........    ...  .. .. .  ........   ........  .. . . ... . . .  .. .. .  ........  .. .. .  .. . . . . . . .   .  .. . .. - - .. .  . . .
3                 lDA Support MIin 1                                             3w   01107w98
Jan07  Jan,27                                                              .
........ ' '... ..           .... ..           .. .'. .'... .... ... .. .. ... .       '     .. .... . .. ..      .      .. ...'. .. ...  .. .. ..... .. ..           .. .. ..   .. ...         . .. ...  .. ....... .. .   . .. ..
4                 IDA Support MisIo 2                                            3w   03.106/98
MayO6May 26. .                                                                .
~~~~~~~~. ......3 ........                              ........   . .............         ...... ...    .......    . ......  ........  ........    ....... ..........   .........    ........    ........  ..... ...    .......    ........  .....   ........
6                 IDA Support MIsion 3                                          3w   0902/8                       .    ,
3w
Sep'02  SW Se22
T                                                                                                      lM    Su M   5 3   0 5    ................................ .............. ............................................ . ....3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... ......... . ......... . . . ........ .
.-. l #~~~~~~~~~~~05|t25. ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........                                               ........  ........                                                  .   .......
6                 IDA Support MissIon 4                                          3w   0106/99
Ja  5 Jan 26
I                                                                          MSu  M   nS   3w   0  01 " ........_ ............................................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........          .. 3 . . . . ...... . . . . . . .
' ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........                                          ''5    ''........  .    ...... . ...  .    .......  ................    --- -
5 IDA Support Mission 5                                                          3w   05105/99
My05 I May 25
... . .  .         ..              .      .     J.  .Jan2.                                                                   .        .                               .          .
Fll:              IDA Support Missioll 6                                         3w   09/01/99
9        IDA Support Mission 7                                         3w   01/05/00
J    6Jan 0              5
FWu AAZAMPIP_KMPP 03r2M17 9-57



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Program Implementation Schedule - Primary Features
'1997               1998    -    -      1999                2000                2001                2002                2003
10        IDA Support Mission 8 and          3w   05103/00                                      -     .3w.                                4 1 ~1 I!~012    3
Program Mid Term Review wiaythMa  2
Boffowe
11        IDA Support Mission 9              3w   09106/00
Sep. [6 Sep 28
12   IDA Support Mission 10                                                             3w035/13
Mar 05 [Mar2~3
13        IDA Support Mission I1I            3w   09/03/01                                                                                              3
Sep 03 [Sep21
14        IDA Support Mission 12             3w   03/05/02
3w
Mar05 [ Mar 25
Is        IDA Support Mission 13             3w   07/04/02
3w
J'ul 04   Jul 24
IS        IDA Support Mission 14 and         3w   06/8/03
Initiation oyf Implementation                                                                                                                                                     3w
Completion Review                                                                                                                Jun28   Jul17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tk  8 ju-1
17        Projec Completion Dafte            Ow   06/30/03
*           ~~~~Jun 30
Project Completion Date*
la        Project Closng Date                Ow   1/10
*                  ~~~~~De
Prjec Closng Date
Fie: AQZAMPIFPAMPP 0WA28I7 9-57 



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Program Implementation Schedule - Primary Features
1997                1998                 1999                2000                 2001   _            2002                 2003
ID    Task Name                           Time      Start   Qi1T2103104   010                30    01 J02J03  04   01102103104   01J02 03  04   oi  02 [03]                             01  021  13
19    GOVERNMENTALACTIVI11ES              339.2w   01101197
20        lnhtjal assessffent of two         14W   01101714w:
en*konmental apex unit with
enrorsement by  pnza5otsfAp0
Involved
21         Preparation of Terms of            Ow   02M10397  6w:
Reference fb cownts '~r1
positions sho0wn in SAR                               Mr14
para.6.1 (a)
22         Prepartio of draft operational     7w   02117197
guidelines of PEF prodrs                           7w
7flAprOP4
23         Prapare draft PEF operatonal       2w   02117197
gukideines                                        2w:
7 IFeb 28
24         Assignmend in ECZ.                 Ow   03/03/97
MFED/SRP. MLA MinEduc and                           ow
MLG&H of facalpoint ofller                        3 5Apr11I
25         Preparation and submfission to     5w   03/03/97
IDA of draft decision on                            5w
Integatn PEF Int SRP wil                               A
assignmenTt of responsibilities
26         Establish atteria and processes    5w   03103/97
for selection of first two pilot
districts inl1998
27         Preparation of draft PIP           3w   03/17197
inidudirng detailed costing and
Implemenition schedules for
1997-98 annual work plan                         17   Apr 04
File AIZMPIP.AMPP 0328191 9 57



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Program Implementation Schedule - Primary Features
1997               1998                1999                2000                2001               2002                2003
ID    Task Name                          lime- --start   01  Q2  03  040102                       01102(03104  Ql  02 [03]Q4  Ql  Q2J03]04  o] 02 03104  Ql1Q21  30
28        Detailed joint-decision on      35.4w   05/01/97354.                                                             .     .
modal ities of the PEF                          a  iDc3
operations wihin SRP                            aO                    e3
submnitted to IDA
29        Submission to IDA of detailed   35.4w   05/01/97          34
Operational Guidelines of PEF
including critena for                           aO                    e3
mlco-projects and studies
fnanring... ... .. .. . ....                                                                     . ... .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . ..
30        Submission of procuremient       12w   06/01/97         12
requests and cost estimate for
1997& 1998 to PIDby                             Jun 01 [JAug 21
implementing agencies
31        Restructuring of MENR with       31w   06/01/97
establishmient and stffing of31
PID                                             Jun 01 F77      HDec'31
32        Sekection of two pilot districts  31w   06/01/97
for ESP implementatIon                                     31w
Jun 01             Dec 31
33        Prepare final Program            12w   07/01/97
Implementation Plan and                                  :12w
annual work plan for1998                          Ju           O Sep2
34        Legal review of environmental    26w   07/01/97
policies and submission f                                   28
Cabinet approval                                   Jl0               e2
35        Implementation of the sectoral   26w   07/01/97
and policy reform according to
the Letter of Development
Policy dated May 28, 1996                         Jul 01           Dec 28
36        Establishmeont of criteria for   79w   07/01/97
selecting additional districts to
be included in the PEF program                                          w
and the actual selecton ofJu  1anl
Fie: AAZAMPIP-AMPP 03128197 9:57



_ _  .                                                        -                     .                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 6
o     ......                          ....... ...................................... .    ...                                       .    .                                    . ..      ..P ag e .                     o  f 9
.. .. . .. .           ....                              .                                .. .
..        . . . .                                                                                         ..    ... '         '' ' .'."'''-"' .     ........  ..''''. .
_ ,o                         .                                                                                
N N
a
_a
_ . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . . ..  .    . .. . .. .   .   .  . . . .. -   - .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . . ..        .           ... . .
(4)
-oa
a..
_a_
_§o. -   
N cm ~ ~ ~  ~          ~          ~           ~         ~          ~          ~         ~         ~        ~                    
0                   _ _ a_                                      _                  _         _                  .___                                _              
--  z  *ce _ .,, ,,,. , ...............................,  ..........,, ....,,........, ..............,,,....................... , , , ...............................,,,,,, ...,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,.,
- _ o N   ,    .....................
am 'C~~~~~~~~~~~~
o|      . t  E   Z a   a                                                     .                    .                     R                                                                 .
5 _            ..    .*5.                  .. .........                                                          . .                                         . .
l ii    ||                   1,,|,                                     01    0                                   0t 0                                       0
-~~~~~~~                                                                                                                 0~~~~c
. . . . . ... .  . . . . .   . .. . . . .. .               . . ...                                    . . .          .           .. .   . . . . . .   . . . . . . .
.. . . . .  . . . .. . .  . .. .    . .. . .. ... . . .
.          . . . . .   . . . .                           . . .      . . . . .I . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .
.   . . .   . . . . ..    . . . .             . . . ..   . . . ..   . . .. . . . . . . .         . . .. . . . 5        . . . . .. .         . .. . . . .     a.      
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                            PI 
;CZ,a 
~ ~~~~          !~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~.  ~~~~~~~~~~DC
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
I..                                                                _                    _~~~~C
(n                                                                      LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



3  .                         .               .                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 6of 9
o   *                                .                  ,                               '         ..............'
.....    ............
i a 6: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...... . ............... .. ......... ............. ........... ............ ............
_          a  _  ............ _..  ....             .................
o . BU38  '                                      ..                      .............................   ....              '      
¢=J _ a _4 . ................... aD . ~~~~~~~~~~~....... ......... ..... .....................
N
.     .  .. . . . . .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                      ......... ............... ..G. ii,,, ...
oT                  a,
^ _  .                                 .  .......  ...    .  ......  .... ....  .....................   ............... .. . .  ..............   .........  .............. . . .
C                                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~C
h 0                                                                              *0BOt0        
t s  _ o                                     a   aiaa__
|  ;  !. ....i.....
Ii                 I    *i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  it.......l.......
... .. .. .  .. .. .. .. .. ..  . .. .. .. .. .. .. ..       .. . .. . .     .. . . . . .04.. . . . . .
~~iI  III II                                          III Tili lilt I   Li~~~~~~le
co_                                                                                                                                _      _'
CY. 
3                      3               3                               I
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____                                                          _________
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                  U



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SVPPORT PROGRAM
Program Implementation Schedule - Primary Features
1997                 1998                 1999                 2000                  2001                 2002                 2003
ID    TaskName                              Time      Stat    01 IQ21 03104    1i02 1Q3IQ4   21  021031 04   01102103104                               1 0!Q210Q31  Q4  01] 02Q103]             o1 I Q202  3_ _Q4
78         Consolidaton of sean nual        289.2w   08106197             2w         2w        2w          2w        2w        2w         2w         2w        2w         2w         2w        2w
reports byPIDand subnMssion                                    I          I          H         H          I         I                               B             .          O
to IDA
...    ... . . . . .   .......  .    ....  ... . .    ..    '.....   ..........     ..    ...  ..   ....    ........  ...    ..... . . ..    '... . .
91         Prparabon of pcurement           265.2w   0897                 4w                    4w                   4w                   4w                   4w                    4w
requiremfts fhr upwoming year
by lmI ernp tbng Agences
98         Preparation of Annual Work       267.2w   08120197                                                                              6w
Plans and Budgets by PID
-- --       -- -- -            ---    ----  ... .......  .. ......    ........  ........                          ....    ...    ........   ..........  
105         Prepare Master Bid Docurents        6w   082297
and Technical Specificatbons for                                6Wi
all goods tu be purchased fr                            Aug 22    Oct 02
IDA revew/./comments
106         Sel  two pilot disbicts for ESP     8w   09/22197
implementation durng frst yar                                      w
Sep22       Nov13
.. . .. .     .. .. .   ..   ..... . .  ' ..'. .   ..... .  .. . .  .   .......  .. . . .     .. ..   . .' .. . .  ...   ..    .. .. .  .. ..
107        Opening of a project acount         12w   10/01197
and deposit of an initial amount                                   1 2w
for the first year of                                          01t       Dec 22
---------------------.--- ----------.----- - ----.-  ....    .......    ..................... . ..     .... .-.-      ........    .. . .
108         Publish PEF and make               12w   12/29/97
available operabonal guidelines                                         12w
Dec 29      :Mar iO
109        Establish CEMP Headquarters       12.8w   12/29197
and District offices w    stafin                                         28w
Dec 29       Mar26
_ ' ' ... ' ' : ....~~~~~~~. .   ;    ............     .. ......                           .. .' .. . .:', ........                                      ..............
110        Publication of PRA/CEAP             12w   12/29/97
implemention manuals
12w
Dec29 :2, Mar2:0
Fie: k%ZAMPIP_AMPP 03/28197 9:57 



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Program Implementation Schedule - Primary Features
1997                       1998                       1999                       2000                       2001                       2002                        2003
ID   Task Namo                                          Time    Start    1| q2 |0[3    0                         04 Q1 |2 |03  0Q4  01  02 |q3|4  01  Q2 | q1|02  03  Q4  o1 Q2 0Q3] 04  Q1|q2| q3J|q
ill            Intemabonal L.T. tedinical                   52w    01101M98                                           52w
assista e to asi  CEMP  iJ     01                                                                                        De 30
operational and financial
managemet as wel as trainemg
112            Prepaat if0dependerbt                      272w    01*07198                                                             12w:                        12w                                                 . 12w  12w .                 12.
audits of aN kmplenentalio
unit and consolidation by PlD
for subnt ssion to IDA
1 15 d                                                                    a ,   ,E   2  5   0107 8 ........................ ......... ...... ............................ ...... . .................  . .. .. . .. .     . ..     .. .      . ................ . .. .......... .... .      .   ......................... . .... .... ... ....---   --  . ...  ... ...   ... .... .... ...
119 ,Assertlys of PIDa .rom M.E  2.5w  01107/982w  2w  2w  2w  :w  2w  2w  2w 2w  2w  2w  2w w 2w  2w  2w  2    w  2w  2w  2w 2  w  2w
sub.systenl by PID
142            SemI-e      r  met          Of             261w    01107968
164onS Env W                               2.4w  01w .1w71w.91w                                                                                  1~w           1w   .   1w   .   i~w                  lw   * w                   1w
1                                                                                                                s 1   S @ ,  4 8 w  . . ... ............ ..... - . ........ - - ............................... .............................. . .   - - - .   - . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . ..   . . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . .. . . . . . .    . . . .  . . . . . .. . . . . . .
natina budget to support ESP                                                                                           4w                         4w4w                                                  4w                         4w
Ser imm          d _fbr oproduc.on           48w    .2..2..6
of bm map. for  .w a  0 .                                   .. .
164            Akr qualitynd  eA lt   td by U7              12w    0310110
...12w.                      ...                       .             .1..
.   .   .             .                            Ib~~~~~~~~~.4r D1 may2                 .             .. 
1U  ,_  12   010 ..... - ............................... ............. ................ ...... .... ......... . . ... .... ..... .. . .. ...-  .... ... .. .... . .... .... . .... ..... ..... .... ..... .. ... ......... ..... ..... .... .... . .... .........
. . , . .rJu0n 01         1          My232
_w A          P....... ,         7  '    ........    '   '   '.......,',.,.'.,,,.                                         ,     .     .'.              '         .,,,'.,.                       '       .       ,      .,.,..........'.,'
1"             Ai UN   t  SWh fid            yb             12w     03 D1/01.                       .....                                                                      .     .12_                                                           ...         _
.  .    -.   .  .  .          .            .             .      .          ,~~~~~~~~~~~~Mr D1   W " 23         ...
F*l:&VALWV_skMP aY28W9 057                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O 



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Program Implementation Schedule - Primary Features
1997                   1998          1         1999                   2000                    2001                    2002                   2003
D   Task Name                                    Tnme   start  01                                                4  01 02  03 0 !Q2!3!Q   Q1                              02] 0310Q24  01 !Q2!Q3!04 01102103104
166          SeO    C fe cMntd fr pc ducbon         48W    02/01199                                                            48w
of base maps for wilife                                                                          Feb0 Dec31
depeo  Monitoring q  stem
_ sxw _ ort1 ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....' ........ '                                         '                   .. . ..''' .......''.....'''........''
¶66          Study on wildlfe cownervailon          12w   06101101                                                              .2
measuws by UNZAINCSR                                                                                               .   .                                Jn01 EjAug2
\ ........................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........    ..........  ...................  ........    .....  ............. .........   ..     ....... ... ...........  .................  . ..  ........  ....... ..............  ..... ....   .......................
167          Annual tendwring of goods for         217w   020419                                8w:                    6w:                     SW:                     8w 
progra(s)
173          Semi-annual EIS Forum                 238W    0210496                                        1W
'w                      w 1w       1w         1iw          1           1w         1w          1w   1.      w
_ ........ ~~~~~~~~ ..                                                     .        ;i' j i i-; '  ..  ;          I.... ,  (->..  ....,..  
r e           X      d~~e t f sp.cal                                      .                I^  1         '         I       I       U. 3    B       B       11     I        U      D       UI          U II              I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                             . .    ........    .. .. .  ........  .  .. . . ' . . . .   ........   .. .. .   .. .. .   ..  ....... ...    ..   .. .. .   .........    .. ..   ..  ........  . . . .   . . . . ........................ .
202          Conract peod of                     2M0.8w   07101198
Envonmental Fadlilak    In all                                                                                                                     280 8w
-.  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~           ~          ~          ~         i~~~~r    ~~~~~~  ~~~~~'Z~~~~~~ ~~~~J ~~~Jun27
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ....     JA1,.*~                                  .........  ..............   ..    ........ . ........ 3
203          Bi-annualk Ieendentprogram          110.2w    0110t100                                .    .    .                  .    .            .                                             .            .  .
\0
Fib: AAZAMPIP_AMPP 03128/97 9:57



ANNEX7
Page I of 2
ZAMBIA
Environmental Support Program
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT SCHEDULE
Project      Mission                      Activity                  Skill Requirements    SW
Year       Number
1- January 1998    Launch Workshop: review of          -Task Team Leader          3
organizational management, accounting  - Financial Analyst/   2
system, procurement arrangements and    Disbursement Specialist
plan, service contracts, training program, - Procurement Specialist    I
Community Environmental             - Institutional Specialist  2
Management, work plans for PY 1.    - Community/Natural       2
Resource Specialist
- EIS/M&E Specialist     2
2- May 1998        Review of procurement, accounting,   - Task Team Leader        2
PY1                       training, M&E system, EIS, donor     -Financial analyst/       2
coordination, Community Environmental Disbursement Specialist
Management.
3- September 1998  Review of activities, procurement,   - Task team leader        3
disbursements, accounting, training,  - Procurement Specialist    I
M&E, donor coordination. Discuss PY I - Community/NRM         1
performance and PY2 work program     Specialist
- Environmental Education   I
Specialist
-EIS/M&E Specialist
TOTALforPY1    23
4- January 1999    Review of activities, procurement,   - Task Team Leader        3
accounting, disbursements and training.  - Financial Analyst/  2
Disbursement Specialist
5- May 1999        Review of activities, procurement,   - Task Team Leader        2
disbursements, accounting, M&E and    - Financial Analyst/    2
training.                            Disbursement Specialist
PY2   6- September 1999  Review of activities, procurement,    - Task Team Leader        3
disbursements and training. Discuss  - Procurement Specialist    2
PY2 performance and PY3 work        - Institutional Specialist  2
program. Plan for program expansion to - Community/NRM/Social   2
additional districts. Decide on status of   Specialist
PEF in relation to SRP.             - Environmental Education   2
Specialist
-EIS/M&E Specialist      2
TOTALfor PY2    22



ANNEX2
Page 2 of 2
7- January 2000    Review of activities, procurement and    - Task Team Leader   3
disbursement. Discuss PY2 performance - Financial Analyst/    I
and PY3 work program.                Disbursement specialist
8- May 2000        Mid-Term Review, including:         - Task Team Leader        3
* project design                   - Financial Analyst/     I
* institutional development         Disbursement Specialist
* effectiveness of training program  - Procurement Specialist    I
* effectiveness of policy and legal  - Institutional Specialist  2
framework                        - Community/NRM           2
PY3                         * effectiveness of community level  Specialist              2
activities                       - Social Scientist
* progress in carrying out studies  -Environmental Education   2
* environmental information system  Specialist              2
* monitoring and evaluation (M&E)    - EIS/M&E Specialist
* procurement and disbursements    - Legal Specialist       2
* financial performance and audits
* donor conditions
9- September 2000  Review of activities, procurement,  - Task Team Leader        2
disbursements and training. Discuss  -Financial Analyst/      2
PY3 performance and PY4 work         Disbursement Specialist
program.
TOTALforPY3    25
10- March 2001      Review of activities, procurement,  - Task Team Leader        3
disbursements, M&E and training.    - Community/NRM           I
Specialist
11- September 2001  Review of activities, procurement,  - Task Team Leader        2
disbursements and training. Discuss  - Financial Analyst      1
PY4                       PY4 performance and PY5 work         - Institutional Specialist  2
program.                            - Community/Natural       2
Resource Specialist
-Environmental Education   I
Specialist
-EIS/M&E Specialist      2
TOTALfor PY4    14
12- March 2002      Review of activities, procurement,  - Task Team Leader        3
disbursements, and training.        -Financial Analyst        2
13- July 2002       Review of PYS activities, procurement,  - Task Team Leader    3
PY5                       disbursements, M&E and training.     - Institutional Specialist  2
- Community/Natural      2
Resource Specialist
- Environmental Education  2
Specilist
- EIS/M&E Specialist     2
TOTALfor PYS    16
14- June 2003       Program Completion Mission. Review  - Task Team Leader        3
of activities and disbursements.    - Financial Analyst       2
Preparation of the implementation                             5
completion report (ICR)



ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
Program Cost Estimates
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM (ZAMNEGOI. Revised 04122/97)
Components by Financiers                                                                                                                                                                       Local
(USS Million)                                                              IDA              NDF            UNDP           Communities      The Government         Total               For.   (Excl.  Dutles a
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %            Amount      %       Amount      %    Amount    %          Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Institutional Capacity Building                                            3.67   942                         -      -            -               0.23    5.8      390      187       238     151
Community Environmental Management Program                                                   -             3.18   79.8                   -        0.81   20.2      3.99     191       1.80    2.19
Legal Framework& Enforcement Capability                                    1 17  79.2        -      -         -      -                            0.31   20.8      147       71       063    084
Subtotal INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK                              517         -      -      3.18   34.0                  -         1.34   14.3     9.36      44.9     4.81    4.55
B. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION & PUBLIC AWARENESS
Environmental Education                                                    1.67   84.0               -               -                            032   16.0       1.99      9.6      0.82    1.18
C. PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS
Micro-projects                                                             2.39   78.0                    -                    0.51   16 8        016    5.3       3 06     14.7      1.05    2 o1
PEF Studies                                                                1.69 100.0        -     --                                   -         0.00     -      1.~69      8.1     0.5`1  1.18-
Subtotal PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS                                           4.07   85.8-                                        0.51   10.8         0.16    3.4     4.75     22.8      1.56    3.19
D. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATlON MANAGEMENT
Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System                    1.35   37.2     2.03   56.0        -      -            -      -        0.24    6.8      3.62     174       2.30    1.32
ESP Monitoring & Evaluation System                                           7  65        0.12  16.4                                    -         0.13   18.2      0.72      3.5      0.25    0.47
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT                                1.82   41.9      2.15   49 4        -                                   0.38    8 7     4.34      20.8     2 55    1.80
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACiLITY                                               .40  99.8            -                    -                           0.00   0.2    040          1.9     0.28   0.12
Total DIsbursement                                                           1280   61.4      2.15   10.3     3.18   15.3         0.51    2.5        2.20   10.5    20.84     100.0    10.01   10.83



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM (ZAMNEGOI: Revised 04122/97)                                 %     % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                      (US$ Million)      Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Institutional Capacity Building                                 1.38    2.18    3.56       61      19
Community Environmental Management Program                      1.98    1.64    3.62       45      19
Legal Framework & Enforcement Capability                        0.77    0.58    1.35       43       7
Subtotal INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK            4.13    4.39    8.52       52      45
B. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION & PUBLIC AWARENESS
Environmental Education                                         1.05    0.73    1.78       41       9
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION & PUBLIC AWARENESS               1.05    0.73    1.78       41       9
C. PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS
Micro-projects                                                  1.80    0.94    2.74       34      15
PEF Studies                                                     1.06    0.46    1.52       30       8
Subtotal PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS                                2.86    1.40    4.26       33      23
D. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System         1.20    2.06    3.26       63      17
ESP Monitoring & Evaluation System                              0.43    0.23    0.66       35       3
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT                     1.63    2.29    3.91       58      21
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                   0.12    0.28    0.40       70       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                              9.79    9.08   18.87       48      100
Physical Contingencies                                          0.04    0.10    0.14       71       1
Price Contingencies                                             1.00    0.82    1.82       45      10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              10.83   10.01   20.84       48      110



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM (ZAMNEGO1: Revised 04/22/97)                             %      % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary                        (US$ Million)       Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. OFFICE EQUIPMENT & FURNISHINGS                            0.22    0.89    1.11       80       6
B. VEHICLES AND FIELD EQUIPMENT                             0.06    0.58    0.64        90       3
C. CONSULTANTS & SERVICE CONTRACTS
Short Term Intemationally Recruited Consultants           0.67    1.57    2.24        70      12
Long Term Intemationally RecruKed Consultants             0.17    0.39    0.56        70       3
Short Term Locally Recruited Consultants                  0.41    0.95    1.35        70       7
Service Contracts                                         0.51    1.18    1 69        70       9
Subtotal CONSULTANTS & SERVICE CONTRACTS                     1.75    4.09    5.84       70      31
D. TRAINING & WORKSHOPS                                      0.88    1.33    2.21       60      12
E. STUDIES AND REPORTS                                      0.34    0.09    0.43        20       2
F. DIDACTIC MATERIALS & PUBLICATIONS                         0.20    0.13    0.33       40       2
G. PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUND
Micro-projects                                             1.28    0.55    1.83       30      10
PEF Studies                                                1.06    0.46    1.52       30       8
Subtotal PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUND                            2.35    1.01    3.35       30      18
Total Investment Costs                                         5.80    8.10   13.90       58      74
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehicle Operational Cost                                  0.74    0.19    0.93       20       5
B. Salaries & Allowances /a                                  2.73    0.68    3.41       20      18
C. Leases & Rental Agreements                                0.08    0.01    0.09       10       -
D. Travel & Subsistence /b                                   0.09    0.02    0.11       20       1
E. Maintenance of Furniture & Equipment                     0.10    0.03    0.13        20       1
F. Consumables & Other Operational Costs                     0.23    0.06    0.29       20       2
Total Recurrent Costs                                         3.99    0.98    4.97        20      26
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           9.79    9.08   18.87       48      100
Physical Contingencies                                      0.04    0.10    0.14        71       1
Price Contingencies                                          1.00    0.82    1.82      45       10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           10.83   10.01   20.84       48     110
\a Salaries & Benefits for incremental staff only.
\b Travel and Subsistance expenses for incremental staff only.
H



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM (ZAMNEGO1 Revised 04122/97)                                                                        ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs        INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGALENViRONMENTAL                                  MANAGEMENT
(USS Million)                                                      FRAMEWORK                  EDUCATION &                          Environmental
Community      Legal       PUBLIC    PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL   Information         ESP
Institutional  Environmental Framework & AWARENESS         FUNDS            Network and  Monitoring &   PROJECT               Physical
Capacity    Management Enforcement Environmental                   PEF      Monitoring    Evaluation  REPARATION          Contingencies
Building     Program     Capability    Education    Micro-projects  Studies    System     System      FACILITY    Total    %    Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. OFFICEEQUIPMENT&FURNISHINGS                               0.17          0.19        0.06          0.03           0.04       -           0.58       0.03            -    1.11    10.0   0.11
B. VEHICLES AND FIELD EQUIPMENT                              0.13          0.23        0.06         0.03            0.03                  0.14        0.03            -    0.64       -       -
C. CONSULTANTS & SERVICE CONTRACTS
Short Tern Intematonalty Recruited Consultants             0.62          0.47        0.27            -            0.19      -           0.55        0.11         0 03    2.24
Long Term Intematonally Recruited Consultants              0.28          0.28           -            -               -      -              -           -            -    0.56
SholtTefnLocallyRecruitedConsultants                       0.76          0.13        009           010            0.06      -            0.21          -         001    1.35
Service Contracts                                          0.08             -          -          0.18            0.02      -            104           -         0.37    1 69
Subtotal CONSULTANTS & SERViCE CONTRACTS                     1.75          0.88        0.35         0.28            0.27      -            181        0.11         0.40    5.84
D. TRAINING & WORKSHOPS                                      0.98          0.51        0.14          0.36           0.08      -            0.14          -            -   221
E. STUDIES AND REPORTS                                          -          0.06           -          0.08           0.07      -            0.05       0.17            -    0.43
F. DIDACTIC MATERIALS & PUBLICATIONS                         0.01          0.01           -         0.27            0.04      -              -           -            -   033    100    0.03
G. PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUND
Micro-projects                                                -                                      -            1.83      -              -1.83                                    -       -
PEF Studies                                                          -                 -             -               -    1.52             -           -            -    1.52
Subtotal PILOT ENViRONMENTAL FUND                               -                   -                               1.83    1.52             -           -            -    3.35
Total Investment Costs                                         3.04          1.87        0.61          1.05           2.35    1.52           2.72       0.34         0.40   13.90     1.0   0.14
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehide Operaional Cost                                    0.12          0.27        0.04          0.28           0.04      -            0.15       0.03            -    0.93
B. Salaries & Ailowances /a                                  0.24          1.36        0.65         0.39            0.27      -            0.27       0.23            -    3 41
C. Leases & Rental Agreernents                               0.00          0.04           -         0.03            0.03                     -           -                 0.09
D. Travel & Subsistence /b                                   0.02          0.03           -         0.01            0.03      -           003         0.01            -    0 11
E. Maintenance of Fumiture & Equipment                       0.04          0.01        0.02         0.01            0.02      -           002         0.01            -    0.13
F. Consumables & Other Operatonal Costs                      0.09          0.04        0.03         0.02            0.01      -           0.07        0.03            -    0.29
Total Recurrent Costs                                          0.51          1.75        0.74         0.73            0.39       -           0.54       0.31            -    4.97
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            3.56         3.62        1.35          1.78           2.74    1.52           3.26        0.66         0.40   18.87     0.8   0.14
Physical Conbngendes                                         0.02          0.02        0.01         0.03            0.01       -          0.06        0.00            -    0.14       -       -
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                    0.13          0.21        0.07         0.11            0.21    0.12           0.11       004             -    1.00
Foreign                                                  0.19          0.15        0.05          0.07           0.10    0.05           0.19       0.02                 0.82
Subtotal nflation                                          0.32          0.35        0.12          0.18           0.31    0.17           0.30       0.06            -    1.82
Devaluason
SubtotalPriceCondngenc,es                                    0.32          0.35        0.12         0.18            0.31    0.17          0.30        0.06                 1.82     0.7   0.01
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             3.90         3.99        1.47          1.99           3.06    1.69           3.62        0.72         0.40   20.84     0.7   0.16
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                             2.38          1.80        0.63         0.82            1.05    0.51          2.30        0.25         0.28   10.01     1.1   0.11
la Salaries & Benefits fbr incrementa staff ony.
lb Travel and Subsistance expenses for inaementl stalf only
gow
D46
00



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM (ZAMNEGOI: Revised 04/22/9
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)                                                              Totals Including Contingencies
1997    1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   Total
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Institutional Capacity Building                                  -    1.15    0.86    0.62    0.69    0.57    3.90
Community Environmental Management Program                       -    0.76    0.83    0.99    0.68    0.72    3.99
Legal Framework & Enforcement Capability                         -    0.33    0.37    0.37    0.22    0.19    1.47
Subtotal INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK             -    2.23    2.06    1.99    1.59    1.49    9.36
B. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION & PUBLIC AWARENESS
Environmental Education                                          -    0.32    0.37    0.49    0.48    0.34    1.99
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION & PUBLIC AWARENESS                -   0.32    0.37    0.49    0.48    0.34    1.99
C. PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS
Micro-projects                                                   -    0.30    0.40    0.58    0.77    1.00    3.06
PEF Studies                                                      -    0.11    0.30    0.36    0.65    0.26    1.69
Subtotal PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS                                 -    0.41    0.71    0.95    1.42    1.27    4.75
D. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System          -    0.89    0.86    0.75    0.62    0.51    3.62
ESP Monitoring & Evaluation System                               -    0.16    0.15    0.14    0.18    0.09    0.72
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT                      -    1.05    1.00    0.89    0.80    0.60    4.34
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                 0.40       -       -       -       -       -    0.40
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              0.40    4.01    4.14    4.31    4.28    3.70   20.84
Ifl
oa 



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM (ZAMNEGO1: Revised 04/22/97)
Project Components by Year - Investment/Recurrent Costs
(USS Million)                                                                         Totals Including Contingencies
1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Institutional Capacity Building
Investment Costs                                                          -    1.05    0.74    0.51    0.58    0.46    3.33
Recurrent Costs                                                           -    0.10    0.11    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.57
Subtotal Institutional Capacity Building                                    -    1.15    0.86    0.62    0.69    0.57    3.90
Community Environmental Management Program
Investment Costs                                                          -    0.59    0.54    0.51    0.19    0.22    2.05
Recurrent Costs                                                           -    0.16    0.30    0.49    0.49    0.50    1.94
Subtotal Community Environmental Management Program                         -    0.76    0.83    0.99    0.68    0.72    3.99
Legal Framework & Enforcement Capability
Investment Costs                                                          -   0.18    0.21    0.21    0.05    0.02    0.66
Recurrent Costs                                                           -    0.15    0.16    0.16    0.17    0.17    0.81
Subtotal INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING & LEGAL FRAMEWORK                        -    2.23    2.06    1.99    1.59    1.49    9.36
B. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION & PUBLIC AWARENESS
Environmental Education
Investment Costs                                                          -    0.22    0.21    0.32    0.30    0.15    1.18
Recurrent Costs                                                           -   0.10    0.16    0.17    0.18    0.19    0.81
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION & PUBLIC AWARENESS                           -   0.32    0.37    0.49    0.48    0.34    1.99
C. PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS
Micro-projects
Investment Costs                                                          -    0.22    0.32    0.50    0.68    0.91    2.63
Recurrent Costs                                                           -    0.08    0.08    0.09    0.09    0.09    0.43
Subtotal Micro-projects                                                     -    0.30    0.40    0.58    0.77    1.00    3.06
PEF Studies
Investment Costs                                                          -   0.11    0.30    0.36    0.65    0.26    1.69
Recurrent Costs                                                                   -       -       -       -      -       -
Subtotal PILOT ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS                                            -   0.41    0.71    0.95    1.42    1.27    4.75
D. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System
Investment Costs                                                          -    0.79    0.75    0.63    0.49    0.36    3.03
Recurrent Costs                                                           -    0.10    0.11    0.12    0.13    0.14    0.59
Subtotal Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System            -    0.89    0.86    0.75    0.62    0.51    3.62
ESP Monitoring & Evaluation System
Investment Costs                                                          -    0.10    0.08    0.07    0.10    0.02    0.38
Recurrent Costs                                                           -    0.06    0.07    0.07    0.07    0.08    0.35
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT                                 -    1.05    1.00    0.89    0.80    0.60    4.34
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY
Investment Costs                                                         0.40       -       -       -      -       -   0.40
Recurrent Costs                                                             -       -       -       -      -           - __
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                         0.40    4.01    4.14    4.31    4.28    3.70   20.84
Total Investment Costs                                                   0.40    3.26    3.15    3.11    3.03    2.40   15.35
Total Recurrent Costs                                                            0.76    0.99    1.20    1.25    1.29    5 49
0  o



ANNEX 9
ZAMBIA
Environmental Support Program
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1. NEAP: List of Proposed Actions
2. Technical Position Papers:
Rural and Urban Land in Zambia
Land Issues
Water Resources
Forestry Resources
Wildlife Sector
3. Technical Annexes:
Institutional Assessment of Environmental Apex Units
Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity
Environmental Education and Public Awareness
Pilot Environment Fund
Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System
Monitoring, Evaluation and Key Performance Indicators
4. Economic Analysis of Proposed Environmental Micro-Projects under ESP
5. Social Review of the Pilot Environmental Fund
6. Proposed Program Implementation Plan: 1997 and 1998
7. Terms of Reference for (i) Chief Planning Officer of the PID of MENR; (ii) PEF
Coordinator; (iii) Education and Public Awareness Coordinator; (iv) EINMS
Coordinator; (v) Environmental Facilitators.
8. Cost Estimates



IBRD 28432
i  22                               24                                26-                              28                                                                 432                                 34
ZAMBIA
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM                                                                                                  ByTNAI
NATIONAL PARKS                        TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS
GAME MANAGEMENT AREAS         -        RAILROADS                                                                                                    No
o   SELECTED CITIES                       RIVERS
'No                   3   PROVINCE CAPITALS                      SWAMPS                                        /                                                                     ISOKA
010                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL               ---- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                        IS'
4   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
AIRFIELDS                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                        \LUWINGU
12'                                                                                                                       Mp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ko  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oM
Z A       IR EAFYA N                                                 * P Z    A  I   R
z.                                    SEP  U A PAT ;                                     ALAW               ' A
W,'  L                   .,A.      >    q             Kas`(D L9 MnM '                                                                                Mpk
X SOLWEZI'IANGA                                                                                                                                     V   . t    G  M  A.C M2  A2'
A \N  G          1,, L.In)oy.Z CENTRAL                                                                                               A B FW E                       M AMIQUE Z
TE/  ZIR  RUN  1 i          2K OENYA
_.--        NAMIBIA             ,/ VINGSTONE;-   /                                               :'    =  ' ''~~~~~~~R'K..1,'  HS-UTHAFRICA.
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-
-                                              K_- - - - - -- ------  .                      K\TN               NDOL                 Pk
Si2_._--.G   Po
G.M.A  tlS..d-NMIBA                  BST
/                              Z,rnbo                                     _________________________________M___M_A"
--                               LIVINOSTONE       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T    LGM.                                                                    BI0     
22'  -~~~~~~~         BOTSWANA                  26~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                   RWAND0
NGU    G M.A.                                                                                            c0t,*0        Z A I R E BLJRUNDI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECMBR  99









IMAGING
Report No:           16239   ZA
Type:      SAR



