Report No. PIC1089
IBRD/IDA Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                    Zambia-Environmental Support Program(@)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       ZMPE3253
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resource (MENR)
Environmental Council of Zambia ECZ)
Date Initial PID Prepared        December 1995
Date of this PID                 February 1997
Appraisal Date                   June 1996
Projected Board Date             May 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Zambia is a large country of about 750,000 sq. km, roughly
the size of Spain and the United Kingdom combined. It is one of the
least populated countries in Africa with approximately 9.4 million
people, of which 43 percent live in cities and towns. At the time
of independence in 1964, Zambia was one of the most affluent
countries in Africa. The economy, however, was dangerously
dependent on copper exports, and economic policies promoted central
planning, inefficient parastatal enterprises and international
borrowing. In the mid-1970s copper production and prices fell
sharply, national debt increased and standards of living began to
decline. It is estimated that by 1991 the proportion of the
population living in poverty had risen to 69 percent. By 1995, per
capital GNP was at US$370. Despite an ambitious reform program
launched in 1991, growth has been elusive due to macro-economic
instability, declining levels of investment and repeated droughts.
Zambia's economy will continue to be driven by its wealth of
natural resources, and copper and related industries will remain
important, but diversification is needed. While the environment
could provide the basis for accelerated and broad-based economic
growth, any improper management would constrain growth and
undermine efforts to alleviate poverty.
2.      Zambia has abundant water, land and forest resources.
However, through a combination of factors, there has been
increasing pressure on these resources. The effects can be seen
most directly in declining agricultural productivity, resulting
from a lack of proper water and soil management; dwindling wildlife
populations as a consequence of poaching or degradation of their
natural habitat; and declining fisheries earnings as a result of
overfishing and water pollution. Air and water pollution affect the
health and productivity of the work force, particularly in the
areas near mining operations.



3.      Due to its high rate of urbanization, Zambia has also to deal
with another set of very specific environmental problems. Many
Zambians lack access to clean drinking water, and, sanitation and
solid waste management facilities are inadequate or in some
localities totally lacking. The adverse effects of these conditions
on health and productivity tend to disproportionately impact the poor.
4.      The underlying causes of environmental degradation are:
poverty and the lack of alternatives in people's survival
strategies, lack of understanding and awareness of environmental
problems, weak administrative and legal support structures and a
breakdown of traditional values and practices which previously
helped to ensure sustainability of the natural habitat.
5.      In recognition of the importance of the environment, the
Government adopted a National Conservation Strategy in 1985. This
became a central strategic document and served to underpin
environmental policies and legislation, and laid the basis for the
enactment of the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act
in 1990 and the subsequent establishment of the Environment Council
of Zambia (ECZ) as the statutory body charged with the Act's
implementation under the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources (MENR). The Ministry itself was established in 1991 to
set environmental policies and coordinate across ministries
involved in environmental and natural resource matters.
6.      In December 1994, after a process of broad consultation, the
Government finalized the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
which identified key environmental problems and related
institutional and legislative constraints, and recommended actions
for management and mitigation. The (NEAP) provides a strategy
framework for environmental initiatives. It emphasizes the need
for: (i) clear definition and understanding of institutional
responsibilities between the two environmental apex units, between
these units and the agencies responsible for implementing
environmental initiatives, and between government services and the
custodians of the environment, particularly local communities; (ii)
expansion in the institutional capacity to manage the environment
and a rationalization of the legal framework within which
environmental initiatives are undertaken; (iii) promotion of
traditional institutions and community participation to help create
a demand-driven, initiative-based culture in support of an improved
environment and more sustainable use of natural resources;
(iv) obligatory environmental impact assessments of major
development projects in all sectors; and (v) creation of financing
mechanisms and an increased availability of resources to respond to
environmental needs and opportunities. It also identified, through
its consultative process, five major environmental issues which
need addressing: soil degradation; water pollution and inadequate
sanitation; deforestation; air pollution, especially in copper
mining towns; and wildlife depletion.
7.      Traditional institutions for allocating and protecting
natural resources at the local level are no longer providing the
mechanisms required to protect the environment and natural resource
-2 -



base. Furthermore, the Government's capacity to meet the rising
challenges of resource management and environmental protection is
fragmented, lacking both the financial and human capacity to
implement programs. While the direct responsibility for the
environment lies with the MENR and ECZ, seven ministries have
significant environmental responsibilities. Under the purview of
the MENR, ECZ has the main responsibility for coordinating and
managing environmental initiatives by these ministries and other
agencies, and for technical management of the environmental
mandate, while MENR is charged with high level coordination and
policy direction. With the majority of staff involved in the
forestry sector, and the new Planning and Information Department
(PID) yet to be established, MENR currently has limited capacity to
deal with environmental issues. These institutional concerns are
further complicated by the state of the country's environmental
legislation, which the NEAP found to be uncoordinated, outdated and
sometimes inconsistent. At the district and community level, an
absence of capacity to manage the environment and lack of adequate
mechanisms to enable communities to address directly local
environmental issues presents a clear challenge.
Objectives
8.      The program is the first step of a long-term effort to define
the elements for and initiate the process of strengthening
environmental capacities. The objectives of the program are to:
(i) strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework for
environmental protection and natural resource management, and
(ii) initiate a process to enable communities to address natural
resource degradation and capitalize on environmental sound
investment opportunities.
Description
9.      The program consists of four main components:
(a) Institutional Strengthening and Legal Framework which will
comprise: Policy Dialogue and Institutional Assessment to develop a
national environmental policy document and analyze the roles,
responsibilities and linkages in the key environmental
institutions; Institutional Capacity Building to improve management
practices and staff skills of ECZ, MENR and other key agencies;
Community Environmental Management Program to facilitate
demand-driven development in support of an improved environment and
better utilization of natural resources in rural and urban
communities; and Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity to help
remove conflicts and gaps, and develop a consistent and enforceable
body of environmental legislation; (b) Environment Education and
Public Awareness which will assist in promoting the development of
environmental education in the formal and informal education
systems, provide media support, modify curricula and teacher
training programs and increase community awareness of environmental
issues; (c) Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF) which will comprise two
financing mechanisms: PEF Community-Based Initiatives Fund to put
in place an incentive framework to promote community involvement in
environmental activities and provide matching grants to support
- 3 -



community-based environmental projects identified through the
Community Environmental Management Program and PEF Environmental
Studies Fund to provide financing for studies to develop
strategies, help prevent and/or respond to environmental
emergencies and undertake Environmental Impact Assessments. PEF
will be integrated with the Social Recovery Project (SRP) and will
benefit from its implementation experience, take advantage of
established procedures and reduce overhead costs; and
(d) Environment Information Management which will establish a forum
to facilitate the exchange of information between different
agencies and will provide information to public and private sector
decision-makers. It will also develop five district-level issues-
oriented information systems focused on key environmental issues
and include provision for the monitoring and evaluation of ESP.
Implementation
10.     MENR, through its PID, will be responsible for overall
program implementation. However, responsibility for individual
components will remain with the respective institutions involved:
ECZ, the SRPof the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development,
and the Ministries of Legal Affairs, Education, and Local
Government and Housing. MENR, working with District Councils, will
be responsible for implementation of the community environmental
management program. The program will set up an independent National
Environmental Steering Committee (NESC), for policy guidance, high
level coordination and review and approval of consolidated annual
work programs and budgets. The implementation structure will rely
upon local expertise and on-going activities to the maximum extent
and will be based on high levels of participation by all segments
of Zambian society.
Costs and Financing
11.     The total program cost is still to be finalized, but it is
estimated to be around US$20.0 million. It is proposed that the
project be financed by all donors interested in providing support
to the environmental development efforts of the Government with IDA
financing any gaps in the program.
Sustainability
12.     Sustainability is embodied in the highly participatory nature
of the NEAP and the ESP preparation process. This has broadened the
understanding and scope of the environmental agenda and diversified
ownership of the program. While the program will introduce and
strengthen the legal and institutional base for dealing with
environmental issues, ESP will operate through existing
institutions. This will provide a direct linkage between the
capacity building under the ESP and continuing its usage during
future implementation. While some additional staff will need to be
recruited, in most cases the staff already exists or positions have
been established but not yet filled. The recurrent costs will be
kept to a minimum and progressively taken over by the national
budget. The pilot community projects will be on a grant matching
- 4 -



basis with the communities assisted to take on their management and
operation to help ensure their sustainability.
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations
13.     This is the first IDA support for an ESP in Zambia. The main
lessons including the ones of similar ESPs implemented in the
region are: (i) avoid overly ambitious goals and try to minimize
the inevitable complexity of this kind of program; (ii) set clear
priorities through a process of consensus building and active
stakeholder involvement; (iii) promote community ownership through
a highly participatory approach to program preparation and
implementation; and (iv) start with a modest and flexible first
step program to progressively define the elements and initiate the
process of strengthening institutional capacity while clearly
recognizing that NEAP implementation is a long-term effort. These
lessons have been reflected in the proposed ESP.
Poverty Category
14.     While the program is not a targeted poverty reduction
initiative, the positive implications for poverty reduction are
substantial. Through its participatory community environmental
management program and the PEF facility, the ESP would be able to
target the more vulnerable community members of whom women and
single parent households would represent a major proportion. The
program would improve the situation of poorer families, who are
particularly affected by environmental degradation, and both
preserve and encourage better utilization of natural resources.
This in turn would generate direct economic benefits. In addition,
ESP would have a number of positive, indirect benefits such as
improvements in health, nutritional status and quality of life.
Environmental Aspects
15.     The program has a clear environmental focus. It will help to
create an enabling environment within which the most important
environmental and natural resources issues in the country can be
tackled. This will be facilitated through strengthening
institutional, legislative and functional frameworks, establishing
an environmental presence in the districts and introducing a
participatory process in the communities to contribute to better
environmental awareness and the necessity to preserve and manage
the environment as the basis for sustainable development. All
activities under the program are expected to have a positive
environmental impact. The project is therefore Category C.
Program Objective Categories
16.     The primary objective categories are Institutional
Strengthening, Environmentally Sustainable Development, Human
Resources Development and Local Capacity Building. Secondary
program objectives categories are Poverty Reduction and Private
- 5 -



Sector Participation
Program Benefits
17.     The proposed program will help Zambia meet its environmental
challenges through institutional and regulatory changes, increased
public awareness and education, and by promoting pilot community-
based investments in environmental protection and conservation.
Both rural and urban communities would be assisted by the program
and both "green" and "brown" issues would be addressed. The program
would also lay the foundation for future sector and environmental
lending operations which would benefit from the strengthened
environmental institutions, improved legal framework,
institutionalized EIA process and lessons learned from pilot
community-based interventions. By acting as a broker, both for the
communities and for bodies at the national level, the ESP would
establish improved contact with other parties--local and
international, governmental and private sector--which are
interested in supporting environmental and natural resource
initiatives.
Program Risks
18.     By their nature, environmental programs which cut across many
sectors and institutional development which requires coordination,
inter-agency linkages and capacity building are complex. The risk
has been reduced by utilizing existing institutions and proven
processes, emphasizing the participation of communities and
districts rather than central staff in the planning and management
of environmental initiatives, developing specific operating
agreements that establish clear definitions of roles and
responsibilities of institutions involved in the program, and
preparing an implementation plan based on lessons from similar
IDA/Bank financed programs. The importance placed on a
participatory approach and incentive-driven environmental
participation by the community, requires that the Government's
commitment to strengthening the districts will be successful. The
risk is mitigated through the adoption by the Government of the
Public Sector Reform Program and the decentralization policy which
forms part of it; by the current Local Government Support Program
and similar initiatives which aim to restructure and strengthen the
district administration; and by the increased emphasis by donors,
with support from local and international NGOs, on participatory,
demand-driven community development. The program has also reduced
the risk of their not being adequate counterpart funding available
by keeping incremental recurrent costs to a minimum and by ensuring
that the Government is fully aware of the nature and implications
of the expenditures which will occur.
Contact Point:                   Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
- 6 -



Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April4,1997.
- 7 -



