                         Document of
                      The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 27527

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                   (IDA-29610 PPFI-Q0090)

                            ON A

                           CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.3 MILLION (US$ 12.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                           TO THE

                   REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                           FOR AN

            ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT PROGRAM




                       December 18, 2003

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 18, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZMK)
                                1000 ZMK = US$ 0.22
                                    US$ 1 = 4605 ZMK

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DEF      District Environmental Facilitator
EA       Environmental Assessment
ECU      Environmental Education and Communication Unit of ECZ
ECZ      Environmental council of Zambia
EEPA     Environmental Education and Public Awareness
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EINMS    Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System
EIS      Environmental Information System
EISF     Environmental Information System Forum
ESP      Environmental Support Program
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GIS      Geographic Information System
IDA      International Development Association
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MENR     Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MTENR    Ministry of Tourism, Environment and Natural Resources
MTR      Mid-term Review
NDF      Nordic Development Fund
NEAP     National Environmental Action Plan
NESC     National Environmental Steering Committee
NRM      Natural Resources Management
PEF      Pilot Environmental Fund
PID      Planning and Information Department
PMU      Project Management Unit
PSR      Project Status Report
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
ZamSif   Zambia Social Investment Fund
ZNEEP    Zambian Environmental Educators Network

                            Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                          Country Director    Hartwig Schafer
                           Sector Manager     Richard G. Scobey

Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Yves A.Prevost

                                           ZAMBIA
                               Environmental Support Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             41
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            45

Project ID: P003253                                                  Project Name: Environmental Support Program
Team Leader: Yves Andre Prevost                                      TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 19, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Environmental Support Program                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-29610; PPFI-Q0090
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (60%); Other social services
                            (40%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/10/1992                                     Effective: 01/01/1997                01/22/1998
     Appraisal: 10/06/1996                                         MTR: 05/03/2000                  10/01/2000
      Approval: 06/10/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Zambia/ Ministry of Tourism; Government of
                                           Zambia/Environment and Natural Resources
                      Other Partners:      Environmental Council of Zambia, Ministry of Legal Affairs, Ministry of
                                           Education, Ministry of Local Government and Housing, Ministry of Finance and
                                           Economic Development, UNDP, NDF

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 Richard G. Scobey                              Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:             Yves A. Prevost                                Bachir Souhlal
ICR Primary Author:             Martin Fodor


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall development objective of the Environmental Support Program (ESP) project was to
"mainstream environmental and natural resource management in the Zambian development
process at the national and local level." At the national level, the project was to "strengthen the
institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection and natural resource
management". At the community level, it was to "strengthen local institutions and initiate the
process to enable rural and urban communities to address natural resource degradation and
capitalize on environmentally-sound investment opportunities."

The project had four specific objectives, one for each component. These objectives were to: (i)
establish an effective institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection and
natural resource management; (ii) increase public awareness of environmental issues and
responsibility at the community level for environmental management; (iii) establish a viable
funding mechanism for community based environmental micro-projects, result oriented studies
and action plans; and (iv) establish an operational environmental information network and
monitoring system and five issue-oriented sub-systems.

The project supported the objectives of the Government's development strategy and the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) which stated that "careful management and judicious use of Zambia's
natural resources are central to growth and poverty reduction." The project objective was relevant
and important for both the environmental and NRM sector and the overall country development.
It responded timely to the issues identified through the National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) which substantially inspired project rationale and design.

Influenced by the NEAP's lack of strict prioritization of issues and inadequate consideration of
different options for intervention and associated trade-offs, the project objectives were broad,
ambitious and unrealistic, not reflecting sufficiently the considerable institutional and regulatory
weaknesses in the environmental and NRM sector, the long-term nature of institutional
development, and the disconnect between the pilot nature of ESP and the need to address
environmental challenges throughout Zambia.

The project was suspended on December 5, 2002 due to misuse of project funds and closed six
months early. In the period between the mid-term review and suspension, the project
implementation effort was preoccupied with addressing the shortcomings that ultimately lead to
the suspension and distracted from the focus on the achievement of project objectives.

Design

Project design was similar to other post-NEAP environmental project and some of its
shortcomings were characteristic for this generation of projects. The key design shortcomings
included: (i) placing the main burden of implementation on the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (later Ministry of Tourism, Environment and Natural Resources) which lacked



                                                  - 2 -

the institutional maturity, operational effectiveness and qualified staff to handle the project; (ii)
omitting from the design a project implementation unit and instead relying on the existing,
ineffective government structures; (iii) tackling complex, long-term and wide-spread institutional,
regulatory and policy issues with a short term intervention of limited geographic scale; (iv)
assuming, unrealistically, that multidonor support for the sector will continue and grow in the long
term; (v) establishing a weak monitoring and evaluation system; and (vi) instituting a poor work
planning and reporting regime.

Design shortcomings specific to ESP included (i) failing to resolve the institutional tensions
between the two apex environmental institutions (MTENR and the Environmental Council of
Zambia); (ii) sequencing the planning and the implementation phase of community based activities
in a way which lead to backloading of micro-projects and slow disbursement; (iii) establishing
poor project administration, particularly a highly inadequate procurement and financial
management system; and (iv) separating related activities into different components and
sub-components, e.g. separating community awareness raising from community environmental
micro-project planning, separating micro-project planning from micro-project implementation,
separating ESP monitoring and evaluation from ESP management and administration, etc.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The development objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had the following four original components designed around the four specific project
objectives. The cost of the components in the brackets represents the total cost estimated at the
time of appraisal.

Component 1. Institutional Strengthening and Legal Framework. ($8.52 million)

This component was to put in place an effective institutional and regulatory framework for
environmental protection and NRM, and to pilot a Community Environmental Management
Program. It comprised the following four sub-components.

(i) Policy Formulation and Institutional Assessment
This sub-component was to develop a national environmental policy and a series of environmental
and natural resources policies consistent with the NEAP, analyze the roles and responsibilities of
key environmental institutions, and establish a more effective organizational framework supported
by staff training and improved management practices.

(ii) Institutional Capacity Building
This sub-component was to develop staff skills at MTENR, ECZ and other agencies involved in
environmental management, help build the capacity of the Planning and Information Department
(PID) of MTENR to manage the ESP, set up environmental focal points and integrate
environment into decision making in seven core line ministries, and support environmental NGOs.




                                                 - 3 -

(iii) Community Environmental Management Program
This sub-component was to facilitate, on a pilot scale, demand-driven community environmental
and natural resources management. It included establishment of Environmental Facilitators at the
district level to catalyze community environmental planning, decision-making and implementation.


(iv) Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity Building
This sub-component was to enhance the government ability to draw up and enforce
environmental laws and regulations. It included harmonizing the existing environmental statutes
and legislation, strengthening the institutional enforcement capacity of key agencies, and
enhancing community awareness and community environmental policing capacity.

Component 2. Environmental Education and Public Awareness (EEPA) ($1.78 million)

This component was to assist in raising public awareness on environmental issues and enabling
communities to assume increased responsibility for environmental management through
education. It comprised the following five sub-components.

(i) Strengthening the Education and Communication Unit (ECU) of ECZ
This sub-component was to provide technical assistance, training, material and equipment to ECU
and to enable it to assist in preparation and dissemination of environmental information, prepare a
draft Environmental Education Strategy and support educational element of community
environmental management.

(ii) Media Training and Sensitization
This sub-component was to sensitize journalists to environmental issues, raise the profile of
environmental issues in the media and monitor the environmental coverage in the media.

(iii) Curriculum Review and Modification
This sub-component was to ascertain the environmental content of existing educational materials
and guide the development of teacher training and curriculum development training. It included
integration of environmental issues into selected redesigned school materials and training manuals.


(iv) Support to Environmental Management Program in the Districts
This sub-component was to fund ECU-managed consulting services, training, workshops, and
information dissemination in the districts piloting community environmental management (75% of
the sub-component funding) and nationally (25% of the sub-component funding).

(v) Surveys of Community Environmental Awareness
This sub-component was to carry out a baseline assessment and annual surveys of the community
environmental awareness, and serve as a feedback mechanism on the effectiveness of various ESP
activities.

Component 3. Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF) ($4.26 million)



                                                  - 4 -

The PEF was to provide (i) matching grants to communities for micro-projects tackling local
environmental problems identified through the Community Environmental Management Program;
and (ii) study grants to prepare environmental and NRM research proposals, studies and
strategies.

Component 4. Environmental Information Management ($3.91 million)

This component was to provide environmental information and decision support to stakeholders
involved in ESP, establish the foundation for a national Environmental Information System (EIS)
and facilitate public access to environmental information. It comprised the following three
sub-components.

(i) Environmental Information Network and Monitoring System (EINMS) Forum and Technical
Secretariat
This sub-component was to establish an EINMS Forum and Technical Secretariat to coordinate
EIS activities, promote data custodianship, development, sharing and standardization.

(ii) Information Sub-Systems
This sub-component was to develop, in the pilot districts, five information sub-systems for the
priority areas identified in NEAP: (i) soil degradation; (ii) water pollution; (iii) deforestation; (iv)
air pollution; and (v) wildlife depletion. The sub-systems were to include newly generated data
and information collected from the communities through participatory rural appraisal techniques.

(iii) ESP Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System
This sub-component was to establish the project's M&E and provide quick and regular feedback
on ESP implementation through monitoring key performance indicators, tracking disbursement
and procurement information, and conducting biannual impact evaluations.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not formally revised although the Bank suggested, and the Borrower
declined, a formal project restructuring in October 2001. The Borrower, however, did implement
significant Bank-initiated changes in organization of components and implementation
arrangements following the mid-term review (MTR).

The principal change was the establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) and transfer of
the daily management of the MTENR implemented activities from PID to PMU. Other important
changes included transfer of some sub-components within the project structure, particularly (i)
transfer of the monitoring and evaluation sub-component from the Environmental Information
Management component to PMU; (ii) transfer of the community environmental management
activities from MTENR to ZamSif; (iii) transfer of all ECZ related activities, including support for
EIA, environmental education, State of the Environment Report and pollution control into direct
implementation responsibility of ECZ; (iv) establishment of a dedicated Special Account for ECZ,
and (iv) de facto closure of the legal framework sub-component of Component 1, and curriculum



                                                 - 5 -

review and modification sub-component of Component 2 whose coordinators left the project.

As a result of these changes, the component activities were effectively reorganized into four
logical groups: (1) project management, monitoring and evaluation; (2) community based
activities including PEF; (3) environmental information system; and (4) ECZ institutional
strengthening.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality of the project at entry was unsatisfactory. The project addressed the right issues at the
right time but had four serious shortcomings. First, while it recognized the institutional weakness
and immaturity of MENR, it placed on it the principal implementation responsibility. Second, it
noted but failed to resolve the institutional tensions and poor cooperation between MENR and
ECZ, resulting in low effectiveness of both until the improvements in implementation
arrangements following the MTR. Third, it failed to establish an effective financial and
procurement management for the project, resulting in considerable irregularities during project
implementation. Fourth, it was an unnecessarily complex operation with multiple objectives,
intertwined components, several poorly coordinated donors and a large number of stakeholders.

Quality at entry was reviewed during the 1997 Rapid Quality At Entry Assessment (RQEA) by
the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and found satisfactory. The RQEA panel recommended that
during implementation a particular attention should be paid to government commitment, donor
coordination by PID, and adequate funding for PEF.

In 2002, QAG carried out a Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) for the period of FY01
and FY02, during which it found the RQEA results overrated, possibly offering "inappropriate
guidance to the team and Bank management about the project design and readiness for
implementation. QSA5 criticized the project design as "too ambitious, complex, and unsustainable
with multiple institutions; ...bound to have implementation difficulties." QAG also concluded that
while the project documents articulated well lessons from past projects, project design did not
reflect these lessons and repeated past mistakes in ESP; institutional issues were unresolved
before the project start; performance indicators were too ambitious; and monitoring and
evaluation system was designed too poorly to provide information on desired impacts on the
ground.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of the overall project objective was unsatisfactory. The project did not achieve
that "environment and natural resource management is mainstreamed in the development process
in Zambia." The project did, however, contribute to some progress toward this objective,
although the level of progress is modest. A more exact assessment of the progress is difficult since
the project did not fully adhere to the regime of regular progress reports and independent
evaluations envisaged at appraisal, and those the available progress and terminal reports lacked
common reporting framework. Due to the early closure, the project did not produce a beneficiary



                                                  - 6 -

assessment and final independent program evaluation, which would be critical for a robust
assessment of project outcomes.

The achievement of the specific project objectives was mixed. The project failed to meet a
majority of the component-specific performance indicators but some sub-components, e.g., those
supporting community based activities or environmental education and awareness, met the
performance indicators and achieved good results.

4.2 Outputs by components:


Component 1. Institutional Strengthening and Legal Framework (unsatisfactory)

(i) Policy Formulation and Institutional Assessment:
The main outputs of this sub-component were (i) establishing the National Environmental
Steering Committee although its mandate and duration was limited to ESP; and (ii) preparing an
environmental policy framework paper.

The sub-component failed to deliver its key planned outputs including: (i) drafting the National
Environmental Policy; (ii) addressing discrepancies among the existing regulations; (iii) carrying
out an institutional assessment of the key environmental institutions (to follow on a preliminary
assessment was produced during project preparation); and (iv) preparing a series of environmental
and natural resource policies consistent with the NEAP recommendations.

(ii) Institutional Capacity Building
This sub-component established the ESP Coordination Office and delivered training to ESP staff.
It, however, largely failed in its key deliverable, which was to establish the capacity in MTENR to
manage ESP and to enhance the capacity of line ministries, NGOs and other stakeholders for
environmental management.

(iii) Community Environmental Management Program
This sub-component, together with PEF, was the principal ESP intervention addressing
environmental and natural resource management in direct connection with poverty alleviation. It
initially received co-financing from UNDP. After UNDP early withdrawal due to a lack of funds,
it continued to receive financing from IDA. The sub-component delivered its key planned outputs,
which included, in the pilot districts, (i) establishing District Environmental Committees; (ii)
recruiting, training and equipping District Environmental Facilitators for a significant period of
project implementation; (iii) and facilitating preparation of 32 Community Environmental Action
Plans.

(iv) Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity
The key output of this sub-component was strengthening the Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) capacity of ECZ and increasing the general awareness of the EIA process in Zambia. Seven
provincial EIA workshops took place for the local government, 38 EIA reviews took place during
the last 12 months before project suspension and a well equipped public library of EIA and other
environmental documents has been established at ECZ headquarters. The sub-component
progressed significantly toward achieving its performance indicator that EIA would be


                                                    - 7 -

systematically conducted and mitigation measures taken, however, several challenges remain. The
planned independent review of EIA quality has not been carried out to verify how substantive and
systematic the EIA process is; the EIA fee schedule does not correspond with the cost of the
reviews; the EIA focus appears to concentrate on development projects that are able to pay the
fees rather than those with greatest environmental impacts; and the EIA monitoring and
enforcement remains inadequate, sporadic and biased toward soft targets. The ECZ related
activities of the sub-component received co-financing from NDF.

The sub-component failed to achieve significant progress in its two other activity areas ­ (i)
harmonizing environmental regulations and statutes; and ii) strengthening community enforcement
capacity ­ although it produced some outputs, e.g., a review of the existing environmental
legislation.


Component 2. Environmental Education and Public Awareness (EEPA) (satisfactory)

(i) Strengthening the Education and Communication Unit (ECU) of ECZ
The main outputs of this sub-component were (i) seconding an education specialist from the
Ministry of Education to coordinate EEPA activities; (ii) providing training and communication
and education equipment for ECZ Communication Unit; and (iii) producing 26 environmental TV
programs and radio environmental news; (iv) producing ECZ newsletter; and (v) establishing a
Zambia Network of Environmental Educators and Practitioners. The EEPA coordinator moved
from ECZ to MENR after the first year of the project and left the project a year after the MTR
without replacement. The ECZ Communication Unit, however, continues to operate normally and
is staffed with ECZ own personnel.

The sub-component did not produce the Environmental Education Strategy and support
educational element of community environmental management as it was originally planned.

(ii) Media Training and Sensitization
The main output of this sub-component was (i) a series of environmental sensitization training for
media personnel; and (ii) periodic media assessment between 1997 and 2000 for coverage of
environmental issues.

(iii) Curriculum Review and Modification
The main output of this sub-component was (i) training for about 50 education personnel on
curriculum development; (ii) in-depth training to 5 curriculum development specialists; (ii)
printing of two thousand copies of Teacher's Environmental Education Sourcebook; and (iii)
development and printing of about fifteen thousand copies of complete secondary (grades 10 ­
12) education syllabi for all 19 subjects in which environmental theme is integrated. The new
curriculum is being used throughout Zambia and its effectiveness will be assessed after three years
of use.

The sub-component did not produce teaching materials to accompany the syllabi and did not carry
out the planned curriculum review for the upper basic education.




                                                 - 8 -

(iv) Support to Environmental Management Program in the Districts
The main outputs of this sub-component were media coverage for the public launch of community
environmental management programs in the districts; (ii) dissemination of Community
Environmental Action Plans; (iii) and production of environmental videos in Mpika and Mufulira
districts.

(v) Surveys of Community Environmental Awareness
The main output of this sub-component was a questionnaires which PEF used for baseline
community environmental awareness surveys. The results of the surveys fed into CEMP. The
sub-component did not carry out the planned annual follow-up surveys.

The component performance indicator was to significantly increase public awareness nationally
and in pilot districts above the baseline. Given the airing of new environmental programs and
incremental coverage of environmental issues in the national and local media, it is likely that the
component did contribute to increase in public awareness. The significance of the increase,
however, is difficult to assess since the planned annual national and bi-annual district surveys were
not carried out.

Overall, the component is considered satisfactory as it delivered most of its outputs although its
performance was unbalanced, with excessive focus on some activities, e.g., complete new
curriculum development for three grades, while completely omitting others, e.g., production of
national Environmental Education Strategy.

Component 3. Pilot Environmental Fund (satisfactory)

The main output of this component was funding support for community environmental
management and targeted environmental studies. The Community-Based Initiatives window of
PEF appraised 112 community environmental micro-project from 8 pilot districts. It committed
funds to 71 micro-projects out of which 66 were funded but none completed due to the
suspension of IDA credit. Typical micro-projects focused on traditional and modern beekeeping,
fish farming, sanitary improvements, citrus growing, spring protection, tree nursery establishment,
afforestation and agroforestry and soil improvement. The micro-project activities generated
strong demand and anecdotal evidence suggests that they inspired replication in neighboring
non-target communities. At the time of the ICR, the popular support for the component activities
was such that the government continued funding for 16 most advanced micro-projects with a total
allocation of ZMK 900 million.

The Environmental Studies window of PEF evaluated 163 proposals for environmental studies. It
committed funds to 61 studies out of which 56 were funded and 53 completed. The studies
focused broadly on various aspects of environment and natural resources including wildlife
conservation, medicinal plants, deforestation, water conservation, ecotourism, soil contamination,
water pollution, integrated water resources management, water conservation, participatory
methods, poverty coping strategies, gender and environment, and others. The list of
micro-projects under continued implementation and the list of environmental studies is included in
the enclosed government evaluation report.



                                                 - 9 -

Component 4. Environmental Information Management (unsatisfactory)

The main outputs of this component, produced by the first two of its three sub-components were
(i) guiding the preparation of District Environmental Profiles for 8 pilot districts and 3 districts in
the Western Province; (ii) establishing Environmental Information System (EIS) Forum; and (iii)
laying grounds for information district sub-systems for five priority environmental issues ­
deforestation, water and sanitation, air pollution, land degradation and wildlife depletion (one
issue-specific system per pilot district). In addition to IDA funding, the component received
co-financing from NDF.

District Environmental Profiles catalogued available environmental, geographical and some
socio-economic information. The profiles have been used, for example, to identify priority
intervention areas when siting donor or ZamSif activities.

The EIS Forum brought together about 30 institutions and 10 district chapters to promote data
sharing, serve as a repository of geographical data and distribute data to its members and facilitate
national coordination in the environmental information sector. It was hosted, at the time of the
ICR mission, by the PMU. After the PMU closure, this function was to be transferred to the
Zambian Association for GIS (ZAGIS). It's sustainability without the project support is uncertain.

The information sub-systems outputs included production of new digital topographic base maps
(1 : 50,000) for Chibombo, Lusaka, Mufulira, Mpika and Kafue National Park distribution of the
digital maps to about 20 institutions per district, and training of about 30 persons per district to
use them. In addition, it included production of digital topographic standard for the base map,
installation of GIS equipment at PID, forest survey in Chibombo and large mammal aerial survey
in Kafue National Park.

The component did not carry out majority of the planned activities to make sub-systems
operational for environmental management. For example, it failed to produce or update more
detailed base maps (1:20,000), produce geo-referenced, issue-specific databases and generate new
data from pollution monitoring and analysis (e.g., SO2 emissions monitoring, analysis of SO2
emissions on public health, vegetation and soil in Mufulira).

Overall, the component is rated unsatisfactory. Although it delivered some useful outputs, it was
seriously hampered by slow procurement and accomplished mostly activities originally planned for
the first year of the five year project. It did not meet its performance indicators of (i) harmonizing
key data sets and (ii) providing open access to data since it did not generate data sets beyond
production of standardized topographical base maps. The component did not produce the planned
data users satisfaction surveys to assess its performance. Also, it did not implement its third
sub-component on ESP monitoring and evaluation system although it carried out a consultancy to
design such system (after MTR, monitoring and evaluation function was transferred to the PMU).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

As common for this type of operation, no economic or financial analysis was carried our at the
outset of the project and no economic or financial indicators were included among the project


                                                   - 10 -

performance indicators. As the project does not led itself well to economic or financial analysis,
no such analysis was attempted at ICR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

See above.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project was positive but disappointing when
compared to expectations at appraisal or resources at hand. The project contributed to the
strengthening of the implementing agencies trough providing vehicles, information technology and
other equipment, delivering training and technical assistance, sponsoring graduate education of
government officials, and facilitating development of hands-on experience in EIA, community
environmental planning, environmental micro-project preparation and implementation,
environmental information, environmental awareness and other areas that will enhance the
in-country capacity for environmental and natural resource management. The project also gave
rise to cross-cutting new institutions, such as the Zambian Environmental Educators Network
(ZNEEP), National Environmental Steering Committee (NESC) and the Environmental
Information System Forum (EISF), although their future functioning is uncertain.

By design, the project institutional enhancement is limited largely to the two apex environmental
organizations. This is particularly apparent in the case of ECZ which has significantly narrowed
and refocused its regulatory mandate, considerably improved its EIA system, and is emerging as a
promising environmental regulator. In the case of institutions in sectors other than the
environment, the expected impact on mainstreaming environmental and natural resource
considerations into sectoral policies and institutions is less significant (with the exception of
education sector and new development activities which are subject to EIA). The outreach to other
sectors was broader in the districts piloting community environmental management, nonetheless,
those represent only a small portion of Zambia's 72 districts and the systemic nationwide impact
is, therefore, limited. The overall positive institutional impact on understanding of environmental
issues by government institutions is reflected in the satisfactory incorporation of environmental
dimensions into the Zambia Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) which received high marks
in the Bank-wide environmental review of PRSPs.



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was implemented against the background of growing poverty, spreading HIV/AIDS,
declining economic performance, and unsustainable debt servicing. According to the Economist
Intelligence Unit, Zambia GDP per capita during 1990's declined by an average of 2.4% per year
and its development indicator index halfway through the project, in 2001, was worse than in
1975. While the overall socio-economic situation did not directly affect the project, it may have
influenced the project indirectly, e.g., through limiting government's ability to provide counterpart
funding.



                                                     - 11 -

The project was negatively affected by premature withdrawal of some donors, and ultimately by
the suspension of IDA credit and closure of the project six months before the planned completion
date.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Several factors under government control contributed negatively to project implementation. These
include (i) weak commitment to project objectives and oversight; (ii) irregular and inadequate
provision of counterpart funding; (iii) failure to clearly define the areas of responsibility and forge
effective relationship between MTENR and ECZ until the post-MTR interventions; (iv) tolerance
of rent-seeking and poor performance of MTENR staff; (v) failure to proceed with
decentralization in the sector and devolution of administrative power (and budget) to the district
level; and (vi) failure to ensure swift forensic investigation after an audit uncovered widespread
financial irregularities.

The failure of the government to provide counterpart funding as agreed particularly negatively
affected the project. It resulted in late and insufficient provision of funds to communities for the
implementation of micro-projects and caused substantial delays in launching or executing the
micro-projects. It also lead to participating sector ministries and other agencies to maintain their
core activities using donor funds in lieu of counterpart funds--a use that contravened the Credit
Agreement. The provision of counterpart funding improved to satisfactory level after the
suspension of IDA funds.

The failure to progress with decentralization within the environmental and NRM sector rendered
the otherwise very effective system of District Environmental Facilitators (DEF) highly
unsustainable, since the cash-strapped districts never received the resources and authority to
assimilate DEFs offices and personnel from MTENR into the district structures after the project.
After the unsustainable prospects of IDA-funded DEFs became apparent, their network was
dismantled before the end of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The principal implementing agency was MTENR. It negatively affected project implementation
and outcome by (i) lacking any strategic approach to the project or the sector; (ii) failing to
engage meaningfully the other sectors or NGOs in ESP implementation; (iii) providing very poor
continuity in the position of the Permanent Secretary overseeing the project; (iv) tolerating highly
ineffective project administration by PID and use of project resources for operating expenses of
MTENR; (v) failing to establish adequate financial and procurement management of project
resources; (vi) failing to adequately staff the project with motivated personnel; (vii) and falling
short in systematic work planning and reporting.

Improvements in project implementation that took place after MTENR was relieved of its
day-to-day management of the project indicates that MTENR, particularly PID, were among the
principal hindrances of satisfactory project performance. The handling of the project suggests that
MTENR approached ESP as a source from which it could cover its operating expenses, and was,



                                                    - 12 -

therefore, reluctant to either share it with other stakeholders or accelerate its implementation,
particularly in those areas which did not yield direct benefits (per diem, training, vehicle use, etc.)
to MTENR.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost was US$20.8 million, of which IDA credit was US$12.8 million equivalent
(SDR9.3 million), UNDP commitment was US$3.2 million, NDF commitment was US$2.2
million, and the Zambian contribution was US$2.6 million. Out of the IDA credit, the amount
US$6.9 million equivalent (SDR4.9 million) was cancelled shortly before closing of the project on
June 30, 2003, due to failure to fulfill conditions placed by the suspension notice. At the time of
suspension in December 2002, about US$4.8 million representing only 37.50% of the IDA credit
were disbursed. The project closed 6 months early on June 30, 2003 with the credit still under
suspension. The disbursement delays were caused by a number of factors including (i)
unsatisfactory project design and implementation arrangements; (ii) unrealistic implementation
schedule; (iii) poor project management; (iv) procurement delays and irregularities; (v) untimely
and inadequate provision of counterpart funding; and (vi) inefficient financial management.

The financial management of the credit was particularly weak. Contrary to a condition of
effectiveness, the project operated without a Financial Management Manual as the Manual
development took three years, from October 1998 to September 2001, and resulted in a grossly
inadequate product that could not be used. Rather than following a dedicated manual, the
financial management procedures were integrated into procurement procedures of MTENR, again
in violation of a condition of credit effectiveness. Project management moved funds in and out of
the Special Account in violation of Schedule 5 of DCA, which lead the Bank to request a
reimbursement of US$184,475.23 from the Special Account C. This reimbursement was still
outstanding at the time of writing this ICR. Project management also did not comply with
procurement provisions of Schedule 3 of the DCA and accountability requirements in section
4.01(a) of DCA. The project made duplicate claims of US$71,676 in unreimbursed expenditures
which the Government had to later refund. An independent review of accounts in 2002 identified
a total of ZMK1,861 million and US$308,699 in ineligible expenditures. The follow up
comprehensive independent investigation of the entire Credit requested by the Bank lead to
justification of ZMK277,201,697.97 and US$75,086.10 of these identified expenditures while the
remainder was confirmed as ineligible. A significant portion of the ineligible expenditures which
had to be refunded was attributed to procurement irregularities, such as procurement undertaken
without a tender, and various delays and irregularities in the Zambia National Tender Board.

In response to mismanagement of project funds, the Bank requested outsourcing of financial
management function before the end of the project. On December 5, 2002, the Bank suspended
disbursement due to financial management and procurement problems encountered during the two
years preceding the suspension. The suspension remained in place until the early closure of the
project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:




                                                 - 13 -

Overall, the sustainability of ESP is unlikely due to continued institutional and management
weakness of MTENR, unimproved policies and regulations, neglected sector strategy, uneven
achievements of various ESP activities, declining donor support, weak government commitment;
and absence of the originally envisioned second, scaled-up phase of the program.

Several individual project achievements, however, are likely to last into the future. For example,
(i) selected community environmental micro-projects are likely to continue with the funding that
the government provided after suspension of IDA credit and through continued operations of
ZamSif which gained environmental experience from PEF; (ii) gains in institutional capacity of
ECZ in terms of reorganized structure, sharpened focus, new equipment, vehicles, staff skills and
experience are likely to remain substantially unaffected by the project closure; (iii) the
strengthening of EIA capacity is likely to continue driven by the ECZ need to become financially
sustainable, respond to demands of the private sector and attract support from donor operations
(e.g., from the IDA funded Copperbelt Environment Project); (iv) environmental awareness is
likely remain at comparable or higher levels as coverage of environmental problems, particularly
associated with mining, has become commonplace in the mass media; and (v) secondary education
syllabi with integrated environmental topics, comprehensively revised for the first time since the
British, are likely to remain in use since the revisions covered also pertinent topics like
HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, family planning, gender and human rights.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The original project design did not lay out arrangements for transition of project activities in the
post-implementation period other than a general assumption that the project was a pilot phase of a
lager, 10 ­ 15 year program that was expected to materialize through scaled up donor and
government involvement in the environmental and NRM sector.

Following the suspension and early closure of the project, the Bank made no provisions for
transition of the well-performing project activities to post-project period or for funding of the
PMU during the post-closure project wrap up. Nonetheless, the transition arrangements were put
in place by the government and NDF. The government released ZMK 500 million after the project
closure and committed additional ZMK 400 million for allocation to the most advanced
community environmental micro-projects. The NDF continued to fund the remnant of the PIU to
oversee the disbursement of the government funds to the micro-projects.

Since the Bank suspended all funding, including funding for the originally planned end-project
evaluation, it is desirable, in the future, to evaluate at least the impacts of the community
environmental micro-projects, e.g. by completing the originally planned beneficiary assessment.
To enhance Bank learning and quality of future lending operations targeting environmental
management and institutional capacity, OED should evaluate this project together with other
similar post-NEAP operations carried out in Africa in the 1990's to derive lessons on effectiveness
and sustainability of various approaches to building national and local capacity for environmental
management and assess the impacts these operations had on environmental improvements on the
ground.



                                                   - 14 -

For the Government, it is desirable to demonstrate its commitment to accountability by
completing the forensic audit and holding the responsible officials liable for lapses in project
management.

For the Bank, it is desirable to continue to support the most successful and most important
aspects of the project -- community environmental management and strengthening of ECZ
regulatory capacity -- through its ongoing operations, ZamSif and Copperbelt Environment
Project, respectively.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The quality of Bank lending work was unsatisfactory. The identification and preparation of the
project was consistent with the government agenda, NEAP priorities, activities of other donors
and CAS but despite the long project preparation ­ the project initiation date is 1992 ­ the Bank
failed to accurately assess the discrepancy between the low institutional capacity of MTENR and
high demands that ESP implementation would have. Moreover, the preparation resulted in project
design with serious flaws including (i) unrealistic project objectives; (ii) absence of a functional
implementation unit; (iii) unsettled institutional relationship between MTENR and ECZ; (iv)
inadequate financial management and procurement system; (v) unrealistic expectations of
increasing counterpart funding; and (vi) illogical placement of the project monitoring and
evaluation, including disbursement and procurement, into the environmental information system
component.

The project readiness for implementation is suspect since the project did to meet the conditions of
effectiveness for seven months, and did not prepare its procurement packages for three months
after the Board approval. If appraised today, the project would fail most parameters of the
Readiness Filter currently used in Africa Region for screening projects for their readiness for
implementation.

The Bank did not sufficiently recognize and mitigate against risks of low government and
implementing agency commitment to the project, and made unrealistic assumptions about a
follow-up phase of ESP. It also chose an unsuitable, short-term instrument in response to a long
term challenge of institutional capacity building for environmental and natural resource
management; and it attempted to tackle country wide environmental issues through a limited scale
pilot.

The handling of safeguard compliance during preparation and appraisal did not correspond with
the requirements at the time of appraisal or at the time of ICR. The project was categorized
according to the Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 as environmental assessment (EA) category C (no
or minimal environmental impacts) but no mandatory environmental data sheet to justify this
categorization is available. At appraisal, the project was expected to fund micro-projects which
may have had adverse environmental impacts (e.g., small scale water supply, sanitation, drainage,
small dams, irrigation, wetland and river management, charcoal production) or affecting land use



                                                 - 15 -

in a way that may have triggered the operational policy OP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement
(grazing, reforestation, establishment of wood lots, orchards and tree nurseries). Normally, such
projects are categorized as EA category B and entail preparation of an environmental
management framework to handle potential negative environmental impacts, and a resettlement
framework to handle potential involuntary resettlement or economic displacement.

7.2 Supervision:

The supervision was unsatisfactory. The project was supervised by three consecutive task team
leaders (TTL), different from the TTL preparing the project, which provided little continuity in
project supervision. The reporting on project implementation, particularly prior to MTR was
inadequate, with all project performance parameters rated as satisfactory in all status reports
(PSR) up to the MTR despite obvious problems including lagging disbursement, slow
implementation progress and persistent financial management problems. The PSRs often lacked
the necessary detail and were frequently filed many months after the supervision missions.

The supervision was not sufficiently resolute in keeping the project on track and focused on its
development objectives. After MTR, supervision proposed a formal restructuring of the project to
address its many shortcomings but it did not pursue the formal restructuring after the Borrower
declined the proposal. The supervision did, however, put in place significant corrective measures
including: (i) strengthening project administration, investigating financial management and
procurement irregularities, outsourcing financial management and causing an independent
performance review of ESP staff; (ii) establishing a Project Management Unit (PMU); (iii)
eliminating most of the institutional tension between MENR and ECZ by opening a third special
account for ECZ activities; (iv) encouraging closer relations with NGOs; (v) demanding improved
provision of counterpart funding and reimbursement of ineligible expenditures.

QAG carried out a Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) for the period of FY01 and 02. It
found overall supervision performance marginal. In particular, if rated realism of project
performance and fiduciary aspects marginal, while rating focus on development effectiveness and
adequacy of supervision inputs satisfactory.

QAG was critical of the supervision team for not revising the unrealistic project objectives after
MTR, insufficient resolve and timeliness in addressing the untenable institutional arrangements,
insufficient quality and timeliness of procurement and financial management supervision, marginal
supervision of fiduciary aspects, absence of an operational manual, sub-optimal skill mix of
supervision missions, and inadequate attention to project monitoring and evaluation.

QAG was critical of Bank management for a lack of productivity and support to improve project
ownership, insufficient high-level follow up on poor ownership and lack of progress and
unrealistic counterpart funding requirements. Overall, QAG rated Bank management inputs as
marginal.

Following the QAG review, the supervision effort and management input intensified, however, it
concentrated on suspension and early closure of the project. It eventually closed the project six
months before the original closing date despite significant corrective steps implemented by the


                                                - 16 -

government at Banks' request, and despite good progress of the community environmental
management activities which became the key focus of the project after MTR. While proactive and
sending strong signal to the government, the decision to close the project early was widely
perceived by the government, project staff, NESC, district governments, ZamSif officials,
community representatives and NGOs as abrupt, arbitrary and out of sync with the
implementation momentum the project gained as a result of Bank-requested corrective actions.

The frequency of supervision missions was adequate, however, the skill mix was not. For
example, the participation of a monitoring and evaluation specialist was inadequate and there was
no participation of an environmental education specialist in the supervision missions.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall, the Bank performance was unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower prepared the project responding directly to the environmental priorities it identified
in its NEAP. Despite thorough technical examination of issues at hand, the attempt to address
multiple complex priorities at the same time led to preparation of a project with complicated
design and unrealistic objectives that proved difficult to implement.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. After demonstrating
commitment and ownership during project preparation, it provided negligible support, inadequate
counterpart funding, little oversight and minimum responsiveness to the project until the Bank
proceeded with the suspension of the credit. Following the suspension, the government took
substantial corrective steps requested by the Bank, however, failed to address some of them to
Bank's satisfaction, and failed to persuade the Bank of the merits to keep the well-performing
parts of the project under implementation until the original closing date or extend it as the
Borrower suggested at MTR. It also failed to swiftly carry out the forensic audit and hold the
government officials responsible for abuse of project funds liable.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of MTENR as the key implementing agency was unsatisfactory. It managed the
credit in a ineffective, inefficient and haphazard manner which led to minimum progress of
activities implemented by PID, mushrooming of its staff, overuse of consultants, low development
of its own capacity, stifling of project activities implemented by other stakeholders, abuse of
project resources, discouragement and withdrawal of other donors, and generally unsatisfactory
project performance.

Personnel continuity at key positions was low. The project went through three coordinators and
six Permanent Secretaries. Unfortunately for the project, the most senior official who remained
with the project for most of its duration was the Director of PID whom the Government recently


                                                  - 17 -

placed on administrative leave in connection with fraudulent use of project resources during his
tenure.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the Borrower performance was unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

During design and preparation:

Complex design and donor involvement increase the risk of implementation difficulties. The
complexity of design, number of components and implementing agencies, and dependency of key
project activities on other donors must be minimized to reduce the implementation risks
associated with these project features.

Institutional issues and implementation arrangements must be fully resolved before
implementation. Thorough preparation of the project, particularly clarification of institutional
issues and implementation arrangements, is crucial for satisfactory launch of implementation. In
the Africa Region, use of the Readiness for Implementation filter developed by AFTQK to check
if the project is adequately prepared.

'Flavor of the day' project aspects should be resisted. Fashionable but unproven trends in
project design, e.g., avoidance of PMUs in countries with insufficient implementation capacity, or
cookie-cutter approach using the same project design in different country circumstances, should
be resisted.

During implementation:

Credit suspension and project closure, however warranted, may result in loss of goodwill
and reputational damage to the Bank. Summary suspension of project activities and early
closure of non-performing projects is desirable from the perspective of portfolio management,
freeing of under-utilized funds and forging more effective dialogue with the government. This
rationale, however is unlikely to be appreciated by most of the stakeholder, especially at the
district and community level, whose negative experience with abruptly withdrawn assistance may
affect credibility of other donors and future Bank operations in affected communities (e.g.,
suspension of community micro-projects in the pilot districts makes it difficult for ZamSif to
prepare and implement micro-projects there). To moderate the perverse impacts of suspension on
Bank goodwill, the suspension should not affect all project activities. Implementation of
monitoring and evaluation activities and well-performing components, especially those with
direct investment of community resources and immediate impact on poverty and livelihoods,
should continue to be implemented.

Close management oversight, early intervention and support for the task team is essential
to save problem projects. For projects with low government ownership and deteriorating
responsiveness, early intervention by the sector and country management is necessary to



                                                - 18 -

complement the supervision efforts of the task team so the project can be revived and brought on
track early.

Unrealistic project objectives lead to poor project performance. In the case of clearly
unrealistic and unachievable project objectives, these must be revised downward otherwise no
improvement in project performance will be sufficient to earn the project satisfactory ratings.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The text of the confidential final draft Borrower evaluation report (Terminal Report), dated
October 2003, is inserted in full following this paragraph. The report criticizes numerous failures
of the Borrower to implement the project. The report also criticizes the Bank relationship with the
Borrower and the abrupt withdrawal of IDA funding.




                                                - 19 -

                     BEGINNING OF THE BORROWER EVALUATION REPORT

                          Government of the Republic of Zambia

                         The Environmental Support Programme

                                        Terminal Report

                                Period January 1998 to November 2003

                                          Project Summary

Project Details
Co-operating Partners                        IDA, NDF, UNDP, RENE*
IDA Classification:                          Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
IDA Credit Number                            29610
IDA Credit Identification                    P003253
NDF Credit Number:                           206
UNDP Project Number:                                  GRZ/UNDP/ZAM/97/007
RNE Project Number                           ZM 006703

Legal Agreements:
IDA Signing Date:                            5 September 1997
IDA Effective Date:                          22 January 1998
IDA/NDF Completion Date:                     30 June 2003
IDA/NDF closing Date                         31 December 2003
NDF Signing Date:                            September 2, 1997
RNE Signing Date:                            27 August 1999
RNE Effective Date:                          1 September 1999
RNE Closing Date                             31 August 2002

Financing Plan to ESP:
IDA Credit Value:                            SDR9.3 million (USD 12.8 million equivalent)
NDF Credit Value:                            SDR2.5 million (USD3.4 million equivalent)
UNDP Project Amount                          SDR 2.3 million (USD 3.2 million equivalent)
GRZ:                                         SDR 1.9 million (USD 2.6 million equivalent)
RNE                                          NLG 2,528,820

Developments During Implementation Process
IDA Suspension                               5 December 2002
IDA Closing Date:                            30 June 2003
NDF Closing Date:                            30 November 2003
RNE Closing Date                             30 November 2003

Financial Highlights
Total Disbursements:                         USD7,965,918.68 (39%)
IDA Disbursements:                           USD5,966,863.35 (47%)
NDF Disbursement:                            USD1,011,844.26 (46%)
UNDP Disbursements:                          USD405,500.00 (13%)
GRZ Disbursements                            USD747,471.63 (29.75%)

Present Project Status



                                              - 20 -

IDA                                         Completed on June 30, 2003
NDF/RNE                                     Closing 30 November 2003
UNDP                                        Closing 2001
GRZ                                         Continuing


* REN (Royal Netherlands Embassy) funded Community Based Natural Resources Management Program of
Eastern Province (CBNRMP-WP) was delegated to ESP management after commencement of ESP
implementation.




                                             - 21 -

1.     INTRODUCTION

      A. Program Objectives

The Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) embarked on an Environmental Support Program (ESP) in
1997. The ESP was created to implement the Governments development strategy and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy to reduce poverty within the framework of economic growth and protection of the
environment and natural resources. As a pilot of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), the ESP had
a mandate to help the Government initiate a capacity building effort to better address environmental issues.
The ESP aimed to mainstream at all levels. At the national level it was to strengthen the institutional and
regulatory framework for the national level it was to strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework for
environmental protection and natural resources management. At community level, the ESP would strengthen
local institutions and imitate a process to enable communities to address natural resources degradation and
capitalize on sound environmental investment opportunities.

      B. Program Description

The ESP was implemented through various investment components. Each of the components addressed specific
objectives. The Ministry of Tourism, Environment and Natural Resources (MTENR) delegated the supervision
of the implementation of the Community Based Natural Resources Management Program (CBNRMP) for
Western Province (WP), Kasempa and Mumbwa to the ESP. The ESO was executed through a number of
ministries, agencies, selected districts and local communities.

      C. Program Components and geographical coverage

The investment components through which the ESP was implemented were closely inter-linked and mutually
reinforcing. They included.

a)    Institutional Strengthening and Legal Framework (ISLF) with three sub-components as follows:
      i. Community Environmental Management program (CEMP);
      ii. Legal Framework and Enforcement Capacity (LFEC);
      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)**
b)    Environmental Education and Public Awareness (EEPA);
c)    Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF); and
d)    Environmental Information Network and Monitoring Systems (EINMS).

During the course of implementation, the MTENR delegated the mandate to manage the CBNRMP to the ESP.
Therefore, the following CBNRMPs became appendages of the ESP:

a)    CBNRMP-WP; and
b)    CBNRMP Kassempa and Mumbwa districts.

In this regard, the ESP operated in 17 districts altogether. These were the pilot CEMP districts [Mpika,
Mufulira, Mufumbwe, Nchelenge, Chibombo, Petauke, Kafue and Siavonga], CBNRMP-WP districts (Mongu,
Kalabo, Kaoma, Sesheke, Shang'ombo,

** in the initial stage of the project, the M&E was a sub-componenet of the Environmental Information
Management. After the mid-term review the M&E was moved to ISLF.




                                                     - 22 -

Senanga, and Lukulu] and UNDP CBNRM districts [kasempa and Mumbwa]. The map on the cover page
indicates the geographical locations of the districts.

     D. Program Financing

The International Development Association (IDA), the UNDP, the Nordic Development Fund (NDF), the Royal
Netherlands Embassy (RNE) and GRZ financed the ESP.

     E. Key Result Areas

The key result areas of accoutabilities for all ESP components were:
    Community Based Environmental and Natural Resources Management;
    Coordinated stakeholder involvement in environment and natural resources management;
    Community environmental awareness;
    Environmental Education;
    Promotion and financing of community based environmental projects and studies;
    Promotion and development of sustainable environmental information management;
    Harmonization and enforcement of environmental and natural resources legislation; and
    Management and administration

     F.        Intended Major Program Outputs

The intention of the foregoing objectives was to develop effective and efficient systems for the protection of the
environment and natural resources. The following outputs were envisaged.

1.   An effective institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection and natural resources
     management;

2.   Increased public awareness of environmental issues and greater responsibilities for environmental
management at community level;

     A viable funding mechanism for community based environmental micro-projects result oriented studies
and action plans; and

3.   An environmental information network and monitoring system (EINMS) and five issues oriented
sub-systems.




                                                      - 23 -

   II.   PROGRAM OUTPUTS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
         A. At Inception

                            NARRATIVE                                                Key Performance Indicator
CAS Related Goal: Country Environmental Policies and               1. Environmental degradation tend reversed and resources
strategies conducive to adequate management and protection of      base successfully maintained
natural resources and sustainable growth                           2. Resource based economic growth spurred
Development Objectives:                                            1. Widespread acknowledgement that environmental issues
Environmental and natural resource management mainstreamed in are being adequately addressed
the development process in Zambia
Out Put 1: An effective institutional and regulatory framework for 1. National Environmental Steering Committee and ESP
environmental protection and natural resource management           implementing agencies have successfully defied and
                                                                   implemented work programs
                                                                   2. Removal of discrepancies among existing regulation and
                                                                   natural resource management protection and resources
                                                                   management
                                                                   3. EIAs systematically conducted and mitigation measures
                                                                   taken
                                                                   4. Environmental policy defined and adopted by Government
Out Put 2: Increased public awareness of environmental issues and 1. Significant increase in environmental awareness above
greater responsibilities at the community level for environmental  baseline survey in pilot districts
management
Out Put 3: A viable funding mechanism for community based          1. At least 50% of micro-projects meet user expectations
environmental micro-projects result oriented studies and action    2. At least 10% of communities in pilot districts have
plans                                                              completed community environment plans
                                                                   3. Increasing number of applications for support received,
                                                                   appraised and funded by PEF
Out Part 4: An environmental information network and               1. Key data sets harmonized through standardization
monitoring systems (EINMS) and five issues oriented sub-systems 2. Open access to environmental systems data
established and operational




                                                        - 24 -

   B.    Modifications to the ESP during the Implementation Process

   There were two aspects that guided the modification to the structure of the ESP. After the mid-term review the
   Bank suggested that some modifications be carried out to streamline the operations of the program. The
   Government commenced the implementation of the mid-term review recommendations mid way through 2001.
   The MTENR realized the need to harmonize the implementation of environmental projects. Based on this a
   decision was made that placed the implementation of the CBNRMPs under the ESP.

   The modifications of this nature meant that the project had more added jet performance indicators. Neither the
   Government nor the Bank developed these indicators. However, the program management unit developed the
   following indicators for monitoring these modifications:

         1) Modifications Based on the recommendations of the Mid-term review

Output 1: Project Implementation Unit (PMU)

The mid-term review recommended the creation of PMU with a full tine Manager. The idea was to help improve
both the administrative and programmatic performance of the program. Specifically, the PMU would ensure the
acceleration of disbursements, improvement of compliance to procurement and financial management procedures,
improvement on the performance of the information technology infrastructure, and personnel management.

The PMU was created outside the Planning and Information Department (PID) with reporting responsibility to the
Permanent Secretary. The possible indicators were:
Disbursements to the communities and implementing agencies improved;
Annual work-plans and budgets prepared and submitted to the Bank timely;

Output 2: Modifications to the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit

The Program Performance Monitoring was separated from the EINMS Component and a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit for the Implementation of all ESP components was established with the PMU. The possible
indicator was:
Monitoring reports and annual reports produced on regular basis.

Output3: ECZ Special Account C
A third special account for and in the Environmental Council of Zamiba was rated The indicator for this output
was
Special Account for ECZ established.

Output 4: REF Integration into ZamSIF Management Operation
The Pilot Environmental Fund was fullly integrated in to the Zambia Social Investment fund (ZAMSIF)
management operation structure. The indicator for this out put was that:
ZamSIF manages all expenditure categories
ZAMSIF takes full responsibility of all PEF operations and all staff issues.

         2) Modifications regarding the Community Based Natural Resources Management Programs (CBNRMPs)


The MTENR delegated the management of the CBNRMPs to the ESP. There were nine operational districts under
the CBNRMP-WP (see annex for a detailed explanation of the CBNRMP-WP) and ESP were very similar. The
scope of activities of the CBNRMP Kasempa and Mumbwa were not clear.

This modification had the purpose of transferring all responsibilities for the management of CBNRMPs to ESP
PMU.


                                                       - 25 -

C. Achievement of Program Performance Indicator - PPIs

The report takes note of the fact that the credit was suspended prior to completion of activities. Ideally, a
beneficiary assessment conducted prior to completion provides a rich body of information that is used as a basis for
concluding whether the intended objectives were achieved or not. In this regard, the suspension of the credit
blocked the execution of the beneficiary assessment. However, it is possible to establish an opinion regarding the
extent to which the objectives of the ESP were achieved. The opinion is based on the internal monitoring reports,
the final status monitoring report prior to completion date, and expressions from some beneficiary target groups.

The program was on course with respect to attainment of the intended outputs. The program attained 8 and failed
on two out of the 13 original PPIs. An opinion on the weather the remaining 3 PPIs were attained or could only be
determined out of a deliberate assessment in form of a Beneficiary Assessment.

The program attained 7 out of the 8 PPIs attributed to the program modifications during the implementation
process. Put together, the program rate of achievement of PPIs was 16 out of 21 or 76%. Based on these results of
the technical aspects the program implementation process was on course:

          1) Status of Program achievements by outputs

The following presentation is a set of statements on the achievement of PPIs under each output:

Output1: An effective institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection and natural resource
management.

1.        National Environmental Steering Committee and ESP implementing agencies successfully defined and
implemented work programs. The work programs were presented to the Bank for no objection in accordance with
the provisions of the DCA.

2.        Existing environmental legislation was reviewed. It is doubtful if the review let to removal of
discrepancies in the various pieces of legislation. A targeted study would be necessary for such a conclusion to be
made.

3.        The Environment Council of Zambia has conducted EIA an taken mitigation measures for major
development activities.

4.        The ECZ also conducted consensus reporting indicators. ECZ was in the process to conduct a training
workshop to facilitate the development of indicators when the program was suspended.

5.        The ECZ also launches the Zambia Network of Environmental Educators and Practitioners as well as
facilitated the initiation of community environmental programs for some community radio stations. The ECZ
closure report has been attached for reference.

6.        The District Environmental Committees (DECs) have been established in all piolot districts and are an
important technical team of the District Development Coordination Committee. The DECs have since taken on the
responsibilities to supervise environmental aspects of all community environmental activities including the
micro-projects initially financed by PEF in their respective districts.

7.        Under the auspices of the PMU, the program developed a policy framework paper (PEP). The PFP was
recently used by the newly established department of Environment and Natural Resources in its efforts to iterate an
all-inclusive policy on environment. The United Nations Development Program has undertaken to finance the
entire process.

Output 2:           Increased public awareness of environmental issues and greater responsibilities for


                                                         - 26 -

environmental management at community level.

1.        Using the results of the project performance monitoring, it is clear that there is an increase in
environmental awareness at all levels. The demand for environmental projects rose from merely four community
micro-projects in 2000 to over 68 by the completion date in 2003.

2.        In the recent past, some development partners have to date developed environmental management policies
to guide the mitigation of environmental impacts in their programs. The Zambia Social Investment Fund and the
Agricultural Support Program (ASP) supported by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) are
among the programs that have domesticated environmental mitigation measures.

Output 3:          A viable funding mechanism for community based environmental micro projects result oriented
studies and action plans.

1.        To date, over 70 micro-projects were approved for funding by PEF. Of these approximately 68 were
funded. Unfortunately none of these micro-projects were completed at completion time. Despite this fact
communities complained of neglect when they learned that the World Bank was withdrawing funding. Due to
pressure from the districts, the PMU requested Government to provide a fund that would at least see the
continuation of the micro-projects and maintenance of community activities in the districts. The Government has
approved the request and has since released ZMK 500 million as an initial instalment of the approved total of
ZMK 950 million. The Government has undertaken to complete the release of the rest of the funds by the end of
the year 2003.

2.        Using the already released funds the ESP intends to finance activities of ten micro-projects to reach
completion stage. It is assumed that by the end of the year over 20 micro-projects will be founded to completion.
A list of micro-projects earmarked for funding to complete their activities using this fund is attached.

3.        Using the argument of interest generated in and resentment by the communities of the stoppage of
financing, we conclude that micro-projects were addressing user expectations for income generation, improved
water supply and sanitation, and decision support in the management of domestic solid waste.

4.        All the 32 communities in the eight pilot districts completed community environment plans. And all the
eight districts completed the district environmental profiles. The NDF has since authorized the project to multiply
these products for distribution in electronic and printed form to respective communities, districts and development
partners.

5.        A practical demonstration of the popularity of the project is seen by the fact that multiplier effects have
already been observed. In Chibombo district four nearby communities have commenced bee keeping after learning
from the ESP been keeping community at Kamishsishi.

Output 4: An environmental information network and monitoring systems (EINMS) and five issues oriented
sub-systems established and operational

1.        The EINMS facilitated the production of key data sets and information subsystems for forestry, wildlife,
land degradation, pollution, and water and sanitation. These key data sets have been harmonized with the national
mapping standards.

2.        The forum for exchange of environmental information has been created and acts as the repository for the
data sets, which are at the disposal of all interested parties. Recently the Ministry of Health through the Central
Board of Health requested for information for use in their health programs.

3.        The importance of environmental information was underscored when major service providers, among
them the Lusaka City Council, Zambia Telecommunications Limited, Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
Limited, and the Zambia Revenue Authority indicated desire for large scale mapping of Lusaka district. The


                                                          - 27 -

suspension of disbursements by the World Bank meant that this activity could not take off.

The achievements for the newly appended entities to the ESP could be summarized in the manner presented below:

Output 5: Program Management Unit and Monitoring and Evaluation

1.       The PMU managed to consistently host the Program Management Group and program Management
meetings;
2.       The PMU prepared the 2002 and 2003 annual work plan and budget timely;
3.       The PMU developed districts and project specific indicators;
4.       The PMU conducted a sustainability study of the ESP in the light of devolution of mandates of the Local
Authorities. The sustainability study report is attached for reference;
5.       The PMU successfully conducted a final program monitoring to among other things address the
following:- explain the suspension to target communities; establish the status of project implementation and
monitoring in the districts and communities; and asset verification and update of the asset register. The final
monitoring report is attached.

Output 6. Community Based Natural Resources Management Program for the Western Province.

The following achievements were made for the CBNRMP-WP:
1.       Creation and registration of Village Natural Resources Communities in all the districts of Eastern
province with Registrar of Societies.

2.       Production of District Environmental Profiles in all districts of the Western Province,
3.       Formulation of by laws to help govern natural Resources Management in Western province,
4.       Launched a number of micro-projects in selected districts of the province.
5.       Despite these achievements, the CBNRMP operations were not fully integrated into ESP and the ESP only
assumed partial management responsibility.

III.     FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS:

The financiers pledged a total of USD 20.8 million to the ESP out of which a total of 3.9% has been disbursed to
and utilised by the project. A larger proportion representing 63.5% of the total pledges has not been disbursed. At
least 6.5% of the undisbursed amount was to be spent on funded micro-projects. The table below presents the
financing plan and utilization of project funds.

Financing Plan and Utilization of Funds



   Financier's              Contribution                     Disbursements                 Undisbursed Funds
      Name             Total      Per cent of Sum        Actual            Ratio         Actual          Ratio
IDA              12,800,000       58.2 %           5,966,863.35      46.6%          6,833,136.65     53.4%
NDF               3,400,000       15.5%            1,011,844.26      29.8%          2,388,155.74     70.2%
UNDP              3,200,000       14.5%             405,500.00       12.7%          2,794,500.00     83.7%
GRZ                2,600,000      11.8%             707,471.63       29.75%         1,852,528.37     71.25%
Sum              20,800,000       100%             8,131,679.24      38.09%         12,764,081.32 61.9%

The low rate of utilization of project funds can be attributed to the following:
Poor procurement practice at the Central Tender Board which let to failure of the project to commence the
development of Environmental information Systems;

Inefficient payment unit resulted in delays in approval for payments. During the early stages of the project the
Office of the permanent Secretary has to literally sign on each voucher. Low approval thresholds for program



                                                         - 28 -

management. The approved threshold for project management for payments is less that 25% of that provided for
by the DCA. The low approval thresholds resulted out of failure by the Bank and Government to harmonize
procurement guidelines.
There were delays by communities in justifying expenditures on micro-projects. Unless justifications were made
there were no disbursements made to those communities that could not justify the expenditure.

IV.      SITUATION ANALYSIS
A.       General Observation

The activities of the ESP were curtailed prematurely when the Bank announced the suspension of disbursements.
Therefore some pertinent activities, cardinal among them the beneficiary assessment, could not be executed. When
the M&E Officer resigned, he could not be replaced due to insufficient funds in the project. Therefore, the project
operated without a functional monitoring unit from September 2002 to closure date.

The implications of this include the fact that the implementation issues that arose in September 2002 and
afterwards could not be captured. Similarly, the corresponding reports could not be written.

B.       Popularity of the program activities at community level

The communities accepted the activities of the ESP for their positive impacts on their lifestyles in the improvement
of water supply, sanitation, and creation of wealth through sound environmental practices. The communities in
Mufumbwe, Mpika, Nchelenge and Siavonga demanded continued financing of their initiatives even after
withdrawal of World Bank support.

Some communities equate the abrupt withdrawal of support to their initiatives as robbery of their initiatives by the
elite technocrats and the World Bank. They have since advanced an accusation of a hidden agenda meant only to
satisfy the technocrats and World Bank needs as opposed to addressing community concerns of fighting poverty
and improving community livelihood.

C.       Program design and modifications

The design of the ESP may not have been adequate to advance the development objective. The location of the ESP
in the ministry meant that the program could succumb to ministerial bureaucracies as necessary. This was fine as
far as the Government was concerned but an issue for the World Bank so long as their procedures were not
harmonized. Therefore, the implementation progress was slow during the first two years. The procurement and
financial management guidelines of the World Bank were rarely adhered to.

The mid-term review brought the matter of poor program design to ahead through suggestions for modifications to
the program. Both the Government and World Bank consented to the recommendations of the mid term review.
However, the implementation of these recommendations dragged on as Government and the World Bank has
serious disagreements on the modalities of their implementation. For example, the Government and Bank did not
agree on pertinent issues such as the level of autonomy of the newly established. The World Bank wanted the
PMU to be more independent than what government had provided. This problem was only resolved after March
2002 when Government realized the need to out source services of reputable accounting firm to mange the ESP
financial accounts.

Further to this, the management of PEF resources was two pronged. The Planning and Information Department
(PID) managed the operational funds. The Zambia Social Investment Fund managed the investment funds.
Processing of operational funds was not smooth due to bureaucracies in the PID. This slowed down the operations
of PEF to some extent. The transfer of the portfolio to manage operational funds from PID to ZamSIF was only
done after October 2002 following the amendment of the DCA. ZamSIF and PEF benefited less from this
arrangement; a month or two later the disbursements to the program were suspended.

The implementation of some aspects of the DCA was contentious. The members of the NESC understood that they


                                                        - 29 -

had the liberty to approve annual work-plans and budgets. On the contrary, the World Bank had overriding power
and usually offset the decisions of the NESC. This practice raised fundamental issues on whose program the ESP
was. If indeed the ESP was a Government program the World Bank could have listened more that dictating the
way to go.

The ministry delegated the management of the CBNRMP-WP to the ESP of management. This delegation did not
go with the necessary transference of authority from the ministry to the ESP. The Relationship between ESP and
the CBNRMP-WP remained obscure especially with regard to control of resources and reporting.

The timing of the operations of the CEMP and PEF activities coud have been erroneous. The CEMP activities
could have started months earlier than the PEf activities. The CEMP manadate included developing the
communities and activities that would e funded by the PEF. Therefore, the synchronization of commencement
time for the CEMP and PEF activities was wrong. It did not give the CEMP enough time to prepare the
communities for PEF support.

Related to this arrangement, the selection of communities for ESP activities was incongruous to the development of
prerequisite materials. The arrangement was that the EINMS would produce District Environmental profiles that
would guide selection of the communities. The practice on the ground was that communities were selected even
before the district environmental profiles were ready. The program design should have allowed for time to develop
the profiles instead of immediately identifying communities on commencement of implementation.

D.       Government and Bank relationships

In the implementation of the ESP, the World Bank changed task managers three times. Each of these managers
interpreted the ESP implementation differently. The early supervision missions were more flexible and willing to
review operational issues with an open mind. After the mid term review there was a shift in this relationship to the
disadvantage of the government. The supervision became more rigid to the extent that they ignored the tenets of
partnerships. In stead a master and servant kind of relationship emanated rather than that of mutual consideration
for one another.

The problems that led to suspension of the program were historical. The mid term review highlighted a good
number of them. However, corrective measures were not expeditiously implementation. There was inertia on the
part of both the World Bank and the government in bringing normalcy to the implementation process. Had both
the Bank and government got to grips with the implementation bottlenecks, the suspension of disbursements to the
project could have been avoided and project rescued.

It was observable during the implementation process that the Bank disregarded Government opinion in a number
of cases. The Bank also used unorthodox methods in rejecting Government opinion. The most notable one is
when the Bank chose not to respond to a no objection request regarding the Request for Proposal for the
Beneficiary Assessment. To date, the Bank has not responded t the proposal. Had the response been made, the
Beneficiary Assessment could have probably been carried out before the suspension.

The Government sought a no objection from NDF to recruit a procurement specialist to be funded from the NDF
resources. The World Bank played it down and discouraged the move. The result was that the project never
recruited a procurement specialist.

E. Quality of Supervision Missions:
The supervision missions were timely. However it tis doubtful if these mission had enough technical experts to
supervise all technical staff. The Environmental Education and Public Awareness (EEPA) component never had
the lucky to receive any technical expert during the supervision mission.

The problems of the ESP started early in the implementation process. The early supervision mission did not
expose the problems [that is if they new about them] to Government early enough. Otherwise the early supervision
missions had failed to identify these problems.


                                                       - 30 -

F.       Program Failures
When Government learned about the implementation problems in the project, it did not act expeditiously to cub the
situation. Therefore, the implementation process was marred with problems that threatened the achievement of the
development objective. The following aspects were major issues in implementation of the program:

         -        Poor compliance with World Bank Financial Management guidelines,
         -        Poor compliance with World Bank Procurement guidelines,
         -        Poor management of the project IT infrastructure,

This is not to say that there were marked improvements in Financial Management and Procurements after the
establishment of a PMU. This is supported by favorable annual audit report of the ending 2002.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the procurement practice remained below expectations of the World Bank and even
the project. There was not much through given to procurement harmonization of Bank and Government
procedures during project design. In addition, the levels of capacity for procurement staffs in the ministry were
very basic. The ministry itself was not recognized by the ZNTB as one that can procure. The procurement of
especially specialized services seemed to have been beyond what could be handled by both the MTENR and the
central tender board. The project failed to procure services for large international consultancies due to poor
procurement practices at the ZNTB. Twice the procurement of services for development of five environmental
information systems (EIS) failed to take off, because ZNTB did not handle the procurement documentation
professionally. There were incidences of some bid documents missing at the time they were required and then
being found later.

         G. Summary of Major Constraints and Challenges

During the implementation process, the program experienced challenges that slowed down the process. These
include the following:

1.       Government co-financing to the program was insufficient. The counterpart requirements provided in the
DCA were somewhat unrealistically too high for Government to fulfill. Funding from Government resources only
improved in 2003 when Government released all the Government resources only improved in 2003 when
Government released all the counterpart requirements and other budgetary allocations to the project. This came
about as a result of a enhanced liaison between the project. This came about as a result of a enhanced liaison
between the project and the ministry of Finance and National Planning.

2.       The establishment of the program in the mainstream ministry meant that it had to comply with associated
bureaucracies. The project design did not foresee this factor which is also partly responsible for financial and
procurement irregularities that imaged sooner than latter. Beside the project staff were operating on unclear
multiple mandates. Stated differently, the project staff assignments commingled with those of the Ministry.

3.       The scaling down a district project staff was haphazardly done and had serious negative consequences on
program implementation. It resulted in slow performance of district activities. Reporting by the districts also
became an issue after district activities. Reporting by the districts also became an issue after district staff [some
DEFs and all district support staff] were laid off. The Government and the Bank did not give a through thought
about how the scaling down of district staff could be done without harming the implementation.

4.       The project suffered a very high rate of turn over of key staff from both the Government and World Bank.
The World Bank changed the Task Mangers mid way through the implementation. The Government changed
project coordinators twice before engaging a substantive manger, and Permanent Secretaries six times during the
whole of the project period. At each of the changes there was some element of loss of institutional memory and
introduction of different management styles. Time was also lost as new staff had to learn the project in the first
few days or so.




                                                         - 31 -

5.       The financial mismanagement and poor procurement in the project were regrettable. The Government
should have closely supervised the procurements to ensure compliance with the DCA. The issue of commingling
of funds, for example is a case that can only be associated with serious oversights or ignorance of procedure. This
could hae been avoided if the Bank and Government consulted transparently as mutual partners.

6.       The relationship between the Bank and Government in the later years of the project was similar to master
and servant kind or relationship. The Bank was the master and Government was the servant. The responsibility of
Government became to listen and work on the Master's plan. The responsibility of the Bank became to reject
Government suggestions no matter how well intended they were. As a result, the Bank either responded late or did
not respond at all to a good number of Government correspondences especially that which followed after
suspension of disbursements.

         H.        Lessons Learned

1.       Sequencing of activities in a local manner could be essential to project success. In this regard the
chronology of commencement could have been EINMS followed by CEMP and later PEF. This way the PEF could
have benefited more from the CEMP process which the CEMP could have benefited more from the EINMS
products in the slection of communities.

2.       Protracted discussions between the Bank and the Govenrment and failure to reach consensus on issues of
financial and procurement management led to considerable loss of project time.

3.       The level of counterpart funding were probably too high for Government to fulfill. It is crucial that
government contributions are set according to Government ability to pay.

4.       Pre-project training of intended project managers could be crucial i avoiding poor management of
finances and procurement.

5.       The withdrawal of Bank resources was too abrupt, insensitive to and compromised the community efforts
and credibility of project workers as well as the Government.

6.       The performance indicators for Bank resources applied to capacity building efforts are not adequate.
Simply looking at the among of money disbursed and numbers trained does not reflect a true picture of what
happened and what in happening. A focus on social dimensions of what the recipients of the aid and doing with
respect to the objective of the training would constitute better indicators.

7.       Implementing a program of the ESP magnitude requires recruitment of full time individuals with full
responsibility to the program. Otherwise, delegating to already overburdened staff compromises the purpose of
establishing a project with respect to the economy of time. Equally, trying to achieve objectives of a program with
fixed time frames in an established bureaucracy is equivalent to frustrating the program. It is important to set up a
separate unit for effectiveness and efficiency of delivery of project objectives.

V.       CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION

         Based on the following lessons, the conclusion that the implementation process for the technical
programmatic aspects was on course and could have reached satisfactory classification had the suspension been
lifted and program extended. The implementation process of the fiduciary aspects was riddled with error and was
not on course.

         The ESP was a well intended program that made resources available directly to the communities. This
aspect made the program popular among the communities as they were able to see direct benefits of Government
borrowing. The program was however rocked with poor design and inadequate implementation practices coupled
with a kind of hide and seek collaboration between the World Bank and Government. The project did not live to
achieve the development objective as it was prematurely curtailed.


                                                         - 32 -

         The Government and the Bank are both responsible for failure of the program to achieve intended
purposes.

As a way forward the following recommendations are made:
Future program designs of the nature of the ESP should seriously take into account the lessons presented above to
avoid deleterious implementation mishaps like the ones the ESP experienced. And as one of the conditions for
effectiveness, properly qualified and experienced personnel should be in place exclusively for the project activities.
The procurement specialists, senior technical staff and accounts staff should be part of the condition for
effectiveness.

Future programs should not be embedded in already existing structures. They should exist as independent units to
avoid divided loyalties and should have a district focus.

Never should resources of one component be allowed to be cross managed by two institutions or two coordinators.
One should be fully responsible for all the resources of a component.

Social dimensions for evaluation of projects should be considered for social development and capacity building
projects.

Annex 1: Summary Description of the CBNRM-WP
There were seven operational districts under the CBNRMP-WP. The supportive objectives of the CBNRMP-WP
were:
a)       To have in place customary, legal and regulatory frameworks that are supported and supplemented by
statutory legal and regulatory frameworks;
b)       To have in place guidelines and systems for environmental education and public environmental awareness
creation;
c)       To have in place guidelines and systems for the management of environmental information
d)       To build the capacity of local institutions in the planning, implementation and monitoring of all the
subcomponents of the CBNRMP-WP

The CBNRM-WP had four subcomponents, namely:
a)       Institutional Capacity Building
b)       Legal and Regulatory Framework
C)       Environmental Education and Public Awareness and
d)       Environmental Information Networks and Monitoring Systems

                               END OF THE BORROWER EVALUATION REPORT




                                                         - 33 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

The ICR mission interviewed representatives of the following donors that supported ESP related
activities: NDF, UNDP who were the project co-financiers, as well as the Royal Dutch Embassy
which funded community management activities that ESP eventually took over. The donors
commented on: (i) lack of sector strategy of sense of direction; (ii) institutional weakness of
MTENR; (iii) pervasive problems with financial management of donor funds by MTENR; (iv)
lack of coordination of donors in the environmental and natural resource sector by either the
government or the donors themselves; and (v) continued need to strengthen environmental and
natural resources management, particularly at the district and community level.

From among the interviewed donors, the Royal Dutch Embassy ended its long-term involvement
in community environmental management in Western Province in August 2002; NDF continued
funding for ESP until depletion of the allocated funds in November 2003; and UNDP was
engaged in a $1.8 million, 5 year follow-up project launched in 2002 with MTENR, however, not
with PID.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

See above.


10. Additional Information

For additional information and clarifications, contact the Task Team Leader or the ICR author.




                                                   - 34 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Widespread acknowledgement that           Widespread acknowledgement that                  Because of the suspension, the planned
environmental issues are being adequately     environmental issues are being adequately        stakeholder assessment was not conducted
addressed.                                    addressed                                        and fulfillment of the indicator cannot be
                                                                                               verified.
(ii) National Environmental Steering          NESC established but no discussion to            NESC became more assertive near the end
Committee (NESC) and ESP implementing         establish a consultative mechanism beyond        of the project, requesting more accountability
agencies have successfully defined and        project closure.                                 by the Ministry. However, there is currently
implemented work programs.                                                                     no discussion to establish a consultative
                                                                                               mechanism beyond project closure.
(iii) Removal of discrepancies among          Interministerial Committee not established       Interministerial Committee was not
existing regulations consistent with          because of major upheavals at the Ministry.      established.
environmental protection and natural
resources management.
(iv) EIAs systematically conducted and        EIAs systematically conducted for all            EIAs conducted but no assessment carried
mitigation measures taken.                    activities that have a significant impact on the out whether the mitigation measures are
                                              environment, and mitigation measures taken. being implemented.
(v) Environmental Policy defined and          Policy available                                 No policy was formulated. New TORs were
adopted by Government.                                                                         not submitted to IDA prior to the suspension.
(vi) Significant increase in environmental    Not projected in the last PSR.                   Because of the suspension, the stakeholder
awareness above baseline survey in pilot                                                       analysis was not done and it will not be
districts.                                                                                     possible to document the indicator. However,
                                                                                               indicator was probably met.
(vii) Significant increase in environmental   Not projected in the last PSR.                   Following the suspension it will not be
awareness above baseline survey at national                                                    possible to document the indicator. However,
level.                                                                                         indicator was probably met.
(viii) At least 50% of pilot micro-projects   Activity not evaluated but indicator probably    Because of the suspension, it was not be
meet users expectations.                      met.                                             possible to evaluate this indicator. However, it
                                                                                               was probably met, at least in the projects for
                                                                                               which government provided additional
                                                                                               funding following the project closure.
(ix) At least 10% of communities in pilot     Indicator fully met.                             The indicator was fully met.
districts have completed a community
environment action plan (CEAP).
(x) Increasing number of applications for     All funds expended.                              All funds were committed prior to
support received, appraised and funded by                                                      suspension. Indicator met.
PEF.
(xi) Key data sets harmonized through         5 issues specific data sets completed and        Activity was funded through NDF and
standardization.                              shared                                           continued after the closure of IDA project.
                                                                                               Indicator not objectively verified but most
                                                                                               likely met.
(xii) Open access to environmental system     Very significant contribution to increased       Project has significantly contributed to
data.                                         availability and sharing of environmental data. increased availability and sharing of
                                                                                               environmental data. Indicator probably met.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. An effective institutional and regulatory                                                   1. Not accomplished, however, good
framework for environmental protection and                                                     progress achieved in strengthening ECZ.
natural resources management.

1.1 National Environmental Steering           1.1 Not projected in the last PSR.               1.1 Indicator only partially accomplished;
Committee and ESP implementing agencies                                                        NESC mandate ended with the project.
have successfully defined and implemented
work programs.

1.2 Removal of discrepancies among existing 1.2 Interministerial Committee to coordinate       1.2 Indicator not met.
regulations consistent with environmental     law making established.
protection and natural resource management. 1.3 EIAs systematically conducted for all          1.3 EIAs conducted but it is uncertain how
                                              activities with significant env. impacts and     systematically, what the quality of the EIA




                                                                  - 35 -

1.3 EIAs systematically conducted and         mitigation measures taken.                 reviews is, and whether the mitigation
mitigation measures taken.                                                               measures are taken.

1.4 Environmental Policy defined and
adopted by government                         1.4 Policy available.                      1.4. Environmental Policy was not developed.


2.Increased public awareness of                                                          2. Most likely met although no assessment
environmental issues and greater                                                         was conducted.
responsibility at the community level for
environmental management.

2.1 Significant increase in environmental     2.1 Not projected in the last PSR.         2.1 Indicator most likely met although no
awareness above baseline survey in pilot                                                 assessment was conducted due to
districts.                                                                               suspension.

2.2 Significant increase in environmental     2.2 Not projected in the last PSR.         2.2 Indicator most likely met although no
awareness above baseline survey at national                                              assessment was conducted due to
level                                                                                    suspension.


3. A viable funding mechanism for                                                        Accomplished.
community-based environmental
micro-projects, result oriented studies and
action plans.

3.1 At least 50% of pilot micro projects meet 3.1 Beneficiary assessment conducted       3.1 Because of the suspension, it was not be
user expectations                                                                        possible to carry out the beneficiary
                                                                                         assessment and evaluate this indicator.
                                                                                         However, it was probably met, at least in the
                                                                                         projects for which government provided
                                                                                         additional funding following the project
                                                                                         closure.

3.2 As least 10% of communities in pilot      3.2 Not projected in the last PSR.         3.2 Indicator met.
districts has completed a community
environment action plan.

3.3 Increasing number of applications for     3.3 All funds expended.                    3.3 Indicator met.
support received, appraised and funded by
PEF.
4. An Environmental Information Network and                                              4. Not accomplished despite some progress.
Monitoring System (EINMS) and five issues
oriented sub-systems established and
operational.
                                                                                         4.1 Indicator met.
4.1 Key data sets harmonized through          4.1 Five issue specific data sets produced
standardization.                              and disseminated.
                                                                                         4.2 Indicator not objectively verified but most
4.2 Open access to environmental system       4.2 Not projected in the last PSR.         likely met.
data,


1End of project




                                                                 - 36 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                              Estimate          Estimate           Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million       US$ million
A. Institutional Strengthening & Legal Framework                 8.50                3.00                38
B. Environmental Education & Public Awareness                    1.80                0.50                28
C. Pilot Environmental Fund                                      4.30                2.00                47
D. Environmental Information Management                          3.90                1.50                38
E. Project Preparation Facility                                  0.40                0.40               100

Total Baseline Cost                                             18.90                7.40
 Physical Contingencies                                          0.10
 Price Contingencies                                             1.80
                          Total Project Costs                   20.80                7.40
                    Total Financing Required                    20.80                7.40
Actual costs by component are estimates as neither the Borrower nor the Bank tracked actual costs by
components. The Borrower tracked costs by source of funds (see Financial Highlights in the Borrower
Terminal Report). The Bank tracked costs by expenditure categories.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                   2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                            0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                            1.00              0.20            0.80            0.40           2.40
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.80)          (0.00)          (0.80)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00            1.80            3.80           5.60
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)          (1.80)          (0.00)          (1.80)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00              0.00            2.00            1.90           3.90
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)          (1.50)          (0.00)          (1.50)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00              0.00            3.60            0.00           3.60
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)          (2.20)          (0.00)          (2.20)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                            1.00              0.20            8.20            6.10           15.50
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)          (6.30)          (0.00)          (6.30)
Data as recorded in SAP.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                  2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)



                                                  - 37 -

2. Goods                               0.33               0.00              0.11             0.00              0.44
                                      (0.31)             (0.00)            (0.11)            (0.00)           (0.42)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.16             0.00              0.16
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.09)            (0.00)           (0.09)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.33               0.00              0.28             0.00              0.61
                                      (0.31)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.51)
Data as recorded in SAP.
1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 38 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

As common for this type of operation, no economic analysis was carried our at the outset of the
project and no economic indicators were included among the project performance indicators. As
the project does not led itself well to economic analysis, no such analysis was attempted at ICR.




                                                - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1996                   N/A     N/A



 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1997                   N/A     N/A

 Supervision

              02/12/1998                8    TEAM LEADER/CO-TM (1);            S               S
                                             INST'L SPEC./CO-TM (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT-CONSULTA
                                             NT (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURE SPEC. (1);
                                             PROGRAM ANALYST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGNT OFFICER
                                             (1)
              06/25/1998                6    TASK LEADER (1); NRM              S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1); UNDP
                                             PROGRAM ANALYST (1);
                                             NDF SR. ADVISOR, PROC. (1)
              03/16/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MGNT OFFICER
                                             (1)
              10/12/1999                5    TTL (1); SR. ENV.                 S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1); FAL
                                             MANAGEMENT OFFICER (1);
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (1)
              02/25/2000                4    TTL (1); EIS SPECIALIST (1);      S               S
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1); ESP
                                             COORDINATOR (1)
              06/10/2000                5    SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1);          S               S
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             ENV. INFO. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              08/14/2001                2    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1)           U               U
              03/28/2002                5    REVIEW OF ESP ACCOUNTS            U               S
                                             (1); TEAM SUPPORT (1); PMU
                                             AND PEF (1); MONITORING
                                             (EINMS) (1); TTL (1)
              11/10/2002                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); AG.         S               U
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FM



                                              - 40 -

                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
               10/21/2000            11    SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1) EN.        U    U
               (MID TERM                   INFO. SPECIALIST (1)
               REVIEW)                     PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
                                           SR. NAT. RESOURCES SP. (1)
                                           SR. COUNCEL (1)
                                           CONSULTANTS (3)
                                           AGRICULTURAL OFFICER (1)
                                           PROCURMENT OFFICER (A)
                                           FIANCIAL MANAGEMENT (1)


 ICR
               09/29/2003             1     ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            20.2                         139.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 59.3                         100.4
  Supervision                        111.04                          255.4
  ICR                                   5.85                            7.8
  Total                              196.39                            20.2




                                            - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Government evaluation report (ESP Terminal Report).
ZamSif submission for the ESP Terminal Report.
List of PEF micro-projects and environmental studies.




                                                 - 44 -

- 45 -

