FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 226-TH
APPRAISAL OF THE
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
THAILAND
January 15, 1974
Irrigation and Area Development Division II
Projects Department
Asia Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =  Baht (0)20.0
$l               = us$0.05
US$1.00 million  = $20.,000,000
th million       = us$50,0oo
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 hectare (ha)           2.47 acres - 6.25 rai
1 kilometer (km)      = 0.62 miles
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet
1 million cubic
meters (mcm)    =  810 acre feet
1 ton                 =  1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
RID           Royal Irrigation Department
BAAC      =   Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
RD1, RD3      High-Yielding Rice Varieties



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                       i - iii
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                     1
II.   BACKGROUND               .......of..O.2
General       .....O.**...    .....0..#2
The Agriculture Sector           ............... ..           2
Northeast Thailand.....           ***.........*.e             3
Agriculture in Northeast Thailand                             3
III.   THE PROJECT AREAS          ...*.     ..................          5
A. Irrigation Improveenat Project    .       .5
General   ..... . .                                           5
Existing Irrigation Facilities       .       ..               5
Climate...... '                             .6)
Water Supply, Demands and Quality ................ 7
Topography, Land Use and Soils           .      .7
Farm Size and Land Tenure   .... 00 ..........                8
Crops and Crop Production ..                                  8
Transportation and Marketing           .        .             9
B. Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project   ....................           9
General     ......................................            9
Existing Rice Stations .......................                9
IV.    THE PROJECT      .....................................          10
A. Irrigation Iprovement Project   .   ...........              10
General   .....                           ..    10
Project Works .... ...... ... 0.  .... .......               11
Engineering Designs   ..... * ....  ......1..........        14
Cost Fstimates   .....h...........                           1
Environmental Impact of the Project  ..............          16



-2-
Page No.
B.  Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project   .....      .............    16
General    ......................................        16
Project Components   .................  ...........      17
Cost Estimates   ................................        18
C.  Preparation of Rural Infrastructure Project  ....        19
D. Financing and Procurement    ..*..............**...       19
Financing   ........................... .   ..........    19
Procurement        ......................................    19
Disbursements ..................   I................ .   20
Accounts and Audits .......     .......................    20
V.       ORGANIZATION AND MANA2ENENT   ..............   ..........   21
A.  IrrigationImproveme£nt Project  .........                21
Management and Coordination   ...*       ................   21
Annual Work Programs   ...........................   22
Consulting Services    ...........................   22
Operation and Maintenance   ......................   22
Supporting Agricultural Services   ....      ...........   23
Transportation and Marketing   .....       ..............   24
Socio-economic Surveys   ..................              25
Recovery of Costs   ..............................    25
B.  Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project   ................   ...   26
Management and Coordination   .......... . ..........   26
Technical Assistance   ...............                   26
Annual Work Programs   .       .........   .27
Outgrower Schemes   ..............................    27
VI.      PRODUCTION, MARKETING PROSPECTS, PRIDES AND FARM IN5COES  28
Production  ...........  28
Marke-Ling Prospects .. .29
Prices ...29
Farm Incomes ..................................          30
'al.     JUSTIFICATION AND HENEFITS   ......     ...................   31
General   ..........     ..............................   31
Irrigation Improvement Project   .....    .............   31
Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project   .....       ..............   33
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .       ...............    34



-3-
ANNEXES
1.     Project Works and Cost Estimates
2.     Consulting Services and Mapping
3.     Water Supply and Demands
4.     Extension Services
5.     Organization and Management of Water Distribution
6.     Existing and Potential Irrigation Projects in Northeast Thailand
7.     Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
8.     Cropped Areas, Yields and Production
2_.   Farm Budgets
10.    Economic Ana  rsis
11.    Government Rice Stations in Northeast Thailand
12.    Cost Estimates - Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project
CHARTS
1.     Construction Schedule - Chart No. 7807
2.     Organization Chart - Chart No. 7808
MAPS
1.     Northeast Thailand - Irrigation Projects (IBRD 10305)
2.     Lam Phra Plerng Project (IBRD 10302)
3.     Lam Pao Project (IBRD 3137R2)
4.     Nam Pong Project (IBRD 10303)
5.     Pioneer Projects in the Lower Mekong Basin (IBRD 10368)






THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMNT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       Thailand is a major exporter of rice and a chief objective of the
Government's agricultural policy is to expand rice production to maintain the
country's export position and keep pace with a growing domestic demand. The
Bank's Agricultural Sector Review concluded that anmual paddy production will
have to be raised by 4 million tons over the next decade from present levels
of about 14 million tons.  Most of this increase will have to come from increased
productivity on presently cultivated land, because only limited opportunities
exist for opening up new lands, a process which accounted for much of the produc-
tion increases in the 1960's. Therefore, future increases in production will
have to come from more intensive land use and higher yields on irrigated lands,
in particular by taking full advantage of existing reservoirs and canals, and
from a systematic effort to improve yields on lands where paddy cultivation
depends on rainfall.
ii.      The project appraised in this report is located in Northeast Thailand,
a region which accounts for about one-third of Thailand's population and land
area but less than one-fifth of the national income. The Northeast does not
contribute significantly to Thailand's rice export. Annual rice production,
with some wide variations due to climate, has generally kept pace with regional
demand through expansion of cultivated area. Such lateral expansion has exhaust-
ed suitable land resources and further production increases will have to co1m
from more intensive use of presently cultivated areas and higher yields. The
low opportunity cost of the Northeast's resources presently employed in rice
production justify a regional development policy which, at the minimum, strives
to maintain regional self-sufficiency in rice production.
iii.     The project has two main components:  the Irrigation Improvement Project
which involves improvement and completion of irrigation systems covering
42,000 ha served by existing reservoirs; and the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project
which is designed to develop and promote techniques for attaining higher rice
yields under rainfed conditions. This would be the first Bank Group project
for agricultural development in Northeast Thailand. There have been seven
previous Bank Group operations in Thailand relating to irrigation development
in the Gentral region. A third component provides for consulting services
to the Ministry of Interior for preparation of a rural infrastructural project
in the Northeast.
iv.      The estimated project cost is US$12.6 million, of which US$10.7 million
is for the irrigation component, US$1.5 million for the rainfed rice component,
and US$o.4 million for preparation of the rural infrastructure project.  The
proposed IDA credit US$7.0 million is made up as follows:



-- about 50% of the cost of the Irrigation Improvement Project
which would cover the foreign exchange cos-t of US$4.5 million
and US$0.9 million of local costs;
-- 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer
Project (US$1.3 million) which would cover 86% of the project
cost; and
100%o of the foreign exchange cost of consulting services for
preparation of a rural infrastructure project (US$0.3 million)
which would cover 75% of the total cost.
The government executing agency for the irrigation and rainfed rice components
will be the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. Wdithin that Ministry,
the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) will have responsibility for implemen-
tation of the irrigation works and their operation and maintenance, and the
Department of Agriculture will be responsible for the rainfed rice project.
Coordination between the implementation departments and other departments
in the Ministry will. be provided by the Office of the Under-Secretary of State
for Agriculture and Co-operatives. The Ministry of Interior will be the
government executing agency for preparation of a rural infrastructure project.
v.       Arrangements for procurement and disbursement will be those normal
for this type of project. The irrigation works comprising rehabilitation and
improvement of canal systems and service roads will be suitable for execution
under contract. Work on service roads can be combined in contracts large
enough for international competitive bidding. Rehabilitation and extension
of the tertiary canal system will be carried out by RID as a force account
operation using hired labor in conjunction with equipment to be financed
under the project. Procurement of equipment and vehicles will be subject
to international competitive bidding. Disbursements would be made against
expenditures for vehicles and equipment, against the foreign exchange cost
of consultant's services and mapping, and through reimbursement of civil
works carried out under contract. Project implementation would take five years.
vi.      The primary benefits of the irrigation Improvement Project will
arise from increased production of rice, and to a lesser extent, of peanuts
and vegetables. The net value of production would be 61112 million per
year at full development which is projected to be attained 10 years after
the start of the project. This compares with a current net value of annual
production of f3O million. At forecast world market prices the economic
rate of return for the irrigation project is 22%. Other benefits such as
an improved domestic water supply in the dlry season and transport cost
savings attributable to road improvements financed by the project have
not been quantified. The project is also to be seen as an important first
stage in the Government's efforts to accelerate the development of irrigated
agriculture in areas which could be served by existing irrigation works.
vii.     There are about 16,000 farm. families in the areas to be developed
by the Irrigation Improvement Project. The average holding within the
project area is about 2.5 ha, but many farmers cultivate kenaf and cassava



- iii -
in upland areas, so that average farm size is about 3.0 ha. Virtually all
farming takes place in the wet season and there is considerable under-employment
in the dry season. The project will give rise to a three-fold increase in employ-
ment opportunities. More than half of the additional labor will be required
in the dry season. The annual per capita income of farm families benefited by
the project is projected to increase from about US$30 to a figure between US$50
and US$90 depending on farm size and cropping intensity. At full development
the project would increase Thailand's annual production of milled rice by
85,000 tons.
viii.    The justification of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project rests essentially
on the need to institute a systematic effort to identify, test, and promote
improved techniques for rainfed rice cultivation in the Northeast. As the
first stage in a regional rice improvement program, substantial benefits would
accrue to the pioneer project investment. However, the nature of the project
is such that it does not lend itself to a formal analysis of economic returns
to the investmnt.
ix.      The Rural Infrastructure Project, preparation of which will be assisted
by the consulting services to be financed by the Credit, is in line with the
Governments policy for rural development in the Northeast.
x.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.0 million.  The
borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.






THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEME'IT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Thailand has requested IDA assistance in financing
the completion and improvement of irrigation systems in Northeast Thailand.
The project includes three sub-projects with a combined irrigable area of
42,000 ha in the service area of three existing reservoirs located on tribu-
taries of the Mekong River. The Bank Group's review of development potentials
in the Lower Mekong Basin 1/ drew attention to the need for more effective
utilization of existing irrigation works in Northeast Thailand. Preparation
of the project by the Royal Irrigation Department with the assistance of IDA
staff was initiated following a review of development priorities in Northeast
Thailand.2/   This would be the eighth Bank Group operation for promoting
irrigated7agriculture in Thailand, and the first Bank Group project devoted
specifically to the support of the Government's regional development efforts
in Northeast Thailand.
1.02      The proposed IDA credit also includes financing for the implemen-
tation of a Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project in Northeast Thailand. The project
was prepared by IDA staff and consultants under UNDP Regional Project 253, a
"Program for Detailed Preparation of Pioneer Projects in the Lower Mekong
Basin."   This program, which involves the preparation of 15 pioneer agri-
cultural projects located in major development areas of the Mekong Basin is
sponsored by the W>kong Committee 3/ and financially supported by technical
assistance grants from UNDP, the Netherlands, Japan, the United Kingdom and
the United States. The pioneer projects are designed to constitute appropriate
models which deal with technical, agronomic, economic and organizational
problems likely to be encountered in the implementation of full scale agri-
cultural development projects and programs.  The Bank is Executing Agency for
this program. in association with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
1.03      This report is based on the findings of missions, comprising Messrs.
W.T. Smith, Y. Nakahara (IDA), A. Seki and H. Rashid (Consultants) on irrigation
and Messrs. P. Craig-Martin (IDA), J. Kawakami,, W.F. Burke (Consultants) on
rainfed rice development. The missions visited Thailand in November and
July 1972 respectively. Project appraisal was completed in follow-~ap
discussions with the Government in March 1973.
1/  "A Review of Land and Water Resource Development in the Lower Mekong
Basin", IBRD, February 1972.
2/ "A Review of Development Priorities in Northeast Thailand", Volume V,
Annex 9 of "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Thailand", TB_D,
January 1972.
3/  "Committee for the Coordination of Investigations of the Lower Mekong
Basin", composed of representatives from Laos, Khimer Republic, Thailand,
and Republic of Vietnam.



- 2 -
II. BACKGRDUND
General
2.01      Thailand's territory extends over 514i,O0  km , alm2t one-fourth
is cropland and one-half forest and grazing land. Its population, which
current estimates put at 38.5 million increases by about 3% per year. The
Goveriment's population policy is expected to bring this growth rate down
to about 2.5% towards the end of the 1970's. Thailand has been undergoing
a process of adjustment from the rapid economic growth of the 1960's at 8%
a year in real terms to about 6% a year. Per capita GNP in 1972 was $212
with large regional differences reflecting the concentration of past public
and private investment in the Bangkok area. The development objectives of
the Third Five-Year Plan (1972-76) emphasize revival of economic growth at
or near 7% a year, expansion of agricultural and indastrial exports,
increased public investment efforts for agriculture, education and social
services, better regional distribution of development gains with particular
concern for the Northeast, and improvements in economic management particularly
in the formulation of projects and regional programs.
The Agricultural Sector
2.02      While the agricultural sector's share in gross domestic product is
only 28%, it employs close to 80% of the total labor force and accounts for
70% of total exports.  Rice is the country's staple food crop with consumption
averaging around 160 kg per year, among the highest in the world.  Paddy
production increased during the 1960's at an average rate of 3% per year and
presently stands at a level of 13.6 million tons. Although most rice is
consumed locally, Thailand is a major rice exporter;  in 1971, 1.6 million
tons of rice, or about one-sixth of total production, was exported.
2.03      On the basis of the Bank's projections, Thailand can expect only a
limited growth in rice exports during the next decade. On the other hand,
paddy production would still have to be raised by 4 million tons over the
next decade, or an annual compounded growth rate of about 2.5%, in order to
satisfy increased domestic requirements. More importantly most of this would
have to come from increased productivity, as only limited opportunities exist
for the opening up of new lands under rice, a process which accounted for a
significant amount of the total production increase in the 1960ts. Mbreover,
new lands could be rwre economically devoted to other crops for export.
Increased productivity will also be necessary to maintain Thailand's com-
petitive position in the world rice trade.



-3-
;ortheast! Thailand
12 .04    Northeast Thailand has a population of about 12 million and covers
An area of some 170,000 square kilometers.  Although the region accounts for
abudt one-third of Thailand's population and land area, its share of the
gross national product averages about 16%. Par capita income is 25% of the
Central region (which includes Bangkok), 40% of the Southern region and 55%
of the Northern region.
2.05      Although economic development in the region lags behind the rest
of the country, real economic growth over the past decade has been fairly
high. Gross regional product has grown at 7% compared to 8% for Thailand
as a whole.  This satisfactory rate of economic growth has, to a large
extent, been the result of major investments in public works.
2.06      The regional economy is dominated by agriculture which generates
nearly half the gross regional product and expanded in the 1960's at an
annual rate of 4.3%. Growth in the agricultural sector in a large measure
was due to the rapid expansion in the production of such cash crops as kenaf,
cassava, and maize.
Agriculture in Northeast Thailand
2.07      Crops and Crop Production. Rice is the main crop and about 3.2
million ha of the total land area of 17 million ha have been developed for
paddy cultivation.  The cultivation of upland crops, of which the most
inportant are kenaf and cassava, has expanded rapidly since the late 1950ts.
The area planted to upland crops varies from year to year in response to
markets and prices.
2.08      Crop production is presently confined to the period May through
October.  Diring this period, about 85% of the annual rainfall occurs.  Rair-
fall in the dry season is inadequate for crop production.
2.09      Although population growth is close to 3% per year, the region has
not become overpopulated.  Farm holdings, which average about 3.5 ha, are
generally larger than in other agricultural areas in Southeast Asia. Most of
the farmers own the land they cultivate. In the past, Northeast Thailand has
been on average self-sufficient in rice production. Since virtually all rice
cultivation is dependent upon rainfall - the area presently receiving irrigation
water is negligible -- production is subject to wide year-to-year fluctuations.
Annual paddy production in the Northeast averaged about 3.1 million tolls in the
1960's.  The average planted area was 2.6 million ha out of the 3,2 million ha
of land area in the floodplails and lower terraces which have been developed
for paddy cultivation. The average yield is about 1.2 tons of paddy per
planted ha, but average yields by provinces range between 0.8 and 2.6 tols
per ha. About 60% of the rice grown in the liortheast is of the glutinous
variety.



2.10      Although, as explained below, there is a considerable potential
for irrigation, most of the rice farmers will continue to depend on rainfall.
The aim of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project is to develop and promote the
techniques required to realize higher yields under rainfed conditions.
2.11      The most significant expansion of upland cropping in the Northeast
has been in the cultivation of kenaf, a fiber crop similar to jute but of a
lower grade.   The cropped area expanded from 50,000 ha in 1950 to around
100,000 ha at the beginning of the 1960's, reaching its peak in 1966 with a
total area of 520,000 ha.   Kenaf production, which is virtually confined to
the Northeast, has thus become an important source of cash income to the
region's economy and an important export crop for Thailand.   Cassava,
another export crop, has shown rapid growth in the 1960's, with less fluctua-
tions than kenaf, but the Northeast accounts for only about 6% of Thailand's
production.   In recent years there has been a sharp increase in the production
of maize, but large-scale cultivation is confined to an area of fertile soils
in the western part of the region.
2.12      Irrigation Potential.  Reservoir storage to conserve and regulate
river flows is a prerequisite to large-scale irrigation in the Northeast.
During the dry season, the flow in all except the lower reaches of the larger
rivers virtually ceases, and in the wet season river flows follow a similar
pattern to rainfall, with sharp recessions in flow coinciding with periods
of drought.
2.13      A program for the construction of small reservoirs or "tanks" in
the Northeast began in the early 1950's and it is estimated that these now
number over 160.   This program was followed in the 1960's by the construc-
tion of dams on some of the larger rivers.   The seven largest projects in
terms of reservoir capacity are listed in Annex 6 and shown on Map IBRD 10305.
Also listed in Annex 6 are other major projects for which planning studies
have been made.   These projects represent most of the potential for irriga-
tion from the tributaries of the Mekong River in Northeast Thailand.   All of
the existing and potential projects are planned to provide for intensive dry-
season irrigation (targets for the dry-season cropping intensity vary from
project to project but range between 70% and 100%), together with wet-season
irrigation of rice on 100% of the service areas.         s        only a sma'T
proportion of the land served by existing canals is irrigated. Expane-6n
of irrigation will require improvements in the canal systems, higher standards
of operation and management, and improvements in supporting agricultural
services.
2.L4      Existing major projects, and others which have been identified and
studied, are planned to provide intensive year-round irrigation on about
280,000 ha.   The tank projects, few of which are effectively utilized for
irrigation, could with rehabilitation and development serve about 50,000 ha.L/
Development of this potential would lead to a substantial increase in the
1/ A pioneer project focussing on tank irrigation has been prepared under
UNDP Regional Project 253.



- 5-
prodaction of rice and a wide range of other crops. The Irrigation
Improvement Project conprises the first stage of the Government's effort to
accelerate development in areas served by existing major irrigation works in
the Northeast.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Irrigation Improvement Project
General
3.01      The combined net irrigable area of the project is about 42,000 ha
and comprises the following three sub-projects, each of which lies within an
area commanded by an existing reservoir and canal system:
Lam Phra Plerng:     The entire commanded area of 9,100 ha;
Lam Pao:             An area of 16,000 ha commanded by the
right bank canal and an area of 2,200 ha
commanded by the left bank canal;
,,am Pong:           An area of 14,700 ha commanded by the
left bank canal.
Ecisting Irrigation Facilities
3.02      Principal features of the existing facilities irn the project areas
are summarized below. Further details are given in Annex 1.
Lam Phra           Lam            lam
Plerng            Pao            Pong
Dam wad Reservoir:
Storage Capacity (nwm)        146            1,260          1,680
Year of Comnpletion          1969             1968           1966
Irrigable Area (ha):
Total (existing)            9,100 /1        18,200 1       28,200
Left Bank                   -              2,200 A       14,700 /1
Right Bank                  -             16,000  1      13,500 _
Total (full development)   9,100            54,000         47,000
Left Bank                   -             14,000         33,500
Right Bank                  _             40,000         13,500
Irrigation Systems:
(in the sub-projects)
Maini Canals (km)              74               59             46
Laterals    (km)               28               83             65
Tertiaries  (km)              330              320            240
/1 Areas covered by this project.
/2 "Tot iiieluded in this project.



-6-
3.03      The establishment of irrigated agriculture has encountered
numerous problems with the result that few of the farmers served -by tthe
existing works receive a dependable supply of irri-gation wa4er.   At Lam
Pao and Nam Pong large areas have received no water at all bedaute of
delays in completing sections of the concrete-lined main canals.
Although the construction problems in the main canals at LAi Pao and
Nam Pong have now been solved, additional works are ne*ded, both in these
two projects and at Lam Phra Plerng, before any significant ikrigation
benefits can be realized.   The required works are described in Chapter IV
and Annex 1, but briefly summarized they include:
- provision for efficient water control structures in
the main canals and laterals;
-  an increase of 40% in the capacity of the main systems
at Lam Phra Plerng;
- construction of an adequate, all-weather systen of
canal service roads;
-  rehabilitation of the existing tertiary systeimis and
construction of new tertiary canals and drains.
3.04      Although irrigation is so far on a relatively small scale the
results are of some interest.   At Lam Phra Plerng, severai thousand
hectares receive supplementary irrigation water in the wet season and the
farmers report yields of about 2.0 tons/ha compared with average yields of
1.2 tonsAa without irrigation.   In the 1972/73 dry season about 1,000 ha
of rice and 100 ha of upland crops (primarily peanuts) was irrigated in the
upstream part of the service area.   Special efforts were made by RID
officials to provide irrigation on a regular basis.  Most of the farmers
adopted the improved varieties of rice (RD1 and RD3), and in several large
tertiary blocks virtually all of the land was cultivated.   This is
encouraging evidence of farmers' response to a dependable water supply.
Climate
3.05      Average annual rainfall in the Northeast ranges from 1,100 milli-
meters in the western provinces to over 1,600 millimeters in the eastern
provinces bordering the Mekong.   The project areas lie in the drier parts
of the region.   About 85% of the rainfall occurs between midd-May and mid-
uc; +ber.   Rainfall data for stations in the vicinity of the project areas
are given in Annex 3.   In total, the rainfall is adequate for production
of a wet-season rice crop but is often poorly distributed in relation to
crop water requirements.   Drought periods of 10 to 15 days are common in
July and August and the October rainfall is often insufficient for maturing
the rice crop.   In the dry season, November to February, the region suffers
from drought.   Crop production is only possible with irrigation and even
water for domestic purposes is scarce.



-7-
Average teiperatures range between 200C in January and 300C in April. The
relative humidity is in the range of 75-85% in the rainy season and 55-70%
in the dry season. Evaporation (as measured by U.S. Weather Bureau Class 'A'
pans) is on the order of 1,800 to 2,000 millimeters.
Water Supply, Demands and Quality
3.o6      A review of water supply and demands for the three sub-projects
is presented in Annex 3. The principal findings of this review are briefly
summarized below.
3.07      The Lam Phra Plerng reservoir will provide a regulated flow sufficient
for irrigating 100% of the 9,100 ha service area in the wet season and 50% in
the dry season; in other words an annual cropping intensity of 150%,,. Rice
would be the main crop in both seasons. In order to meet peak irrigation
demands which coincidentally in this case are nearly the same in each season,
the capacity of the main canals and laterals will be increased by 40%.
3.o8      The 'am Pong reservoir could provide a water supply for a 200%
cropping intensity, not only for the first-stage areas (13,500 ha on the
right bank and 14,700 ha on the left bank) but for the full development of
47,000 ha as proposed in the current project formulation.
3.09      An accurate estimate of the water supply from the Lam Pao reservoir
will require detailed studies to derive monthly streamflow data from reservoir
operating records. A review of the available data indicates that the water
supply is sufficient for double cropping on most of the area of 54,000 ha
currently proposed as the ultimate development.
3.10      The waters of the Lam Phra Plerng, Lam Pao and iLIam Pong can be
classified as low-salinity and low-sodium, and are virtually free of any
toxic elements. In terms of their chemical properties these waters can be
safely used for irrigation.
Topography, Land Use and Soils
3.11      The service areas of the three projects are located in the broad
valleys downstream from the damsites with the main canals aligned along the
edges of the lower terraces bounding the valleys. Longitudinal slopes in
the direction of streamflow are very flat -- about 0.5 meters per kiloneter.
Transverse slopes from the terraces to the river channels are steeper and
range between 0.5% and 1%. Large areas in the valleys have been cleared of
vegetation and developed for paddy cultivation. The paddy fields are bounded
by low earthern dikes about 30 to 40 cm in height to retain rainfall and
local runoff.



- 8 -
3.12     In each of the three sub-projects same irrigable land is still
covered by forest and is not presently cultivated; percentages of irrigable
land still to be cleared are Lam Phra Plerng (5%), Lam Pao (10%) and Nam Pong
(10%). The introduction of irrigation should provide added incentives for
land clearing. Virtually all of the presently cultivated land is planted
to a single wet-season crop of paddy. Kenaf and cassava are grown on the
terraces and patches of higher ground which are generally at too high an
elevation to be irrigable.
3.13     Except for narrow strips of alluvium along the rivers, the valley
soils are for the most part medium to heavy textured, and of low natural
fertility. In the wet season, the accumulation of rainfall and surface run-
off favors paddy cultivation but precludes cultivation of dry-foot crops.
Land classification studies have been made for the areas commanded by
the Lam Pao and Lam Phra Plerng canals. Within the sub-projects most of the
land is classified as suitable for irrigated rice production, and about 30%/
of the land also is suitable for irrigation of dry-foot crops. These results
are generally typical of irrigation projects in the Northeast and can be
expected to apply to the sub-project in the Nam Pong area where no land
classification studies have been made.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.14     There are about 16,200 farm families in the three sub-projects
(3,000 in Lam Phra Plerng, 7,300 in Lam Pao and 5,900 in Nam Pong), averaging
about 7 members per farm family. The average area of irrigable land per farm
is about 3.0 ha in Lam Phra Plerng and about 2.5 ha in Lam Pao and Nam Pong,
but most farms fall within the range of 2.0 to 4.0 ha. The average size of
farms, however, is over 3.0 ha since many of the farmers grow upland crops
outside of the irrigable area. Ninety-six percent of the farms in the sub-
projects are owner-cultivated.
Crops and Crop Production
3.15     During the wet season, a single crop of transplanted rice dominates
the present cropping pattern accounting for 35,500 ha or 93% of the annually
planted area of 38,200 ha in the sub-projects. Nearly all of the low-land
fields are planted to rice. Other crops grown on higher lands within the
irrigable areas include maize (1,200 ha), kenaf (700 ha), various vegetables
(300 ha) and peanuts (300 ha). Kenaf and cassava are also grown by many of
the farmers on lands outside of the irrigable areas. Dry-season cultivation
is generally limited to vegetable cultivation on small hand-watered plots
near lake and ponds, but some areas now receive canal water at Lam Phra Plerng
(1,100 ha), and Lam Pao (200 ha).



3.16     Most of the rice grown in Lam Phra Plerng is non-glutinous, whereas
in the Lam Pao and Nam Pong areas most of the rice is glutinous.  The market
for glutinous rice outside of the Northeast is limited. Most of Thailand's
rice export is in the form of non-glutinous rice which is also in demand on
the domestic market. It is expected that as the farmers in Lam Pao and Nam Pong
increase their marketable surplus because of irrigation they will grow more
non-glutinous rice. Some improved strains of the local varieties, introduced
in the 1960's are popular with the farmers, many of whom plant a number of
varieties with different maturation periods as a hedge against climatic risks.
With irrigation supplies being available only to small parts of the project
area, high-yielding varieties (RD1 and RD3) have only found limited acceptance.
At present, average wet-season paddy yields are 1.2 tons per planted ha and
the total paddy production in the project is about 43,000 tons.
Transportation and Marketing
3.17     Each of the sub-projects is within reach of all-weather national
or provincial highways. However, to provide adequate, year-round access to
the irrigation works and to villages in the sub-projects road improvements
within the project areas will be required (paras 4.10 and 5.15).  All sub-
projects are served by an established rice marketing system and milling indus-
try.  Nearby cities of Korat (pop. 110,000) and Khon Kaen (pop. 35,000) provide
ready markets for upland crops and vegetables.
B. Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project
General
3.18     The Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project will reorient the functions of
six government rice stations in line with the needs of the region and link
their activities more closely with the extension service, and with farmers
in the surrounding areas.
Existing Rice Stations
3.19     The Rice Division of the Department of Agriculture in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives operates six rice stations in the Northeast:
Phi Mai, Khon Kaen, Chumphae, Sakhon Nakhon, Ubon and Surin (see Map IBRD
10368). Each station is managed by a resident superintendent who has a staff
of about 8-9 professionals. The main work of the stations is in varietal
trials and experiments, and rice seed multiplication. At Khon Kaen, in
addition to the normal station staff, there are five resident specialists
seconded by various branches of the Rice Division in Bangkok. These specialists,
an entomologist, a pathologist, two soil fertility specialists and an expert
in rat infestation control, supervise experiments conducted at Khon Kaen, at
the other five stations and at 22 experimental/demonstration plots throughout
the Northeast.



- 10 -
3.20      The six stations cover an area of 330 ha, of which 130 ha is used
for seed multiplication and 24 ha for experimentation. About 100 tons of
seed is distributed annually, either through the extension service or sold
directly to farmers; this is about 60% of the annual seed production of the
stations. Only two improved local varieties, Niaw San-pah-tawng (a glutinous
variety introduced in 1962) and Ehao Dawk i4ali 105 (a non-glutinous variety
introduced in 1959) enjoy wide farmer acceptance, and the entire output of
seeds for these varieties is disposed of each year.
3.21      The project would broaden the activities of the stations at Phi Mai
and Ubon to become regional Rice Development Centers.  The area of the Phi Iai
and Ubon stations would be increased to 67 ha and 80 ha respectively to allow
an expansion of plant breeding, experimentation, seed multiplication and on-
station training and demonstration. Both centers would also establish
supervised outgrower schemes of about 70 ha for on-farm testing and demonstration
of improved seeds, cultivation techniques and fertilizer use.
3.22      The two centers are situated at the western and eastern ends
respectively of the Man and Chi River Basin which is the most densely populated
area of the Northeast where rice is the predominant crop. Between them, these
centers will serve areas which are representative of the major soil types and
climates found in the Northeast. On the initiative of the Bank analyses of
climatic data for twelve representative Northeast recording stations have
been carried out by the U.S. National Climrtic Center. These analyses will be
made available to the Government to assist in the detailed design of the
regional rice improvement program. A more detailed description of the existing
government rice stations is to be found in Annex 11.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A. Irrigation Improvement Project
General
4.ol     Sfhe principal features of the project are:
(a) construction of additional control structures, and
modifications to existing structures to ensure
efficient water control throughout the 350 Icm of
existing main canals and laterals;
(b)  enlargement of 102 km of main canals and laterals at
Lam Phra Plerng to increase the capacity of the
system by 40%;
(c)  construction of approximately 330 km of canal service
roads to make the systems accessible to operating
personnel and agricultural supporting services;



- 11 -
(d) rehabilitation of 900 Im of existing tertiary canals
and construction of approximately 350 km of new tertiary
canals and 560 km of drains;
(e) establishment of efficient procedures for operating and
maintaining the irrigation systems to ensure timely and
adequate deliveries of irrigation water;
(f)  strengthening of agricultural extension services and
establishment of agricultural demonstration areas;
(g) provision of consulting services to assist the Government
in project implementation and in the training of operating
personnel and extension workers;
(h) provision of consulting services for detailed preparation
of the second stages of the Lam Pao and Nai Pong projects
and for irrigation development in areas served by the
existing Lam Talhong reservoir;  and
(i)  preparation of topographic maps based on up-to-date aerial
photography for the sub-projects, the second stages of
Lam Pao and Nam Pong, and the service area of the Lam Takdhong
pro ject.
Construction of project works, which would be largely confined to the dry
seasons, would be conpleted in just over four years (February 1974 through
April 1978). A construction schedule is shown in Chart No. 7807.
Project T,Drks
4.02      The following description of project works is supplemented by
further details presented in Annex 1.
4.03      Main janals and Laterals,  In none of the canals is there adequate
provision for controlling water levels over the wide range of flows likely
to be encountered during operation. Consequently, the water surface in the
canals often falls below the intakes to the tertiary canals. To overcome
this problem about 22 additional checks will be provided in the main calals
and laterals.  Also, at many of the existing checks, water levels are intended
to be controlled by wooden stoplogs, which in most cases are missing. These
devices, which require considerable time and manpower for their operation,
will be replaced by control gates.
4.04      Additional wasteways are needed to provide a means for discharging
surplus water from the canals. Occasions for use of the wasteways would
arise when large quantities of water enter the canals through drainage inlets,



- 12 -
or when reductions in demand are not matched by reductions in discharge
at the canal head. The wasteways, of which about six would be required,
would be located at points where the main canals and laterals are close to
the existing river channels.
4.05     qThe capacities of the main canals aud laterals. at Lam Phra Plerng
are insufficient to meet peak irrigation demands. The project therefore
provides for increasing the capacity of the main canal and laterals by about
40%. This wou-ld be done by extending the concrete lining to increase the
canal depth by about 0.4 rmters. The configuration of the side slopes and
the canal embankments are such that a lar;ge volume of additional earth work
will not be necessary.
4.06      At Lam Pao,. some sections of the laterals (in total about 20. Ia)
do not command the land they are intended to irrigate and there is a need
to extend the concrete lining by about 0.5 meters to allow an increase in
the water level.
4.07      A canal telephone system will be provided in each sub-project to
allow communications between the project management at the canal headworks
and operating personnel in the field.
4.08      Service Roads. About 330 km of canal service roads will be
constructed to permit efficient operation and maintenance of the three sub-
projects. The main canal service roads (except for the first 29 lhn at Lam
Phra Plerng which has an asphalt surface) are&generally in poor condition
and only a few short sections are suitable for vehicle traffic.. Roads along
the laterals are virtually irVassable., and in, meat cases are earth tracks
with widths of only 1-3 meters.
4.09      All roads wiLll be provided with a compacted la^terite surface.  The
main canal roads will be 6 meters wide,without shoulders. For the major
laterals, the roads will be 3 meters wide with one-meter shoulders, and on
the small laterals the shoulders will be omitted. The existing embankments
along the main canals are generally wide enough for the proposed roads
although some grading will be needed.? Along the laterals, the existing
embanilents will have to be widened and graded.
4.10      The section of the Lam Phra Plerng main canal service road from
Km 29 to Km 49 will be an important addition to the existing network of roads,
and it will be built to a high enough standard to qualify for maintenance by
the Department of Highways (6-meter wide with 1-meter shoulders and 45 cm
thickness of laterite). Selected service roads at Lam Pao and Nam Pong will
also be opened to public traffic where they serve to link villages to the
national and provincial highways.



- 13 -
4.11     Tertiary Canals and Drains.  Experience at Lam Phra Plerng has
shown that it is possible to establish both wet-season and dry-season irri-
gation of paddy on all of the land between adjacent tertiaries, provided
diversions from the main canals and laterals are timely and adequate.
A form of inundation irrigation is practiced in which water flows from
one flooded paddy field to the next. Irrigation of non-rice crops, so far
limited to just over 100 ha in both Lam Phra Plerng and Lam Pao, is in the
forn of large parcels of intensively cultivated land in which the farmers
have constructed their own field channels.   The relatively small scale of
irrigated agriculture so far developed is a result of delays in construction
and other deficiencies in the main systems, rather than defects in the basic
design and layout of the tertiaries. There are, nevertheless areas where the
tertiaries need to be repaired or otherwise improved to permit more efficient
irrigation.
4.12     A detailed plan for improvement of the tertiary systems in each
sub-project will be prepared in the early stages of project implementation.
This will be based on map studies and field inspections. For this purpose,
topographic maps will be prepared from up-to-date aerial photography. In
addition to the identification of rehabilitation needs (bank repair, channel
clearing etc.), the basic layout of the systems will be reviewed. This will
show where additional tertiaries are required and others need to be extended
or realigned to permit more efficient water management.   -
)4.13    Drainage will be improved through the construction of drains between
tertiaries and through the cleaning and deepening of natural drainage ways.
Additional drainage works designed to provide the water control required for
large-scale wet-season cultivation of high yielding varieties would at this
stage not be economically justified since cultivation of improved local
varieties which tolerate a wider range in water levels offers substantial
scope for improvement in the yield of the wet-season rice crop.
4.14     Most of the new tertiary canals and drains will be constructed in
areas selected for intensive double cropping which, in each sub-project, will
total about 50% of the irrigable area. It is estimated that about 350 km
of canals and 560 km of drains will be constructed. In general, double
cropping will be introduced where there are large tracts of level land.
It may also be necessary to limit double cropping to the upper and middle
reaches of the canal system, since some years of experience in water schedul-
ing will be needed before the lower ends of the systems can be assured of a
dry-season water supply.
4.15     Many years of cultivation have produced a reasonably level surface
in individual paddies. With the introduction of irrigation, the farmers,
with advice from RID and the project extension services, will have an incen-
tive to carry out additional land levelling and the removal of some of the
paddy dykes.



- 14 -
4.16     Rehabilitation and extension of the tertiary systems will be
performed by RID as a force account operation. Much of the rehabilitation
of existing canals, and the construction and rehabilitation of minor
structures will be carried out by manual labor. Earthmoving equipment
(see Annex 1), to be procured as a part of the project, will be used in
conjunction with manual labor for the construction of new canals. The
drains will be constructed almost entirely by equipment. For purposes of
economic analysis, depreciation of earthmoving equipment has been con-
servatively estimated as 75% of the initial cost.  However, the equipment
will have several years of useful life beyond the end of construction and
will be retained in the projects for maintenance of the main canals,
laterals and service roads (the equipment has been selected to meet this
dual purpose).
Engineering Designs
4.17     The required civil works have been identified in sufficient
detail to form a basis for project cost estimates (Annex 1); however,
more detailed designs will be needed for onstraction. Designs for the
works in the main canals, laterals and service roads will be prepared by
RID with the assistance of the project consultants; typical designs are
available for virtually all of the works required. Plans for the re-
habilitation and extension of the tertiary canals and drains would be
based on map studies and field inspections. Layouts of the new works would
be developed on 1:5,000 scale topographic maps prepared from up-to-date
aerial photography (Annex 2).
Cost Estimates
4.18     The cost estimates summarised below cover all civil works, equipment
and services to be procured for the project. Overall project costs are
estimated at US$10.7 million, with a forign exchange component of US$4.5
million, or 42% of the project cost. Details of the cost estimates are given
in Annex 1.
4.19     Estimates for work on the main canals and laterals were derived by
estimating quantities for the major work items and applying unit prices
currently prevailing in Thailand. For the service roads, the estimates are
based on iTformation contained in reports prepared by Thai Engineering
Consultants Ltd., who conducted a field survey of the service roads in
January 1973.
4.20     Cost estimates for the tertiary canals and drains shown in the
summary comperLse labor, materials and the costs of operating and maintaining
the construction equipnlnt.
4.21     The costs to be incurred by RID in engineering and supervision are
estimated at 10% of the construction costs for irrigation works and 3% of
the cost of the service roads. The lower figure for the service roads reflects
the larger input of the consultants in designs and supervision.



- 15 -
4.22     Physical contingencies of 20% have been added to the construction
costs of the main and tertiary canal systems. Since costs for the service
roads are based on more detailed quantity estimates, a physical contingency
of 15% has been applied. Price contingencies on both foreign and local
costs are based on price escalation at 7% per year applied to the unspent
year-end balance. 1/
Baht (Million)           US$('000)       Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
Component
1.  Main Canals and Laterals    19.9   5.0    24.9    996  248    1,244    20%
2.  Service Roads                34.2  18.4    52.6  1,711  921    2,632    35%
3.  Tertiary Canals & Drains    15.1   1.7    16.8    757   84         841    10%
4.  Vehicles and Equipment        0.7  11.8    12.5      31  593       624    95%
5. Consulting Services:
Project Implementation    2.8  11.2    14.0    140  560         700    80%
Future Projects            1.3   9.3    10.6      70  460       530    87%
6. Mapping:
Project Implementation    0.9   3.3       4.2     40  170       210    81%
Future Projects            1.5  6.4       7.9     75  320       395    81%
7.  Extension Centers             2.7   0.3      3.0    134   16       150    10%
8.  Engineering and Supervision  7.4    -        7.4    370   -        370      0
9. Contingencies:
Physical                   12.6  5.0    17.6    633  246        879    28%
Price                      24.0 18.5    42.5  1,199  926    2,125    1
TOTALS                    123.1 90.9   214.0  6,156 4,544  10,700    42%
1/ The amount shown under price contingencies in the cost summary also
includes a 10% increase in the costs estimated at the time of appraisal.
This reflects price increases which have taken place since project
appraisal in late 1972.



- 16 -
Environmental Impact of the Project
4.23       The project will improve the environment for agriculture by
eliminating the constraints imposed by uncertain rainfall in the wet season
and lack of water in the dry season. Year-round irrigation can be safely
practised without the risk of salinity because of the high rainfall and
low-salinity of the irrigation water. Water tables are already high in
the wet season and, with rice as the main crop, this condition can be
tolerated.
4.24       The high incidence of intestinal diseases in Northeast Thailand
is largely a result of polluted sources of drinking water. The introduc-
tion of year-round irrigation may inprove conditions for the development
of shallow wells for domestic water supply. Human schistosomiasis, the
most serious of the diseases which might be spread by an irrigation system,
has not been reported in the project area. However, the snail vector
has been found and schistosomiasis reported in the Mekong Basin. Several
agencies are engaged in investigative and control work on schistosomiasis,
including the Department of Health, the Institute of Tropical Medicine in
Bangkok, and the Smithsonian Institution as part of a study of the Mekong
Basin.
B. Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project
General
4.25       The project aims to investigate the present status and the
potentials of rainfed rice cultivation and it is designed to identify, test
and, in two provinces, promote improved techniques of rainfed rice cultiva-
tion. As a pioneer project which will be subjected to intensive monitoring
during its implementation, the Government wishes to use the project to lead
into the formulation and eventual implementation of a regional rice improve-
ment program.
4.26       Over the past decade several improved native varieties of rice
(para 3.20) have come to be accepted by the more progressive farmers in the
Northeast. Thesevarieties generally outperform other native varieties, but
their full potential remains to be exploited. Some promising work has been
carried out by the government rice stations on fertilizer response and
improved cultural practices, but efforts have been dispersed over too wide
a range of rice varieties, some of which have limited adaptability to
conditions in the Northeast. The Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project would institute
a systematic effort to identify the combinations of inputs and cultivation
practices which, in terms of costs and yield response, would be financially
attractive to the farmers. Although initial emphasis would be on the currently
accepted varieties, breeding programs for other varieties would be strengthened,
with emphasis on development of varieties which are adopted to the different
soils and rainfall regimes found within the Northeast. Other aims of the
project would be to increase the supply of quality seeds of improved varieties,
and to strengthen the links between the rice stations and the extension
services so that the latter would have proven and practical techniques to
impart to the farmers. Implementation of the pioneer project would extend
over a period of four years.



- 17 -
Project Components
4.27     The pioneer project would broaden the activities of the government
rice stations at Phi Mai and Ubon to enable them to function as regional Rice
Development Centers. This would entail improvement of existing rice seed
multiplication activities and the establishment of two supervised outgrower
schemes. Improved cultivation practices and applications of fertilizers, etc.,
formulated at the centers, would be tested under actual farming conditions on
the outgrower schemes. The paddy produced by the outgrower schemes would be
purchased and processed for seed to be distributed to extension services and
farmers. These activities would therefore lead to recommendations on culti-
vation practices and input use. Such recommendations would be the subject
of on-station training courses and demonstrations for selected farmers,
extension agents and rural credit agents.
4.28     Support for the centers at Phi Mai and Ubon would be provided by
the establishment of regional rice breeding facilities at Khon Kaen. There
would also be a parallel improvement of rice seed multiplication at the
Sakhon Nakhon, Surin, Chumphae and Khon Kaen stations.
4.29     In addition to the on-station training of selected farmers and
officials at the Phi Mai and Ubon Centers, the project would also assist
the Extension Department in promoting the use of improved seed material and
in the dissemination of information about improved cultural practices and
input use in the provinces where the Rice Development Centers are located.
Although primarily aimed at the improvement of rainfed rice cultivation,
seed production and multiplication facilities financed under this project
would also provide the necessary capacity to meet the demand for improved
seed material of the Irrigation Improvement Project.
4.30     Phi Mai and Ubon Rice Development Centers.  At these centers,
the project would provide research and farm equipment, seed processing
equipment and vehicles. The project would also provide facilities for
training about 150 extension workers and rural agents of BAAC, 100 out-
growers, and 2,000 rice farmers over a period of four years. Each center
would be provided with housing for three instructors, accommodation for
participants, offices and classrooms, and miscellaneous equipment and
teaching aids for training purposes. A revolving fund of Baht 250,000
would be established for each center at the local branch of BAAC.



- 18 -
4.31      Khon K aen. Facilities would be provided at this station to enable
it to mount -breeding program focussed on rainfed rice prodaction in the
various climatological zones of the Northeast. The improved varieties
developed at Ehon Kaen would be subjected to on-farm trials at Phi Mai and
Ubon. Housing, research facilities, and equipment would be provided for the
specialists operating out of Khon Kaen. The findings of these specialists
would provide further inputs into the Phi Mai and Ubon Centers for use in
cultivation experiments, outgrower farm trials, and incorporation into
farmer training programs.
4..32     Sakhon Nakhon, S_i  and ihunphae Stations.  The project would pro-
vide research and farm equipment, and vehicles for these three stations to
permit close coordination of experimentation and seed mnltiplication with the
work at Khon Kaen, and at the Phi Mai and Ubon Centers.
4.33      EKtension Services.  The project would provide vehicles for the
extension services in the provinces of Nakhon Ratchasima and Ubon Ratchathani.
This would aid extension officers and agents to reach a larger number of
farmers than at present. The project would also train farmers selected by
extension officers and station personnel to become change agents in their
farming communities. This would alleviate the shortage of extension workers
(at present there is one agent to more than 3,000 farmers), and would provide
contact points for extension workers in future campaigns.
Cost Estimates
4.34      The cost estimates suimarized below cover all buildings, equipment
and services to be procured for the project. The costs also include the two
revolvring funds of Z 250,000 for seed purchase from the Phi Mai and Ubon out-
grower schemes. Overall project costs are estimated at US$1.50 million with
foreign exchange conponent of US$1.29  .illion or 86%i of the project.
4.35      A breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex 12 and s.arized
below:                       Bahtl1ion               US$ '000          Foreign
Bnxchange
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total   Conponent
Equipment & Vehicles      0.*5     9.8   10.3    25    491    516         95%
Training Facilities
& Equipment              1.7    4x5    6.2    83    227    310         73
Outgrower Fund            0.5       -     0.5    25      -      25        0
Technical Assistance      0.9      5.3    6.2    44    266    310         86,
Contingencies:
Physical                 0.1     1.6    1.7      7     76     83       91%
Price   1/              0.5      4.6    5.1    26    230    256        90%
TOTALS                  4.2   25.8   30.0   210  1,290  1,500          86%
_Sf n- _                =           -
1/ See f ootnote on p . 15



- 19 -
C. Preparation of Rural Infrastructure Project
4.36     A review of development priorities in Northeast Thailand was carried
out by the Bank in late 1971 in parallel with the work of the Bank's economic
mission to Thailand. Among the projects identified in this review are the
two projects appraised in this report and a rural infrastructure project which
is now in the process of being prepared. The chief components of this project
will be rural roads and village water supply. The Government has expressed
an interest in possible Bank Group financing of such a project and appraisal
is presently scheduled for mid-1974.
4.37     The Government wishes to retain consultants for assistance in the
final stages of project preparation and also to allow detailed engineering
and other technical studies to continue between the time of appraisal and
credit of effectiveness. During negotiations the Government requested tne
inclusion in this credit of US$300,000 to cover the foreign exchange cost
of such services. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that consul-
tants, acceptable to IDA, would be employed under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. Designation of an agency of the Ministry of In-
terior, acceptable to IDA, to be the executing agency is a condition of
effectiveness of the credit.
D. Financing and Procurement
Financing
4.38     The estimated total cost of the project is US$12.6 million.  The
proposed IDA credit of US$7.0 million would cover:
-- about 50% of the cost of the Irrigation Improvement Project
which would cover the foreign exchange cost of US$4.5 million
and US$0.9 million of local costs;
-- 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer
Project (US$1.3 million) which would cover 86% of the project
cost; and
-- 100% of the foreign exchange cost of consulting services for
preparation of a rural infrastructure project (US$0.3 million)
which would cover 75% of the total cost.
The Government's contribution of US$5.6 million (Baht 112 million)
would be met by annual budget allocations to the responsible Ministries.
Procurement
4.39     Work on main canals, laterals and service roads (Us$3.9 million)
will be suitable for contract work.  Work on service roads (US$2.6 dUllion)
can be combined in contracts large enough for international competitive
bidding. Rehabilitation and extension of the tertiary systems will involve
relatively small, scattered works which are seasonal and must be scheduled
to minimize interference with farming and to suit irrigation schedules.
For these reasons, the works will be best carried out by RID as a force
account operation using manual labor in conjunction with earthmoving equip-
ment to be procured as part of the project.



- 20 -
4.40     Procurement of vehicles and equipment would be subject to international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manu-
facturers of vehicles and equipment in the evaluation of bids. Single off-the-
shelf items costing less than US$5,000 each, which are not suitable for inter-
national tendering, would be purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures. Such purchases would be limited to a total of US$50,000 and
US$100,000 for the Irrigation Improvement Project and the Rainfed Rice Pioneer
Project respectively.  There are sufficient suppliers of such goods so that
adequate competition exists.
4.41     Gontracts for consuruction of houses and office buildings (US$0.5 million)
would be tendered locally since these structures have to be completed prior to the
start of other project activities and the small expenditures distributed over a
number of sites would not attract international competition. Procedures for
local bidding are satisfactory and there is sufficient competition for works
of this kind and size.
4.42     For the Irrigation Improvement Project, the Project Director (see
para 5.02), with the assistance of the project consultants, would be respon-
sible for the preparation of all contract documents, the evaluation of bids
and the award of contracts. In the case of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project,
all matters pertaining to procurement would be the responsibility of the
Pioneer Project Coordinator (see para 5.23) acting with the rice station
superintendents and the Engineering Division of the Agriculture Department.
There are no preferential import duties in Thailand that may affect interna-
tional contractors or suppliers.
Disbursements
4.43     Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against c.i.f.
cost of directly imported equipment (listed in Annex 1), or the ex-factory
price net of taxes of equipment manufactured locally, and at the rate of
65% of total expenditures for imported equipment procured locally. For
consultants' services and mapping disbursements would cover 100% of the
foreign exchange cost. Civil works carried out under contract would be
reLmbursed on a percentage basis to be established.  The estimated schedules
of expenditures on the projects and quarterly disbursement schedules are
presented in Annex 7.  It is expected that disbursement will be completed
by December 1978.
Nc7'^ unts and Audits
4.44     The agencies involved in project implementation are departments
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, and are subject to separate
government control and auditing procedures.  Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that (a) all accounts of the Irrigation Improvement
Project (including expenditures and receipts related to operation and
maintenance) would be consolidated under the Project Coordinator; (b) all
accounts of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project would be consolidated under
the Pioneer Project Coordinator in the Office of the Director-General for
Agriculture; (c) auditors satisfactory to IDA would be employed to audit
project accounts armually; and (d) the audited accounts would be sent to IDA,
together with the auditors' coments, within four months of the close of each
financial year.



- 21 -
V. O0GANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Irrigation Improvement Project
Management and Joordination
5.01     The Royal Irrigation Department will be the government agency
responsible for implementation of the project works. The provision of
extension services will be the responsibility of the Department of Agricul-
tural Extension. Both of these departments are in the Ministry of Agricul-
tmre and Cooperatives.  Their activities will be coordinated by a Project
Coordinator to be appointed by and reporting to the Under-Secretary of State
for Agriculture and Cooperatives. The proposed organization is shown on
Chart 7808.  Appointment of key officials, acceptable to IDA, and the
establishment of project coordination comnittees (para 5.03) is a condition
of effectiveness of the credit.
5.02     The Director-General of the Royal Irrigation Department has assigned
the responsibility for planning and implementation of the project to the
Operation and Maintenance Division. This division has carried out the
construction of the existing tertiary systems.  The Gonstruction Division
of RID is no longer active at Lam Phra Plerng and will shortly complete work
on the main canals at Lam Pao and Nam Pong. Work on the main canals and
laterals under this project, which will have to be closely coordinated with
system operation to avoid any further interruptions in water deliveries,
is therefore best executed by the 0 & M Division.  Personnel for operation
mnd maintenance are already established in each project.  The Deputy Direc-
tor-General, Operation and Maintenance, will serve as Project Director
(Irrigation) and have overall responsibility for all three sub-projects.
The Project Director, with the assistance of the Project Manager (a senior
officer of the 0 & M Division), will prepare annual work programs, allocate
oudgets, approve contracts in consultation with the project consultants,
and serve as the disbursing officer. The 0 & M Division will be assisted
in designs, contract preparation, administration and supervision by the
project consultants. A projec-t engineer will be appointed for each sub-
project with responsibility for supervising all construction and for imple-
menting necessary improvements in system operation and maintenance.
5.03     The Central Policy Committee for Irrigated Agriculture, which has
been established under the chairmanship of the Under-Secretary of State for
Agriculture and C(ooperatives will periodically review the progress of the
project. Such reviews would be relied upon to resolve any problems of coor-
dination between government agencies which may arise in the course of project
implementation and management. On the level of the sub-projects coordination
between government agencies would be provided by project coordination committees
chaired by the respective province or district officer and comprising the
project engineer, the project extension officer in charge of extension operations
in the sub-project area (para 5.10) and local representatives of BAAC, the
Department of Agriculture and other concerned governiment agencies. Such
project coordination committees are already functioning informally in Lam Pao
and Lam Phra Plerng.



- 22 -
5.-4    AfE)nnual work programs, to be prepared by RID in advance of each
working season, will specify in detail the works to be constructed by con-
tract and force account.  The prograr will also describe the steps to be
taken in the establishment of a project organization for efficient operation
and maintenance of project works including tertiary systems. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Project Director (Irrigation)
would submit these work programs for IDA review and commient by July 31, 1974
for the 1974/75 construction period, and thereafter on July 31 of subsequent
years. All periodic progress reports would make reference to the targets
set in the work programs.
,onsulting Services
-..05    Oonsultants would be retained to assist the government agencies
conce=.ed withl -the imDlementation of the project (Annex 2).  They would
assist the Royal Irrigation Department in the preparation of designs and
contract documents, in the supervision of construction, and provide
guidance on establishing operation and maintenance procedures.  Included
in the consultants I team would be an agricultural adviser to assist in
organizing the extension services.  Several key members of the consultants'
team would be resident in Thailand for the first two years of the four-year
imple.mentation period.  Thereafter, continuing technical support would be
provided by periodic visits of two to three months by individual specialists
to evaluate progress and advise on solutions to any problems encountered in
project implementation.  The consultants would be selected from a list of
qualified firms with experience in the development of irrigated agriculture
in Southeas-t Asia. In preparing proposals for this assignment, the consul-
tants would be requested to give full consideration to using technical
skills available in Thailand - such as including qualified Thai nationals
in their tea.m and/or subcontracting certain assignnents to qualified
local consultants, PLunds are also provided in the project for consulting
services recuired for prep a-ation of further irrigation developments in
the second stages of Lam Pao and Nan PonJg projects and in areas commanded
by tlhe existing Lam, Takhong Reservoir (Annex 2).
5.06     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the consu-ltants
employed would be acceptable to and under terms of reference approved by
IDA.  The appointment of consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the
Credit.
Operation and Maintenance
5-.07    The Royal Irrigation Department will operate and maintain the main
canals and laterals in each sub-project, the Lam Phra Plerng and Lam Pao
reservoirs, and the Nong Wai diversion dam serving the Nam Pong 1/ system.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that sufficient funds will be
available at all times to operate and maintain the facilities at standards
acceptable to IDA. Indicative standards for staffing and equipment are set
out in Annex 5.  On the basis of these standards annual operation and
maintenancezcosts are estimated at A 150 per ha.
1/ The Ubolratna reservoir, which provides storage for the Nam Pong project,
with its  5 mea-awatt hydroelectric power station, will continue to be operated
by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), (See Annex 3 , para 9).



- 23 -
5.o8     Operation and maintenance of the tertiary systems (Annex 5) will be the
responsibility of the farmers themselves organized into water users' associations.
RID and the extension services will promote the establishment of such associations
in each sub-project and provide them with technical assistance. The establishment
and functioning of these associations will be monitored by periodic surveys (para
5.17). A reappraisal of the arrangements for water distribution and maintenance
of facilities within the tertiary systems will be carried out in connection
with the proposed cost recovery study (pars 5.12).
5.09     Zonemen, each responsible for about 2,000 ha, will be employed by RID
to serve as the link between the project management and the water users' associa-
tions. They will also relay requests from the farmers for increases or decreases
in water supply to gate tenders on the main canals and laterals. Each gate
tender will be responsible for a number of control gates on the main canals and
laterals.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.10     Sxtension.   A new approach to the provision of extension services in
irrigation project throughout Thailand, evolved in discussions between the
Department of Agricultural Extension and IDA, will be adopted for the project.
This approach will emphasize the training of project farmers as extension workers
(Annex 4). The Department of Agricultural Extension will appoint a project
extension officer in each sub-project to develop and manage a special agricmL1
tural extension unit. Selected farmers will be recruited and trained as exten-
sion workers with the aim of providing extension workers in the ratio of one
to 200 farmers. Training will be centered on demonstration areas; there will
be one in each sub-project with an area of about 100 ha. A building to serve
as an extension center with space for a classroom and storage will be construct-
ed in each demonstration area. The work of project extension officers will
be supervised and coordinated with other departments and agencies by a Projec(T
Director (Extension) in the Office of the Director-General, Department of A!gri-
cultural Extension.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a
ed plan for the provision of extension serviees in each sub-projec-t woud bAe
prepared by the Director-General of Agricultural Extension and reviewed ;ith
IDA within six months of the date of the Credit Agreement.  The extension
program would be closely coordinated with the ongoing programs of the UNDP/FAO
Experimental and Demonstration Farm at Kalasin which is close to the Lam Pao
ProJect. Arrangements will also be made for an examination of the support
communication needs of the extension program in each sub-project. This
examination will be performed by the UN Development Support 'oxmunications
Service located in Bangkok.
5.11     Research.  There are a number of research stations in ThaLiland
conducting research and experimentation relating to irrigated agriculture anfi
crop diversification. In the Northeast, two stations are presently engaged
in agricultural research, the Tha Phra Station near Khon Kaen and the FAQ
Experimental and Demonstration Farm at Kalasin which is close to the Lam Pso
Project.  Although more research and field trials are needed, and the research
at Tha Phra and Kalasin will be continued, enough informat-ion has ailreadQy beerl
collected to form a basis for sound advice to the farmers.



- 24 -
5.12     Fertilizers and Agro-chemicals.  Commercial channels for the dis-
tribution and sale of fertilizers and agro-chemicals are well established.
Prices for canpound fertilizers are generally in line with world-market
prices, but nitrogenous fertilizers have in the past been priced considerably
above world-market prices because imports of urea were restricted to protect
domestic producers. However, the Government has recently completed a review
of fertilizer policies and import restrictions on urea have been removed.
5.13     Seed.  The introduction of irrigation will create a demand for
seeds of the improved rice varieties. The present output of government
seed multiplication stations is small and there are no commercial sources.
Most farmers obtain seeds by exchange with other farmers. With the
implementation of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project the facilities for seed
multiplication will be expanded for local improved varieties and, as necessary,
for RD1 and RD3, to meet the needs of this irrigation project.
5.14     Credit.  The farmers' chief sources of credit in the Northeast
are relatives, neighbors, and merchants. Credit from relatives and some-
times from neighbors is interest-free but loans advanced by merchants carry
interest rates as high as 50%. Most of the credit is used for non-agricultural
purposes, probably less than one-quarter is used to purchase farm supplies.
Branch offices of BAAC have recently been active in organizing farmers' groups,
and loans to such groups are on the increase. Irrigation will increase
demands for credit and it should also, because of higher yields and double
cropping, improve the creditworthiness of the farmers and qualify them for
institutional credit. Annual demand for short and medium term credit is
expected to increase from ,6 5 million at present to A 30 million at full
development. BAAC would be the main source of institutional credit. At
present only about one fourth of the farmers hold title deeds acceptable to
credit institutions. The surveys required for tertiary canal improvements
(para 4.12 and Annex 2) will provide the basis for a significant acceleration
in the issue of title deeds by the Land Department. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Land Department would take all necessary
action to accelerate the issue of title deeds to farmers in the project area.
Together with the ongoing promotion of group credit arrangements, the issuance
of land titles will create the pre-conditions for the required credit expansion.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that BAAC would make
available the staff and funds needed to meet the credit requirements of the
farmers in each sub-project.
Transportation and .Marketing
r, 15    Transportation.  Improvement and completion of canal service roads to
be financed under the project will provide most villages with access to the
al'l-weather national and provincial highways which are within reach of the
sub-projects. However, village roads linking the villages to canal service
roads or main highways are in need of improvement. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government's Rural Roads Program will improve village
access roads in the three sub-projects in a timely fashion. Bank Group technical
and financial assistance for the Rural Roads Program is being considered in the
context of a Rural Infrastructure Project for Northeast Thailand due for appraisal
in mid-1974.



- 25 -
5.16      Marketing.  A well established rice marketing system and milling
industry can be relied upon to make all necessary provisions to handle
project output.   The output of upland crop and vegetables will be marketed
through existing channels in the market towns of the project areas.
Peanut output will be mainly channelled to the existing edible oil industry.
Socio-economic Surveys
5.17      Arrangements have been made to continue the periodic socio-economic
surveys of farm operations in the project areas which have been started by
the Government in 1970.   These survevs would monitor farmers' response to
prolect action, and would improve the socio-economric _
MvAe: _za -  t                                         elo-n
and implementation o? future orrigaion and rq    infrastructure development.
Recovery of Costs
5.18      The Government has decided in principle that, for all new irrigation
projects, which would include the project under consideration, it will recover
all operation and maintenance costs and as much as possible of the investment
costs directly from the beneficiaries.   At present, the only tax paid by the
farmers in the project area is a land tax of about 0 25 per ha.   Local taxes
and duties including an export tax on high-grade rice, add up to an average tax
of 0 140 per to,, of rice equivalent to $ 250 to 0 350 per cropped hectare at
the projected yields.   Under present tax policies, the incremental revenue
which would accrue to the Government from the project would be g 14.6 million
per annum.
5.19      Anmual operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 0 150 per ha
(Annex 5).  Recovery of the investment in irrigation systems improvement,
excluding past investments in dams and canals, over a 30-year period at 10%
interest would require annual payments of 0 315 per ha.   Thus, the total
payments required to cover both operation and maintenance costs, and the costs
of irrigation systems improvement would be X 465 per ha.
5.20      Recovery of operation and maintenance costs alone would require pay-
ments equivalent to 12% of the incremental net value of production attributable
to irrigation.l/  Full cost recovery would require payments equivalent to 37%
of the incremeintal net value of production -- a level of payments which might
reduce the farmers' incentive to avail themselves of the benefits of irrigation.
If the proceeds of existing taxes on project output were to be regarded as
representing partial recovery of costs, full cost recovery would require
additional payments equivalent to 19% of the incremental net production value.
So far, the Government has made no decision on appropriate levels of water charges.
5.21      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Governnent
would in accordance with its policy of recovering all operation and maintenance
costs and a reasonable proportion of the investment costs from the beneficiaries:
(a)  carry out a cost recovery study which, within two years
of credit signing, would propose levels of charges and
collection procedures; and
(b)  review these proposals with IDA and impose and cormence
to collect charges in the project area within
two years of project completion.
1/  Change in production values from the present to full development less
differences in farmers' cash outlays.



-  26 -
With due allowance for differences in socio-economic conditions between the
Central Plain of Thailand and the Northeast, the cost recovery study will
avail itself of the analyses and findings of a similar study to be carried out
by the Government in connection with Credit 379 TH.
B. Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project
Management and Coordination
5.22     Various branches of the Rice Division of the Agriculture Department
are presently engaged in breeding work, research, experimentation, trials,
seed multiplication, etc., i.e. all aspects of the technology of rice culti-
vation. Further, they are in close touch with universities and other
agencies working on problems of rice cultivation both in Thailand and abroad.
The project seeks to draw systematically on these various efforts to identify
the elements for an integrated attack on the problems of rainfed rice culti-
vation in the Northeast. To ensure elose cooperation of all rice cultivation
in the Northeast. To ensure close cooperation of all branches of the Rice
Division, the Director-General of the Department of Agriculture has agreed
to assume overall responsibilities for project execution as Project Director,
and to appoint a senior officer of the Department as Pioneer Project Coordi-
nator. Appointment of Project Director and Pioneer Project Director is a con-
dition of effectiveness of the credit.
5.23     The Pioneer Project Coordinator would be responsible for all matters
pertaining to procurement and for the preparation of annual work programs
designed to achieve the purposes of the project. He would be responsible
for maintaining work programs and schedules under constant review, for moni-
toring progress in the implementation of the project, and for coordinating
the activities of the various branches of the Rice Division as they relate
to the implementation of the project. He would be a member of the Rice Divi-
sion's Coordinating Committee for the allocation of research and experimen-
tation activities between stations. The superintendents of the rice stations
would be responsible for organization and management of the stations in
accordance with the annual work programs.
5.24     The Department of Agricultural Extension and BAAC will be involved
in the project as participating agencies. Coordination between the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the Department of Agricultural Extension and BAAC will
be effected through the office of the Under-Secretary of State for Agricul-
ture and Cooperatives (the Under-Secretary is ex-officio vice-chairman of
BAAC).
Technical Assistance
5.25     Technical assistance in project implementation would be provided by:
-- a program adviser to assist the pioneer project coordinator
on a full time basis for four years;
-- one expert, with an established reputation in the field or
rice technology, who would devote one to two months each year
to the review and formulation of annual work programs;
-- a training adviser, for a period of one year, to assist in
establishing on-etation training programs.



- 27 -
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that consultants employed
would be acceptable to and under terms of reference approved by IDA.
Anirual Work Programs
5.26     Annual work programs would be prepared by the Pioneer Project
,oordinator, in close consultation with the Rice Division and the partici-
pating agencies. An Annual Program Review Conmmittee would be established
with the Director-General of the Department of Agriculture as Chairman.
Iembers of the Jommittee would include the Pioneer Project Coordinator,
the Program Adviser, the expert in rice technology, and representatives
of the Agricultural Extension Department and BAAC. The ';ommittee would
meet to review and approve the first work programs. Thereafter, the Committee
would rieet once a year to review progress in the preceding year and review
and approve the next year's work programs. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Director-General of Agriculture would supply copies
of progress reports and arnual work programs to IDA for comment. Assurances were
also obtained during negotiations that the Government would make available
sufficient funds at all times for the operation of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer
Proiect, including maintenance of facilities to standards acceptable to
IDA.
Outgrower Schemes
5.27     The 70 ha outgrower schemes would be established in the vicinity
of the Phi Mai and Ubon Centers. The station superintendents would be
responsible for the outgrower schemes. Selection of the outgrowers would
be made jointly by the superintendents of the centers and the local branch
managers of BAAC.  The outgrowers would contract to cultivate lnder the
advice and supervision of the center a given area of their farms 'or the
production of stock seed. BAAC would undertake to provide the outgrower
with the credit needed to obtain the cash inputs recommended by the center.
The center would buy the total production of seed from the outgrowers at
a price which would be negotiated annually. A price 15"O' above presently
prevailing farm gate paddy prices is considered to provide sufficient
incentive for participation in the outgrower schemes.



- 28 -
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING PROSPECTS,
PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01     Improvements in the irrigation systems and more efficient operation
and maintenance will result in timely and adequate deliveries of irrigation
water. A dependable water supply, coupled with effective agricultural
extension services, can be expected to lead to more intensive land use
and higher yields as illustrated by the following table.
Cropped Areas and Yields
(Areas in '000 ha, yields shown in parentheses are in tons/ha of paddy)
Present           Future
Without     With
Project     Project
Wet Season
Rice (improved local varieties)      35.5(1.2)   38.5(15)   41.4(3.0-
Upland Crops                           2.7         1.6          o.6
Sub-totals                          35.2         40.1         42.0
Dry Season
Rice (RD varieties)                    1.2(2.8)    5.3(3.2)   18.7(4-3)
Upland Crops                          0.1         1J2           2
Sub-totals                           1                        21.0
~=
6.02     Double cropping on 50% of the irrigable area in each sub-project
is expected to be achieved five years after project completion. This is
considered a conservative assessment of the feasible extent of double
cropping. It is to be noted that double cropping at Lam Phra Plerng is,
in fact, limited to about 50% of the area by the available water supply.
At Lam Pao and Nam Pong, the water supply imposes no limit on the annual
cropping intensity, but until more is known of operational and socio-
economic constraints, a conservative assumption is considered justified.
6.03     Without the project, some development would take place but
growth in cropped areas and yields would be limited by lack of water
control and inadequate agricultural extension services.
6.04     The chief sources of increased rice production will be more intensive
land use, the introduction of improved varieties, and increased use of ferti-
lizers and chemical controls. Improved native varieties will be competitive
with the new short-strawed varieties (RD1 and RD3) in the wet season. Although
the lornger-strawed local varieties have a somewhat lower yield potential, they
can tolerate temporary surface drainage problems which could only be eliminated
through costly additional surface drainage works (para 4.13), they are less
demanding in terms of cash inputs, and, because of their superior cooking and
eating qualities, they command a higher price. In the dry season, RD1 and RD3



- 29 -
will be grown because they are non-photo-sensitive and require a shorter
growing season. Production of paddy with the project will be about 204,000
tone compared to 75,000 tons without the project and 46,ooo tons under
present conditions.
6.05     The preceding table shows a decline in the area under upland crops
in the wet season. The cropped area shown for the present condition is large-
ly devoted to crops which are planted after the heavy rains in September
and then harvested in the dry season. An analysis of cropping patterns which
could be followed with irrigation shows that paddy cultivation will be more
profitable than this form of land use. However, first indications exist
(para 4.11) that dry-season cultivation of irrigated upland crops on a larger
scale than projected in para 6.01 will be feasible. As a measure of conser-
vatism in project evaluation, no account has been taken of such possible development.
6.06    Further details on cropped areas, yields and production are given
in Annex 8.
Market Prospects
6.07     It is presently estimated that total paddy production in the country
would have to increase by about 4 million tons in the 1971-1981 period,
equivalent to a compounded annual growth rate of 2.5%, in order to satisfy
both the export market and projected domestic requirements. These estimates
anticipate a slow growth in exports (2% per annum), as a result of increasing
production in traditionally importing countries, and a rise in concessional
sales from developed nations. They also reflect an expected slowdown in
population growth (from 3% to 2.5% per annum as an average for the decade)
while assuming the same level of per capita consumption throughout the period.
By comparison, incremental paddy production from the project would reach
approximately 129,000 tons by 1982, representing only 3% of the increment&l
derand. Incremental paddy production from irrigation projects in Thailand,
which recently have received, or are expected to receive Bank Group financing,
will by 1981 account for about 15% of the projected incremental rice demand.
Therefore, no marketing constraints are anticipated.
6.08     In the context of the regional market, better water control provided
by the project will allow farmers to stabilize production of glutinous
rice for their domestic use and local markets, and expand production of
the more easily marketable non-glutinous varieties. Nearly 50' of the
added rice production will come from the dry season which should be readily
disDosed of since it will come to market about six months from the main rice
harvest. The major share of increased vegetable production will be for self-
consumption. Nearby cities of Korat and Khon Kaen are expected to provide
ready markets for upland crops anu vegetables.
Prices
6.og     Rice prices in Thailand are formed in the open market and are
generally equivalent to world market prices.  Prior to the recent sharp,
but probably temporary, increase in export prices caused by crop failures
in major rice producing countries, prices ranged from Us$90 per ton of
milled rice, for medium qualities, to US$145 per ton f.o.b. Bangkok, for



- 30 -
the highest grades.   An export tax of US$36 per ton is applied to the
two highest grades which account for less than 10% of current exports.
The Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department forecasts a
small decline in export prices to a range of US$80 to US$130 per ton by
the early 1980's, which would be equivalent to an average price for all
exports of about US$99 per ton.   This transLates to a farm-gate price
in the Northeast of approximately US$43 (B 850 per ton).   This figure
has been used in the economic and financial analyses for native rice
varieties.   A farm-gate price of 0 800 per ton has been used for RD
varieties which generally sell at lower prices than native varieties.
Local taxes and the export tax, totalling 0 140 per ton of milled rice,
has been added to farm-gate prices in arriving at production values for
use in the economic analysis.
Farm Incomes
6.10      At present, cash incomes are derived from the sale of rice not
required for family consumption (about 20% of the rice produced), and the
sale of upland crops, of which kenaf and cassava are the chief crops, but
small quantities of peanuts, vegetables, maize, etc. are also sold.
Irrigable land per farm ranges between two and three hectares, and holdings
of non-irrigable upland areas, often some distance from the farms, average
about one hectare.   Incomes derived from farms with irrigable areas of
2.0 ha and 3.0 ha are summarized below for present and future conditions.
Details on the derivation of farm incomes are presented in Annex 9.
Only actual payments for inputs and hired labor have been charged as
production costs in the calculation of farm incomes.
Farm Incomes (Baht)
Irrigable Area per Farm
2.0 ha            3.0 ha
Present conditions:                  4,000             5,300
With the project:
Single cropped                   6,900             7,400
Double cropped                  10,400            12,200
6.11      Cultivation of kenaf and cassava presently adds about 0 1,000 to
farm incomes derived from rice production.   Even with irrigation, such
rainfed upland cultivation is likely to continue as an integral element of
farm operations.   The labor requirements of upland cropping are relatively
low and fall outside the peak periods of wet-season rice cultivation.
Farms which will engage in double cropping of rice, however, will have to
increase the use of hired labor to continue upland cropping.   Limited
information on earnings from off-farm employment suggests that it may
typically add up to 0 600 annually to family income.



- 31 -
Income from pig and poultry production is projected to add $1,500 to family
income.   Thus, on completion of the project, total income of the majority
of farm families, including the imputed value of produce consumed on the
farm, can be expected to range from 06,9o0 to $12,200 depending on size of
farm holdings and extent of dry-season cropping.   With an average of seven
persons per family, per capita income would range between A990 (US$5o) and
$1,750 (US$88) per annum.   While the improvement over present per capita
income levels (US$28 - 38 depending upon farm size) is substantial, a
comparison with the national target for average rural per capita income of
Us$95 by 1980 shows that only the larger farms engaged in double cropping
will come in reach of attaining this target.
VII. JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
General
7.01     The Bank's Agricultural Sector Review concluded that Thailand must
increase its rice production if it is to satisfy growing domestic demand and
naintain its export position. Srstematic efforts to improve the productivity
of rainfed rice cultivation, and irrigation developments taking advantage of
already existing reservoirs and canals, promise to be among the lowest cost
means to increase Thailand's rice production. Irrigation projects will also
serve as focal points for the effective deployment of improved agricultural
supporting services.
7.02     Regional development objectives further reinforce the priority of
both the Irrigation Improvement Project and the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project.
In the Northeast, paddy cultivation occupies over three million hectares of
land where soils and water regimes preclude the cultivation of other crops.
Therefore, the low opportunity cost of the resources presently employed
in rice production justify a development policy which, at the minimum,
strives to maintain regional self-sufficiency in rice production. in this
context, the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project aims at a broad-based transfer
of agricultural technology to the Northeast region in order to improve
the productivity of the large rural labor force and to counteract rising
economic and social costs of rural-urban migration. At the same time, the
irrigation projects will serve as growth poles for the modernization of
agriculture through a more capital-intensive mode of development.
Irrigation Improvement Project
7.03     Implementation of the project will lead to efficient utilization
of existing works serving 42,000 ha and detailed preparation of further
irrigation developments for an area of approximately 80,000 ha. The project
aims to increase the yields of the wet-season rice crop through better water
control, to introduce dry-season cropping of rice on about half of the pro-
ject area and to provide improved agricultural supporting services. The
primary benefits of the project will arise from increased production of
rice and other crops such as peanuts and vegetables.  The net value of'
incremental production would be A60 million per year at full development,
which is projected to be attained 10 years after the start of the project.
Of this, A12 million per year would accrue to the Government in the form, of
increased tax revenue. Benefits from improved domestic water supply in the
dry season, and transport cost savings attributable to road improvements
financed by the project, have not been quantified.



- 32 -
7.Oh     The economic rate of return for the project as a whole is 22%.
For the sub-projects economic rates of return are: Lam Phra Plerng (17%)
Lam Pao (25%), and Nam Pong (22%). The economic analysis takes account
of the fact that some development of irrigated agriculture would take
place without the project, but significant increases in intensity of land
use and yields would be limited by lack of efficient water control (para 6.01).
For purposes of the economic analysis, all farm labor during peak periods
was priced at the current rate for hired labor (A12 per day) and at one-fifth
of this rate for off-peak periods. The sensitivity of the economic rate of
return to changes in project costs and benefits was also tested and the results
are summarized below:
Economic Rate of Return
AssuMpjtion               Entire       Lam Phra       Lam      Nam
Project     Plerng         Pao       Pong
Basic assumptions             22%          17%           25%       22%
Increase in construction      18%          14%           20%       18%
costs by 15%
Increase in project           26%          20%           30%       2 '7%
benefits by 25%
Decrease in project           17%          13%           20%f      18%
benefits by 259
The rate of return for the project would be 17% if dry-season cropping were
only to reach 25% instead of 50% of project area. A reduction in the average
yield of the wet-season rice crop by 20% would bring the rate of return
down to 16%.
7.05     Past investments in the storage dams and main canals which total
US$60 to 70 million have been excluded from the above economic analyses.
Initially, these projects had been justified on the basis of benefit projec-
tions which assumed a rapid transition from rainfed rice cultivation to irri-
gated double cropping. A comprehensive operations evaluation of these projects
which would take into account the unexpected implementation delays, the sizeable
flood control benefits, as well as the costs and benefits of second stage
developnents for which reservoirs and canals have been sized, can only be
11ndertaken after the preparation of plans and costs estimates for second stage
devi U rwlert has been completed.
7 06      t. full developments when cultivation methods for wet-season rice
have been improved and 50% of the project area winl be cropped in the dry
season, employment opportunities will have increased almost three-fold. About
60% of the increased employment would be in the dry season in which there is
presently considerable underemployment among the labor force in the project
area. Farms which engage in double cropping would have to meet 10% to 20%
of their peak labor requirements by hired labor. The project would thus
utilize more fully the available rural labor force which, especially in the
dry season, has few alternative employment opportunities.



- 33 -
7.07      At full development, the project would increase Thailand's
annual production of milled rice by 85,000 tons.   Project output
would contribute to the maintenance of Thailand's rice export position
in the face of growing domestic demand, and the project's imputed
contribution to Thailand's export earnings is projected to reach
US$8.5 million per year.
Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project
7.08      The justification of this type of project rests essentially on
the need to institute a systematic effort to identify, test and promote
improved techniques of rainfed rice cultivation in the Northeast.   The
identification of combinations of improved seeds, cash inputs and
improved cultivation practices which, in terms of costs and yield
response, prove to be financially attractive to the farmers, could set
the stage for a regional rice improvement program, and substantial
benefits would accrue to the pioneer project investment.   However, the
nature of this project is such that it does not lend itself to a formal
analysis of economic returns to the investment.



- 34 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     Dtaring negotiations with the Borrower the usual assurances were obtained
regarding consolidation of project accounts and auditing (para 4.44). Agree-
ments were also reached on arrangements for project organization, provision of
extension services and credit, and cost recovery (Chapter V).
8.02     Conditions of credit effectiveness would be the appointment of key
officers of project organizations acceptable to IDA and the constitution of
coordination ccmmittees, the employment of consultants acceptable to and
under terms of reference approved by IDA, and the designation of an agency
of the Ministry of Interior to be the executing agency for preparation of
a rural infrastructure project.
8.03     The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$7 million
under standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Works and Cost Estimates
Introduction
1.       A review of the existing facilities was carried out by an IBRD
project preparation mission in October/November 1972. This led to the
identification of additional works considered essential to the establish-
ment of irrigated agriculture within the service areas of the three sub-
projects. Details of the required works and their associated costs were
prepared in close consultation with the Royal Irrigation Department.
The list of works and quantity estimates were further refined in March 1973
in discussions with RID and following further inspection of the project
areas in the dry season. This annex contains descriptions and cost esti-
mates for each of the engineering components of the project with reference,
where appropriate, to the condition and performance of existing works.
Main Canals and Laterals
2.       General.  The combined length of main canals and laterals in the
three sub-projects is about 350 km, all of which are concrete-lined. At
Lam Phra Plerng the main systems were completed in 1968 as unlined canalX
but a decision was made later to provide a concrete lining which was final-
ly completed in 1971. At Lam Pao the right bank system to serve a first
stage area of 16,000 ha was completed over most of its length in 1968,
but problems with a high water-table in some areas prevented placement
of the concrete lining. These problems were finally overcome in the
1972/73 working season. The left main canal at Lam Pao to serve 2,200 ha
as a first stage development was excavated during the period 1970-72
and concrete lining has recently been constructed. At Nam Pong, the left
bank canals to serve about 9,000 ha were completed in the late 1960's
except for a short section at the head of the canal near the Nong Wai
diversion dam. In this section, persistent problems with slope stability,
where the canal is in deep cut, have only recently been overcome. Addi-
tional canals to extend the service area to 14,700 ha were constructed
in 1972/73 working season.
3.       Thus, the completion of the main canals has lagged behind the
completion of the reservoirs; Lam Phra Plerng reservoir filled for the
first time in 1969, Lam Pao filled in 1968, and the storage and diversion
dams for Nam Pong were in service in 1966 and 1968 respectively. These
delays in completing sections of the main canals have made it impossible
to deliver water to large parts of the areas Which the canals are intended
to serve. However, as demonstrated by experience at the Nam Pong right bank
and Lam Phra Plerng since the main canals and laterals were completed, addi-
tional works are needed before the main systems can be efficiently operated.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.       Canal Structures.  Provision of a dependable water supply for the
tertiary systems will require additional water control structures in the
concrete-lined main canals and laterals, as well as modifications to exist-
ing structures. The most important operational requirement is to maintain
the canal water levels above the turnouts to the tertiary canals. Under
present circumstances this is only possible, for many of the turnouts,
when the canals are operated at their full capacity. Since the canals
will be operated over a wide range of flows, additional check structures
are needed. This problem is particularly evident in the case of the
Lam Pao and Nam Pong projects where the main canals are designed for
the ultimate development and have almost twice the capacity needed for
the first stage.
5.       Another problem arises at many of the existing structure where
wooden stoplogs are provided. In most cases the stoplogs are missing
and in any case their installation is difficult and time consuming.
Therefore, to ensure effective water control the stoplogs will be re-
placed by control gates.
6.       Additional wasteways are needed to provide a means for discharg-
ing surplus water from the canals. Occasions for the use of the wasteways
would arise when large volumes of storm runoff enters the canals through
drainage inlets, or when reductions in demand are not matched by reductions
in discharge at the canal head. The wasteways would be located at points
where the main canals are close to the existing river channels. Finally,
there is a need for increasing the number of turnouts since in some cases
as many as five tertiaries are served from the same turnout.
7.       Canal Remodelling.  As described in Annex 3, the capacity of the
main canals and laterals at Lam Phra Plerng will be increased by about
40% in order to meet peak irrigation requirements. This will be done
by extending the concrete lining to increase the canal depth by about
40 cm. The configuration of the existing canal embankments is such
that a large volume of earthwork to support the additional lining will
not be necessary. Raising the water level in the Lam Phra Plerng canal
will have another ]mportant advantage because, in some cases, the
maxinmum water level is too lo_w to command the land which the canal was
intended to irrigate. A similar problem exists at Lam Pao, where some
sections of the lateral canials do not command the land, and there is a
ext.encd1 the concrete lining and thereby raise the liater level.
8.       Canal Telephone System.  There is presently no means of communi-
cation between the project management at the canal heaciiorks and the
operating personnel in the field. Therefore, the project provides for
a simple canal telephone system in each sub-project.   1
9.       Cost Estimates.  Estimates for works on the main canals and
laterals have been derived by estimating the quantities of work items
and applying appropriate unit prices. The structures are of a conventional



ANNEX 1
Page 3
design for which there are numerous precedents. The parameter which dictates
the size and construction quantities of a particular structure is the capacity
of the canal where the structure is located.
10.      Each new structure was located on the project plans.  Quantities
were then estimated from design drawings of similar structures. Useful refe-
rence material was found in feasibility reports prepared by the United States
Bureau of Reclamation for irrigation systems in Northeast Thailand. 1/ For
the canal remodelling, construction quantities were derived from a study of
construction drawings and field inspections.
11.      Unit prices for the major work items are in line with current
.rates for contracts in Thailand.  Because only the major work items were
estimated, an amount equal to 10% of the net costs was added to cover un-
listed items. In recognition of the preliminary nature of the designs,
20% was added for physical contingencies. The price contingency of 14%
is equivalent to escalation at 7% per year on year-end undisbursed balances. 2/
Service Roads
12.      General.  About 330 km of canal service road will have to be construct-
ed to permit efficient operation and maintenance of the three sub-projects.
The main canal service roads (except for the first 29 km at Lam Phra Plerng
which has an asphalt surface) are generally in poor condition and only a few
short sections are suitable for vehicle traffic. In most cases the main canal
embankments have sufficient width to accommodate a 6 meter road, but grading
and laterite surfacing is needed. Roads along the laterals are virtually
impassable for vehicle traffic, and in most cases are earth tracks with
widths of only 1-3 meters. The existing embankments will have to be widened,
graded and compacted to carry an adequate laterite surfaced road.
13.      Standards adopted for estimating purposes are:
Main canals:   6-meter wide, 30 cm thick compacted
laterite surface, without shoulders;
Major Laterals:  3-meter wide, 30 cm compacted laterite
surface with 1-meter wide shoulders
having a 15 cm laterite surface;
Minor Laterals: 3-meter wide, 30 cm compacted
laterite surface, without shoulders.
1/  "Nam Mun Project Feasibility Report, 1970", "Pa I4ong Stage One
Feasibility Report, 1970".
2/ Because of cost increases since appraisal in 1972, all costs have
been increased by 10% before application of the above contingency.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
14.      The section of the Lam Phra Plerng main canal service road from
Km 29 to Km 49 would be an important addition to the existing network of
roads, and it will be built to a high enough standard to qualify for
maintenance by the Department of Highways (6-meter wide with 1-meter
shoulders and 45 cm thickness of laterite). Other service roads at Lam
Pao and Nam Pong will also be opened to public traffic where they serve
to link villages to the national and provincial highways. Improvements
of village access roads in the three sub-projects will be considered in
the context of a Raral Infrastructure Project in Northeast Thailand due
for appraisal in mid-1974.
15.      Cost Estimates.  The cost estimates are based on information
contained in reports prepared by Thai Engineering Consultants Ltd., who
conducted a field survey and prepared estimates for the service roads
in January 1973. Unit prices are in line with rates currently prevailing
for construction by contract in Thailand. Since the work quantities are
based on fairly detailed field surveys, the physical contingency is set
at 15%.  A price contingency of 14% (assuming 7% per year escalation)
has been adopted. 1/
Tertiary Canals and Drains
16.      Nearly 900 Ion of tertiary canals have been constructed over the
past five years. This work was carried out under RID's "Ditches and
Dikes" program by the Department's Operation and Maintenance Division.
Except in the small areas receiving a dependable water supply, the
farmers have had no incentive to maintain the canals. In some areas,
despite lack of maintenance, the canals are still in good condition,
but in other areas they are in need of rehabilitation. This will
involve strengthening of the banks, clearing of sediment and vegetation
from the channels, and the repair of minor structures such as division
boxes and checks. Repairs and improvements are also needed at some
of the turnouts from the main systems.
17.      The spacing of the tertiary canals ranges from 300 to 500 meters. 2/
At Lam Phra Plerng most of the tertiaries are less than one kilometer in
length, where at Lam Pao and Nam Pong tertiaries between one and two kilo-
meters are common. In the upper reaches of the Lam Phra Plerng and Lam Pao
canals, the farmers have received some irrigation water during the wet season.
Alu..gh the supply is not always reliable the areas receiving water report
higher paddy yields than the surrounding non-irrigated land. Dry-season
irrigation was established for the first time in the 1972/73 dry season
on 1,100 ha at Lam Phra Plerng and on about 200 ha at Lam Pao. Experience
in these areas shows that intensive dry-season cultivation on virtually
all of the land in between adjacent tertiaries is possible, provided the
water supply is dependable. For the rice crop a form of inundation
irrigation is practical, and water flows from one flooded paddy field to
the next.
1/ See footnote 2/, page 3.
2/ The area served by individual tertiary canals ranges between 20 ha
and 100 ha.



ANNX 1
Page 5
Where upland crops, such as mungbeans and peanuts are grown, the farmers have
cooperated in the construction of farm ditches. Water control for year-
round irrigation at the farm level would be simplified and be more efficient
if the tertiary spacing were reduced and drains were provided.
18.      A study of the maps prepared by RID indicates that, to develop
about 50% of the irrigable area in the three sub-projects for intensive
double cropping, about 350 km of new tertiaries and over 500 km of drains
should be constructed in order to reduce the spacing between tertiaries
to about 150 to 200 meters. Under the "Ditches and Dikes Act", RID is
empowered to acquire land for the construction of tertiary systems.
Since only a narrow strip of land is needed (not more than 3 meters)
the farmers do not oppose construction of the canals needed to irrigate
their land.
19.      Cost Estimates. Rehabilitation and new construction of the ter-
tiary systems will cover an extensive area but involve relatively small
quantities of earthwork and other materials. Rehabilitation of the canals
will best be carried out by manual labor, and new canal construction by
a combination of equipment and labor. The drains will be constructed
almost entirely by construction equipment. Design and construction
standards will be established and detailed work programs will be follow-
ed. Since the work will be seasonal, and will have to be scheduled to
minimize interference with farming and irrigation, it will be carried
out by RID as a force account operation.
20.      In the cost summary (Table 1) the amounts shown under "Tertiary
Canals and Drains" cover labor, materials, and equipment operation.
which are detailed in Tables 6 and 8. The cost of procuring the construc-
tion equipment is cavered under "Equipment and Vehicles" as itemized in
Table 7. For purposes of economic analysis, equipment depreciation (75%
of the cost) has been estimated for each project (Table 8), and spare
parts procured with the equipment are assumed to be consumed over the duration
of the project.
Vehicles and EquiPment
21.      Earthmoving Fquipment.  Most of the equipment procured for the
project (Table 7) is for use by RID in improvement of the tertiary systems. Ini-
tially each sub-project will be provided with two loaders, one backhoe
and two dump trucks. Some equipment would be transferred from Lam Phra
Plerng to Lam Pao and Nam Pong during the second half of the project
implementation period. The backhoes will be used primarily for excavating
the ditches, and the loaders and dump trucks will be used on the tertiary
canals. The loaders will have multipurpose buckets (which allow the loaders
to work either as an excavator or bulldozer) and be of a type in which the
bucket can be replaced by a backhoe attachment. These options are offered
by most suppliers. One backhoe attachment will be provided for each sub-
project to provide additional capacity for construction of drains. Other



ANNEX 1
Page 6-
attachments for the loaders will be trailing ditchers (for tertiary canals)
and land planes. The loaders could therefore perform a wide range of tasks;
such as clearing and grading the right-of-way for the canals; loading,
spreading and compacting fill material; canal excavation with ditcher or
backhoe attachments; and some land clearing and land levelling in demon-
stration areas. The dump trucks will be used for hauling earth-fill and
construction materials, and for transporting labor. Mobility of equip-
ment will be important because the work will involve numerous small
operations over a wide areas; therefore, all equipment will be rubber-
tired. Construction will be generally confined to the dry season (Novem-
ber through April). In the wet season the ground is too soft for either
tracked or rubber-tired equipment.
22.      Maintenance Equipment.  Following completion of construction,
most of the equipment would be retained in the project areas for mainte-
nance work.  In addition, two motor graders would be procured for mainte-
nance of the service roads.
23.      Vehicles.  Pick-up trucks would be procured for use by RID per-
sonnel in construction, for the project consultants and also for the
extension officers (see Table 7).
24.      Cost Estimates.  Costs for the equipment and vehicles are based
on suppliers price lists (late 1972) with allowances for freight and insurance,
a 10% overall increase in costs to cover price escalation in 1973, and 7%
price contingency.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROV MENT PROJECT
Cost Summary
Baht (Million)         US$('OOO)        Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange
-           -      -   _______         Component
1. Main Canals and Laterals          19.9     5.0  24.9   996    248  1,244       20%
2. Service Roads                     34.2   18.4  52.6  1,711    921  2,632       35p
3. Tertiary Canals and Drains        15.1     147  16.8    757      84    841     10%
14. Vehicles and Equipment            0.7    11.8  12.5    31    593    624       95d
5. Consulting Services:
Project Implementation          2.8     11.2 14.0   140    560    700       80%
Future Projects                 1.3      9.3 10.6     70    460    530      87%
6. Mapping:
Project Implementation         0.9       3.3  4.2     40    170    210      81%
Future Projects                 1.5      6.4  7.9     75    320    395      81%
7. FXtension Centers                  2.7      0.3  3.0    134      16    150     10%
8. Engineering and Supervision        7.4       -   7.4   370       -     370      0
9. Contingencies:
Physical                       12.6      5.0  17.6  633    246    879       28%
Price                         24.0      18.5  42.5 1,199    926  2,125      44%
TOTALS                        123.1     90.9 214.0 6,156  4,544 10,700      42%



Existing Facilities
Lam Phra Plerng               Lam Pao                      Nam Pong
(Right Bank)(Le7ft Bank)    (Right Bank)  (Left Bank)
Dam and Reservoir
Storage Capacity (mom)                 146                      1,260                       1,680
Avg. Annual Runoff (mcm)               114                      1,180                       1,970 3/
Catchmrnt Area (kmn2)                  807                      5,900                      12,000
Year of Completion                    1969                      1968                        1966
Irrigation Systems (Existing)
Main Canal Capacity (m3/sec)           5.2              38             13             15              35
Main Canal Length (km)                74                35             24             50             46
Length of Laterals (km)               28                70             13             56              65
Length of Tertiaries (kem)           330               270             50            200             240
Irrigation Areas (ha)
Existing                           9,100            16,000          2,200          13,500          14,700
Proposed Expansion                   -             24,000          11,800             -           18,800
Totals                          9,100           40,000          143000          13,500         33,500
1/ Areas covered by this project.
2/ Not included in this project.
3/ The Ubolratna reservoir provides storage for irrigation and hydroelectric power.
The diversion dam for the irrigation system is at Nong Wai, which is 35 km downstream
from the reservoir.



New Works
Lam Phra Plerng           Lam Pao           No  En
Main Canals and Laterals
Check structures                                      1                   9                  12
Wasteways                                             1                   3                   2
Turnouts                                             20                  35                  30
Structures                                           29                  28                  24
with Control Gates
Canal Remodelling (km)                              102                  20                    -
Tertiary Canals and Drains
Repair of Existing Tertiaries
(where necessary)
New tertiaries (km)                                   60                 150                 140
Drains (km)                                          120                 200                 150
Main Drain Improvement (km)                           10                  50                  30
Service Roads
Main Canal (kn)                                       46                  60                  46
Laterals (km)                                         28                  83                  70
(D X



Cost Estimates
Main Canals and Laterals
Description                Unit        Unit                    Quantities                      Costs (A 'oQO)
Cost (S)         LPP        LP       NP          LPP       LP         NP
1. Canal Structures:
Earth Work                    m3         40                100      2,000     4,000         4        80        160
Concrete                      m3      1,200                 50        850     2,100        60     1,020      2,520
Reinforcing Steel             kg           7             14,ooo    55,000   14O,0oo        28       385        980
Gates and Hoists              kg         25              1,800    20,000    40,000         45       500      1,000
2.  Gates for Existing Structures: kg          30            17,000    30,000    10,000        510        900       300
3.  New Turnouts:                  No.    10,000                  20        35        30       200       350        300
4. Canal Remodelling:.
Earth Work                     340                      60,000    15,000        -       2,400       600         -
Concrete Lining               ;3        600             10,300      1,800       -      6,130      1,080         -
5. Canal Telephone:
Overhead Idne                 km       8.,000              110        1h5       115       880     1,160        920
Pole-mounted Telephones       No.        800                20         25        25        16        20         20
10,323     6,200
Unlisted Items at 10%        1,032        610       620
Sub-totals                11,355     6,705      6,820
(Physical Contingencies
at 20%)                      2,271      1.341     1,364
Sub-totals                13,626     8,o146     8,184
Price escalation 1973 (10%)                   1,363       805        8i:8
Sub-totals                14,989     8,851      9,002
Price contingencies (14%)                     2a 098    1 ,239     1 261
LLP - Lam Phra Plerng                                           TOTALS                     1                   10,09  1
LP  - Lam Pao
NP  - Nam Pong



Cost Estimates
Canal Service Roads
Unit     Unit                  Quantities                    Costs (0'000)
Cost(.)      LPP       LP         NP        LPP         LP        NP
Main Canals
Excavation                    m33      18        34,000      87,000   115,000      612      1,566      2,070
Embankment                   m3        25        62,000      12,000      -       1,550        300        -
Laterite Surfacirg           m3        48        62,000      81,000    42,000   2,976       3,888      2,016
Topsoil and Sodding          m          6       130,000    120,000    62,000       780        720        372
R.C. Bridges                 m       15,000          80        -          162   1,200         -        2,430
R.C. Bridges                 m       20,000          90        -         -       1,800        -          -
Lateral Canals
Excavation                    3        18         5,000    175,000   145,000        90      3,150      2,610
Embankment                             25       135,000    122,000   210,000   3,375        3,050      5,250
Laterite Surfacing           mi2       48         24,000     70,000    58,ooo   1,152       3,360      2,784
Topsoil and Sodding                     6        56,000    165,000   140,000       336        990        840
R.C. Bridges                  m      12,000          120         66        42   1,44o         792        504
Culvert Extensions           m        450            80         800       520       36        360        234
Sub-totals     15,347      18,190    19,110
(Physical contingencies
at 15%)                 2,302      2,728      2,866
Sub-totals     17,649      20,918    21,976
Price escalation in 1973 (10%)      1,765       2,092     2,197
Sub-totals     19,414      23.010    24,173
Price contingencies (14%)           2,717      3,221      3,384
TOTAIS         2 2,L131    2623         27,57  
LPP   Lam Phra Plerng;                                            T              2           2
LP  = Lam Pao;
NP   Nain Pong



Cost Estimates
Tertiary Canals and Drains
Unit       Unit Cost (A)                 Quantities                 Costs (t00OO)
Labor     Materials      LPP       LP      NP       LPP       LP      NP
Labor and Materials
Existing Tertiaries:
Repair and Inprovement         km      3,000          -          330     320      240       990     960    720
Install pipe Oitlets 2/        No.       5            75       6,600   6,400   4,800        528     512    384
Repair Division Boxes          No.       200          800        400     500      400       400     500    400
Repair Checks                  No.       50           300        400     600      500       140     210    175
Replace Turnout Gates          No.       40           400        100     150      120        44      66      53
Repairs to Turnouts            No.       300        4,000         60       70      70       258     301    301
New Tertiaries:
Earthwork 3/                   km      3,000                      6q      150     140       180     450    420
Division Boxes                 No.       400        1,200        100     280      240       160     448    384
Checks                         No.       100          800        150     420      360       135     378    324
Pipe Outlets                  No.        5             75     1,200   3,000   2,800          96     240    224
New Drains:
Earthwork                      km        (by equipment only)    130       250     180       -       -       -
Checks                        No.        100          800        320     600      460       288     540    414
Sub-totals            3,219   4,605  3,799
Equipment Operation (see Table 8 )                                                          1,131   2,163  1,893
Sub-totals            4,350   6,768  5,692
(Physical contingencies at 20%)           870   1,354  1.138
Sub-total             5,220   8,122  6,8310         e
Price escalation in 197 (10%) and Price Contingency (14%)            2    2 0    1                x
Equipment Depreciation and spares (see Table 8)                      Tota3s  (320)(2,896)                                cD i-
1/ Assumes average of 5 meters of channel per man-day.             (Tota)                 (8,282)(13,475)(11,461)
/ Assumes 20 cm plastic pipes at 100 m centers on each side of canal.
3  Construction by equipment but labor needed for final shaping of channels.
Computed for purposes of economic analysis onlys  not carried to project cost summary.
LPP - Lam Phra Plerng; LP - Lam Pao; NP - Nam Pong.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVMNT PROJECT
Vehicles and Equipment
Description                        No.          Unit Cost         Amount
-        -~~(US$)           (US$)
Loader (with multipurpose                  6               30,000        180,000
bucket, rubber tire, 100 HP)
Backhoe Attachments for Loader             3                5,000         15,000
Trailing Ditcher for Loader                6                1 ,000         6,ooo
Land Plane                                 6                1,500          9,000
Backhoe (5/8 c.y., 100 HP)                 3               42,000        126,000
Dump Truck (4 c.y.)                        6               13,000         78,000
Pick-up Truck (4-wheel drive)             17 -              5,500         93,5oo
Motor Grader                               2               30,000         60,000
Sub-totals                 567,500
Spares @ 10%               56,500
Sub-totals                624,000
4/
Physical Contingency1s 6%            37,440
Sub-totals                 661 ,44o
Price escalation 1973 (10%) and Price          117,100
Contingency (7%)
TOTALS                     778,540
1/ Suppliers price lists of late 1972.
2/ RID project management (8), project consultants (3), consultants for
future projects (3), extension services (3).
3/ For maintenance of service roads at Lam Pao and Nam Pong.
1a/ To cover possible changes in specifications following further review by
RID and project consultants.



ANNEX 1
Table 8
Equipment Operating Costs
(Tertiary Canals and Drains)
(All Costs in iA--OO)
Loader     Backhoe      Dump       Pick-up
Truck
Annual Operation:-/
Fuel and Maintenance                  72          72         10          15
Operator                              30         30          20          18
Totals                           102        102          30          33
Annual Depreciation & Spares
Cost        2/                       (730)      (870)      (270)       (115)
Depreciation-                         137       162          51          21
Spares  3/                             18        22           7           3
Totals                           155        184          58         24
Machine-years
per Sub-project
Lam Phra Plerng                         5         3           5           5
Lam Pao                                10         5          10          10
Nam Pong                                9         4           9           9
Costs per Sub-project
Equipment         Depreciation &
Operation            Spares
Lam Phra Plerng                           1,131               1,737
Lam Pao                                   2,163               3,290
Nam Pong                                  1,893               2,869
1/  Based on information from RID; assumes 150 days per year at 8 hours per day.
2/ 75% of cost over 4 years.
3/ 10% of cost over 4 years.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Consulting Services & Mapping
1.       General.  A consulting firm would be engaged by the Government to
assist in the implementation of the project and in the preparation of feasi-
bility studies for other irrigation developments in Northeast Thailand.
The consultants would be selected from a list of qualified firms with expe-
rience in the development of irrigated agriculture in Southeast Asia. In
preparing proposals for this assignment, the consultants would be requested
to give full consideration to using technical skills available in Thailand
-- such as including qualified Thai nationals in their team and/or sub-
contracting certain assignments to qualified local consultants.
2.       Services for Project Implementation.  The consultants would assist
the Royal Irrigation Department in all matters pertaining to the execution
of engineering works and in system operation and maintenance, and assist the
Department of Extension in the development of agricultural extension services.
Consulting services would extend over a period of about four years. Key
engineering personnel would be resident in Thailand for the first two years
to assist in the planning, design and contract awards for engineering works.
Thereafter the consultants would make available the services of individual
specialists on short-term assignments to monitor and where necessary expe-
dite the execution of the project.
3.       The consultants would provide assistance to the Royal Irrigation
Department in the following activities:
a)  designs, contract documents and construction supervision
for work on the main canals and laterals, and for the
construction of the canal service roads;
b) preparation of topographic maps (as specified in the
section on "Surveys and Mapping" in this Annex) to be
used as a basis for tertiary system development;
c) preparation of plans, designs and work programs for
rehabilitation and improvement of the tertiary systems;
d) the establishment of more efficient procedures for opera-
tion and maintenance in each of the three sub-projects.
4.       The consultants would also assist RID in the preparation of annual
work programs in advance of the construction season to allow the timely
award of contracts and the deployment of personnel and equipment for force
account operations. In general, the work should be scheduled to expand,
as soon as possible during the implementation period, the land receiving
a dependable water supply. Apart from benefiting the farmers, this will
allow an early start in establishing agricultural extension services in
the sub-project areas.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The consulting firm will provide the full-time services of an
agricultural specialist, with specific experience in the development of
specialist will assist the Department of Extension in the development of
extension services in each of the sub-projects.
6.        Estimated time inputs for the consultants are 9 man-years of
expatriate specialists, 25 man-years of locally-hired professionals and
technicians, and 10 man-years of general service personnel such as secre-
taries and drivers. The estimated cost of consulting services for project
implementation is $700,000, with a foreign exchange component of 80%.
This estimate assumes that, because of the increasing work-load on RID
due to this and other projects, it would be necessary for the consultants
to handle most of the design and construction supervision for the service
roads.
7.        Services for Future Projects.  The consultants will prepare
feasibility studies for the following projects:
a)  Stage II of the Nam Pong Project, which will serve
a further 20,000 ha by expansion of the left bank
canal system;
b) Stage II of the Lam Pao Project (additional areas
of 24,000 ha on the right bank and 12,000 ha on
the left bank);
c) Development of areas downstream from the existing
Lam Takhong reservoir (new systems to serve 10,000 ha
and rehabilitation of existing systems serving 10,000
ha).
8.        Since the original plans were based on short periods of streamflow
record, proJect formulation will have to be reviewed and updated for all
three projects. Water supply is the primary determinant of a development
plan and,therefore, detailed hydrologic studies will be necessary to take
account of all pertinent data and experience covering irrigated agriculture
in Thailand which has been accumulated since the project was originally
formulated.  System simulationis and economic analyses for a wide range of
alternative plans will then form a basis for a revised project formulation.
For each project this will specify the total area to be served from the
re.3?roir and the cropping intensities and cropping patterns attainable
at full development.
9.        For each project, feasibility-grade designs and cost estimates,
for new works and rehabilitation or modiflcation of existing works will
be prepared, together with an economic evaluation.
10.       The time input for these services is estimated at 10 man-years
of expatriate specialists, 6 man-years of locally-hired professional
personnel and technicians, and 6 man-years of general services personnel,



ANNEX 2
Page 3
such as secretaries and drivers. The estimated cost is US$530,000, with
a foreign exchange component of 87%.
Surveys and Mapping
11.        Maps to a scale of 1:20,000 with contour intervals of one meter
are available for the project areas, but more up-to-date larger scale maps
will be needed to prepare plans and designs for rehabilitation and improve-
ment of the tertiary systems. Maps are also needed for the areas to be
covered by the feasibility studies.
12.        The Land Department is undertaking a nationwide cadastral survey
for which 1:15,000 scale aerial photography is being provided by the Royal
Thai Survey Department. Photography covering the Lam Pao project was obtain-
ed in the 1972 dry season and the other two projects will be covered in the
1974 dry season. RID has entered into an arrangement with the Land Depart-
ment whereby the Land Department's equipment would be used to produce
1:5,000 rectified enlargements and orthophotomaps. The density of existing
primary control points is sufficient for rectification of the photograjhy.
The scale of the photography is too small to determine accurate ground
elevations by photogrammetry. Therefore, spot heights on the orthophoto-
maps would be established by ground survey crews.
13.        It is estimated that map preparation would cost about US$ 5/ha.
Thus, the maps required for project implementation (42,000 ha) would cost
US$ 210,000 and the mapping for feasibility studies (79,000 ha), would
cost US$ 395,000; the foreign exchange component would be about 80%.






ANNEX 3
THAILAND                                  Page
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Water Supply and Demands
Rainfall
1.       The climate of Northeast Thailand is governed by the monsoons.  The
southwest monsoon flows out of the Indian Ocean from about mid-May to Septem-
ber and carries heavy rains. The dry northeast monsoon flows out of the main-
land of China from November to February. Dry periods which last from 15 to
20 days often occur during the southwest monsoon in the months of June and
July. Heavier rains normally resume in late July and August and increase
steadily through September. Towards the end of the wet season the Northeast
often experiences torrential rainfall from tropical storms. These storms,
originating as typhoons in the South China Sea, diminish in intensity as
they cross Vietnam and Laos but in some years they cause flood damage to
the rice crop. During the northeast monsoon, from November to February,
the region suffers from drought and crop production is only possible with
irrigation and even water for domestic purposes is scarce.
2.       Within this overall pattern, average annual rainfall in the North-
east ranges from 1,100 millimeters in the western provinces of the region
and to over 1,600 millinmters in the eastern provinces bordering the Mekong.
About 85% of the rainfall occurs in the period May through October. In
total the rainfall is adequate for production of a wet-season rice crop
but is often poorly distributed in relation to crop water requirements.
Yields are often depressed by droughts at critical periods in the growing
season.
3.       The project areas are in the drier parts of the Northeast.  The
rainfall record for Khon Kaen is representative of conditions in the Lam Pao
and Nam Pong project areas, and the record for Korat represents the conditions
in Lam Phra Plerng. Monthly rainfall in dry and wet years and average monthly
rainfall are tabulated below for Khon Kaen and Korat.
Monthly Rainfall (millimeters)
Month              Khon Kaen                         Korat
Dry     Wet       Avg.       Dry         Wet        Avg.
Year    Year      Monthly    Year        Year       Monthly
(1965)  (1951)               (1967)      (1963)
Jan.         0       10        9           0           0          8
Feb.         4       24       20           0           0         37
Mar.        28       23       40           3         124         46
Apr.       112       81       61          96         159         84
May         83      175      163         181         166        175
June        71      214      172         135          96        117
July       123      266      152          86         118        121
Aug.       208      131      181         110         181        147
Sept.      182      354      280         182         264        236
Oct.       110      311      108          61         220        166
Nov.         0        8        11         65          92         34
Dec.         0        0        1           0           0         3
Total    921   1,597    1,T9           919      1,360      1, 17



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Irrigation Requirements
4.       A detailed study of irrigation requirements for rice was made by
the United States Bureau of Reclamation in their 1970 feasibility study
of the Nam Mun Project. This project is located in the catchment area
adjacent to Lam Phra Plerng and is subject to essentially the same clima-
tic conditions.  The USBR studies were based on climatic data for the
period 1951-1969. Irrigation diversion requirements (i.e. the demand at
the head of the main canal) for 1,000 ha planted to paddy rice are summa-
rized below. The overall irrigation efficiency adopted by USBR was about
55%.
Wet Season       Dry Season
(June-November) (December-May)
Seasonal ReQuirement       Mean                   4.3             13.4
(millionm')               Max.                   6.9             14.0
Min.                   2.0             11.0
Peak Monthly Require-                             0.76             1.48
ment (m3/sec)
5.       The above data can also be considered generally applicable to
the Nam Pong and Lam Pao project areas, except that wet-season require-
ment may be marginally lower because rainfall in these areas is somewhat
higher than Lam Phra Plerng.
Water Supply and Development Potentials
6.       Lam Phra Plerng. Streanflow data for the Lam Phra Plerng damsite
is summarized below. Figures for 1976, 68 and 69 are derived from reser-
voir operating records. The average for the period shown is 100 mcm.
1956     1o6     1960      139      1964       153      1968       21
57     1 74      61      h1         65       116      1969      167
58      82       62      120        66       N/A
59     181       63      119        67        68
The wide variation in annual runoff (extremes of 181% and 21% of the average)
is typical of rivers in Northeast Thailand. In the absence of detailed
operation studies, it is possible to arrive only at an approximate judgement
as to the development potential.   If the demands are high enough in the
dry season and early part of the wet season, the reservoir should be
depleted when most of the inflow occurs in September and October. Thus,
since the storage capacity of 146 mcm is fairly high in relation to
annual runoff, spillway discharge (which represent a loss of water)
will be infrequent. Consequently, most of the runoff, perhaps about
95% or 95 mcm should be available for irrigation. For double cropping



ANNEX 3
Page 3
of rice (100% of the 9,100 ha service in the wet season and 50% in the
dry season) the average annual demand is 100 mcm. Since, in the dry-
season part of the area will be planted to upland crops with lower
water requirements, the demand for 150% cropping intensity would be
close to the available supply. The peak capacity requirement for the
main canal, derived from the figures in para 4, is 6.9 m3/sec, or 33%
higher than the existing capacity of 5.2 m3/sec. As explained in
Annex 1, the project provides for an increase in the capacity of the
main canals and laterals at Lam Phra Plerng of 40% which provides a
small margin of safety over the peak demand.
7.       Lam Pao.  Accurate estimates of the available runoff at the
Lam Pao damsite are not available.  Development of monthly streamflow
values will require compilation and detailed analysis of reservoir
records, and rainfall and evaporation data for the period since reser-
voir filling began in 1967. No records of runoff are available for
years prior to the start of construction. However, a preliminary
analysis of reservoir records indicates the average runoff for the
period 1968-1972 was on the order of 1,240 mcm. The active storage
capacity of the reservoir is 1,260 mcm. Using a diversion require-
ment of 17.7 mcm for 200% cropping on 1,000 ha (para 4), the annual
requirement for the Stage I area of 18,200 ha is 322 mcm and for the
ultimate development of 54,000 ha, as currently proposed, the annual
requirement would be 956 mcm. This preliminary review shows that there
is ample water for Stage I and that there is a case for further studies
to determine whether a larger area than 54,000 ha might be served at
full development.
8.       Nam Pong.  Streamflow data for the damsite of the Ubolratna reser-
voir are summarized below. Figures for the period 1965-1968 are derived
from reservoir operating records. For average annual runoff for the
period is 1,970mcm.
1957     1,886      1961      2,106      1965      11,325
58     1,925        62      2,688        66      1,969
59     2,249        63      2,134        67        929
60     1,732        64      3,049        68       1,271
9.       The reservoir and its 25 MW powerplant are operated by the Electri-
city Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT). Due to the slow build-up
of irrigation demands the reservoir has so far been operated solely in
the interests of power generation. EGAT has, however, undertaken to
schedule releases to meet irrigation requirements at the Nong Wai diver-
sion dam whenever this becomes necessary.
10.      The reservoir capacity of 1,680 mcm is less than the average
annual runoff. Therefore, full regulation of reservoir inflow will not
be possible. Nevertheless, the available water supply far exceeds the
requirements of the 28,200 ha first stage development (13,500 ha on the
right bank and 14,700 on the left bank), and appears more than adequate



ANNEX 
for the currently proposed full development of 47,000 ha.  Using the
diversion requirements given in para 4, the average annual demands for
a 200% cropping intensity are 500 mci for Stage I and 830 mcm for the
full development. Since the annual yield may be on the order of the
storage capacity of 1,680 mcm, there appears to be a strong case for
the more detailed studies referred to in Annex 2.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Extension Services
1.       The Department of Agricultural Extension, within the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Cooperatives, is the agency primarily responsible for providing agricul-
tural advice to farmers throughout Thailand. Technical personnel, mainly graduates
of universities and agricultural vocational schools, are stationed in each chang-
wat and amphur. There are usually six extension officers in each changwat and
two agents in each amphur. Each agent serves approximately 4,000 farmers.
2.       There are several weaknesses in the present system.  Administrative duties
and data collection take up much of the time of the extension officers and agents,
and most of the personnel have been recruited in urban areas so that, apart from
the formal training they have had little exposure to the problems of the average
farmer.  Of more immediate significance, however, is the lack of proven techniques
to impart to the farmers of the Northeast, where cultivation of the main crops
-- paddy, kenaf and cassava -- is dependent on rainfall. Current farming methods
place little reliance on new technology; the farmers invest as little as possible
in cash inputs and are prepared to accept yields which are relatively low but
in general assured. More advanced techniques for rainfed crop production, econo-
mically attractive to the farmers, have yet to be established. This is because
most of the research and field trials have focussed on crop production under
irrigation. A more intensive effort to investigate potentials for higher
productivity under rainfed conditions is urgently required; a step in this
direction will be the implementation of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project.
3.       With the introduction of irrigation the extension services wil] have
an important role in helping the farmers to realize the benefits of an assured
water supply. Information from research and field trials is available on such
matters as recommended varieties for rice and upland crops, fertilizer appi12,
cations and chemical controls; this could form a sound basis for practical
advice and guidance to the farmers. Under these circumstances it seems
justified to establish special units in each of the sub-projects under the
leadership of the more capable and experienced officers of the Department
of Agricultural Extension. An effective extension effort will require increas-
ing the number of extension workers so that each extension workers is responsi-
ble for about 200 farmers. A new approach which emphasizes the trairning of
selected farmers from the project areas to serve as extension workers hag
been evolved in discussions between the Bank and the Department of Agricaj!u-
ral Fxtension; this approach is outlined below.
4.       A project extension officer with several extension agents will be
appointed by the Department of Agricultural Extension to develop and manage
the extension services in each sub-project. The project extension o.ficars
will report to the Director-General,  Department of Agricultural Extenslon
through a Project Director (Extension) in the Director-General's office.
The number of farmers to be recruited for training as extension workers will
be approximately as follows: Lam Phra Plerng (15), Lam Pao (35) and Nam Pong (30>G



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        A demonstration area of about 100 ha (40 to 50 farms) will be
established in each sub-project to serve as a focal point for the training
of extension workers in contact with typical farmers and under actual farm-
ing conditions. These areas will be located where double cropping is to
be introduced. A building to serve as an extension center, with classroom
and storage space, will be provided in each demonstration area. To stimu-
late the introduction of irrigated agriculture in the demonstration areas
arrangements will be made with BAAC to ensure the availability of credit
to the farmers for the purchase of the necessary inputs.
6.        The training period for the selected farmers will cover a complete
crop cycle so that they can become familiar with the various operations from
land preparation to harvesting. Since the farmers will have continuing
responsibilities for their own farms training will take place in a number
of sessions of a few days each. Initially a fairly intensive program of
instruction in the fundamentals of irrigated agriculture will be provided.
Farmers interviewed have indicated that they foresee no problems in
periodic absences from their farms and generally they appear well-disposed
to the idea of becoming extension workers given adequate financial incentives.
7.        Before commencing the training program, it will be essential for
the project extension officers to meet with crop specialists of the Departnent
of Agriculture and visit the various research stations and experimentail
farms-, in order to obtain up-to-date knowledge of the proven techniques
for irrigated farming in the Northeast.
3.        In addition to developing and disseminating the necessary cultural
practices required for successful irrigated agriculture the project extension
services would investigate other aspects of on-farm development. Of particu-
lar importance would be techniques for use by the farmers in selective
land levelling and the construction of farm ditches to improve water dis-
tribution within the tertiary blocks.



Annual Costs
Extension Services
Description                Unit        Rate (g)                 Number                   Amount ($'000)
LPP       LP      NP          LPP       LP     NP
1. Personnel
Prj. Extension Officer  Man-year    60,000             1          1       1           60      60      60
Extension Agents            "45,000                    2         5        5           90     225    225
Extension Workers                    12,000           L5         35      30          180     420    3260
Secretaries                          20,000            1         1        1            o       6
Records Clerks                       18,000            1          2       2           18      36      36
2. Materials & Supplies        Lump Sum                                                     20       40     30
3. Operation and Depreciation -
Vehicles and Equipment:
Pick-up Trucks                       66,ooo            1         1        1           66      66      66
Motorcycles                           3,600           17        40       35           61    1ih      126
Totals                        515   1,011    923
Annual Cost ($/ha)             57       56     63
X-a
Note:  For explanatory notes see Table 1.






ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization and Management of Water Distribution
For organization and management of the distribution of irriga-
tion water below the lateral canals, the Royal Irrigation Department
divides the project areas into irrigation zones, each covering approxi-
mately 2,000 ha of irrigable land.   Each irrigation zone is in the
charge of a 'zoneman' who is responsible to the project's Operation and
Maintenance Engineer.   The primary function of the zoneman is to see
that the irrigation water sent along the main canal and the laterals
effectively serves the irrigable land within his area and to arrange for
minor repairs of turn-outs and other small structures.   He also maintains
close contacts with the farmers concerning the supply and the use of
water in his zone.  Water distribution within tertiary blocks is the
responsibility of the 'common irrigator', elected by the water users
concerned and paid by the budget of RID at the rate of X 1.5 per ha
for each month that his services are required.   According to existing
regulations, the maximum area served by a single common irrigator cannot
exceed 200 ha and from this he could earn up to $ 900 for the three months
of each cropping season.   In general, the common irrigator, himself a
farmer, has no problem in discharging his function during the wet season,
however, the much heavier duties of dry-season irrigation with its problems
of sharing the much more valuable irrigation supplies to more than 100
fellow farmers under a rota system will impose a severe strain on his time.
This means if he were to perform his mission effectively, he would have
little time left to plant his own second crop.   At the present rate of
remuneration, he is likely to spend more time on his own crop to the
detriment of the development of dry-season cropping.
2.        Within the tertiary block, farmers are organized into water
users' associations.   However, receipt of irrigation water is not
conditional upon membership in the association, and as a result, the
constituency of the 'common irrigator' is generally larger than the member-
ship of the water users' association.   Low membership often results in a
lack of both capital from entrance and membership fees, and volunteer
labor without which the associations cannot meet their responsibilities
for maintenance of tertiary facilities.
3.        It is clear from the above brief description of the existing
institutional arrangements for water distribution and maintenance of
facilities in the tertiary blocks that these arrangements require careful
monitoring and subsequent reappraisal.   Both the proposed socio-economic
surveys (para 5.17) and the proposed cost recovery study (para 5.21) will
address this problem.






THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILA4D IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Annual Costs
Operation and Maintenance
Description                Unit       Rate ($)                 Number                        Amount (_ '000)
LPP        LP       NP            LPP      LP        NP
1. Personnel: 1/
Project Engineer           Man-year  60,000            1           1         1             60     60        60
Maintenance Supervisor         "      45,000           1           1         1             45     45        45
Operations Supervisor          "      45,000           1           1         1             45     45        45
Assistant Supervisors          "      35,000           2           3         2             70    105        70
Zonemen                        "      18,000           5          10         8             90    180       144
Gate Tenders                          12,000           3           5         5             36     60        60
C(mmon Irrigators              "       1,200          50         100       80              60    120        96
Records Clerks                 "      1,000           2           2         2             36     36        36
2. Labor and Materials:
Hired Labor                Man-days    15           6,000      12,000    9,000             90    180       135
Materials & Supplies       Lump Sum                                                       400    800       600
3. Operation and Depreciation -
Vehicles and Equipment: 2/
Motor Grader                   No.   212,000           -           1         1             -     212       212
Loader                         "     212,000           1           2         2            212    424       424
Dump Trucks                    "       74,000          1           3         2             74    222       148
Pick-up Trucks                 "       66,ooo          2           3         3            132    198       198
Motorcycles                    "        3,600 3/      10          17        15             36     61        54
Totals                           1,386  2,748    2,327
Annual Cost (W/ha)                  152    151       158
1/Personnel costs include salaries, overhead and allowances.
2/Costs cover fuel, inaintenance, spares, operators' salaries and depreciation (equipment depreciated over             1 l
6 years and pick-up trucks over 4 years).                                                                            C
3/Covers monthly allowance paid to personnel of Z300 to cover costs of owning and operating mo t,rcycles.
Personnel will receive loans for purchase.
LPP = Lam Phra Plerng       LP - Lam Pao        NIP  - Nam Ponr<






ANNEX 6
'Table 1
THAILAND
NORTIEAST THAILAND IRRI(GATION IMPROVEhENT PROJECT
Existing and Potential Irrigation Projects in Northeast Thailand
Project          Reservoir            Service           Area Commanded by
Capacity             Area             Canals Existing or
(mcm)               j  1/           under Construction (ha)
Existing Reservoirs
Lam Phra Plerng           145               9,100                  9,100
Lam Pao                 1,260              54,000                 18,200
Nam Pong                1,650              47,000                 28,200 5/
Lam Takhong               290              20,000                 10,000 2/
10,000 3/
Lam Dom Noi               900              24,000                  5,000 iT/15
Lam Nam Oon               920              22,000                 10,000
Nam Pung                  122               8,ooo                  None  5/
Sub-totals            5,287             184,100
Potential Reservoirs
Upper Chi               1,465              38,000            Feasibility studies completed
Nam Mun                   135               6,500                     "
Lam Sae                   270              13,000                     i
Nam Yang                  500              30,000            Reconnaissance study only
Huai Luang                105               6,ooo            Dam under construction
Sub-totals            2,475              93,500
Totals                7,762             277,600
1/ Figures obtained from various consultants' reports and RID memoranda.
In all cases high intensity cropping assumed for the dry-season.
2/ Land served by farmers' diversions.
3/ Land served by RID diversion dams.
11 Irrigation requires pumping from the reservoir.
5/ Projects include hydroelectric powerplants.






ANNEX 7
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
US$ '000
Total                 Calendar Year
Cost       1974       1975       1976      1977   1978
Irrigation Improvement Project
1. Main Canals and Laterals        1,244        150        600        400       941
2.  Service Roads                  2,632        150        850     1,020       612    -
3.  Tertiary Canals and Drains       841         50        250        300      160      81
4.  Vehicles and Equipment           624        624        -          -
5.  Consulting Services:
Project Implementation         700        220        250       110        60      60
Future Projects                530        300        230                         -
6. Mapping:
Project Implementation         210        210        -         -         _
Future Studies                 395        395
7. Extension Centers                 150        150        -          -        -
8. Engineering & Supervision         370         70         90         90        70     50
9.  Contingencies:
Physical                       879        320        235       185       110      29
Price                        2,125        440        800       600       245      40
Sub-totals                  10,700     3,079      3,305      2,705    1,351    260
Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project
1.  Equipment and Vehicles           516        262        254        -         -
2.  Training Facilities              310        110        150         50
3. Outgrower Fund                     25        -           25        _        __
4.  Technical Assistance              310        90        125         70        25
5.  Contingencies:
Physical                        83         40         40          3      -
Price                          256         85        124         36      11
Sub-totals                   1,500        587        718       159       36
Rural Infrastructure Project
1.  Consulting Services              400        200        200         -        -     -
TOTALS                                    3,866      4,223      2,864   1,387      260



'ANNEX 7
Table 2
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursenents
US$1000
IDA Fiscal Year              Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
and Quarter                Irrigation        Rainfed Rice      Rural      Total
Improvement         Project         Infra-
Pro4ect                          Structure
Project
1974
March 31, 1974
June 30, 1974
1975
September 30, 1974          700                 200            100       1,000
December 31, 1974         1,200                 400            200       1,800
March 31, 1975            1,400                 500            250       2,150
June 30, 1975             1,800                 600            300      2,700
1976
September 30, 1975        2,200                 600            300      3,100
December 31, 1975         2,700                 700            300      3,700
March 31, 1976            3,200                 700            300      4,200
June 30, 1976             3,700                 800            300      4,800
1977
September 30, 1976        4,100                 800            300      5,200
December 31, 1976         4,500                 800            300      5,600
March 31, 1977            4,700                 900            300      5,900
June 30, 1977             4,800                 900            300      6,000
1978
September 30, 1977        4,900                 900            300      6,100
December 31, 1977         5,000               1,000            300      6,300
March 31, 1978            5,100               1,000            300      6,400
June 30, 1978             5,200               1,000            300      6,500
1979
September 30, 1978        5,300               1,200            300      6,800
December 31, 1978         5,400               1,300            300      7,000



ANNEX 8
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION I 1ROVENNT PROJECT
Cropped Areas, Yields and Production
Cropped Areas and Yields (Total Pro.Ject)
1/       Present      Without       With       Present      Without      With
Wet Season                         (ha)                              (tons/ha)
Native Rice-'      35,520        38,500      41,400         1.2          1.5         3.0
Maize -             1,200-.        -           -            1.3           -           -
Peanuts               280           280        -            0.9          1.2          -
Mungbeans             140           260        -            0.6          0.8          -
Kenaf                  740          540        -            1.3          1.3          -
Vegetables            320           540         600                       - _
Totals           38,200        40,120      42,000
Dry Season 1/
RD Rice             1,200         5,340      18,650         2.8          3.2         4.3
Peanuts               100           540         850         0.9          1.2         2.0
Mungbeans              -            450         900         -            0.8         1.2
Vegetables             -            170         600         -                         -
Totals            1,300         6,500      21,000
Annual Totals      391500        46'620      63.000
Annual Cropping
Intensities (%)    103          116         150
1/ The crop calendar for wet-season rice is in general July to November.
For RD varieties in the dry season it will be December/January to
April/May.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
Cropped Areas by Sub-Projects
Lam Phra Plerng             Lam Pao              Nam Pong
(ha)                  (ha)                    (ha)
Present  With- With   Present With- With   Present With- With
out                    out                     out
Wet Season
Native Rice          7,620    8,550  8,950   14,960   16,190 17,975 12,940  13,760  14,475
Maize                   800 .-                     00      -      -       -       -      -
Peanuts                 80        80    -        200       200    -
Mungbeans               40        60    -         100      200    -      -        -      -
Kenaf'                  40        40    -        600       500    -      100      -      -
Vegetables              60       140    150       90       200    225    170     200      225
Totals             8,640    8,870  9,100   16,350   17,290 18,200 13,210  13,960  14,700
Dry Season
RD Rice              1,000    1,480  3,850       200    2,170  8,275    -      1,690   6,525
Peanuts                100       150    250       -       200    300    -        190     300
Mangbeans              -         120    300       _       170    300    -        160     300
Vegetables              -         5°    150       -        60    225    -         60     225
Totals             1,100    1,800  4,550       200    2,600  9,100    0      2,100   7.350
Anmual Totals        9,740   10,670  13,650  16,550   19.890 27O  13.210  16,060  2
Annual Cropping
Intensitiez  M)       113       120    150      101     115    150    100      115     150



ANNEX 8
Table 3
Present Production from the Project Area
Area    Farm       Farm Gate   Gross      Produc-   Net      Net Return
(ha)    Yield        Price     Value     tion       Value    from Pro-
(ton/ha)  j'(t/ton)     of        Costs     of        ject Area
Produc-             Produc-  (O million,
tion                tion
______    _______ (LL              ~~ha)  (/ha)!    ( million)
Wet Season
Native Rice         35,520    1.2          850     1,020       326       694       24.65
Peanuts                280    0.9         1,500     1,350       810      540         0.15
Maize                1,200    1.3           800     1,040       293       747        0.90
Mungbeans              140    o.6         2,200     1,320       270    1,050         0.15
Kenaf                  740    1.3         1,000     1,300       309       991        0.73
Vegetables             320     _           _        6,500     1,316    5,184         1.66
Sub-totals         38,200                                                          28.24
Dry Season
RD Rice              1,200    2.8           800     2,240       758    1,482         1.78
Peanuts                100    0.9         1,50°     1.35°o 810            540        9:
Sub-totals          1,300                                                           l.8
Totals             39,500
Annual Cropping
Intensities (%)       103%



ANNEX 8
Table 4
Future Production Without the Project
Gross              Net        Net
Value of Produc-  Value of RetuZrn
Farm       Farm Gate  Produc-   tion      Produc-   from
Area    Yield         Price    tion      Costs   tion        Proj. Area
(ha)    (ton/ha)    (&.12n)- (AYton)   (&/ha)  (&/ha)    (   izion)
Wet Season
Native Rice    38,500      1.5          850      1,275      370      905       34.84
Peanuts           280      1.2        1,500      1,800      845      955        0.27
Mungbeans         260      0.8        2,200      1,760      345    1,415        0.37
Kenaf             540      1.3        1,000      1,300      309      991        0.54
Vlegetables      540       -           -        7,500    1547    5J953         3.21
Sub-totals    40,120                                                          39.23
Dry Season
RD Rice         5,340      3.2          800     2,560    1,184    1,376         7.35
Peanuts           540      1.2        1,500      1,800      845      955        0.52
Mungbeans         450      0.8        2,200      1,760      345    1,415        0.64
Vegetables        170      _                    7500    1,600    5,900          1.00
Sub-totals    6,500                                                            2.Li
Totals        46,620                                                          48.74
Annual Cropping
Intensities (%) 116%



ANNEX 8
Table 5
Future Production With the Project
Area   Farm      Farm Gate    Gross       Produc-    Net       Net Return
(ha)   Yield     Price         Value     tion        Value     from
(ton/ha)  (A/ton)      of         Costs      of         Project
Produc-   ($/ha)     Produc-   Area
tion                  tion
-       -        _______       (A/ha)                (A/ha)  (0 million)
Wet Season
Native Rice  41,400   3.0        850         2,550       915        1,635      67.69
Vegetables      600    -          -         10.500     2,116        8,384
Sub-totals  42,000                                                            72.72
Dry Season
RD Rice      18,650   4.3        800         3,440     1,762        1,678      31.29
Peanuts         850   2.0      1,500         3,000     1,182        1,818       1.55
Mhngbeans       900   1.2      2,200         2,640       608        2,032        1.83
Vegetables      600    -        -           10,500     2,152       8,348        5.01
Sub-totals  21,000
Totals      63,ooo                                                           112 .h4
Annual Cropping
Intensities (%) 150%






ANNEX 9
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHFAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
1/'1
--2 ha --                             3 lia -
Present       With Project    Present With Project
Single    Double            Single  Double
Crop      Crop             Crop    Crop
Net Income From Crop Production
Kenaf and Cassava 2/       1,000      1,000        800    1,000   1,000    800
Paddy and other crops 3/  1,495       3,783      8,085    2,184   4,856  9,908
Totals                     2,495      4,783      8,885    3,184   5,856 10,708
Net Income From Livestock  V/    900        1 ,500    1,500    1,500   1 ,500  1 ,500
Off-Farm Income                    600        600       -         600      -      -
Total Farm Income          3,995      6,883    10,385    5,284   7,356 122008
1/ Irrigable area per farm.
2/ Rainfed cultivation in non-irrigable areas.
3/ See Table 2.
:/ Mainly pig and poultry production.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
i/                        1/
--------   2 ha --------  --------- 3 ha ---------
Present    With Project      Present  With Project
Single  Double             Single  Double
Crop    Crop               Crop    Crop
Wet Season
Native Rice (ha)                 1.87      1.97    1.97       2.84    2.95      2.95
Maize (ha)                       0.06       -        -        0.09      -        -
Peanuts (ha)                       -        -        -        0.02      -        -
Vegetables (ha)                   0.02     0.03    0.03.      0.02    0.05      0.05
Production Value (A) 2/         2,164    5,339   5,339       3,187   8,048    8,048
Production Costs (A) 3/           669    1,556   1,556       1,003   3 ,192    3,347
Net Income (/)                  1,495    3,783   3,783       2,184   4,856    4,701
Dry Season
RD Rice (ha)                      -        -       1.78        -        -       2.64
Peanuts (ha)                      -        -       0.07        -        -       0.13
Mungbeans (ha)                     -       -       0.07        -        -       0.13
Vegetables (ha)                   -        -       0.08        -       -        0.10
Production Value (,) 2/           -        -      7,358        -        -     10,865
Production Costs CA) 3/            -       -      3,056        -       -       5,658
NIet Income {X)                   -        -      4,302        _               5,207
Total Net Income              1,495    3,783   8,085       2,184   4,856    9,908
1' /rrigab-,e area per farm.
2/l Includes imputed value of produce consumed on the farm.
3/ For cost of production see Table 3; excludes imputed cost of family labor.



ANNEX 9
Table 3;
THAILAND
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cash Inputs and Labor Requirements
Wet Season
Native Rice    _Peanuts       gungbeans      Vegetables
Cash Inputs (O per ha):           W  W       W      W      W            W    W         W
Land Preparation 1/            245    276   245       -     214        -   320      351
Seed                            60      60   500      -      77        -   500      500
Fertilizer 2/                    9    180    -        -      -         -   414      630
Chemical Controls               -      150    -                        -   150      400
Miscellaneous 3/                 56     92   100      -      54        -   163       213
Totals                       370    758   845      -      345       - 1,547    2,094
Labor Re uirements
(man-hours per ha)             613    876   520       -     411        - 1,094    1,489
Dry Season
Kenaf  R D Rice    Peanuts        Mungbeans       Vegetables
Tw    w  W w                w       w       w       W     W
Cash Inputs (% per ha):
Land Preparation 1/         183   -   276   276 245    337    214        245    320   351
Seed                         75   -    60    60 500    500        77      77    500   500
Fertilizer 2/                -    -   225   450  -        90      -      108    h4l   630
Chemical Controls            -    -   150   250  -       125      -      100    150   400
Miscellaneous 3/             51   -    96   129 100    147        54      78    163   213
Totals                    309   -   807 1,165 8h5  1,182    345        608  1,547 2,094
Labor Requirements
(man-hours per ha)          709   -   855 1,180 520    707    411        803  1,094 1,489
1/  Cost of contract ploughing, harrowing, etc. only.  Other land preparation costs
are reflected in labor requirements.  Depreciation of equipment and draught
animals was included under 'Miscellaneous'.
2/  Assumes that fertilizer used consists of one-third Ammophos and two-thirds Ammonium
Sulfate.  Ammophos was priced at 01,900 per ton and Ammonium Sulfate at #1,700 per tor
Expressed in terms of Baht per kilogram of nitrogen, a price of 09 has been used in
financial analyses.  Based on world market prices of nitrogenous fertilizers, a price
of d7 per kilogram of nitrogen has been used in the economic analyses.
3/  Land tax, depreciation of equipment, etc.
i = without project; W - with project.






ANNEX 10
Table 1
THAIIAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Costs and Benefits ( Million)
Construction      Annual        Total       Total         Net
Year       Costs 1/          Costs 2/      Costs       Benefits 3    Benefits
1         32.55              0           32.55         0           - 32.55
2         48.12             3.15         51.27        5.98          - 45.29
3         39.63             4.20         43.83        8.97          - 34.86
14        16.98             4.20         21.18       11.96          - 9.22
5          4.25             4.20          8.45       17.94             9.49
6           -               4.20          4.20       29.91            25.71
7           -               4.20          4.20       41.86           37.66
8           -               4.20          4.20       47.84           43.64
9           -               4.20          4.20       53.82           49.62
10           -               4.20          4.20       59.80            55.60
30           -               4.20           4120      59.80            55.160
Economic Rate of Return:  21.8%
2/ Total costs are in Annex 1, Table 1 less price contingencies,
mapping and consulting services for second-stage studies,
and residual value (25% of cost) of earthmoving equipment
used on tertiary systems.
2/ Annual Coots for 0 & M and extension services (Annex 5) less
expenditures required for operational maintenance of existing
irrigation works for the limited development assumed to take
place without the project.
t/ Net value of production with the project less net value of
production without the project.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
THAILAND
NO'RMAST THAILAND IRIGATI0  IlPROVEMNT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full JLveloprnent
Wet Season
Native Rice     Peanuts         Mungbeans    Vegetables       Knaf
CrQp              v       W        W      W       W      W      W       W       W      W
Yields (tons/ha)       1.5      3.0    1.2     -      0.8      -     _      '       1.3
price ($/ton) 1/       850      850   1,500    -     2,200    -      -       -     1,000
Gross   eXurn ('/ha)  1,275   2,550   1,800    -     1,760    -   7,500   10500  1,300
Costs:  Fertilizer 2/   7      140      -      -       -       -      2       4      -
Labor 3/   -   628     942      533    -       421    -  1,121    1,601    727
Other Inputs   336     553      820    -       320    -  1,108    1,439    284
Total Costs (A/ha)     971   1,635   1,353    -        741    -   2,551    3,530  1,011
Net Return (W/ha)      304      915     447    -     1,019    -   4,949   6,970    289
Area ('000 ha)        38.50   41.40  0.28    -        0.26    -   0.54       0.60   o.54
Net Value of Produc-  11.70   37.88   0.13    -       0.26    -   2.67       4.18   0.16
tion (% million)
Dry Season
Crop                RD Rice      Peanuts          Mungbeans     Vegetables
W      W     W     w         W        W     W        w
Yields (tons/ha)        3.2    4.3  1.2   2.0         0.8     1.2    -
Price (W/ton) 1/        800    800 1,500 1,500       2,200   2,200   -         -
Gross Return (i/ha)   2,560  3,440 1,800 3,000       1,760   2,640 7,500   10,500
Costs:  Fertilizer 2/   175    350    -       70       -        84   322       490
Labor 3/        876  1,269    533   760        421     863 1,121    1,601
Other Inputs    557    690    820 1,067        320      475 1,108    1,1439
Total Costs (#/a)    1,608  2,309  1,353 1,897         741   1,422 2,551    3,530
Net Return ($/ha)       952  1,131    447 1,103      1,019   1,218 4,949   6,970
Area ('000 ha)         5.34  18.65   0.54  o.85       0.45    0.90  0.17      0.60
Net Value of Production5.08  21.09   0.24  0.94       0.46    1.10  0.84      4.18
(% million)
1/ Projected 1980 farmgate prices.  In the case of rice, local taxes and export taxes
totalling $140 per ton of milled rice has to be added to arrive at production values
used in economic analysis.
2/ Costed at world market prices.  See Annex 9, Table 2.
3/ Labor requirements as stated in Annex 9, Table 2 costed as follows:
012 per man-day during period of peak labor requirements.
%2.4 per man-day for all other labor.
With the project 65% of total labor requirements was valued at peak period rates.
Without the project 60% of the required labor was valued at peak period rates..
J - without project; W = writh project.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Government Rice Stations in Northeast Thailand
1.        The Rice Division of the Agriculture Department of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives operates six rice stations in the Northeast:
Phi Mai (Nakhon Ratchasima), Khon Kaen, Chumphae (Khon Kaen), Sakhon Nakhon,
Ubon and Surin.   Each station is managed by a resident superintendent who
has a staff of about 8-9 professionals.   The main work of the stations is
in varietal trials and experiments, and rice seed multiplication.
2.        The Phi Mai and Ubon stations are situated in the western and
eastern end respectively of the Mun and Chi River Basin which is the most
densely populated area of the Northeast where rice is the predominant crop.
Phi Mai serves an area producing mainly non-glutinous rice under environ-
mental conditions characterized by frequent early season droughts.   Ubon
serves an area producing mainly glutinous rice with production suffering
from late season droughts.   Between them, these centers serve areas which
are representative of the major soil types and climates found in the Northeast.
The Xhon Kaen station, in addition to the normal staff, has five resident
specialists seconded by various branches of the Rice Division in Bangkok.
These specialists, an entomologist, a pathologist, two soil fertility
specialists and an expert in rat infestation control, supervise experiments
conducted at Khon Kaen and on the other five stations, and on 22 experimental
demonstration plots throughout the Northeast.   Land use on the stations in
1971 was as follows:
(In hectares)
Station                 Experimentation Multiplication   Other   Total
Khon Kaen                         3.2              22.1           0.6     25.9
Chumphae                          4.5              21.2           0.5     26.2
Sakhon Nakhon                     3.5              10.6           0.6     14.7
Ubon                              5.5               8.0           1.0     14.5
Surin                             3.4              32.0           0.7      36.1
Phi Mai                           3.5              37.1           3.4     44.o
Totals:            23.6             131.0           6.8    161.4



ANN!! 11
Page 2
3.        Experimental work on the stations is closely related to rice
breading, consisting of hybridization, observation, yield trials, screening,
pure seed maintenance and fertilizer trials of promising new lines; in
addition, there are the experiments supervised from Thon Kaen.  The
multiplication of glutinous (G) and non-glutinous (NG) seed was as follows
in 1971 (in tons):
Station            Breeder         Foundation          Stock         Tbtals
G      NG       a       NG       G      NG       a      NG
Thon Kaen             0.2    0.5       2.7    19.8      0.5    7.9     3.4    28.2
Chumphas              0.3    0.8      10.2    33.4       -      -     10.5    34.2
Sakhon Nakhon         0.1    0.4       1.2    20.0       -      -      1.3    20.4
Ubon                   ..     0.2      1.8    11.1       -      -      1.8    11.3
Surin                 0.2    0.8       8.5    29.3       -    11.8     8.7    41.9
Phi Mai               0.3    0.7      13.0    30.7       -     2.7    13.3   34.1
Totals       1.1    3.4      37.4   144.3     0.5   22.4    39.0   170.1
4.        There is a marked emphasis on the production of non-glutinous rice
seed, which accounted for 81 percent of the total production of the six
stations, although 60-70% of the rice grown in the Northeast is glutinous.
A relatively large number of varieties were multiplied on each station in
1971:
Breeder   Foundation   Stock
Khon Kaen                   6            8          6
Chumphae                    8            8          -
Sakhon Nakhon                5           5          _
Ubon                        4            4          _
Surin                       8            8          1
Phi Mai                     9            9          9
5.        In general, the present activities of the rice stations reflect the
insufficient contact between the stations and the extension service and
farmers.   This is indicated by continued breeding of varieties with limited
suitability for Northeast conditions, and multiplication of numerous
varieties when only two have been readily accepted by farmers, together with
an emphasis on non-glutinous varieties when the bulk of the subsistence
farmers in the Northeast grow glutinous varieties.



AINNEX 12
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Rairnfed Rice Pioneer Project
1.       The cost estimates summarized below cover all buildings, equipment
and services to be procured for the project. The costs also include two
revolving funds of Baht 250,000 each for seed purchases from the Phi Mai and
Ubon outgrower schemes. Costs for equipment and vehicles are based on
supplier's 1972 list prices with allowances for freight, insurance, local
handling costs and cost escalation due to recent currency realignments.
Building costa are based on the cost experience of the Engineering Division
of the Agriculture Department. An amount equal to about 10% of total cost
was added to cover physical contingencies. Price contingencies are based
on price escalation at 7% per year applied to the unspent year-end balance.1/
Estimated Costs
(in US$'000)
Lbon and
Phi Mai   Khon Kaen  Other      Extension            Total
Stations   Station   Stations   Service   General  Cost
Land Development           22.5        -          -          -         -      22.5
Farm Machinery and        126.9       45.5       80.6       76.7       -     329.7
Vehicles
Seed Processing            69.4              -               -         -      69.4
Facilities
Rice Breeding               -         45.1        -          -         -      45.1
Facilities
Research and Miscella-    10.8        18.3       17.5        2.4       -      49.0
neous Equipment
Building and Training    310.2         -          -          -         -     310.2
Facilities
Outgrower Fund             25.0        -          --         -         -      25.0
Technical Assistance        -          -          -          -        310.0  310.0
Contingencies:
Physical                  -          -          -          -         83.1   83.1
Price                                                      -        256.0  256.0
5,648      108.9       98.1       79.1      649.1, 1,500
1/ See footnote 2/ on page 3 of Annex 1.






Iz OS/  I LW9 Pi 'I'M
------------------- r--
... ..............
................ ..
. . . . .   .   .                                                                    . . . . . . .
.... . . . . . . .   . . . . ... .   . .   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . ... .
. .    .   . . . .   . . . . . . . .                      .    ....    .                                                                                                                             . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                              .      . . . . . .                          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                   . . . . . . . . . .   .   .              .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .   . . . . .                .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                       .   . . . .   .   . . . . .
...... ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . .               . . . . . . .
........ .... .....
............
. . . . . . .   . . .                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
..........
......... .. . .....
. .   . . . . . .   . . .                      .   . . . . .
.................                                           N0Ii,)flHlSNUj
.    . . .. . .. . .. .. .. .                    . ... ...... .                                                                                         .    .   . . . ..
.................
. . . . . . . . .  . . . .                                                                                                                                                                           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .                          . . . . . . . .
................
...........
....    .   . .   . .. . . .                     . . . .. .. ..
. ..                                                                                .   .   .   .   .  . . .
. . . . .. . . . . . .   1 .               : :        .   ::
. . . . . . . .                                                                                                                                        . . . . . . . .
..................
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .                   ..... . .. . . . . . .                                                                       . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.....................                                                                              ....                                                                                                    iN:iN iHn30Ud
. . . . . .. . . . . . .                  . . . . . . . . . . .. .   . .   .             . . . . .
. ... . . .. . .. . .  .. . . . . .               . ... ... . . . ... .. .   -                     ... ..
. . . . .                     . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   .  . . .
. . . . . .   . .   . . . .   . .                                   . . . .                       . . . . . . . . . . .
...........
. . . . . . . . . .                                                                                        . . . . . . . .   . .   .                                                                        . . . . . . .   . .
. . .     . .   . .   . . . .   .                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                          . . . . . .
.........                                                                             ......... -
....................                            .... ............                                                                                                                                                                              3lN3VVnJ0G  10VUINCID
.............
. . .   . . . .   . .   . .                     . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .                                                                                                                         . . . . . . . . . .
..... . . . . . . .. . . . .                    . . . . I . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   . . . . .
. . . .. . . .   . . . .                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                                   . . . . . . ..   . . . . .
........... ...
....................
..................
. . .     . .   .   . . . .   . .                . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .              . . .
. .   . . . .                      . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
. . . .    . . . .   . . . .                  . . . . . . .   . .. . .
. . . .                                . . . . . . .
............                                                                                                                                               ..     .   ....                       .............    .     ..     .                                        I N 9A  dlrlo ]
. . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                                                  . .   . . . . .   . . . .
.............. .......
. . . . . . . .                         . .     . . . . . . .  . . . . .                 . . . . .
. . . . .                               . . . ..  .. . .. ..
. . ... . .. . . .                                        . . .
...     .....    .                             ................                                                ....                                                                                                                                                               -Id
.     .   . . . .. . . . . . .   .   .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         . . . . . . . . . .   .
.... .... ..                                              .....                          .............                                                                                                                                           NDIS3CI (JNV DNINNV
. .    .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .   . . . . . . .                                                                                 . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . .  . .   . . . . .                                                             . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .                     . . . . . .                                    . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            . . . . . . . . ..... . . ..
. . . . . . . .                                                                                                                                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . .                             . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .                                                                                                                                                                                       . . . . . . . . . . .
. .   . . . . .. . . . .                       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .   .. .   . . .                            . . . . . . .
......                                                                                                                                                                       9NIddVA
....   .   . . . .. . . .. . . .. ..             ... . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .         . . . . . . . . . .   . .  . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         . . . . . . . . . ..   ...   . .                                                                .... . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
...    .....    .....    ....                     ..    ..    .........    .                                                                                   -IV NVO       ),HV IiU3 1
.. .. . . . . .. . .. . .. . . . . .                                                                                                                       ... . . . ..... . . .
.   . . .   . . . . . . . . .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.........       .                       .....................                            ....       ........                              ...........                                                                                S N IV IJ G   (IN V   S
. . .                         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .            . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . .             .. . . . . . . .
..   .....   ..                       ...... I.........-                                 ......    .. .  .......                         ........                                         ...     ...   .
. . . .. .. .. . . .                   . . .... ..                                              .    .  .  .  ......                                 . . .   .. .. . .
... . . . .. .. . . .I . . .. . . .              .. . .. .. .
. . . . . . . . ..                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .                                                                                                                            .     . . .. . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .   .                                                                                                                          . . . . . . .
..............
...............
. . . .. . . . . .   . . . .                                                                                                                                                                          . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
. .. . . . . . .                              .   . . . . .                                    .    . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
.    . . . ..   . .. . . . .                      . .. .... . . . .... . . . . ..
. . . .. .. . . .  .   . . . ....                . ... . . .. . .. . . . .                                                                          .. .. . .
. . .   . .   . . .. . .                                                                                    . . . .   .   . . . ..                   .. .
............                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N0IlJnU I SNOD
..........
.. ..................
................. ..
....................
....................
..............
.......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SINgAnooci
. .. . .. . . . .. . .. . . .. ...                                                                 . ..     . . .... . . .. . ..                                                                                    ..   . . . .
.....................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i0VUlN00 CINV  NDISG
.....................
......................
....... .. .........
...       ......   .......                                                                                 .....    .- .....                                                                        ...  ................
.. ..   . .. . . ....                             .. . . . . .                                      . . . .. .. .                                                                                        . ..... . .
..     ..................                                                      IA 9 3S
........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCIV08  33
.. . I .. . .. . . . .. . . . . .             . .. .... . . . . ... .. . . . .                                                                  .. . .. . ..
.. ..........    .....   ..X.,                                                                                                                       ..   ............ ..   ...
....................
.....................
................
.. .. . .. . .. . . .. . . ....                 ... . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . .                                                                                                               .. .   . . .. .. . . ....   . . . .
. . .. . .. . . .   .                              . .. . . ..                                 .. .. . ... .   .                           ...
. . .. .. .... . .. . .. . . . ....                        . . .. . . .. . . . . .                                                                                      . .. .
. ..                                             .. ... . . . ... .. . . . .. .. .
.. . . .                                                                                                                                                                                          . . .. . .. .. . . .... .. . . .
.. .................
..........                                                                                                    . ..                                                                        .....    ....   .  .....
.....................                                                                                                                                                                                            ..........                                           NOi-LDnHISNOZ)
. ..                                                                                                 .. . . ... .
........ .....
..    . . .   . .                                                  . . . ..
. . ..... . .. . ..                                                                              .. . ....
.. . . .. .. . . . . .. .. ..                      . . ..   . . . . .. . . . .                                  . . .. ..
.....................
............                            ...
. ...... ......
SINEIV\11-1000
...........
. . .. .. .. . . .. . .. . . . ...                           .    .    .  ....    ...... . . .                                                       .    .. . . ..
.....                                                                                                                               10VUIN03 CINV  SNDISIG
. . ... . . . ... . . .. . . .. ..                                                                 .......... . . . . ..                                    . ... .. . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                                                                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .   . . . .. . . .            .. . . . . . .   . . . . . .
.....................
...... ..............                                                                                     -1 (INV  SIVNVD NiViN
.............    .....    .                                                                        .......                                                                                                                                       SIV W 11V
. . . .. ... .   .. . . ..                       .... . .  . .... . . . . .. .. .                         .. . . .... .. . . .
.. ..       .. . ..                        .... . . . ......   . ... . .
............
Y.X.:
IV LJ                                         NIV8                                                                                                                                                N IV 8
. . . ....                      ... . . . .      .. . . . ..
. .. . . . . .. ...                       ..... . .. . .. . .                                 .    . . . ...                                                                              .. . .. .
r I V4, T
G    N  0   s  vjrjrjW vjn=ijr  a                                                      !:A 7 1 T
NViN                                                  v  iv  :j  r                                                         JN!;'IV'r I   Ivy  v   vv              r       N                                       r                    IAIlll Nuom
(i-lTol,sTv71r -I i...
8L6L                                             LL61                                             9L61.                                            9L6L                                              tL61
ginCHHOS NOiionEi I SNOD
103rodd lN3W3A0HdWl NOlIV91881 (INVIIVHI ISV3HIHON
(INVIIVHI






THAI LAND
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Central Policr
Committee
for Irrigated
Agriculture 1/                               MihMstry of Agriculture. and Cooperatives
Director-General
Royal Irrigation Department                                                                     Department of
Agricultura Extension
zrz_
Project Director  3i                                                                       Project-Director
(Irrigation)                           roject Consultants                               (Extension)
2~~~ ~g                   %                            oordination Committee| 4i                       4                              l
Project Extension           Project Extension            Project Extension
Project Engineer            Proiect Engineer             Project EngineerOfie                               l    l         Ofcr          l l           Ofcr          l
Officer                      Officer                     Officer
Lam Phra Plerng                Lam  Pao                    Nam Pong                         Nam Pong                      Lam Pao                  Lam Phra Plerng
11 Chairman. Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture and Cooperatives
Members: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Interior, and Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
2/ Appointed by and reporting to the Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture and Cooperatives
3/ Deputy Director-General, Operation and Mainteriance, RID
4] To be established for each sub-project. Chaired by the respective
province or district officer; members are: project engineer, project extension
officer, branch manager of BAAC and other concerned government agencies.
VVor d Bank-7808(2R)






IBRD 10305
JANUA*Y 1973
*'4   ~~~~~ NORHEAST THAILAND
IRRIGATION PROJECTS                                                    20'
T H A I L A N D                                    x i Eting rservoir                         Main roods
tPtenfeil reservoirs           ---        Rods under construction
N  BANGKOK                  ,                          in  c4ol  ssems            4-I-4-| +   Rlays
<}iZD w7  C Proposed extensions                      Rivers
2J Tha,/od       \)  - 'Project Areas                                                      Region*l boondawies
7hw,-W- lernofionot boundaries
LO,
L 0          S 
* --HASARAKAMNONGKHAI
TO BANGKO  *          __Luang_                   UDOTHNI O                                                  P4
D            KHMER REPUBLICK 
.o
*   o s   \    ~  ~  --    ~       I                          fiPung Pong
\  />                 l               s   \ X ~~~L A O S
CDiHU,  HS1                             LPaoo    /$                       })
. I ~~~~KHONKAEN                                KLSIg0eYng 
N                                            I~~~~a
> D                            MHASARAKA 
-16              .          D '                g 0                     R0I-E                        (
*---     °'Ch. e 4;I                                                       100          15 2\        '0
I U.pIper_t (  g l   1<               l<vr1I  Mun
.- 2                                   F )  /   /                              BONRATCHATHANI
*,,^    ~~~~~   | >  g                   /            ; S~~~~~~~~URIN                   UDO               g
*'~~---LomPhra                                                                R A  NG  S--
TO BANGKOK         P,erngm</9,_/
/   ....            q° z                   ~KHMER REPUBLIC                                 - C
_14.                                                                                                                                 1 ,4'-
TO BANGKOK        "e/          1-1 z. ,r   1 l    
102- '                                                 10i41   iA",*o i)se kade Onty)






IBRD 10302
MAY 1973
/ t 
,,/ ---1=                                                                                                  ;X y9  
LAM  PHRA  PLER"GRIERS   PO
MAIN ROADS
VILLAGES
.....REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
2   1                                                                    -.         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ki LOMET ERS
Th, b-df-, h-~ .n Vlh,fl-p do no-
9,,710 eoo.o 'n -l,,b-cpa,o   lb,h
W09IdB-kR -d 202 ffihero
Pr  1.. .






-'s   , A - @3unsgwon3 2'~<'                                                                    (     ,  -'                                         NORTHEAST    THAILAND
7          oB  KhoSlol .lon51       -2/yt         0V1               LAM  PAO
.                             DAM I             /r  X       /LAM  PAO PROJECT
Roads
9.1 N.q 5-Boo No  r   o                                                    4Tal
90r Wonq                      ocouoto !     jrNCh   /t  w>  k               /                                                  Existing  Canals
u(\Dor <;>\3on Nog  If   L3_            ,olA -> (Rt/-'  ~03ghNong_Ca -- --Canalsto Be Completed in 1973
--n,    Toero T-e55>/   \\<-g;ThR9qg  3  ~z4/     I       _C<  -                               ---C anals for Second  Stage  Development
\otAt, /-  It i\<w- ~~-30n3°0>   y   > E   ,   ~-               ~Service  Area  of Sub- Project
0                              N-o   BonNoso                 S         ,        t~ N~
/   B    o, Nong K og
V~/             e              do              f\f    < /  CA  F  _-  _                                                                                                 -r  ' 
,N                         no         ;' vocin                   q                     Ao,1o    dOov um    9 9 B B nHr |on Tho  tO SAA  A/ArO    -  nIor
-  Bon   Kh    m   < ?   ( {   )   <  h   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   _            \   \  /    ,  )S4on    Nzt                y   |70  rl   J' N ffHO
h..'     A.;                                                                           A                                         ND
;2/   -                                             -r ~8.~ N 5., f tS-
<  \d z < = ~~~~Kot Soc\                          So. KAKo.g              - BooN lOj9nS5                                                        Q             \>    /Kok  --  -    !
(~~                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   1/BoNoo9
~~~h D.N M..g~~rt-   - -QonCon
'Y.' NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                                                   B. " p0
1      ,                 5,Pnrrne 
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Doibor.OogSolD5                                                           {Dioog         2         t         N ~
-'  non Boo1 0004 soN--i~~~~~~~~13~ T.hB.
No -          w - g                                                                 A -T-                     J
\.orNosoeisoi    5erLonoArooA  iso-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Bh D                               OJ%g IhBgH
NC  .  0noAH0S
NDn NPNhso gSn,
ft, M.Ikh.  A.,          D.K           B-9 9"~~~~~~~~~/                      uS~  onoo
Cr~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-o                                                        N.oBo      Th.,A 
flNonobor.B,Ao,K.,I                                                                                  N~       NP,g . *    It I
B. N. 7"I_  T '~~~~~ - - -                           '--,- -
N   'Q               N                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    . N- 9--h K
SnrLonyo               0~~~~~~~~ 50g
- -                                    Boo      N                   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th. orPo
5           O,O~~~~~~,             I  N                                                                     ,55eotsm       4~~~~~~~~~T~ 
-~~    -  -  /  I      N            ~"J
400 bOok %oooo /7Iboop Soog A/or 






/10 UDOLN THEN                                                                    S                          -                          -    
NORTHEAST THAILAND
TtAX S UE ONK                     1                     NAM  PONG PROJECT
H-                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERV CE AREA O1F 5B-PROUECT
0r>                                                        R A     5L -N                              CANALS FOR SECOND STAGE DEVELOPMENT
- - - 3-  CANALS TO BE COMPLETED IN 1AD3
EC~~~~~ -~~~ I CX V7I  X   \  </ ~~~~~\    V   r~~-                                     EXI5'TING CANALS
\  \  X    -  \      W  A1                                                  .=_   L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKES AND PONDS
\- ---  - \1/                                                     MIN ROADS
OTHER ROADS
K.....   EG DNAL BOUNDARIES
-.  -   INTERNATIONAL BOAUNDARIRS
j NO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    D
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .- .. ......X         ,   Xs                     Ao 
i\ f \'  t    (      r~~~~J ,#,Q'                         \                                    \!~As






IBRD -10368
\   100°                                                 104°              <\^z                                   lo@-                MAY 1973
C         H           I    N               A                                                          or
.                                                               "S _.,.i   wA  /                    LOWER MEKONG BASIN
UNDP REGIONAL PROJECT 253
PIONEER PROJECTS UNDER PREPARATION
FPhon                                                                                    LIMITS OF THE LOWER MEKONG BASIN
RIVERS
B  U    P M     A        /            >      ?      -            2      4            H     A     N     O    I         = FRESERVOI RS AND LAKES
HANOI               NATIONAL CAPITAL-S
0   IMPORTANT TOWNS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'tNX>,HOuei Sai                                                                                      LOCATION      PROJECT NAME
-20- .   iSN         \P                                                                                                I           2 MUK KAMPUL PUMP IRRIGATION    Z O
J20               tf                                AO  RBN                                                           2      NOVEL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
JO7            ji~~Nj3                                             PREK THiNOT IRRIGATION
C  -   ,   Ss4L  A                                                              to  CAGIER SUD PUMP IRRIGATION
5oo  RAINPED RICE IMPROVEMENT
ZI;J  6    J   (/  A  ,   ?  02/   >  t  /         6G t e MEKONG PUMP IRRIGATION
I i   t~  X  S  t Jistet  +<  8       |   <,e      ,-                                    7o to CTANK IRRIGATION
/       ! t    $              A  S         0   t    e            .                              8    GO CONG IRRIGATION
)                                                                                                                  S      t } p tf q tX < < > X 9  CAISAN POMP IRRIGATION
10      TIEP NHUTSALINITY INTRUSION CONTROL
t    q                                   t   NOhg )oI                 Rq' TA;MA:k          N                     Gv/f  of  Tonkin
0   X        (' V   '            '        %m      ~~ ~ ~~~~               ~    ~       ~      ~~~~~SAK t     ,-
#    -¾S%tX-  NSong  -Lam                         O va                                 H
BURMA                                    - Jon Kaen                   0KoIasi.\
It >    4f   H/f A    41Rl , L 4   A    N    D  X                         u °  t           OOo Khemort
2~~~~~~~~~~                 A    ~1 X aiycphum          N       D          !   PAT'f H0TNRA HN I    0, _          e    1      019
N  X    S 3                  - -   76vl^;<Pakse    '   cF / uw[    FRO'                                                            E
\~~~~~~<   iR~?                                  e          B            ;          t            )                   V 
.~                                                                                        St  omong TPRrI5g   SOB PU         Rj X I2
oS    X                               |              8    e       m       Chat <~~alln Rtc
'~~o4mserg~ ~                        Can KHR ERonR\EPtBLIC
,   2                                                                             t@O¢,  5eaS Co Chi,e   eo  N
K V ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
)            O          SC         100        150        PO9                1              ,  v~~~~~~~~O 
BURMA)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o l
Cu/    of   Thai/an                                                                                                                         RSR2025gG    /   ot    Cia S
BAN   ,K,Gfl,\.C., V
KILOMETERS                                  (NO /                       os              Vbe b.lunAbI;cs  s oN  hl. zOO tp Treoz    .
ION?          10                       4                      tohs rgd bpV o oaldoVemo4dh tpVcK Sy rh  E



