CIRCULATING Copy
L~' COPY                     TO BE RETURNEED TO REPORTS DE3
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1370-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
January 23, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USED IN TIIS REPORT
Currency Unit           =      Baht (Bt)
US$ 1                   =      Bt 20.0
Bt 1                           US$ 0.05
Bt 1 millior            =      US$ 50,000



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of
US$7.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Northeast Thailand
Irrigation Improvement Project, the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project and the
provision of technical assistance in the preparation of a rural infrastruc-
ture project in Northeast Thailand.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
1.        An economic mission visited Thailand in September 1972. Its
report, entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Thailand,"
was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 9, 1973 (R73-40 and
R73-41). The report updated the basic economic report which was distributed
to the Executive Directors on January 18, 1972 (R72-12). Another economic
mission departed for Thailand in January 1974. Country Data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
2.        In October 1973, after several days of violent confrontation in
Bangkok between units of the army and police and crowds, composed largely
of students, the Government of Field Marshal Thanom Kittikachorn surrendered
power and a university rector, Dr. Sanya Dhammasakdi, was called upon by
the King to form a new Government. The Government thus formed has pledged
to enact a new constitution and then hold a General Election in the second
half of1974. The drafting of a constitution based on the principles of
parliamentary democracy is proceeding and the Election is expected to be
held at the time indicated.
3.        The main preoccupations of the new Government since taking
office, apart from the introduction of a new constitution, have been to
restrain inflation, a phenomenon from which the country had long been
free until very recently, and maintain the delicate political balance
which has existed since the downfall of its predecessor.
Growth of the Economy in Recent Years
4.        From 1960 to 1968 Thailand's gross domestic product grew at an
average rate of 8 percent per year, exports increased by an average of
10 percent per year, the balance of payments was in surplus, and substan-
tial foreign exchange reserves were accumulated. However from 1968 to 1970
Thailand's export markets were unfavorable and exports increased very little,
resulting in balance of payments deficits and reserve losses. The slow
growth of exports restrained the growth of private demand, private investment



-2-
stagnated from 1970 to early 1972, and the growth rate slowed to 6-1/2 per-
cent in 1970-71.
5.        Exports began to grow again in 1971, and since that time have
increased by 48 percent, largely because external demand for four of Thailand's
major exports--rice, sugar, kenaf, and rubber--strengthened while the markets
for maize and tapioca products remained unfavorable. Although private invest-
ment demand also picked up in the latter part of 1972, total real output, as
opposed to exports, increased by only 3 percent in 1972 because of a drought
in the summer that limited the production of rice, kenaf, and especially
maize. However, in 1973 real GDP is estimated to have grown by about 8 per-
cent because of continued strong export and investment demand and revived
growth in agricultural production.
Prices and Demand
6.        After some years of virtual price stability, the GDP deflator
rose by 5 percent in 1972 and is estimated to have increased by a further
8 percent in 1973. These price increases were caused by two factors:
(a) strongly rising external prices for Thailand's exports, combined with
reduced agricultural production because of the drought; and (b) rising
import prices and the devaluation of the Baht in February 1973 to maintain
parity with the US dollar. The increases, particularly the higher price of
rice, may have contributed to the overthrow of the Government in October 1973,
and to the numerous strikes which have occurred since then. Reducing the
pressure on domestic prices is now a major concern of the government. In
July the government revalued the Baht by 4 percent and imposed a temporary
ban on exports of most grades of rice, and in November it adjusted indirect
tax rates, raising those on luxury items and lowering those on widely
consumed necessities.
7.        As a result of the strong export and private investment demand
of the past two years, a situation of buoyancy had been created, prior to
the recent oil price increases, which would have required the government to
reverse the decline in the current budget surplus if it was to generate
enough resources to finance its program of capital penditures, without
creating new inflationary pressures. With a ratio of taxes to GDP of 12%,
there was some room for a greater tax effort. The implications of the oil
price increases for fiscal policy will form part of a study of the country's
public finances on which the Bank is now engaged, jointly with Thai officials,
at the request of the Government.
The Third Plan: Development Objectives and Policies
8.        Planning in Thailand sets the overall strategy for the plan period
and indicative targets for government expenditure, but is interpreted flexibly
and specific decisions on policies, programs and projects are made annually
at the time of budget preparation and review. The Third Five-Year Plan
(1972-76) was prepared in 1968-71 when economic indicators were discouraging.
The plan established the following objectives:   (a) the revival of economic
growth at a rate of 7 percent per year with the maintenance of external
stability and reasonably stable prices; (b) the expansion of agricultural
and industrial production for export, supported by effective export promotion



-3-
programs; (c) a larger share of public expenditure for agriculture, education,
and other social sectors; (d) a better regional distribution of development
gains, with particular emphasis on the Northeast; (e) further development
of institutions to channel official external capital into private sector
investment; and (f) improvements in the formulation of projects and sectoral
and regional programs. The Plan's objectives are supported by the interim
government established in October 1973, and the return to constitutional
government is not expected to lead to change in these objectives.
9.        A reorganization of government ministries was effected in
October 1972 for the purpose of improving the administration and coordina-
tion of economic and social services. Of particular importance was the
regrouping of all agricultural services in one Ministry, which should make
it easier to formulate and implement agricultural policies and programs;
these are discussed in Section III, Agriculture in Thailand.
10.       During the 1960s, manufacturing output in Thailand grew by 12 per-
cent per annum on average, but the sector is still small and oriented toward
the domestic market, partly because of an industrial policy that has favored
import substitution. The growth target for the sector in the Third Plan is
8 percent per year. Several measures have been adopted to encourage manufac-
turing, particularly for export. In 1972, additional incentives were pro-
vided for investment in export industries and in industries located in ten
designated development zones and an Industrial Estates Authority was estab-
lished. In addition fiscal incentives to manufacturers of exports have
been increased and made easier to obtain. However, production costs in
several import substituting industries are still much higher than the price
of competing imports; and costs in much of Thailand's industry are too high
to permit it to compete in external markets. Measures to encourage pro-
tected industries to become more efficient are needed, and policies to
promote specific efficient export industries need to be formulated in detail
and applied consistently.
Long-Term Problems
11.       Thailand's population is growing by 3 percent per year.   The goal
of the Government's population policy is to reduce this rate to 2.5 percent
by 1976. Although dissemination of modern birth control techniques has made
rapid progress, the age structure of the population will make it difficult
to reduce the population growth rate as fast as the Government intends, and
there is no evidence yet that the rate has started to decline. Even if the
Government target is achieved, Thailand will have to contend with a rapid
increase in the working age population until well into the 1980s.
12.       Seasonal unemployment and low productivity are major problems
in Thailand. At present, there is little open unemployment because of the
availability of unoccupied land that can be brought under cultivation by
those who would otherwise be unemployed. Most new entrants to the labor
force now become farmers because job opportunities in other sectors are
limited, and agriculture will be required to generate nearly 60 percent of
the 2-1/2 million jobs that need to be created during the Third Plan period.
Since the supply of cultivable land is likely to be exhausted in the 1980's,
policies and projects to increase employment and output per unit of land



- 4 -
need to be implemented now to prepare for this eventuality. Such policies
include measures to raise crop yields, increase cropping intensity, and
promote other farm activities (livestock, fishing silk, etc.).
13.       Disparity between rural and urban incomes is a serious long-term
problem. Household expenditure surveys in 1969-70 found that the mean annual
income of urban families was roughly 2-1/2 times that of rural families.
Differences in the level of development of different regions also constitute
a problem. In 1971, per capita GDP in the various regions measured as a
percentage of per capita GDP in the Central region was 24 percent in North-
east Thailand, 37 percent in the North and 54 percent in the South. Since
the Central region contains Bangkok, where most manufacturing industries
and most of Thailand's urban population are located, this difference between
regional incomes in part reflects the difference between rural areas and
Bangkok. The government is carrying out regional planning studies with
bilateral and UNDP assistance to identify programs and projects to aid the
less developed regions. A planning study for the Northeast was completed
in 1970, and studies are now in progress for the North and the South. How-
ever, the Government has not yet been able to institute an effective program
for the Northeast, and continual effort to identify and prepare projects
outside the Central plains and to strengthen the capabilities of local
institutions in these areas is necessary.
Balance of Payments and External Borrowing Program
14.       Before the prices of crude oil were increased in December 1973,
Thailand had been expected to have adequate foreign exchange to cover its
needs during the Third Plan period. The recent growth of exports had
increased external reserves by $200 million in 1972 and an estimated
$150 million in 1973, and the short-term outlook for export markets was
favorable. In 1972 petroleum imports totalled $150 million accounting for
9.2 percent of imports. If Thailand in 1974 holds oil imports to the same
volume level as 1972 and pays four times the price, oil expenditures will
total $600 million compared to gross foreign exchange reserves estimated to
be $1,000 million at the end of 1973.
15.       It is of course far from clear what the full effect of the recent
oil price increases will be on the Thai economy, but the urgency of taking
measures to stimulate production for export has certainly grown, providing
markets can be found. Since Thailand's exports consist largely of foodstuffs,
tin and rubber and are sold in a wide variety of markets this may give them
a defensive strength in the event of a recession in Western Europe and Japan.
16.       In May 1973 the Consultative Group for Thailand met to review
the country's development prospects and requirements for external assistance
for the remainder of the Third Plan. Because of two devaluations of the
dollar, considerable increases in the cost of Thailand's imports, and addi-
tions to the list of projects for external financing, the Government has
revised its projected requirements of commitments of external public capital
during the Plan period from $800 to $1200 million. In May 1973, this amount
appeared likely to be available and the situation will be reassessed at the
next meeting of the Consultative Group tentatively scheduled for June 1974.



-5-
17.       In April 1972, the Government of Japan signed a Y 64 billion credit
agreement with the Government of Thailand, and a year later announced the
untying of almost the entire amount.
18.       Considerable progress has been made in project preparation since
the start of the plan. However, external lenders to Thailand are giving
increasing emphasis to projects in agriculture, education and other social
sectors, and this may make it more difficult for the Government to achieve
its target for external borrowing which has traditionally supported projects
in the power, transportation and communications sectors.
19.       Present Government policy is to maintain the private sector's
freedom of access to private credit sources abroad; in consequence, private
capital inflows are expected to continue to finance a significant part of
equipment imports. Since reserves are high and domestic sources of finance
for private investment are not entirely adequate, this policy has been
appropriate so far. If the balance of payments is badly effected by oil
price increases, this policy may need modification.
20.       At the end of 1972, Thailand's total external debt stood at
$849 million and the debt service ratio for the year was 14.4%. Before
the oil price increases, this ratio had been expected to rise to 19% by
1976; if Thailand borrows to finance oil imports the debt service ratio
is likely to rise more steeply.
21.       Whatever the magnitude of the ultimate reduction in the foreign ex-
change reserves caused by the increased oil prices, it is clear that Thailand,
which was already receiving finance on concessional terms under bilateral and
multilateral aid programs, will now have a greater need for aid on such terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
22.       Since 1950 Thailand has received 27 Bank loans amounting to
$474.4 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have been for trans-
portation ($192 million), irrigation ($69.2 million) and power ($91 million)
with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and irrigation project
($65.9 million). The remaining loans have been for education ($21.4 million),
industry ($1.0 million) and telecommunications ($37 million). In addition,
Thailand has received IDA credits of $19.5 million for education and $5.5 mil-
lion for irrigation improvement. In general, Bank-financed projects have
been carried out in accordance with expectations. Construction of the Third
Bangkok Port project, financed under Loan 702-TH, began 18 months behind
schedule. The delay was mainly caused by the time taken by the Port Author-
ity of Thailand and its consultants to pre-qualify bidders, amend tender
documents and evalute bids which were complicated by currency realignments.
In July 1973 the Executive Directors approved a loan of $55 million to the
Metropolitan Water Works Authority (MWWA) for a Bangkok water supply project.
Signature of this loan has been delayed pending the filling of the post of



- 6 -
General Manager of MWWA, which became vacant in August, and the negotiation
of an engineering consultancy contract. A new General Manager has now been
appointed and negotiations for the consultancy contract are proceeding satis-
factorily. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of December 31, 1973 and IFC investments as of December 31, 1973,
and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
23.       The Bank Group's lending program in Thailand is being diversified.
In the next few years a smaller proportion of it is expected to be devoted to
transportation and power, while projects in irrigation, rural infrastructure,
livestock, education, family planning, industry and forestry will account
for about two-thirds of the program. Both Bank and IDA projects are in-
creasingly selected to achieve a wider geographical spread for development
benefits and one of the main functions of the Regional Mission in Bangkok
is to assist the Government in developing projects which will contribute
to this. The Bank Group's readiness to finance some local costs in appro-
priate cases will enable it to participate more fully in projects in agri-
culture and the social sectors.
24.       Two further loans should be ready for consideration in FY 74:    one
to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand for a Quae Yai hydro-
electric project and the other to the Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand. In FY 75 about three-quarters of the program (by dollar amount)
is expected to be devoted to projects in the countryside, where incomes
are lowest. It will include a rural infrastructure project and lending
for irrigation, livestock improvement, seed multiplication and possibly
rubber replanting. In addition outlying areas can expect to benefit from
projects now under preparation for educational radio and television and
infrastructure for four regional centers and their environs. Projects of
more direct benefit to towns are expected to include industrial estates and
the regional centers already mentioned.
25.       On December 31, 1972 Bank loans disbursed and outstanding to
Thailand amounted to $205 million, representing 24 percent of the country's
estimated total external debt. The level of Bank/IDA commitments is
expected to increase substantially over the next five years, but loans
and credits disbursed and outstanding are not expected to exceed 30 percent
of external debt by 1978. Prior to the oil price increases, servicing
of the Bank Group debt was expected to account for 58.4% of Thailand's
public debt service in 1978, but the public debt service was expected
to amount to only 4.7% of exports in that year. No new forecasts can yet be
made but the Bank Group's share of the country's external debt service is
unlikely to become excessive.
26.       Prospects for IFC operations in Thailand are reasonably good; IFC
began appraisal of a pulp and paper project based on bamboo and bagasse in
the latter part of January 1974.



-7-
PART III - THE AGRI:ULTURAL SECTOR AND THE NORTHEAST REGION
A. Agriculture in Tlailand
27.       Agricultural production grew by an average of about 5-1/2 percent
per year in the 1960's, as compared with an 8 percent average annual growth
in GDP. Since the rural population grew by 3 percent per year, rural incomes
probably increased slowly. Much of the increase in output in the decade
resulted from a 43 percent increase in the area under cultivation.
28.       Rice is Thailand's most important crop, being both the nation's
staple food and its largest foreign exchange earner. However, in recent
years Thai farmers have proved resourceful in diversifying crop production
in response to price incentives. As a result of this diversification of
production, rice exports, for which the market was unfavorable from 1968
until 1972, declined from 34 percent of total merchandise exports in 1965
to 21 percent in 1972.
29.       The Third Plan sets a target of 5 percent annual growth in agri-
cultural production and, implicitly, farm incomes. The Plan calls for
continued diversification into the production of crops with favorable export
prospects, particularly maize and cassava; and the value of agricultural
exports is expected to increase 32 percent during the five-year period. The
Plan also seeks to encourage limited import subsitution for those agricul-
tural products that Thailand can produce with reasonable efficiency. Rice
production, however, will have to grow by about 3-1/2 percent per year to
meet the increased domestic demand resulting from population and income
growth and to provide a surplus of 1 to 2 million tons per year for export.
30.       Attainment of the Third Plan production goals will, however,
require an increase in the yields of major crops, because the supply of
cultivable land is limited and new lands brought under cultivation will be
less and less productive. There is considerable scope for change in this
direction. The adoption of improved seed/fertilizer technology has been
slow, and fertilizer consumption is now among the lowest in Asia. In the
past, the spread of this technology was retarded by three factors. First,
Thailand has been slow both in developing high-yield seeds suitable for the
country, and in establishing the institutional arrangements required for
their production, certification and marketing. Secondly, rice farmers have
been discouraged from adopting such new technology as was available because
the domestic price of nitrogenous fertilizer had been kept high by the
Government-controlled company which had a monopoly on it while the domestic
price of rice had been simultaneously depressed by an export tax. Thirdly,
the shortcomings of many of the country's irrigation systems discouraged
farmers from adopting the new rice technology, which requires efficient
water control.



-8-
31.       The Government has been considering ways of dealing with these
problems. FAO has assisted by conducting studies on the response to
fertilizer of major crops, and the Bank has financed a national fertilizer
study. In December 1973, the new Government decided to lift the monopoly
on nitrogenous fertilizer and to allow duty-free importation of all
fertilizers. It-is too early for the benefits of this new policy to have
made themselves felt. A working group in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives is considering what else can be done to make fertilizer
available to farmers at prices which will encourage them to use more of
it. The Government is receiving assistance from Japan and the U.S. to
enable it to increase production of new varieties of seeds, and the
IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program has helped the Government prepare a seed
multiplication project for the Bank Group's consideration.
32.       Government supporting services for agriculture have not been
very effective in the past, partly because of inadequate coordination
and cooperation between the many agencies dealing with agriculture.
The Government's decision last year to return the Royal Irrigation Depart-
ment and the Land Development Department to the Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives should help to improve coordination. However, continued
effort is necessary to increase the effectiveness of research and extension
programs, to improve agricultural credit and marketing facilities, to
control the use of the nation's forest lands, and to provide farmers with
secure title to their land.
The Development of Irrigated Agriculture
33.       The first large-scale irrigation scheme in Thailand for which a
Bank loan was made was the Greater Chao Phya Project, undertaken in the
1950's. A diversion dam on the Chao Phya river and a system of main canals
afforded a measure of control over natural flooding in the area, but the
distribution system was not designed to assure delivery of water to every
farm - or to make dry-season cropping possible.
34.       A low-cost system of tertiary canals and drains was therefore
constructed in the 1960's, with the assistance of Loan 328-TH, which
permitted an increase in wet-season yields and some degree of dry-season
cropping. Since 1960 the Bank has helped finance two major dams, Bhumiphol
and Sirikit, which have further increased control over flooding and permit-
ted the storage of more water for dry season irrigation. Concurrently, dams,
canals and "tanks" were also constructed with U.S. assistance on rivers in
Northeast Thailand, to provide water for both wet and dry-season irrigation.
But the growth of dry-season cultivation and the increase of wet-season
yields have been slow. Studies financed in part by Loan 514-TH (Sirikit
Dam) identified deficiencies in design and operation of the canal systems
as well as inadequate on-farm development works and supporting services as
being responsible for the slow realization of the full benefits from these
investments.



-9-
35.       The existence of under-utilized irrigation infrastructure and the
Third Plan's emphasis on agricultural diversification have led the Govern-
ment to adopt a two-pronged approach to irrigation development. First,
existing irrigation facilities are to be completed, improved, and modified
as necessary to obtain more benefit from ealier investments. The Chao
Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (partly financed by Credit 379-TH)
and the proposed project are examples of this approach. Secondly, new
facilities are to be developed in areas that offer more potential for
growing upland crops.
B. The Economy of Northeast Thailand
36.       The Northeast is the poorest region of Thailand; its per capita
GDP being only 24% of that of the Central Plain. It covers an area of
about 170,000 square kilometers comprising 15 Changwads (provinces) drained
by the Mekong River and its tributaries. Historically the region has been
isolated from markets in Thailand and abroad by poor transportation
facilities. The region is inhabited by about 13 million people (about
35% of Thailand's population) most of whom are farmers. Although the
population is growing by 3% per year, the region is not yet over-populated,
and farm holdings, which average abbout 3.5 ha., are larger than elsewhere
in Southeast Asia. Most farmers own the land they cultivate although the
legal status of their title deeds varies. The natural conditions in tiuch
of the region are less favorable to agriculture than in other regions of
the country; soils are generally poor and rainfed crop production is only
possible from May to October.
37.       In the 1960's the Northeast's gross regional product grew by
about 7 percent per year, as compared to an 8 percent annual increase in
GDP for Thailand as a whole. During the decade, more than half of
public investment in infrastructure in the region was devoted to road
construction. As a result the transportation system improved markedly,
and the integration of the region's economy with national and world markets
began. As the transportation system improved, the cultivation of cash crops
spread. The most significant of these crops is kenaf, a fiber crop similar
to jute, which is grown on about 10 percent of the cultivated area; maize
and cassava are grown in the western part of the region. However, most
farmers still operate at the subsistence level, with rainfed rice as their
main crop.
38.       The manufacturing sector accounts for less than 10 percent of
gross regional product, and primarily serves the local market. However,
in the cities close to U.S. bases, expenditures by the U.S. military
stimulated the expansion of the construction, transportation, and services
sectors and caused fairly rapid growth of population and employment.
39.       The future development of the Northeast depends ultimately on
agriculture. For the foreseeable future the majority of the labor force
will be engaged in agriculture; and agro-industries, relying on local



- 10 -
raw materials, have greatest potential as export industries for the region.
According to the Third Plan the Northeast should receive 27% of total
national development expenditures. Since the region contributes only a
small proportion of government revenue, the net transfer of resources
through the central budget would be considerable. The Government is now
preparing livestock improvement and regional development projects for the
Northeast for possible Bank Group financing.
40.       Although there is considerable potential for the development of
areas served by existing irrigation facilities, most rice farmers will
continue to depend upon rainfall. Since soil and water conditions in
some areas are only suited for rice cultivation, raising the production and
incomes of farmers in these areas will require improvements in rainfed
rice production.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Northeast Thailand Irrigation
Improvement Project, Thailand" (No. 226-TH dated January 15, 1974) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A loan and project sum-
mary is provided in Annex III.
42.       The project, which would be the first Bank Group project for
agricultural development in Northeast Thailand, has three components:
(i) the Irrigation Improvement Project to expand irrigated agriculture
through the completion and improvement of irrigation schemes covering
42,000 ha; (ii) the Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project, designed to develop
and promote techniques for attaining higher rice yields under rainfed
conditions; and (iii) provision of technical assistance in the preparation
of a rural infrastructure project in Northeast Thailand.
History of the Project
43.       Sector and regional program reviews completed by Bank staff in
1972 recommended that more effective use be made of existing irrigation
facilities in Northeast Thailand. The Irrigation Improvement Project was
then prepared by the Royal Irrigation Department (RID), in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC), with the assistance of IDA, and
constitutes the Government's first major step to implement this recom-
mendation. The Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project was prepared by the Rice
Division of the Department of Agriculture in MOAC with the assistance of
IDA staff and consultants under UNDP Regional Project 253, a "Program for
Detailed Preparation of Pioneer Projects in the Lower Mekong Basin", for
which IBRD acts as the Executing Agency in association with ADB and FAO.
44.       The proposed credit was negotiated in Washington from December
17 to December 19, 1973. The Government delegation was led by H.E. Anand
Panyarathun, Ambassador of Thailand to the United States, who was assisted
by Dr. Bhakdi Lusanant, Director-General of the Department of Agriculture
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.



- 11 -
A. Irrigation Improvement Project
45.       The aim of this project is to enable farmers in three areas of
Northeast Thailand to increase the yield of their wet-season rice crop
and to introduce dry-season cropping of rice on more than half the paddy
land in these areas. A reservoir and canal system already exist in each
area but few of the farmers served by the existing works receive a depend-
able supply of water. Indeed, many of them receive no water at all because
of delays in the completion of some main canals. Many of the project works
would be designed to complete or improve these physical systems, in
accordance with the Government's policy of seeking to obtain more benefit
from earlier irrigation investments. The Project irrigation systems would
directly serve 16,000 farm families on 42,000 ha of irrigable land.
46.       There is recent evidence from part of the project area where
farmers have been receiving a reliable supply of irrigation water, well-
coordinated support from Government officials and the stimulus of the
prevailing high world market price of rice, that the Thai farmer is
prepared to make the changes in cultural practices and carry out on-farm
improvements required for irrigated agriculture. On that evidence, the
aims of this project should be realized provided that, in addition to the
maintenance of financial incentives, (a) the supply of irrigation water is
assured, (b) extension work is well organized and properly staffed, (c)
credit is available on reasonable terms, and (d) farm inputs (fertilizer,
chemical controls, seeds, etc.) are available at reasonable prices. The
proposed project aims at fulfillment of the first three conditions by
completing and improving physical irrigation works and canal service
roads, improving management of the irrigation systems, intensifying
agricultural extension and ensuring access to institutional credit.
Assuming that recent Government measures (described in Part III) designed
to make fertilizer available to the farmer at more attractive prices are
not cancelled out by the effect of oil price increases and assuming an
improved supply of seed as a result of the Rainfed Rice Pioneer project
and a national seeds project now under preparation, the fourth condition
is also likely to be fulfilled.
Construction
47.       The project works would be carried out in the following areas: 1/
(a) Lam Pao: to irrigate 18,200 ha.;
(b) Lam Phra Plerng: to irrigate 9,100 ha; and
(c) Nam Pong: to irrigate 14,700 ha.
1/   See maps IBRD 10305, 10302 and 10303 annexed to this report.



- 12 -
48.       The proposed credit would help finance:
(a) provision of efficient water control structures
to maintain operating levels in the main canals;
(b) enlargement of the main canals and laterals at
Lam Phra Perng;
(c) construction of all-weather canal service roads; and
(d) rehabilitation and expansion of tertiary systems.
49.       Transplanted rice has been cultivated for many years in the
project areas and individual paddies are sufficiently level to permit
increased yields from the wet-season rice crop on most of them and the
introduction of a dry-season rice crop on about half. Given this and
the limited implementation capacity of the Government agencies which
undertake land consolidation and leveling, it was decided that the
Government objective of accelerating the utilization of existing
irrigation infrastructure would best be served if more intensive develop-
ment, such as boundary realignment and land levelling, were not under-
taken by Government agencies at this stage. Such development will there-
fore not be financed by the proposed credit. The works to be financed by
the proposed credit will not preclude such development being undertaken by
farmers on their own initiative now or by official agencies in the future.
Extension Services
50.       In each of the three sub-project areas an agricultural extension
unit would select and train local farmers to act as paid extension agents,
in the ratio of one agent to 200 farmers. These farmers would be trained
on demonstration areas of 100 ha., one of which would be established in
each sub-project area. After a fairly intensive initial program of
instruction in the fundamentals of irrigated agriculture, they would
attend training sessions lasting a few days which are to be held periodi-
cally throughout a complete crop cycle. A detailed extension plan for
each sub-project would be prepared by the Department of Agricultural
Extension in MOAC and reviewed with IDA.
Credit
51.       At full development, annual demand for short- and medium-term
credit is expected to increase six times from the present level. Only
about one-fourth of the farmers currently hold title deeds acceptable
to credit institutions, and few farmers obtain institutional credit.
52.       Aerial photography and field surveys will be used to map the
project area which will provide a better basis for the issue of land
titles than now exists. The accelerated issue of land titles together
with the continued promotion of credit arrangements based on guarantees



- 13 -
by groups of farmers would facilitate the expansion of institutional
credit. The Government-owned Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives (BAAC) would be the main source of such credit. BAAC is
already active in the project areas, and there is every indication that it
will make available sufficient staff and funds to meet the credit needs of
farmers in the project areas.
Technical Assistance
53.       Consultants would be retained to assist government agencies
with the implementation of physical works, strengthening of agricultural
extension and preparation of related future projects. They would be
encouraged to make use of skills available in Thailand. Their services
would include assistance to RID in the preparation of design and
contract documents, the improvement of 0 & M procedures, the organiza-
tion of extension services, and the preparation of both the second stage
of the Lam Pao and Nam Pong projects and irrigation of an area served by
an (existing) reservoir at Lam Takhong. Much of the credit for encourag-
ing results obtained in a small part of the project area where delivery
of irrigation water is dependable is due to good communication among
government officials in the area and between them and the farmers. To
ensure that this asset is not lost as the number of people involved in
the project grows, the comunications expertise and audiovisual production
capacity of the UN Development Support Communications Service (DSCS) in
Bangkok would be mobilized. The DSCS would be especially useful in
obtaining farmers' understanding and acceptance of the project and
assisting the extension agents in their work. Since 1970, socio-economic
surveys of farm operations have been made periodically in the project
areas under the leadership of a Thai-speaking expatriate demographer.
These would be continued and would contribute to the data base for
planning and implementing this project and future ones.
Management and Coordination
54.       Execution of irrigation improvements will have to be closely
coordinated with systems operation to avoid the interruption of water
deliveries. Therefore, the Government has assigned responsibility for
planning and implementation to the Operation and Maintenance (O & M)
Division of the Royal Irrigation Department in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives (MOAC). The provision of extension services will be the
responsibility of the Department of Agricultural Extension, also in MOAC.
55.       Operation and Maintenance of the tertiary systems would be the
responsibility of the farmers. RID and the extension services would
encourage the farmers to form water user associations and provide them
with technical assistance. There is encouraging evidence that farmers
in the project area would be willing to cooperate in the proposed field-
to-field irrigation.



- 14 -
56.       The activities of RID and the Department of Agricultural
Extension would be coordinated by a Project Coordinator to be appointed
by and reporting to the Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture and
Cooperatives. The Central Policy Committee for Irrigated Agriculture,
chaired by the Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture and Cooperatives,
would review progress of the project from time to time and coordinate, as
necessary, the work of the different government agencies involved in the
project. The Deputy Director-General, Operation and Maintenance of RID,
would serve as Project Director (Irrigation) and have overall responsibility
for all three sub-projects. He would supervise the formulation and im-
plementation of annual work programs for each sub-project. A Project
Engineer would be appointed to supervise construction and the implementa-
tion of improvements in system operation and maintenance in each sub-
project. The work of Project Extension officers in each sub-project will
be supervised by a Project Director (Extension) in the Office of the
Director, Department of Agricultural Extension.
57.       At each sub-project level, field coordination would be provided
by com;mittees chaired by the respective province or district officer and
comprising the Project Engineer, the Project Extension Officer, and local
representatives of BAAC, the Department of Agriculture of MOAC and other
concerned Government agencies. Such project coordination committees are
functioning informally (and successfully) in the Lam Pao and Lam Phra
Plerng areas.
Cost Estimates and Financing
58.       The estimated total cost of the irrigation improvement component
is US$10.7 million. Of the total proposed IDA credit of US$7.0 million,
US$5.4 million would be applied to this irrigation component, thus covering
about 50 percent of its cost. The foreign exchange cost of this component
is estimated to be 42 percent, i.e., $4.5 million, and thus the IDA credit
would finance US$0.9 million in local costs. The balance of this project
would be financed by the Government's annual budget allocation to MOAC.
Cost Recovery
59.       The Government has decided that, for all new irrigation projects
where farmers are ensured a reliable supply of water, it will recover all
operation and maintenance costs and as much as possible of the investment
cost directly from the beneficiaries. Recovery of operation and maintenance
costs would require payments equivalent to 12 percent of the incremental net
value of production attributable to irrigation. In order to establish the
appropriate levels of such charges and the procedures for ccllecting them,
the Government has undertaken to carry out a cost recovery study. On the
basis of this study the Government would prepare appropriate levels of
charges, review them with IDA, and would impose and commence collecting
such charges in the project area within two years of completion of the
project.



- 15 -
Procurement
60.       Work on main canals, laterals and service roads ($3.9 million)
would be suitable for contract work. Work on service roads ($2.6 million)
can be combined in contracts large enough for international competitive
bidding. Contracts for the main canals and laterals ($1.24 million)
would involve relative small and scattered works and would be suitable
only for local bidding. Rehabilitation and extension of the tertiary
systems ($841,000) also involve small., scattered work which, in addition,
are seasonal and must be scheduled to minimize interference with farming
and to suit irrigation schedules; these works would best be carried out
by RID as force account operations. For these force account operations,
the proposed credit would finance only the procurement of earthmoving
equipment.
61.       Contracts for construction of extension centers, office
buildings and housing ($150,000) would be tendered locally since these
structures have to be completed prior to the start of other project
activities and the small expenditures distributed over a number of sites
would not be suitable for international competition. Procedures for local
bidding are satisfactory and there is sufficient competition for works of
this kind and size.
62.       Procurement of vehicles and equipment would be subject to
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
A 15 percent preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers of vehicles and equipment in
the evaluation of bids. Single off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$5,000 each, which are not suitable for international tendering, would
be purchased through normal Government procurement procedures. Such
purchases would be limited to a total of US$50,000. There are sufficient
suppliers of such goods to ensure adequate competition.
Disbursements
63.       Details of the disbursement arrangements and a disbursement
forecast are given in Annex III. There are no unusual features to the
arrangements. Disbursements would be made over four and a half years
from 1974-1978.
Economic Justification and Benefits
64.       Part III above sets out the rationale for investing in irrigated
agriculture in Thailand, particularly where the investment would help
realize the benefits of investments already made. This project accords
with that strategy.



- 16 -
65.       Implementation of the project would lead to the efficient
utilization of existing works serving 42,000 ha. and the detailed
preparation of irrigation schemes for a further 80,000 ha., again
utilizing existing works. Incremental paddy production from the project
would reach about 129,000 tons by 1982; since this amount would represent
only 3 percent of Thailand's expected incremental demand by then no special
problem is anticipated for marketing it. It is expected that a ready
market will also exist for the additional quantities of other crops which
would result from the project.
66.       The proposed project would raise the incomes of small farmers
in areas situated in the poorest region of Thailand. In these areas
the soils and water regimes are mainly suitable for rice production and
there are few non-agricultural employment opportunities. The 16,000 farm
families in the project areas hold an average of about 3.0 ha. of cultivable
land of which on average 2.5 ha. is irrigable and 0.5 ha suitable for
upland crops such as cassava and kenaf. About 95 percent of the farms are
reported to be owner-operated. The annual per capita income of farm
families benefited by the project is projected to rise from US$30 to
between US$50 and US$90, depending on farm size and cropping intensity.
This compares with a national per capita income of US$210 in 1971. At
present, virtually all farming takes place in the wet season and there
is considerable under-employment in the dry season. Employment opportuni-
ties will increase almost three times at full development when (i) cultiva-
tion methods for wet season rice have improved, and. (ii) 50 percent of the
project area is cropped in the dry season. The project would also serve
as a focal point for the deployment of improved agricultural supporting
services.
67.       The economic rate of return for the project as a whole is 22 per-
cent. For the sub-projects, the economic rates of return are: Lam Phra
Plerng: 17 percent; Lam Pao: 25 percent; and Nam Pong: 22 percent. These
high returns reflect the fact that the dams and main canals have already
been built and the investments in them have been treated as sunk costs.
The analysis takes into account that some development of irrigated agricul-
ture would take place even without the project.
B. Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project
68.       Despite the efforts which the Government is making to expand
irrigated agriculture, most rice farming in Northeast Thailand will be
carried out under rainfed conditions for the foreseeable future. The
aim of this Rainfed Rice Pioneer project is to strengthen current efforts
to identify, test and, in two provinces, promote techniques for obtaining
higher yields under rainfed conditions in the region. A more systematic
effort is needed to identify combinations of inputs and cultivation
practices which would be financially attractive to farmers in terms of
costs and yield response. This effort would initially be concentrated
on those improved native varieties which have gained acceptance by farmers
over the past decade, but breeding programs for other varieties suitable



- 17 -
for the region would also be strengthened. Other aims of the project
would be to increase the supply of good seed of improved varieties and
to strengthen the links between Government rice stations and the extension
services. The Government intends that the project should lead into the
formulation of a regional rice improvement program.
69.       The government rice stations, at Phi Mai and Ubon, would be
equipped to function as regional Rice Development Centers; this would
entail improvement in their work of rice seed multiplication and the
establishment of two supervised outgrower schemes. The extension
services in the provinces where Phi Mai and Ubon are located would
receive vehicles to enable them to reach more farmers.
70.       The rice station at Khon Kaen would be equipped to enable it to
mount a rice breeding program in support of Rice Development Centers at
Phi Mai and Ubon. Three government rice stations at Sakhon Nakhon, Surin
and Chumphae would receive equipment to improve their own programs and
to enable them to coordinate their work with the work at Khon Kaen,
Phi Mai and Ubon.
71.       r,Pcurement of research and farm equipment and vehicles would be
financed under the credit for all centers. In addition Phi Mai and Ubon
would be provided with seed processing and training facilities and
Khon Kaen with rice breeding facilities. Land development and an out-
grower fund would also be financed for Phi Mai and Ubon.
Technical Assistance
72.       Technical assistance in project implementation would be provided
by:
(a) a program adviser to assist the Project Coordinator
(see below);
(b)  a training adviser to assist in establishing on-
station training programs; and
(c) experts on short-term contracts to deal with
specific matters as and when needed.
Organization and Management
73.       The Rice Division of MOAC's Department of Agriculture, which is
the agency responsible for the development and promotion of new technology
for rice cultivation, would implement the project, in cooperation with the
Department of Agricultural Extension. The Director-General of the Department
of Agriculture would carry overall responsibility for the project as Project
Director; he would appoint a senior officer of his Department as the Project
Coordinator, to take charge of procurement, coordination of the Rice Divi-
sion's project related activities and the preparation and monitoring of the



- 18 -
Annual Work Programs which would guide the superintendents of rice stations
in the management of their stations. The Bank for Agriculture and Agricul-
tural Cooperatives would also participate in the project. Overall coordina-
tion would be effected through the office of the Under-Secretary of State
for Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Cost Estimates and Financing
74.       The total estimated cost of the Rainfed Pioneer Project is
US$1.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$1.3 million or
86 percent of the project. The proposed IDA credit would cover the whole of
the foreign exchange cost. The remainder of the project would be financed
by the Government through the annual budget allocations to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       Procurement of vehicles and equipment ($550,000) would be
subject to international competitive bidding. The permitted total for
off-the-shelf purchases would be $100,000, to take account of the nature
of the equipment required for this project. Civil Works ($170,000)
would be tendered locally, because they are small and scattered. Dis-
bursement arrangements are given in Annex III.
Economic Justification and Benefits
76.       The accelerated development of improved rainfed rice technology
suitable for wide adoption in Northeast Thailand would lead to higher
production and an increase in the incomes of many farmers who are engaged
in rainfed rice production and are living at subsistence level. But the
nature of the project is such that a formal analysis of the economic
return to the investment would not be meaningful.
C. Preparation of a Rural Infrastructure Project
77.       A rural infrastructure project now under preparation in Thailand
will include, as main components, rural roads and village water supply in
the Northeast. These components form part of the Government's priority
program for rural development in Northeast Thailand, and the Government
needs help in the final stages of project preparation, the detailed
engineering and other technical studies. To cover the foreign exchange
cost of consultants' services to provide such help an amount of $300,000
has been included in the proposed credit.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Association, the Recommendation of the Coiumittee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The draft agreement conforms to
the normal pattern for credits for irrigation and agricultural research
projects.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 23, 1974






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 pages
COUNTRY DATA - THAILAND
DENSITY
POPULATION                                           73 Tper km2
AREA                                                   38.6 m.1illion  (mid 1972)                                 .  per km2 of arable land
-7T7OOO K~`
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Rleference Compariseons
Thailand                  Phillpinen       rurkey        France
1960            1970              970            19?70           1970
GNP per Capita US$ (Atlas basis)                                         ..2(K                            210             303,100
Demographic
Crude birth rate (per thouisandi)                                      So3u                              52              50             17
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                        13              10                II              15             32
Infant mort~ality rate (per thousand live births)                     B.o8-go                            59             193             15
Life expectanicy at birth (years)                                      5o              99                5o   /a         95r            72
Cross reproduction rate /1                                                                .                 .               .              .
PopulIation growth rate 12                                             3.0              3.2               2.9             2.9           1J.2     
Population growth rate - urban                                        .                     /t            5   /0                          .    77n
Age structure (percenit)
0-151                                                               43                                4 3             52  /c         25
15-66                                                                54             ..53                              951  7;        - 63
65 and over                                                           3                                 4.               57;          13
Dependeecy ratio /3                                                     0913de                                            0   -C.c/
Population density per sq. kmn.                                        90              73               128              45             93
Urban population as percent of total                                   12  It         ..35                    /b         37             70  /n
Family planning:    No. of acceptors cumulative (thous.)                1             590               509             262
No. of users (% of married women)                 .                108 
Employment
Total labor force (thousands)                                      12,990  /f     16,900 If         33,220; /d      39,990         20,550   /0
Percentage employed in agriculture                                   62   -          77                56  7d          6,             35  7
Percentage unemployed                                               ..1                                 7  Td           6              2  To
Income Distribution
Percent of nationa     income received by lowest 20%                  4..                                     /d h        7   it
Percent of natiolnal incoDme received by highest 5%                   ...25                                  ____       _
Health and Nutrition
Population per physician                                            8,600O          6,600             2,820           2,220            750
Population per nursing person                                       u,200  Ic      2,670              2,090,         l,o3C0           2$))
Population per hospital bed                                           ..1,500                           930             590            110
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements IS4.                                   iocc               87   I'        110   Ik       120
Per capita protein supply, total (grains per dayj77/_                 ..9Tk 3                                 /          78  7;k       103
Of which, animal and pulse                                          ..17                 7k            22  7           22
Death rate 1-5L years 16                                              ...7                                              ..0.
Education
Adjusted /7 primary school enrollment ratio                            79              90               119   /I         77            120  I     j
Adjusted 77- secondary school enrollment ratio                         11352570 7/i
Years of sc-hooling provided, first and second level                   12              12                10              13             12
Vocational enrollment as % of sec. school enrollment                   19              13                10  Is          14             23  I
Adult literacy rate %                                                 ...72                                              S   /c
Housing
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                               ...                                .2.5                            C.9/
Percent of occupied units without piped water                          31  La         .                  77  /nm        .                7  77
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                      ..17                 Ir            20              37             99  T7
Percent of rural population connected to electricity                  ...10                                  /s         .               98  77o
9onsumtj4on
8'd3.  receivers per 1000 population                                    6              78                459  /n         87            315   /i
Passenger cars per 1000 population                                      2               5                 8               5           253
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                                  23             106               229            5487         2,781
Newsfprint consumption p.c. kg per year                                 0.7             1.2               1.b/o           2.0           12
Notes:   Figures refer either to the latest periods or to                   a-nd distribution by age and sex of national populations.
the latest years.    Latest periods refer in principle to              1    Protein standards (requirements) for all countries as estab-
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-                     limbed by USDA Economic Research Service provide for a minimum
ciple to 1960 and 1970.     Only significantly different                    allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and 20 grams of
periods or years are footnoted separately.                                  animal and pulse protein, of whi-ch 10 grams should be animal
/1   Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive                  protein.   These standards are somewhat lower than those of 75
age.                                                                    grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
/2   Population growth rates are for the decades ending in                  average for the wor-ld, proposed by FAO i-n the Third World Food
1960 and 1970.                                                         Survey.
/3   Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brackets to                 /6   Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 64.                     ages 1 through S may be used as a first approximation index of
IS  FAO reference standards represent physiological re-                     malnutrition.
quirementa for normal activity and health, taking                  /7   Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
account of envirornmental temperature, body weights,                    as defined for each country.
/a   2969/70;   Is  Fur the definition, of urban see, UN Demographic Yearbook 1971,p.l56;         Ic   1965;   /d   1971;  /c   Soilso of population
under 15 and Crw       over to total. labor force;    /f   Employed labor force;     A9   Lowest quintile, rural population only;
/b housoehold; /a. Istanbul only; /i 1969; /k 1964/oo; /1 Includes overage students; /s 1907; /n over 2,000 population
77   1968;   /p  19b3, imports sonly;    S   U'rban o77y;   /r  Doses not include Bangkok: metropolita-n-urea where 6361 of the population
has access to electricity; /s 1963*70. /t Over 10,MO population.
R2   JanuarT 22, 19/u



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(%, constant prices)      e/
US$Mln.      %                          1960-65     1965-70      1970-72
GNP at Market Prices                7,560      100.0                          7.2         8.5          4.8
Gross Domestic Investment           1,564       20.7                         14.4        15.4         -6.4
Gross National Saving               1,466       19.4                         14.6        11.5          9.4
Current Account Balance               -98       -1.3
Exports of Goods, NFS               1,536       20.3                         10.8         7.1         14.4
Imports of Goods, NFS               1,630       21.6                        11.1         12.3         -1.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971                             1/
Value Added -           Labor   Force        V.A. per Worker
US$Mln.       %          MAln        %        US $        %
Agriculture                         1,985       28.6       13.076      76.9        152        37.2
Industry                            1,776       25.5        0.958      5.6       1,854      453.3
Services                            3,190       45.9        2    2868  16.9      1,112       271.8
Unallocated                           .            .        0.100-     0.6         .        _
Total/Average             6,951       100.0      17.002     100.0         409      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE -
General Government                        Central Government
US$Mln.           % of GDP               US$Mln.            % of GDP
1972        1972     1970-72            1972         1972       1970-72
Current Receipts                    1,116        14.9       15.1            1,059         14.2        14.3
Current Expenditure                 1.083        14.5       14.0            1,031         13.8        13.3
Current Surplus                        33        0.4         1.1               28          0.4         1.0
Capital Expenditures                  453         6.1        6.3              432          5.8         5.9
External Assistance (net)              37        0.5         0.7               37          0.5         0.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1969     1970      1971     1972
(Billions of Baht outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                           40.9     46.2      53.7     66.4
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)          7.1     11.5      18.1     25.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  22.9      27.9     30.8      34.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               31.7     33.9      37.3     42.7
GDP Deflator   (1962 = 100)                   114.6     113.7    114.5     120.0
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP Deflator                                         -0.8      0.7      4.8
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)             62.2      57.7     38.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       21.5      10.7     12.2
Note:  All conversions to Dollars in this table are at an exchange rate of g 20.8        1 US$.
1/  Value added at current market prices.
2/  Tentative estimate of unemployed; their normal occupations are not known.
3/  Thai Fiscal Years ending September 30 of calendar years shown.
Not applicable.
e/  Staff estimate.



Annex I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE. PAYMENTS, AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-72)
1970     1971     1972
(Millions US$)                                     US$Mln.         %
Exports of Goods, NFS       1,092     1,204    1,536            Rice                     162       19.2
Imports of Goods, NFS       1,409    1.430    1,630             Corn (maize)              97       11.5
Resource Gap (deficit   -)    -317     -226      -94            Rubber                    98       11.6
Tin (metal)                77        9.2
Interest payments (net)        44       28         7            Tapioca products          64        7.5
Workers' Remittances             .        .                     Kenaf and jute            45        5.3
Other Factor Payments (net)   -25       -26      -21            All other commodities    302       35.7
Net Transfers                   3         6       10                        Total        845      100.0
Balance on Current Account    -295     -218      -98
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1972
Direct Foreign Investment(Net) 31       33        54
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                             US$Mln.
Disbursements               273      261      323
Amortization                206       218      220            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed  369
Subtotal                     67       43       103            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt    480
Capital Grants                 46        37       29            Total outstanding & disbursed  849
Other Capital (net)            20        8        29                                        1/
Other Items n.e.i.  2/          4        97       63            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1972 -
Increase in Reserves (+)     -128        0       203
Gross Reserves (end year)     906       866    1,052
Net Reserves  (end year)      766       766      969            Public Debt, incl.guaranteed       2.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt        11.7
Total outstanding & disbursed      14.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                            IBRD/IDA LENDING, Dec.31.1973 (Million US$) -
Through July 1973                                                                           IBRD       IDA
uS$ 1.00 = X 20.8
g 1.00 = US$ 0.048                                        Outstanding & Disbursed        254.7        0.?
Undisbursed                     121.7       v
Since July 1973                                             Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  376.L      25.0
US$ 1.00 = % 20.0
R 1.00 = US$ 0.050
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/ Includes SDR allocations, profits from exchange realignments, and errors and omissions.
3/ Excluding loans and credits not yet effective.
Not applicable.






ANNEX II
Page 1
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A.        STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at December 31, 1973)
US$ million
Amount
Loan or                                               (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year       Borrower      Purpose     Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen loans fully disbursed                    240.5    -          -
471-Tn        1966   Kingdom of        Vocational
Thailand         Education      6.0    -         0.1
514-TH        1967   Kingdom of        Sirikit Dam
Thailand         Irrigation    26.0    -         0.5
626-TH        1969   Kingdom of        National
Thailand         Highways      20.0    -         3.7
655-TH        1970   EGAT              Power        46.5    -              4.4
702-TH        1970   Port Authority    Ports
of Thailand                    12.5    -         6.7
790-TH        1971   EGAT              Power        27.0    -        19.9
822-TH        1972   Kingdom of        Education
Thailand                       15.4    -        14.8
864-TH        1972   Telephone         Telecom-
Organization     munications
of Thailand                    37.0    -        35.4
870-TH        1972   Kingdom of        National
Thailand         Highways      28.6    -        21.2
369-TH        1973   Kingdom of        Education
Thailand                             19.5       19.5
379-TH        1973    Kingdom of       Irrigation
Thailand                              5.5        5.3
898-TN        1973   State Rail-       Railways
way                            15.0    -        15.0
Total                                         474.4  25.0
of which has been repaid                     98.0    -
Total now outstanding                         376.4  25.0
/a
Amount sold-                          65.1
of which has been repaid            19.2     45.9
lb
Total now held by Bank and IDA-               330.5  25.0
Total undisbursed                             121.7  24.8
/a   Of which $41 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.        STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at December 31, 1973)
Amount in US$ million
Year         Company              Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and      Concrete Products      0.30             0.30
Aggregate Ltd.
1964   Industrial Finance         Industrial Finance             0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1969   Siam Cement Group          Cement and Construc- 18.33     3.75    22.08
tion Materials
1971   Industrial Finance                                        0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
Total gross committments                         18.63    4.13    22.76
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            14.84    1.70    16.54
Total committments, fully disbursed,
now held by IFC                                 3.79     2.43     6.22
C.        PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 471-Ti, First Education Project (Vocational Education); US$6 Million
Loan of October 19, 1966; Closing date: original, June 30, 1970;
subseqient, February 28, 1972, August 31, 1973 and December 31, 1973;
current, February 14, 1974.
1.        This project has been virtually completed and a completion mission
was conducted in July. The mission reported that execution had been very
satisfactory. Difficulties have arisen in procuring some final items of
equipment.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 514-'H, Sirikit Dam Project; US$26 Million Loan of September 19, 1967;
Closing date: original, June 30, 1973; current, June 30, 1974.
2.        The work on the project has been practically completed.    The
closure of the dam was carried out on schedule in June 1971. The total
cost of the project is estimated at US$78 million, as against US$76 million
at appraisal (+2.5%). Substantial increases in the principal civil works
contract (+41%), which resulted from unforseen adverse foundation conditions,
have been largely compensated by savings on other items. The closing date
has been postponed by a year so that two claims by the contractor may be
settled by negotiation or arbitration.
Loan 626-TH, 4th Highways Project US$23 Million Loan of June 27, 1969;
Closing date: original, December 31, 1973; current, December 31, 1974.
3.        Construction of the project has been completed within the cost
estimates and on schedule except for the fencing of some sections of highway.
The closing date has been postponed to allow completion of the fencing. At
the request of the Government $3.0 million has been cancelled from the
unallocated category of this loan.
Loan 655-TH, First EGAT Power Project; US$46.5 Million Loan of February 10,1970;
Closing date: July 31, 1974.
4.        Foreign exchange expenditures are likely to exceed committed funds
by about US$3 million, due mainly to the revaluation of the Yen, and the
additional costs will be covered by the Borrower.
Loan 702-TH, Third Bangkok Port Project; US$12.5 Million Loan of August 6, 1970;
Closing date: July 31, 1974.
5.        Construction of this project began 18 months behind schedule.
The delay was mainly caused by the time taken by the Port Authority of Thailand
(PAT) and its consultants to pre-qualify bidders, amend tender documents and
evaluate bids which were complicated by currency realignments. Subsequently,
technical problems arose and the relationship between PAT and the engineer
(NEDECO) became somewhat strained. The technical problems were solved
satisfactorily and the relationship has improved greatly. The technical
problems probably caused an additional delay of 3 months.
Loan 790-TH, South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project; US$27 Million Loan
of November 11, 1971; Closing date: November 30, 1976.
6.        Project is on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 822-Tl, Second Education Project (Katsetsart University); US$15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Closing date: June 30, 1978.
7.        The preparatory stage of project implementation is about a year
behind schedule due to delay in appointing the campus planning consultants
but progress now is generally satisfactory and the master plan for the
development of the university's two campuses was presented to the University
in November 1973. Construction costs have risen much more rapidly than was
foreseen at appraisal and as a result total project costs are expected to
exceed appraisal estimates including contingencies by about $0.5 million;
this will be covered by the Government.
Loan 864-TH, Telecommuncations Project; US$37 Million Loan of December 5, 1972;
Closing date: December 31, 1977.
8.        After initial delays due to difficulties with land acquisition,
the project is now moving forward satisfactorily with procurement action
having been taken on a number of major items.
Loan 870-TH, Fifth Highways Project; Us$28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Closing date: December 31, 1977.
9.        Negotiations with consultants to assist in a highway maintenance
study have been protracted, delaying its start by about one year. There
has also been about a year's delay in agreeing terms of reference for con-
sultants' services to assist the transport planning unit of the Ministry
of Communications. Construction work is proceeding without any major
problem.
Credit 369-TH, Third Education Project; US$19.5 Million Credit of April 11,1973;
Closing date: June 30, 1978.
10.       Project implementation generally is about four months behind
schedule with the fellowship program about eight months behind, but otherwise
progress is satisfactory. Construction costs are likely to exceed appraisal
estimates (including contingencies) by $1.2 million (30%) by the time build-
ing works are contracted; this will be covered by the Government.
Credit 379-TH, Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; US$5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Closing date: June 30, 1978.
11.       Project is on schedule but delay in enactment of Land Consolidation
Law may give rise to problems.
Project 898-TH, Fourth Railway Project; US$15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Closing date: June 30, 1977.
12.       Declared effective on September 28, 1973.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND - NORTHEAST IRRIGATION DIPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:                   Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
and Ministry of Interior
Amount:                        US$7,000,000
Terms:                         Standard
Project Description:           The project has three components.   The
Irrigation Improvement Project consists of
the improvement and completion of irrigation
systems covering 42,000 ha. served by existing
reservoirs and main canals, the strengthening
of agricultural extension services, and the
preparation of related future irrigation
projects.
The Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project is designed
to identify, test and promote techniques for
attaining higher rice yields under rainfed
conditions in the Northeast region. The
project would reorient the work of six gov-
ernment rice stations to respond more directly
to the needs of the region and link the
stations more closely to the extension
service and to farmers in the surrounding
areas.
The third component consists of consultants'
services for assistance in the preparation
of the rural roads and village water supply
components of a rural infrastructure project.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:
Local Foreign Total
--    US$ 000------
Irrigation Improvement Project       6,156   4,544  10,700
Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project           210   1,290    1,500
Preparation of rural infra-
structure project                    100     300     400
6,466   6,134   12,600
Financing Plan:                IDA Credit of US$7,000,000, and the balance
from the Royal Thai Government's annual
budget allocations to Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives and Ministry of Interior.
Estimated Disbursements:
Annual       Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year Disbursement Disbursement
_ ____________--(U $ '000)
1975            2,700         2,700
1976            2,100         4,800
1977            1,200         6,000
1978              500         6,500
1979              500         7,000
Disbursements would be made against: 50% of
total expenditures on civil works; 100% of
foreign expenditures on technical assistance
and consulting services; 100% of foreign
expenditures on vehicles and equipment
directly imported; 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) on vehicles and equipment
manufactured locally and 65% of total expendi-
tures of vehicles and equipment imported but
procured locally.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement Arrangements:      Contracts for service roads would be awarded
after international competitive bidding.
Contracts for canals, laterals, houses and
office buildings would be awarded after local
competitive bidding. Procurement of vehicles
and equipment would be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding. Eligible domestic
manufacturers would be accorded preferential
margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing
imports or the rate of applicable customs
duties, whichever is lower.
Consultants:                   a.   Services to assist the Government in
project implementation and in the
training of operating personnel and
extension workers for the Irrigation
Improvement Project.
b.   Services for detailed preparation of
related future irrigation projects in
the service area of existing reservoirs.
c.   Services to assist the Government in
the implementation of the Rainfed Rice
Pioneer Project.
d.   Services to assist the Government in
the preparation of the rural roads and
village water supply components of a
rural infrastructure project.
Economic Rate of Return:       Irrigation Improvement Project:   22%
Rainfed Rice Pioneer Project: Due to the
research nature of the Project, analysis
of the economic return to the investment
would not be meaningful.
Appraisal Report:              No. 226-TH of January 15, 1974.






IBRD 10305
B U R M Ajj-f _;- _     _                                      OR   H    S 104-                                   JANUARY 1973
BURMA -~-'L A  0                                                        i04'
.-.-~~  1_LAOS      ~NORTHEAST                            THAILAND
IRRIGATION PROJECTS
AREA COVEREff
By MAP
4T HAIL A N 0                       c3        Existing reservoirs LNMain roads
--1 ----  ~b Potential reservoirs                Roads under construction
BAN KOK
\N d       KHMER                   cZrnjf    Existing canal systems        -   -+   Railwoys
\ ) ) - \ REPUBLIC    cf Proposed extensions                                Rivers
C,/!IGV  SX                      g   f    Project Areas                .         Regional boundaries
-1 o/no /  __ International boundaries
)   I)           . A     O    S               a
-18,                 >                                                     S     ,3f                                      18'--
*                          NONGKHAlt      |       }          rOG
<gX       2~~~LOEI          H.o,                      omZ>  <\
.  .   9,___   Luanff/ _/  UDONTHANI  Ooni?\  - j  AKORN PHANOM
* AF _ <' 'Nam](
TO BANGKOK    *.  Pler       _                      JJ ng         t<   R      @          G                   /o
0        r   ,                    00 A   0  -
TO BANGKOK                                       ,,z/ ,.. .. ,,, ,,,.; ; ...2|Mies
1,: ./, /1J.,: .,.,.! ,:, ,X,1 , s  >   2   O50         100        5i0        200
N  N
Nom    Kiomoiers
L                  1~~    ~      ~    ~~~02-  g                        04   (Appron,noIe Syole Only)






UA;NGz,4   ;           LAOS                _A
SA 
RHH)   )   ,~UOOR )AOS j                  ' *>My ol  DR                               HACIA               A
K [S REPUBLIC                     A% A Y S I A 
LAM PHRA PLERNG PROJECT 
==:   }  SERVICE AREA OF- PROJECI    
CANALS 
RIVERS 
MAIN ROADS 
? ~~VILLAGES
....... .....  .  REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
L0                                                          INTERNATIONAL   BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   N E N TO AL B U D RE
KILOMETERU J                                                                                               / 
AMLHOE PAK THONG C      AA                               AMPHOE CHOK CHAI
ThC      Av   d- -p do
W-It'oEVd I-k  Ad-    Ok PROJECT
A.M                                                                                       ROADS



NORTHEAST THAILAND
?Bon Khok KlC-9i 9LMPOngi
LAM PAO PROJECT
Roads
----- - Trails
Ban Nong SGoo         N                                                  Ex ~oisting  Canals
KM~ nNcKung lrX  >  eelK     <   Sw      <                    ~--g-Canls to Be Completed in 1973
BDn Hrry>A,) \X Trn Ficena                                      ----I----CCanals for Second  Stage  Development
fjjj~jj ro'Service  Area of Sub- Project
/-~~~~~~                                                                                     I n_X S \,M 
Q~~~~~~Ba, Nong Kun9 \ |     J      B  B ;g    9/BnN  /   r                     KLOETR
/0  Kw|gC/c   70 SAKON NAVHOY  KLOMETERS
/ .Kh,m K .   A   tso o   W..  BB t   Khon        H      I )
KIan _\                                  N.
\ ;o3pHW- c r   a  Bon oon rg8 }oc Mu       3)        '\       \                 / / (CX 
\47iX   \  F~~~~~~~  \2, ~ Bon lKau un o ns  N_1   \  t t   \ ; OOfl  (O  BC. \>DO jOr  (sa, { I  F 
N                   HbN H           "  ;Y
;eHS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
~BoaaDooIaioi  ,                                                   BanonaK C,g
I   ya                          9~~~~~~~L 
Be.                           8.1~~~~~~.C~-~.  .-~f~  OOOl  BfAn3Ric
N_~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~O  Iog 0ngOn    BH I oia
Ba 'hn M',                  2 1                a Bn  o BNDO             A
'a               I                onSorag      Ba.oo  S,~~~~~~~Oon
-~~~~~~  ~~~~~n  (~~~~~~~~~~c2Bn       o
N'                           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
'a              B  " CBnhWBaLo47aogang', 
Boo Noon Paog.  8(D0n Nooa                BoNonn NoVW n  a,~8oaa 
a'  9 4i                       /   'N  ~      /  ~     a             "I "I'a
N  4jBa n NangT ok Pa'         /            BBnKh~ ohS-a              6BMThoh B.,i1a8
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-             a, I       N    NN   ,BA C HN
a  BonKa        "'"~NB.hBg B..
'a     N~~~~~.  Khs-n aHo.aoo 'I
Ilog~ ~ ~~~~r                     K
~~.n  a      aaBogWn        ~\ -1ra 0-0                                    (



/TO  ADORN  SLIANI                      T  *)  .  '' AM' -L MA
A                              R  nr,  S   .,   \  ( .  ,    . =  )  ,~~~~~~~~----.
.AAO MA  OAN KHOK KLANG                        .J'..      A     -
CA A           LNORMTHEAST 7HAILArM
}  X 3  8<KUTONK  )          NAM   PONG PROJECT
X ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= --L \50 ERVICE AREAOF SUB-PROIJECT
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~V  YAI           - - - - -N5  _ _  CANALS FOR 5ECOND) STAGE DEVELOPMNTN
rMA,LALAOXLT,N   CAAL
AA VA  I  LAKES  ND PONDS
MAIN   RA DS...1 KMR ELIL
NO THEROADST HALN
\RNK U VTONR_ ?  >                ,   - - NR NAI   BOUNDAR IES
NONG TOAMPMG                    ROEC
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI             SE-VIC ARE OF SUE-PROJECT,
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I'--                 <(
NANG   BOA   MIAN                UA  VLSI
KitOMETERS~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  R
....... d                            -  I     B
O~~ ~ ~ RAN          MEre                                         W  <
RAN ~ ~ ~  ~  h NAPIGsou TIlL  TIf MLd/ b/1 IlOr                             AA
*t'LLMLLALLL.,L LLH LVCL,L   1S



